Ladies and gentlemen good afternoon.
Welcome to the Murphy Oil Corporation First Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
Please note today's conference is being recorded.
And now I'd like to turn the call over to Mr.
David Wood President and Chief Executive Officer.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you operator.
Good afternoon everyone and thank you for joining us on our call today.
With me are Kevin Fitzgerald Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; John Eckart Vice President and Controller; Mindy West Vice President and Treasurer; and Barry Jeffery Director of Investor Relations.
I will now turn the call over to Barry.
Thank you David.
Welcome everyone and thank you for joining us.
Today's call will follow our usual format.
Kevin will begin by providing a review of first quarter 2011 results.
David will then follow with an operational update after which questions will be taken.
Please keep in mind that some of the comments made during this call will be considered forward-looking statements as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
As such no assurances can be given that these events will occur or that the projections will be attained.
A variety of factors exist that may cause actual results to differ.
For further discussion of risk factors see Murphy’s 2010 Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the SEC.
Murphy takes no duty to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements.
I will now turn the call over to Kevin for his comments.
Thank you Barry.
Net income in the first quarter of 2011 was $268.9 million or $1.38 per diluted share.
This compares to net income in the first quarter of 2010 of $148.9 million or $0.77 per diluted share.
There were no unusual items of significance in either period but the 2010 quarter did include $41.3 million or $0.21 per diluted share of after-tax losses on transactions denominated in foreign currencies compared to an after-tax loss of $1.1 million of similar transactions in the 2011 quarter.
Taking a look at income by segment.
In the E&amp;P [exploration and production] segment net income in the first quarter of 2011 was $260.4 million compared to net income in the first quarter of last year of $247 million.
Higher E&amp;P earnings for 2011 were primarily attributable to higher average crude oil sales prices which were up about 34% but higher natural gas sales volumes also contributed.
Unfavorable variances in the current quarter include a lower crude oil sales volumes higher exploration expenses and higher workover costs at the Kikeh field in Malaysia.
Crude oil condensate and gas liquids production for the quarter averaged approximately 113 300 barrels per day compared to approximately 139 000 barrels per day in 2010.
The decrease was mostly attributable to a lower gross volume at Kikeh due to wells shut in awaiting workovers and in the Gulf of Mexico due to delays in permitting.
Natural gas volumes however were a quarterly company record of 413 million cubic feet per day in the first quarter of 2011 compared to 343 million cubic feet in last year's quarter an increase of over 20%.
This increase was due to the startup of production at the Tupper West area in British Columbia and higher volumes at Tupper Main offshore Malaysia and at the Mondo Northwest field in the Gulf of Mexico.
In the Downstream segment.
First quarter 2011 showed net income of $30.7 million compared to a net loss in last year's quarter of $29.7 million.
In the U.S.
downstream operations recorded income of $39.4 million in 2011 compared to a loss of $14.7 million last year mostly the result of much improved refining margins in the current quarter.
Additionally the 2011 quarter saw a quarterly record for U.S.
throughputs of over 169 200 barrels per day compared to reduced throughputs last year as the Meraux plant was shut down for 6 weeks for a planned turnaround.
Results in our U.S.
marketing operations were slightly improved over last year as higher fuel and merchandise margins were partially offset by lower fuel sales volumes.
U.K.
Downstream operations recorded a net loss of $8.7 million in the 2011 quarter compared to a net loss of $15 million last year.
As in the U.S.
the improvement was largely due to better refining margins and a quarterly throughput record at the Milford Haven refinery.
In the Corporate segment.
The first quarter of 2011 we had net charges of $22.2 million compared to net charges in the first quarter of last year of $68.4 million.
As mentioned earlier this favorable variance was mostly attributable to significantly lower losses in the current quarter on transactions denominated in foreign currencies.
The end of the first quarter 2011 our long-term debt amounted to $974.4 million or 10.3% of total capital employed.
Cash cash equivalents and short-term investments totaled over $1.1 million at March 31 effectively resulting in net debt of less than 0.
And with that I'll turn it over to Dave.
Kevin thanks a lot.
First quarter witnessed strong oil price moves with benchmark WTI [West Texas Intermediate] rising from $85 a barrel in January to $105 in late March.
Dated Brent trended higher and sustained at least a $10 premium as WTI remained landlocked and regionalized.
Global events such as the discontent in North Africa and the Middle East as well as tragic events in Japan all helped support global crude's rise.
Most signs point to this being the new acceptable level.
And as such we have raised our price outlook to near $90 for the remainder of the year.
Natural gas prices in North America continue to languish near $4 and we see this trend continuing through 2011 absent a better supply and demand balance.
Business in the Gulf of Mexico remains challenged with a lack of permits.
The level and type of recent issues while noteworthy don't highlight a clear and predictable path forward.
We have one permit for a reentry at our Front Runner field and are hopeful others will come later in the year.
Onshore U.S.
and globally our business remains very active.
We have one exploration well currently drilling in Indonesia at the Lengkuas prospect and expect to be at final target by month end.
We recently completed our first phase exploration in Suriname where the Aracari well was plugged and abandoned.
The bulk of our exploration work begins midyear and we look forward to an active program with significant targets being tested in several countries.
In our Upstream business global production for the first quarter averaged 182 154 barrels equivalent per day slightly below our first quarter guidance of 185 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day.
This variance of 2 846 barrels oil equivalent per day is mainly attributable to start-up and commissioning delays with the new Tupper West gas plant in extremely harsh winter conditions and unexpected downtime of Schiehallion to repair the export hose.
In U.S.
Retail operations were steady with margins coming under pressure in January and February which is typical for this business in the first quarter.
U.S.
refining margins were unseasonably strong in the quarter and both U.S.
refineries exhibited steady operations to capture what the market provided.
The U.K.
Downstream business concentrated on operational performance in a difficult market environment.
Our plans to divest the refining business are moving forward and we expect to announce the sale of one U.S.
asset midyear and the second soon after.
The U.K.
assets are following along behind these.
Given the number of parties interested in each asset and their decision to sell separately this timing fits well.
Production guidance for the second quarter is 187 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day.
This increase over the first quarter is primarily attributable to ramp-up of production at Tupper West and progress with our ongoing Kikeh workovers.
Production for the year should average 200 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day.
For the remainder of the year we'll see production increases from Tupper West Sarawak gas Eagle Ford shale and Seal.
Kikeh rates will fluctuate through the year as we workover 3 wells.
We currently have 3 wells shut-in as the new sand screens placed in wells since late last year have performed below expectation and we are moving to recomplete using an open hole gravel pack technique.
This work is confined to a single reservoir one of the field's shallowest and most poorly compacted.
2011 and 2012 we'll see an active exploration program testing a dozen prospects this year and close to 20 next.
We're off to a slow start in terms of activity levels and as I mentioned have a second dry hole in Suriname where we found the objective: water wet [ph].
We still have several unrelated prospects and we'll use this time to rerank and rerisk that program.
Apart from the ongoing Lengkuas well we should have a third quarter program start-up in Brunei and other important drills in Kurdistan Indonesia and Congo later in the year.
Underpinning our growth program we currently have 12 rigs active across our resource plays and we'll see that grow to 17 rigs by year end.
In the Eagle Ford Shale we are stepping up activity with 4 rigs working now and plan to get to 7 rigs by year end.
Last December we sanctioned a project in the Karnes area of the play.
2 of the 4 rigs are active there.
To date we have drilled 24 wells with 15 producing and 9 awaiting fracs.
Well results continue to be very encouraging and are trending better than our tight curve for wells in the play.
We have a dedicated frac crew which completed 6 wells in the first quarter and will continue to knock off 3 to 5 wells a month going forward.
The region has been hampered by takeaway capacity and we expect this to improve as infrastructure projects move forward into next year.
In Western Canada we have 8 rigs operating between the Montney acreage at Tupper our heavy oil operation at Seal and appraisal drilling in the Southern Alberta Exshaw play and have plans to add 2 more rigs this year.
Our project at Tupper West came on production in late February and is currently producing near 100 million cubic feet a day.
Production is expected to ramp up throughout the year and exit 2011 near 150 million cubic feet per day.
The Tupper Main production remains stable at 100 million cubic feet per day as both projects are seeing excellent well performance results.
We continue to manage cost and performance closely in the current natural gas price environment.
Heavy oil production at Seal continues to plan with current production rates over 7 000 barrels a day.
The EOR pilot work continues as we evaluate the effectiveness of both polymer flooding and steam stimulation to unlock the 5-plus billion barrel resource in play on our acreage.
Polymer injection is underway and early results are encouraging.
Applications for a steam pilot and a commercial polymer flood will be submitted this year.
We have drilled the first 2 appraisal wells of the 6 well program in Southern Alberta to target the actual Bakken formation.
Both wells have been completed and are being evaluated.
It's very early days for us but I'm pleased that the wells have flowed within our expectations.
We will continue to add acreage in this new play as it fits with our understanding.
Business development is active and we expect to add a second block in the Kurdistan region of Iraq very soon.
We also are closed to finalizing the new position in Vietnam to add to our important Southeast Asia portfolio.
The process to divest our refining and U.K.
marketing assets is at an advanced stage and moving forward as I mentioned earlier.
In the U.S.
the retail chain expansion continues with 14 stores added year-to-date bringing the current station count to 1 113.
U.S.
manufacturing margins were unseasonably strong in the quarter making $28.7 million of net income.
Both refineries operated well during this period and achieved a record for U.S.
throughput.
In the U.K.
the Milford Haven refinery continues to struggle in a difficult Northwest Europe market environment.
The retail business continues its solid performance even in a tough market of rising wholesale prices.
In our Renewable Fuels business the ethanol plant in Hankinson North Dakota is operating well at the 120-million-gallons per year level.
Crush spreads are under pressure as corn prices outpace ethanol and corn supply is expected to remain tight this year.
While high ethanol production coupled with a soft demand for gasoline in the U.S.
has led to high inventories and oversupply of ethanol in the system.
The cattle feed byproduct dried distillers grains and solubles has kept pace with the rising corn prices and has provided solid revenues for the plant effectively offsetting the cost of operation.
Plant modifications at the recently acquired Hereford Texas ethanol plant were completed late in the first quarter.
Plant startup and commissioning came in as planned and the plant is currently ramping up production with rates near 75 million gallons per year.
In summary a good start to 2011.
A slight miss on Q1 production but on track for the year.
Better-than-hoped-for Q1 U.S.
refining results with the first asset sale to be announced shortly.
The production of 300 000 barrels equivalent per day target by 2015 will be underscored at our upcoming Analyst Meeting associated with our AGM but it too was on track.
U.S.
Retail will also be a feature then as that business underscores its attractiveness.
Exploration is second-half-of-the-year weighted.
Lengkuas will be down this quarter but nice prospects in Brunei and Congo give us a bit upsides as well.
New countries being added broaden and lengthen our opportunity profile and are complemented by our North American resource position where momentum and drilling activity is building.
That concludes my prepared remarks and I'm now happy to take your questions.
[Operator Instructions] And our first caller is at Raymond James Pavel Molchanov.
Inc.</strong> 2 quick ones if I may.
First on Suriname following the 2 dry holes just curious kind of what the road map is going forward.
Back to seismic? Or if you're giving up on it altogether.
Okay.
Suriname the first 2 wells both found reservoir where we thought they would find it.
We did have oil shows above the reservoir in the first well which gave us encouragement for the charge story.
The second well found a quite a limey or a carbonate reservoir package which didn't have shows.
So our questions in our mind today are do we have a seal issue an up-dip seal issue on the subprospects that we've drilled; and a question of trap integrity so that they had trapped the hydrocarbon.
So we're -- as I mentioned in my comments we're going to rerank and rerisk here and look to see what our program should be next year.
As far as being down on Suriname it's very difficult when you're in the exploration business to get down and drilling dry holes because most programs drill more dry holes than successes.
And I think you have to look at it as a program.
We still see some fundamental support for exploring in Suriname but we need some time to put these well results into context.
Inc.</strong> Okay great.
And then just follow-up on Kurdistan.
Of course we've seen a few of your competitors have some nice announcements that are recently -- just an update on that would be helpful.
Yes we were -- the second block we should be very close to announcing here.
It's a nonoperated position.
The first block that we announced we're in the process of getting our seismic done this year.
And I'm hopeful that we can get on and get a well drilled as soon as possible.
The street address is very good.
Other people and some results particularly recently have shown that that area is quite prospective.
So we're pretty excited about that.
We see long-term some of the issues in Kurdistan being worked out in terms of getting export but we think we're into that play at about the right time.
Let's move on to Howard Weil with -- I'm sorry at Howard Weil Blake Fernandez.
David you mentioned Kikeh and the recompletion work.
I'm sorry if I missed this but I'm just trying to get a feel.
Do you have a sense of when we may get production back to kind of normalized levels if you will? Yes let me take that and go a couple of ways here Blake.
Let me talk about Kikeh and where we're at and what we're doing.
And then let's address the production where we are today and where we're going to be at the end of the year and then address this 200 000 number if I could.
Yes absolutely.
So if you bear with me I'll kind of step you through some things that I think are important to note.
Kikeh's produced about 120 million barrels.
We have a lot of good information on the reservoirs and on the field and feel very very strongly that it's a great field.
The issue that we have had over the last 6 months is really to do with fines migration in our shallowest reservoir and not all wells in that reservoir.
What's happening is today we have 3 wells in that shallow reservoir shut in.
3 wells are on the Dry Tree Unit and one is a subsea well and I'll get back to that in a minute as to why I distinguished those 2.
Those wells last year were producing at pretty nice rates.
As they started to make these fines we choked them back.
One of the wells we replaced the screen and had some pretty encouraging results.
We subsequently did the same with the other 2 wells.
What we found out was that those screens replacement were kind of a temporary fix.
And so when we closed those 3 wells in they were collectively making about 17 000 barrels a day.
Back last year when they didn't have a fines issue they were making 37 000 barrels a day.
The other interesting thing to note is when the wells were shut in 2 of the wells had a water cut very low one was less than 2% and one was 4% and the other one was a little over 40%.
And so we don't think it's a recovery from the well we think it's an ability to manage these fines migrating through the screens and into the wellbore and then up into the surface equipment.
And with some investigative work what we believe is happening is that when we set these screens in some circumstances we leave a gap between the screen on the outside and the wellbore.
And so that instability or that area is where the fines move and then they migrate to that area and then in through the screen because these things are below the size of the screen.
So our proposed remedy here is kind of a bit of a standard one i s to come in and do some open-hole gravel packs.
And so we're set up to do that for these 3 wells.
Now I mentioned Dry Tree Unit and subsea we have a rig on the Dry Tree Unit now but it's reached its end of contract.
And so I would have loved to have been able to move straight into this work using that rig but that rig is going to demobilize here very shortly.
And we're going to mobilize a new Dry Tree Unit base rig in the third quarter.
And so 2 of the 3 wells will be worked on by that rig once it arrives.
The third well is a subsea well so we are bringing in by middle of the year a floater rig to work on that and do some other work and then also do some work on sealer cap [ph].
And so we will address that.
The work at Kikeh is really about getting those 3 wells back on production.
And today or kind of here within the near term we've been about 75 000 barrel gross and we expect to leave the year right at 90 000 gross just a little under that.
And so the remedy through these workovers is really where we're trying to get to and manage this fines production.
So let me kind of transition from there and talk about what our production profile and how we get from where we are today to where we're going to exit the end of the year and then how that gets us to the 200 000 barrels.
And that all kind of adds together.
So if I start at the end of March 188 000 barrels a day by the end of the year we'll be producing 230 000 barrels a day.
So that's a 41 700 barrel delta.
So If I break down where that increased production is going to come from: 13 800 is going to be from Tupper -- Tupper and Tupper West; 9 400 barrels is going to be from Eagle Ford; 8 500 barrels is going to be from Kikeh the workovers that I just talked about; 2 900 barrels is going to come from Azurite.
We've got another water injection well to drill there and a side track of a producing well.
We've got about 2 900 barrels in the Gulf.
As I mentioned in my remarks we have approval for one permit.
We think we might get 2 more before the end of the year one more at Front Runner and one at Thunder Hawk.
1 400 barrels is workovers at West Patricia and then 1 000 barrels is improvement at Schiehallion.
So that gets you from the 188 number to the 230 and when you get to 230 at the end of the year then that gets you the average of 200.
And at the end of the year just to round out my comments Kikeh will be at 55 000 net just about 87 000 gross maybe a little bit more than that.
And Azurite will be at 8 200 net about 22 000 gross.
So that just kind of rounds out the gross numbers.
So I kind of gave you -- I threw a whole lot of information actually.
I think it's important to kind of get all those kind of facts out there.
No that's perfect.
Thank you -- thank you very much for the comprehensive answer.
The second one -- and I'll just keep a quick one here.
The Southern Alberta wells do you have any details you'd like to share on the IP rates or EURs you're seeing? Blake really -- not really because we're still trying to lease but I will tell you that and I've said this before if we can get wells that are better than 200 barrels a day to start then I would regard that as being good.
And I would say that the first 2 wells would get into that bucket.
What we need to do we see some performance from those wells from initial flow and then put a pump on and see how they produce.
But kind of the keys for me looking at the play are: do we have water which we don't.
And the second thing to see what kind of pressure is in the play.
And I think where water is is going to be patchy.
So some parts of the geography's going to have water and some not.
I think that's one risk factor.
And the second one is some areas are going to have more overpressure than others.
And so you would expect better rates in some areas than others.
So I would say at this early stage from what we've seen it's encouraging.
But it's not an Eagle Ford I will say that.
Okay perfect.
I'll leave it there.
Thank you.
Let's go on to Evan Calio with Morgan Stanley.
David just a follow-up on your Kikeh comments and thank you for those comments.
I think you mentioned 3 wells shut in you currently -- and I just wondered was that incremental from last quarter? It was one well and then -- and just further I mean could all the data that you've collected in the process here I mean has that changed in any way shape or form either your view on the productive capacity of Kikeh? And I have a follow-on.
Yes let me kind of weave that and kind of bring it all together.
The shallow reservoir section is clearly not as compacted as the deeper reservoirs which are performing well.
And we drilled these wells at quite a steep angle through them.
And so what we've experienced and I think what we see here is that the fines material within that reservoir section does migrate if you don't stop it from getting into the wellbore initially with our expandable screens.
Probably because they were packed off against that formation they work quite well.
And we did not get any fines into the wells until later in life.
One of the questions that we had was the encroachment of water part and parcel of this fines migration because in lots of cases it is.
But as I mentioned in my comments we have a couple of wells where we're getting fines where the water cuts are 2% and 4%.
And so we think it's more to do with the stability of the interface between the formation and the screen and that's really where we're kind of focused on.
And so that takes us into do we think that the wells and the reserves and the et cetera are going to be less than we thought.
And the simple answer is no we don't.
We have enough productive history here and enough people looking at it both internally and externally to feel very comfortable about the field.
In order to be more comfortable as to where the rate is going to go we got to get this gravel pack technique working here in this particular reservoir.
And then coming back we'll be able to tell you hey it's worked and this is how it's worked and better be able to judge what rates we're looking at.
But exiting the year close to 90 000 barrels a day we feel pretty good about that of course.
And we think the techniques that we're going to apply will work based on what we've seen so far.
Got it.
Can you also give us an update -- your acreage position any update in Eagle Ford or Alberta Bakken? I know you mentioned that you're looking to accumulate position more acreage there and kind of when you may be in a position on the Exshaw to share data with the Street when do you expect that? Yes I think we need to run other than to -- in answer to Blake's question I'd rather not go any further there.
I'd like to add some more acreage but I would say I'm not so sure that I would add the acreage in the places that I was going to want to add the acreage prior to the well results.
And really that's the whole purpose of drilling these 6 wells is to get comfortable as to what the risk factors are and where the trends are going.
So we have north of 150 000 acres now in that play and I see us being able to add some more.
But in light of well information that we've got now and other wells that we're going to drill it may change a little bit the direction of where we would pick up acreage.
In terms of the Eagle Ford it's another one of these resource plays for us where I like to add acreage all the time produce all the time and drill all the time and keep getting smarter and smarter.
The well results in Karnes are very good and I'm very happy where we are.
If I added up just before this call how much we could produce in Karnes it's over 4 000 barrels a day net but we're not producing that yet.
An issue there is takeaway capacity.
And we like lots of other people in the play don't have the piping yet in place to be able to do that.
But the well result's pretty nice and so I feel very bullish about that.
And I think we're getting a better and better understanding.
We do have dedicated takeaway capacity lined up now.
We do have basically 1.5 frac crews dedicated to us.
As I mentioned we're ramping up our rig count this year and I think that's very important for us to do that.
And so I think we'll get past this bottleneck if you will in the Eagle Ford and do pretty nice.
And by the end of the year producing 9 000 to 11 000 barrels I think is very very doable.
I think the well stock will be there.
It will really be the issue of offtake and we're working that hard.
And do you have any acreage update from the quarter? We're in the -- approaching 250 000 acres bigger for Eagle Ford.
I've kind of put it that way.
Moving on let's go to Ray Deacon Pritchard Capital Partners.
LLC</strong> David I was just curious where do you think you can get your -- I know it's very early in the Alberta Bakken but is $3 million to $4 million a reasonable level for wells there do you think? For well cost? The ones that we've been drilling now we've had a lot of science and we talked about this before and -- cutting cores drilling them straight and vertical and then turning with a heel tie [ph].
That's not the most efficient way but our guys have done a great job with the first couple of wells and they've gone really really well.
So I think if we line this out so we just drilled the well horizontal straight into the Bakken I think well costs here should be quite attractive.
So yes I see a good way forward there.
LLC</strong> Okay great.
Yes and just a -- just curious so you have -- in the Eagle Ford do you have a dedicated frac crew? Is that going to cover kind of all your activity or just Karnes I guess? And I was just curious about what kind of cost inflation you're seeing too? Yes I should say "Golly I wish costs were lower." So I'll say that now.
But yes it's one dedicated crew and then effectively half of another crew.
And we clearly need to get our production up.
And we're having such good results there in the Karnes area that having the crew stay there as long as we can and work off the backlog of wells -- I think we have 9 left to frac in that area is what we want to do.
And we're active in the Tilden area and we're active in Dimmit area.
So as we move these crews it's less efficient.
So I'd like to keep them in the same place if possible.
LLC</strong> Got it.
Great thanks.
And I guess just any big picture thoughts on Canadian gas exports from the West Coast to Asia? Does that feel like it's getting more -- to be more of a near-term thing or...
I've still struggled with the idea that we have $100-plus oil and $4 gas just on a Btu basis and then we see what prices for gas are going indexed to oil on the Pacific market.
So I think export of gas from the U.S.
and Canada is -- makes a lot of sense.
I think the issue up on the west coast of Canada as best as I can tell is all about permitting and regulatory part and pipelining all that stuff.
But I think probably the business case is pretty solid.
I think that there is probably a good case to be made export of gas from the U.S.
side particularly in the Gulf Coast.
And I think another business case a solid case can be made there too.
I think that if I was to look at where we are today at $4 gas we're probably going to move up but I don't know when the time to move up.
But I think export of gas is going to be a big part of that.
[Operator Instructions] Let's move on to Kate Minyard with JPMorgan.
Just a couple of quick questions.
On the Eagle Ford you've got 15 producing wells can you update us with either a total cost or average cost per well across the 15? Well it varies quite a lot because some of the wells were drilled differently.
So they were drilled with a science in mind and some were drilled straight as kind of "Let's see what we can drill them for and produce." But we're in the $3.5 million $4 million drill and $4 million $5 million frac complete number Kate.
I think those are probably pretty fair numbers.
Okay and does the frac and complete include tie-in costs or are those minimal? Yes those are minimal but they're in that number.
Okay great.
And then on the outlook to 2015 of the 300 000 barrels per day of production by 2015 how much of that is already sanctioned? And then what portion of the non-sanctioned part might be dependent on exploration success? Yes we have through -- next week actually in our Analyst Meeting here ahead of our AGM really going focus in on that because I think it's important for people to appreciate the resource and reserve base that we have.
Of the 300 000 number a very small percent so 10% or less is requiring any exploration success.
The bulk of it is on projects we already have we've already discovered or getting ready to sanction or have acreage in resource plays here in the U.S.
and Canada that we feel very comfortable about.
So the whole goal in my view and what I want people to come away from after next week -- without stealing Roger Jenkins' thunder who runs that business is pretty comfortable from going where we are to that number in 2015 and not relying on exploration to get us there but have the option of exploration to add to that.
And so that's kind of where we're at.
Okay great.
And then if I could just sneak a final one in.
On the 14 stores that you've added year-to-date in the Retail business what was the cost to add those? And what's the kind of breakout between kiosks and more of the kind of full-fledged convenience stores? And I'll leave it there.
It's a good question.
I think the number's about $1.8 million on average.
And if -- I'm shooting off the top of my head which is dangerous here but the bulk of those were express sites and not kiosk sites.
I think 2 or 3 were kiosks and the rest were full size.
[indiscernible] have stayed on top of that Kate.
That's the cost for the stores and then whatever the real estate is is on top of that.
A question now from The Benchmark Company Mark Gilman.
LLC</strong> A couple of things.
You've achieved some improved fiscal terms in the Congo.
I wonder if you could give me some idea what that entails.
Well Mark looking at our fiscal terms first of all our threshold price changed dramatically.
It was -- $26.50 was our index price.
That has now gone to $48.
So you should see a reduction of supplemental payments there especially as we get into more of the profit phase versus the cost phase there.
Also our cost recovery threshold did change as well.
So it should move our entitlement which was for a 50% working interest in the low 30s it will now move it up towards 40% with the new terms.
LLC</strong> No change in profit splits Mindy? No just a change in the cost recovery threshold.
No change in the profit split.
LLC</strong> Okay.
Then David could you repeat what the exit rates are in Azurite that you talked about? You were going a little too fast for me at that point.
Okay Mark.
Sorry I didn't mean to speed.
I figured you were writing it down as fast as I was saying it.
Gross will be 22 000 currently at 14.5 [indiscernible].
LLC</strong> And the net? Net when we leave the year it will be about 8 200 net.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And David let me go back to the Kikeh thing for just a sec.
It sounds to me -- and forgive my lay interpretation and assessment is that what we've got here is unexpected unconsolidated sands which I guess from prior experience does tend to lead to lower recovery factors.
And I guess I'm a bit puzzled that in this instance you don't believe that's true.
Mark I don't know what your frame of kind of reference there is.
What I'm saying is that with this particular shallow reservoir the migration of these fines into the wellbore is causing us to choke them back not because we can't make high rates and not because we don't think we can ultimately recover what we've got.
It's the mechanical dealing with fine material up in our production equipment.
As I mentioned in my comments 2 of these wells have water cuts: one less than 2%; one 4%.
So it's really difficult for me to see that we're going to have a reduced ultimate recovery here.
What we first need to do was stop fines migration into the wellbore so that we can allow these wells to continue producing and they've been producing very well in the past.
So that's really the issue for us.
I think in my mind I wouldn't make the jump that you've made into reduced recovery at all.
LLC</strong> Okay.
David is there a location yet established for the CA-1 well in Brunei? We're working with our partners there for CA-1 and for CA-2.
And I don't think the final location has been approved by all partners for CA-1 or CA-2.
We are talking on CA-2 about bringing that well into this year which I regard as being very positive.
But that's kind of work in progress with both Mark.
LLC</strong> Do you have any idea what relationship that CA-1 well might bear to the [indiscernible] discovery? Mark I don't know what the final location is.
So I can't make any comment about geography on it.
LLC</strong> Okay.
Just one final one for me.
I was just looking at the Sarawak gas price realizations and had been under the impression David that the fiscal arrangement on the gas there was something akin to a netback yet in spite of rising prices for the Japan crude cocktail better part of the last year and a half the price -- your realization seems to have peaked out in the 550 570 kind of range.
Can help understand that? The way that the formula works without going into great details here is that based on what is realized from the LNG export we receive a factor of that realized price.
And so a lot of it will depend on the types of contracts the types of prices received some of which includes spot cargoes.
But it is tied to what is actually received multiplied by a factor that's what we can...
LLC</strong> So there were no changes whatsoever in the formula or the mechanism? No sir.
With no further questions in the queue I would like to turn the conference back over to the company for any additional or closing remarks.
I appreciate everybody being on the call today.
Those of you that are coming to El Dorado here next week we look forward to receiving you.
And if you don't come we look forward to talking to you again at next quarter's results.
Thanks a lot and have a good day.
This does conclude our audio conference for today.
We appreciate your participation.
Have a great day.
Thank you very much for joining ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Murphy Oil Corporation Second Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
Today's call is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the call over to Mr.
David Wood President and Chief Executive Officer.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you operator.
Good afternoon everyone and thank you for joining us on our call today.
With me are Kevin Fitzgerald Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; John Eckart Vice President and Controller; Mindy West Vice President and Treasurer; Barry Jeffery Director of Investor Relations; and Tammy Taylor Assistant Manager Investor Relations.
I will now turn the call over to Barry.
Thank you David.
Welcome everyone and thank you for joining us.
Today's call will follow our usual format.
Kevin will begin by providing a review of second quarter 2011 results.
David will then follow with an operational update after which questions will be taken.
Please keep in mind that some of the comments made during this call will be considered forward-looking statements as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
As such no assurances can be given that these events will occur or that the projections will be attained.
A variety of factors exist that may cause actual results to differ.
For further discussion of risk factors see Murphy's 2010 annual report on Form 10-K filed with the SEC.
Murphy takes no duty to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements.
I will now turn the call over to Kevin for his comments.
Thanks Barry.
Our net income for the second quarter of 2011 was $311.6 million or $1.60 per diluted share.
That compares to net income for the second quarter of last year of $272.3 million or $1.41 per diluted share.
For the 6 months ending June of 2011 we had net income of $580.5 million or $2.98 per diluted share.
That compares to net income for the 6 months of last year of $421.2 million $2.18 per diluted share.
The 2011 quarter and year-to-date results included an after-tax gain of $13.1 million or $0.07 per diluted share from the sale of natural gas storage assets in Spain.
There were no unusual items of real significance in the 2010 quarter or for the 2010 6-month period.
Looking at income by segment.
In the E&amp;P segment for the second quarter of 2011 we had income of $243.3 million and compares to net income of the second quarter of last year of $219.1 million.
Higher E&amp;P earnings for the 2011 quarter were primarily attributable to higher crude oil and natural gas price realizations.
Crude oil and gas liquids production for the current quarter was approximately 94 200 barrels per day as compared to approximately 132 000 barrels per day in the corresponding 2010 quarter with the decrease mostly attributable to lower production at Kikeh where several wells were shut in awaiting rig workovers.
Natural gas sales volumes were a company record 457 million cubic feet a day in the second quarter of 2011 compared to 348 million cubic feet a day in the second quarter of last year.
This increase was attributable to the continued ramp-up of production at Tupper in British Columbia and higher production from fields offshore in Sarawak Malaysia.
In R&amp;M segment net income for the second quarter of 2011 was $91.7 million compared to the net income in the second quarter of last year of $83.8 million.
Earnings increase in the 2011 quarter was attributable to operations in the U.S.
where we experienced improved refining and retail margins.
Additionally both U.S.
refineries ran well during the quarter processing a company record of just 170 500 barrels of crude oil per day.
In the corporate segment net charges for the -- in the 2011 second quarter were $23.4 million compared to net charges of $30.6 million in the second quarter of last year.
The lower charge is primarily related to favorable impact on transactions denominated in foreign currencies.
As of June 30 2011 Murphy's long-term debt amounted to just under $1.2 billion approximately 11.8% of total capital employed.
During the quarter the $350 million 10-year bond maturing May 1 of next year was reclassified at the current maturity.
Cash and short-term investments at the end of June totaled a little over $1.3 billion.
And with that I'll turn it over to Dave.
Thanks Kevin.
Second quarter crude oil prices peaked in late April with WTI approaching $115 a barrel before backing off into the $90 range by the end of June.
Dated Brent continued to outpace WTI with the spread surpassing $20 in June and averaging $15 for the quarter as WTI remained somewhat landlocked and regionalized.
Concerns over a slowing U.S.
economic recovery coupled with a lower demand led to the commodity selloff.
The IEA's decision to release 60 million barrels of crude and products to the market from strategic petroleum reserves had a momentary effect on prices even as they had already started to fall.
That impact seems to have passed and we continue to forecast $95 WTI for the remainder of the year.
North American natural gas prices remained rangebound near $4 and we see this trend continuing throughout 2011.
Consistent with our plans we have managed to sell approximately half of our Tupper gas production for the remainder of the year at $4.90 helping to bolster returns from that business.
In the Gulf of Mexico the permitting process remains uncertain.
We did obtain a single reentry permit for a well at Front Runner last quarter and have just received a second permit there.
Efforts to gain additional permits at Thunder Hawk are ongoing but unlikely to be timely enough for us to see work there this year.
Our exploration program is off to a slow start in 2011 with now only 2 wells having reached TD.
[ph] The second exploration well this one drilled on the Lengkuas prospect in the Semai II block offshore West Papua Indonesia found the primary objective -- Jurassic sands.
Logging showed them to be hydrocarbon bearing but wireline MDTs were unable to confirm this.
We have expensed this as a dry hole but left the well capable of reentry for possible future evaluation.
There are a number of other prospects on our acreage and we are using this new data to help plan our next steps.
As exploration well timing is constrained by rig schedules we should see a much more active program in the second half of the year with significant targets being tested in several countries.
This and next year we'll see 30 wells drilled including impact targets in Brunei starting this year as well as deep targets in Congo surface feature wells in Iraq and further targets in Indonesia.
Global production for the second quarter averaged 170 457 barrels of oil equivalent a day well below our second quarter guidance of 187 000 barrels of oil equivalent a day.
This is disappointing for us and we have reorganized our upstream business and processes to do a better job of meeting and beating future production targets.
This variance of 16 500 barrels equivalent a day is attributable to a number of factors including the lower production at Kikeh the impact of wildfires in Alberta on Seal heavy oil production lower than expected production from the final developed well at Azurite acceleration of turnaround work on a vacuum distillation unit at Syncrude unexpected downtime impact from Sarawak gas and an advanced turnaround at Hibernia.
In U.S.
retail margins recovered nicely in the quarter making good contribution.
U.S.
refining margins continued to be supported by improved crack spreads and both U.S.
refineries exhibited steady operations to capture what the market provided.
The U.K.
downstream business remained focused on operational performance in a continued difficult market environment the U.K.
retail remaining that geography's bright spot.
Plans to reposition our company and to divest the refining business are moving forward with the reported sale of the Superior refinery earlier this week.
An announcement on the Meraux sale is expected in this quarter.
The U.K.
assets will now be split up with separate parties interested in the Milford Haven asset and U.K.
retail.
Production guidance for the third quarter is 173 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day.
This increase over the second quarter is primarily attributable to improved production from our resource plays at Seal Tupper and the Eagle Ford Shale.
We have revised our production outlook for the year to 185 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day down from the previous forecast of 200 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day as we factor in the shortfall in the first half of the year along with planned second half operations.
For the remainder of the year we'll see production increases from Kikeh Tupper West Eagle Ford Shale Seal and Canadian non-operating profits.
The first workover well at Kikeh using a gravel pack technique has been successful with that well now making over 7 000 barrels of oil per day without issue.
Unfortunately we had an offset to that with a different well suffering a near-surface mechanical problem that caused it to be sharply curtailed.
A second rig is scheduled to arrive in that field in August and help with that workover program.
Important single wells still impact our near-term production forecasts but we are encouraged by the work at Kikeh.
I expect us to be at 80 000 barrels of oil a day in this field by November and have an overall end-of-year exit rate of 220 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day for the company.
Longer term as we increase producing well count we remain focused and comfortable with our goal of reaching 300 000 barrels of oil equivalent a day by 2015.
Our North American resource program is actively growing with now 13 rigs active across 4 plays.
This will grow to 16 rigs by year end.
To help bring excellence and leading performance to that program we have reorganized our North American business to enable best practices and talents to come to bear.
The Eagle Ford Shale play continues growing from strength to strength witness recently announced deals.
Subsurface we see strong results across our acreage footprint.
We currently have 5 rigs drilling and plan to add 2 more in the second half of the year.
To date we have drilled 35 wells with 25 producers and 10 awaiting fracs.
Well results continue to be very encouraging and we are trending better than our tight curve for wells in the play.
Gross production is in the range of 7 000 barrels of oil at 6 million cubic feet a day.
The region has been impacted by takeaway capacity and we look for this to improve as infrastructure projects move forward into next year.
In Western Canada we have 9 rigs operating between the Montney acreage at Tupper our heavy oil operation at Seal and appraisal drilling in the Southern Alberta Exshaw play.
The Tupper area continues its good performance with the rates currently near 200 million cubic feet per day as the buildup continues through 2011.
Heavy oil production at Seal is recovering from the severe forest fires and recent flooding from heavy rainfalls.
We have started to see encouraging response on our polymer flood pilot with impacted producing wells adding 50 to 100 barrels of oil per day each.
This is almost 100% increase per well and points to nice upsides here.
Applications for a steam pilot and a commercial polymer flood have been submitted.
In Southern Alberta our actual Bakken appraisal program continues with 4 wells drilled and the fifth expected to spud shortly.
Two wells are now producing in line with expectations a third well is under evaluation and the fourth well is awaiting completion.
For us certainly identification of the sweet spots where we can expect a tight well to produce 200 barrels of oil a day with an EUR [ph] somewhere in the 200 000 to 250 000 barrels is key and our program is focused to that end.
We now plan to drill up to 8 wells this year.
In business developed we have finalized an agreement with the Kurdistan regional government of Iraq to acquire a non-operated 20% interest in the Bharanam block.
This block covers an area of 178 000 acres and sits 25 miles south of the city of Sulaymaniyah.
We are also working to close new acreage positions in West Africa and Vietnam and continue to evaluate bolt-on opportunities for our resource plays and are adding to our land position in a fifth North American resource play.
In the U.S.
the retail chain expansion continues with 20 stores added year-to-date with current station count of 1 119.
The end of this month also witnessed a new step forward as we again partnered with Walmart this time to announce a $0.10 a gallon rollback on gasoline prices across much of our network.
That program has been well received and is scheduled to run through September 30.
High prices have had an impact on the year-on-year station volume by almost 10% but the recent falloff in wholesale prices have supported margins in the sector contributing to a solid quarter.
U.S.
manufacturing margins remain relatively strong in the quarter despite the high premiums on waterborne crudes.
It means [ph] a dislocated WTI of Gulf Coast refineries.
Both refineries ran well to take advantage of what the market provides.
Milford Haven refinery posted its sixth crude processing record in 10 months with runs in May exceeding 136 000 barrels per day.
The focus there remains on operational performance in a difficult market environment.
In the renewable fuels business the crush spread returned to positive territory in June as corn prices fell over $0.90 from the beginning of the month on fund liquidation and better crop ratings overall providing a boost to ethanol manufacturing margins.
In Hankinson production continues to remain very consistent in the 120-million gallons a year range.
At Hereford the performance test has been completed at the nameplate capacity of 105 million gallons per year and focus turns to stable reliable operations.
In summary our repositioning is well underway with the announced sale of the first refinery.
It's a little slower than I would have liked but understandable given the market.
Our onshore U.S.
resource program continues to impress and grow witness positive news [ph] at Seal Eagle Ford and Tupper.
We have stepped back to recalibrate our production profile for this year given our poor start but see a stronger finish as our workover program kicks in.
We remain focused on the 300 000-barrel a day target by 2015 from our existing resource space.
The streamlining and refocusing in our upstream business will help us on our goal to meet and beat future targets.
The exploration program is weighted to the second half of this year and proceeds at a steady pace going forward with impactful prospects being tested in Brunei Congo and Iraq.
Our prospect inventory continues to develop and the addition of new exploration blocks and new country entries.
U.S.
retail made solid contribution in the quarter and U.S.
refining turned in a steady performance to take advantage of the market.
That concludes my prepared remarks and I'm now happy to take your questions.
[Operator Instructions] And we will go first to Evan Calio of Morgan Stanley.
David can you walk us through the 220 000 barrel a day Q4 exit rate guidance? I know it's almost 30% higher than 2Q and 3Q and maybe run asset-by-asset to get to that current exit growth rate.
I mean I'd presume the primary element is Kikeh but it must include a host of other lifts.
Yes Evan it does.
Let me kind of get you there.
So from the 164 000 number to get to the 220 000 I'll run down kind of an order of increase here.
Kikeh will be just under 29 000 barrels at -- and there we've got basically 6 wells: 2 new subsurface wells and -- 2 new subsea wells and 4 workovers.
And I'll talk about Kikeh in -- at the end of this so that it kind of gets everybody up to date.
Tupper and Tupper West led about 9 500 barrels a day.
We've got some 13 additional wells coming on.
Eagle Ford a little over 6 000 barrels a day.
We have new wells coming on there.
And just under -- right under 4 000 barrels a day at Seal.
We have some additional wells coming on there.
And then there's less downtime at Terra Nova and Syncrude or again just under 4 000.
The U.K.
and Hibernia again less downtime 2 800 in the U.K.
and 1 600 in Hibernia.
And so when you add all that up with a little bit of oil production from South Alberta you end up at the 220 000 exit rate.
And then on the -- you had given a walk-through.
But Kikeh I mean I guess just with the first recompletion finished and 2 rigs doing workovers what gives you the confidence that you can reach those levels particularly in light of some --  a string of production disappointments from Kikeh and even from just 90 days ago? Yes.
Let me kind of -- I'm sure this question is probably -- have -- other people have too.
So let me kind of walk through Kikeh.
Today Kikeh's producing 58 206 barrels of oil and 72.6 million cubic feet.
That's gross? Yes these are gross numbers on here.
And we currently have 3 of the shallow horizon wells shut in.
And in addition there's a fourth well that is really curtailed because it has a mechanical -- a near-surface mechanical problem.
And in total those 4 wells were producing 29 000 barrels of oil immediately prior to their problems.
And so all of those wells will be worked over this year plus we have 2 new subsea wells to be brought on.
And you got to remember that Kikeh is not fully developed yet and we still have wells as part of the field development plan to be drilled.
Right now we have one rig it's at Semai working in the field on one of the shut-in wells.
And a second well will come and be put on spar and operation in late August.
And so our goal is to reach 80 000 barrels of oil a day in November.
And the actual year end rate will depend on well timing and we've just assumed that it will be at that 80 000 barrel a day rate.
So let me recap just -- I want to make sure that people understand from what we talked about last time on the call and this call is the -- is kind of what the changes are.
Essentially last call we had a fourth shallow horizon producer that was shut in due to fines production as a precaution.
We have worked over one well.
It's been on production for a couple of months.
It's making over 7 000 barrels a day and has no issue.
So that open hole gravel pack is working nicely.
Unfortunately at the time -- in the same timeframe but not related we had a well that was producing over 10 000 barrels a day that developed a mechanical problem.
And we have -- we have it choked back so it's making a small amount now.
And so that well has to be worked over.
So we in effect took a step forward and a step back during the time that we were conducting that workover operation.
And so what gets us from where we are today to the 80 000 barrels a day is basically 6 wells: the 4 wells that are being worked over; 3 with the recompletion gravel packs; 1 a mechanical well; and then 2 new subsurface wells subsea wells that will be done as part of the original field development plan for Kikeh.
And with the fourth shallow well that you mentioned that you shut in because it began producing the fine sands does that mean that -- I mean do you anticipate having to recomplete most of the Kikeh wells? Or -- because it's been -- kind of went from 1 to 3 to 4 here.
How should we think about that? Yes.
Last time we spoke there was 3 and there has been 1more.
And these are related to the shallow horizons.
We've not seen the issue with the deeper horizons Evan.
So we're going forward with these 4 wells and recomplete.
And how many other wells are on the shallow horizon that are not shut in and not yet producing sands? One probably one.
Now 2 of the new -- just to be clear 2 of the new wells that we're drilling are going to be in the shallow horizon.
But clearly given our experience here we'll just go ahead and either crack pack or gravel pack them at the beginning without going through the expandable screen steps.
So as I said the whole field is not fully developed.
These 2 new wells which are going to be in the shallow horizons we'll complete differently than we originally did with the others.
And now we will go to Joe Citarrella with Goldman Sachs.
My question is on the Eagle Ford.
You mentioned that results have been exceeding your expectations.
I'm wondering if you can update us a little bit more on your non-Karnes Country acreage in particular specifically thinking the Tilden area.
Last I think we've heard you're expecting results there to be fairly similar to Karnes.
First is there any change to your thought process there? And second it would also be great to get just general thoughts on what drives your confidence in the well results and IPs you're expecting across your position in the play.
Yes Joe.
We're concentrating our development in the Karnes area because we sanctioned that area first.
So we have more data there more productive history there.
And what we've seen is as we've brought these wells on -- and we don't open them up wide now.
We tend to choke them back.
And what we've seen as we've had these wells on for longer periods of time is well performance when you choke the wells back is better.
So we actually beat the tight curve quite handily.
These wells tend to be relatively flat.
We're a little younger in our program in the Tilden area but we see nice well results there also.
And I think overall that whole swath that runs down from Karnes into Tilden are going to be somewhat similar and probably part of the sweet spot of the overall play.
And so we've been very very pleased.
We have taken the opportunity here to pick up some additional acreage.
We're now closer to 250 000 acres in the play.
That's something that we've said all along that we want to identify opportunities.
And so those areas are the ones that we're looking at to add to the play.
So I'd rather not get into specifics of individual wells because we have that as a strategy but I will tell you that well results are nicely beating our expectations.
That's helpful.
And then just on that point on the additional acreage acquisitions are those sort of bolt-ons to some of your existing areas? Or any indication what counties or what areas those additional acres are in? Yes.
They are in the oil play and they are around areas that we are already active.
And beyond that I'll just be mum.
Now moving on we will go take a question from Paul Sankey with Deutsche Bank.
The dry hole that you had in the quarter can you talk a little bit about the overall expense of that David? I think it was -- it seems very high and I wondered why it had been drilled for so long.
And very specifically I just wondered if there's any additional expense to you in Q3.
But if you could just talk a little bit more in general terms about went on that would be helpful.
Yes.
The Lengkuas well came in pretty much as prognosed.
It just took longer to get there.
We had extra strings of pipe set and we had a section that was very difficult to drill and took much longer.
So gross cost for the well was close to $200 million.
It was significantly higher than when we started.
That rig has now moved off and so it's gone to somebody else.
So I think we're done as far as our cost go.
The well did have pretty decent oil and gas shows.
We did log what we -- a log analyst would say looked like pay on log.
[ph] We couldn't get a sample a wireline sample.
We think the zone is tight but that was not definitive.
So I view that as being something to follow on.
It's certainly a dry hole but I think there's a glint of future promise and more work needed on that well and more work needed on the block.
So that's kind of where we are.
We're trying to take all the data that we've got and reevaluate and high grade where we want to go next on that one.
Right.
And so there's no further expense for the July period? There's just a further $1 million net to Murphy expense.
That will be in the third quarter.
Understood.
David in the exploration portfolio I assume -- clearly not in Iraq but I assume there's nothing else of that scale of risk reward if you like in the next year-or-so program that you talked about.
No.
I wouldn't say that.
If you look here we've got -- and so it's going to depend when wells start to when they finish as to whether they're in this year or not.
But if I kind of look at the 18-months exploration program we should probably spud 10 wells between now and the end of the year.
If I look at the most notable clearly in Brunei both in the CA-2 and the CA-1 block these are big high-potential oil type prospects.
We have a couple of blocks in Iraq and Kurdistan one in Central Dohuk where we've just finished 2D seismic and I'm making drilling plans there.
And then one within a non-operated block in Bharanam [ph] and which should spud a well right at the end of the year.
And then we're going to do some drilling in Malaysia probably in Block H and we're working on our timing now.
So I think we have a number of pretty good-sized prospects to be started this year.
As I look into next year I see things carrying on in Brunei pretty active program in both blocks.
I see a sub-salt well in Congo which we're waiting on the rig to come back.
The Ocean Confidence that is off working for somebody else should be back to us about the end of the year.
We have a sub-salt well in there for a very big nice target.
So I think the quality of the program is -- as we've talked about before I think we've had a little bit of time slide here to the right but this is pretty attractive mainly in oil-based prospects within the program.
And I guess the exploration track record looking back has had its knocks.
What makes you more confident going forward that you should continue pursuing an exploration strategy this aggressive given the struggles that you've had over the past few years? Yes.
I've been doing this for 30-something years and you go in streaks and patches.
I think one thing you have to recognize that these are programs.
And we spend about the same amount of money here each year and I'm comfortable with that level of spend.
Where we've been working on is the quality of prospects we've been drilling.
The unfortunate thing for us is these last 6 months we haven't been drilling many wells.
And so we tend to go through the highs and lows of individual wells and less focused on the quality of the program.
I think as we start to get into a more active part of the second half of this year and next year with the quality of prospects that we've got in basins that have already been proven I feel very very good about the program that we've got.
So I think exploration for us is -- it's part and parcel of our growth story but today it's not the only part of our growth story.
2 3 years ago we didn't have a resource program like we do today.
And going forward our resource program is very good and very important.
I'm really excited about what we've seen at Seal.
I'm very happy with where we are with Tupper.
Of course I'd like higher gas prices.
But I'm very happy subsurface.
And I think Eagle Ford is a home run for us.
Looking at our Eagle Ford position now we probably have 2 500 locations probably have 500-plus million barrels and probably 4 TCF there recoverable and feel real comfortable with that.
And so I think that provides a very nice balance and perhaps missed by many in our overall program.
So the balance there the predictability from that I think overall helps us a lot.
Great.
The final question for me.
You mentioned that you had -- I think you said restructured regarding your target setting if you like and you've now given some very specific targets for this year.
What did you mean by restructuring? And what is the difference between this new sets of targets and the methodology and the confidence you have in them against the prior system? Yes.
In all things when you don't do things right once you can look at it.
And when you don't do it right the second time you got to change something.
So we have lots of smart capable folks in our organization and -- that want to succeed and want to deliver.
So we've changed the emphasis changed some of the processes changed some of the ways that we look at things.
And the end result of that is this revised production guidance for this year.
And so I feel very good about the buy-in and I feel very good about where we're at.
But the proof is going to be in the pudding going forward.
But I think that -- I think we're off to a good start.
If I look at production today -- or here we are in July as a month to kind of be a gauge we've been on a per-barrel day 161 000 to as high as 184 000.
And this last week we've averaged 177 000 barrels of oil equivalent a day.
Against the target we set for the quarter I think that's in the right direction.
So the things that we've done and the things that we've seen so far here and almost the first month gone of this quarter I think is directionally correct.
So -- but the proof will be as we go forward.
I don't think it's an issue of the quality of the resources so much.
I think it's how we've been going about the process.
That's why I feel very good about the 300 000-barrel target by 2015 which is from things that we already have.
So -- but we'll have this call at the third quarter and Paul I'm happy for you to ask me again.
And moving on we will take a question from Blake Fernandez with Howard Weil.
David a real quick one with regard to Evan's question on Kikeh.
I know you gave a comprehensive answer.
I just wanted to confirm if I could that still no concerns with regard to the reservoir or ultimate recovery? These issues that we've been dealing with are to do with these fines migration and to this one mechanical issue.
So we've not seen anything that would cause us to change any of that.
Like in this first well that had a workover it's been producing without incidents here for 2 months -- I think kind of supports that.
We still have some other wells to drill in the field as I mentioned when I was addressing Evan's question.
So I mean we're still working along drilling wells and drilling out the field.
Okay.
That's great.
Secondly with regard to third quarter guidance I thought maybe it would have been a bit higher.
I'm trying to gauge do you have any hurricane risk factored into that number? This is Barry Blake.
In terms of the guidance number here if you look at the production forecast at 173 000 I think Dave did a good job of showing you where we're at today and getting comfortable with where that is.
So they've got their regular conservatism in for Gulf of Mexico.
But if you need any specifics in terms of where the number is itself you've got some higher workover costs in terms of OpEx that are going to bring some extra OpEx here about $30 million.
That's about $0.15 a share.
And then you've got some U.K.
tax impact so there's some catch-up.
And then third quarter view of the U.K.
tax that's about $15 million or $0.08 a share.
And then you've got some downstream earnings that are lower by about $30 million or $0.15 a share.
So that kind of takes you from where we were in Q2 to where we're forecasting the $1.10 midrange here in Q3.
Okay great.
Last question for you.
David I know in the past you had kind of maintained a very flexible balance sheet with the idea that if you had some success in the high impact exploration front you wanted to have some dry powder to develop that.
Obviously unfortunately that hasn't really come to fruition.
So I'm just curious has the appetite for M&amp;A increased now? I think we've been looking at M&amp;A all along and if we can find some things that fit we will do it.
I mean we've picked up some additional Eagle Ford acreage here and that fits.
I would like to as we've talked about before add something meaty to our program and so we have an effort underway to do that.
I do believe that we will be successful in exploration and maybe in something on the cheap that I'm looking at that I may rank differently than others but that's the nature of exploration.
But yes we're a looker and hopefully we'll be a buyer.
Moving on we will go to Pavel Molchanov with Raymond James.
Inc.</strong> Is it fair to say that the sale of the U.K.
assets has proven more challenging than the sale of your domestic refineries? Pavel no I wouldn't say that.
I think what we've seen here in the U.S.
-- I'll give my comments.
We've seen the crack spreads improve throughout the year.
And so when you're negotiating to sell something in that environment things tend to take a little longer.
And here recently we've actually seen more players come to the table because of that external situation.
And of course whenever you do that things take longer.
In the U.K.
specifically we had hoped to be able to do that as one package.
But we've realized now that we need to look and talk to companies and there's several interested for each individual package.
And so that's really the change from our perspective.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
And just as a follow-up on that you've said at the beginning of your downstream divestiture program that you intend to keep the U.S.
retail assets for the time being.
Have you had any parties that are inquiring about purchasing that perhaps in conjunction with Louisiana or separately? We really like our U.S.
retail and I've talked before about how we like that business and want to grow that business.
And at some point in time not now we'll look to see how that future of that business would be.
But there's people who approach us about buying all sorts of things that we have and I'm not particularly a motivated seller.
So I'm happy to keep the retail business a great business growing well and has a very very bright future.
So I'm selling the refineries here in the U.S.
I'm selling the stuff in the U.K.
and that's the plan.
[Operator Instructions]  We will go to Evan with Morgan Stanley again.
Yes just a couple of follow-ups guys.
Do you guys have a rig lined up to commence block CA-2 exploration? Is that a handoff of the Total rig? No.
It'll be a different rig but it's not finalized yet Evan.
But it's kind of looking at a early fourth quarter spud would be my guess.
So don't tie me down to that but -- getting hold of rigs but that's kind of the timeline we're looking at.
Is anything lined up for the 2 Congo wells also planned this year? Well what we're looking at is the Ocean Confidence which we took out of the Gulf and sent to Africa.
It's using -- being used by somebody else.
We want to get that rig back and we're really excited about this sub-salt prospects that we have and that rig would be ideal.
So when that rig comes back to us that's when we'll drill and it's probably going to be the end of this year.
Is that -- isn't there another -- doesn't that person have another slot option for that rig maybe to come back later than you expect? It's possible.
But for our planning purposes here we're assuming that we're going to get it by the end of the year.
Okay.
Any -- do you share any pre-drill estimates? I know you shared in the past on the -- at least on your kind of more near-term prospects on  a P50 basis? No.
You can end up with some really big numbers.
Some people counsel me to say I should say everything's just 100 million barrels and be safe that way but we don't run that way.
I think the big prospects clearly on a gross basis are going to be in Brunei and sub-salt Congo and in Iraq in both Central Dohuk and the Bharanam [ph] block.
I mean these are all very big oily prospects and multi-hundred-million barrel individually.
So I would categorize them that way.
Good good.
And just a follow-up on Blake's question.
I mean any color on the use of proceeds for just the first refining sale? I mean you're going to have -- I guess late 3Q early 4Q you get the proceeds from that sale.
Any debt paydown or what the kind of immediate -- the uses might be? What I'd like to do is get the second one done and I don't feel in any rush to spend the money.
Mindy will tell me that she'll take the money from us and pay down some debt and I'm happy for her to do that.
But I think we've got a program here to identify things that we want to buy.
And hopefully in the next year we'll be able to close on some of those.
So I don't feel in a rush -- that we have to rush to spend the proceeds.
There's been a lot of activity also with the juniors in Canada and kind of unnamed major partners.
Any comments on how your footprint or attractiveness of terms you're seeing for land positions kind of in and around your Exshaw/Upper Bakken stuff? I would say as far as the Exshaw goes I'm reasonably pleased at the very beginning of a play.
I don't think we know where the sweet spots are yet.
Hence we've stepped up our program this year from 6 wells to 8 wells.
We've got a couple of wells that kind of fit what we thought they should be.
We've got one well that we're looking at.
We've got another well to bring on and we got a drill [ph] in another part of our acreage footprint that we don't know anything about yet.
So early days some encouragement.
We clearly need to get our cost down.
I would still pick up acreage up there but I think we need to get a little technically smarter to understand where the sweet spots are going to be.
The other areas around Tupper around Seal around Eagle Ford -- our strategy all along is as our knowledge grows and as opportunities arise and as we find them we will add acreage.
So I'm actively trying to get more acreage in all of those plays.
And you also I think made reference to a new kind of unconventional play.
But when should we expect to kind of hear maybe the identity of that? Or did I miss -- just miss hearing that? No.
You deliberately didn't miss it because I didn't say it.
What we like to do is get into some of these plays relatively early and relatively inexpensively.
And this is one of those we think.
It is very early days.
We're below in terms of acreage acquired what I think is critical mass.
And for us that's about 150 000 acres.
So we don't have that amount of acreage accumulated yet.
Once we get to that level then I think we'll be perhaps comfortable to talk about it.
And so that will be either this year or early next year I think is kind of where we get to.
But it just demonstrates Evan that what we want to have is we want to have a certain value and amount of resource play in our program.
And adding another play further out in time helps us have that continuum.
And so that's what we're trying to do.
And moving on we'll go to Lyn Donn [ph] with Bloomberg News.
I just had a couple of questions on the Meraux refinery.
I know that the company had said a little earlier that the flooding did not affect the production there at all.
Just wanted to confirm that also see if the maintenance schedule before the SSCU [ph] and the Achalasian [ph] unit over there is still on for January.
No.
We did not get any impact from flooding which I think we've talked about before.
And I don't have anything in front of me that has any different schedule than what you talked about with so...
Moving on we will go to Monroe Helm with Barrow Hanley.
I'm just wondering when you get out to the 300 000 barrel a day target what would that imply for Kikeh's gross production at that point in time? In 2015 Monroe Kikeh will be much smaller than it is now.
And actually Eagle Ford will be larger than Kikeh.
The Block K production which will include Kikeh plus Siakap North plus Kakap is really what we'll be looking at.
So there'll be more production actually coming from Siakap North and Kakap and Kikeh will just be a part of that.
And as we've talked about before we're looking to keep that production on a net basis from Block K which includes all those 3 fields as flat as possible.
So it should overall for that block be flat to where it is now or where it's going to be this year.
But it won't just be from the Kikeh field.
Okay.
Since you talked about the increased importance of the Eagle Ford at that point in time can you kind of fill in the blanks as to what the other 80 000 barrels a day is from the 220 000 you expect to be at the end of this year? I don't have anything right in front of me that steps you up there.
But Monroe I can get -- if you call in to Barry he'll -- we've done -- we've talked about that before at the AGM.
I don't want to mis-talk here.
I don't have my curve in front of me.
But if you give Barry a call he'll break it down for you.
Okay.
But any event it doesn't include any exploration success at this...
No.
No Monroe it does not and that's why we feel pretty good about where we're going.
And so if you were to ask the question "So what risks are there in that number?" then I would say gas price.
If gas prices were $4 or less by 2013 or '14 I may be not so enthusiastic to allow gas to grow very much.
But other than that I think the acreage footprint's in place and I think we have the opportunities to get there.
And exploration would just be a nice plus on top of that.
[Operator Instructions] And we'll go to Mark Gilman with The Benchmark Company.
LLC</strong> David I thought I heard the word when you were going through the upstream reorganization which in my mind implies personnel.
Were there any personnel changes that you've been making recently as part of this change in process? We've moved some people around.
It's part of career development for folks and part of trying to make our business better.
We have a lot of smart capable people here Mark and we're just trying to make sure we're doing the best that we can here.
And so that's what it is.
We have now kind of a North American piece of business.
We've operationally done a great job in developing our Tupper resource.
We want to bring some smarts and expertise from that learning curve down to Eagle Ford.
That's one case.
We think that how you frac wells and how you drill wells has a degree of universality and so we have some talented folks in our company and want to get them involved in other projects.
LLC</strong> Okay.
David I believe in the last call we talked about the level to which on a gross basis Eagle -- Kikeh would recover that a 90 000 a day figure was utilized.
Am I comparing apples and oranges by comparing that 90 000 to the 80 000? The 90 000 was the exit rate at the end of the year so end of December.
The number I gave you was a November rate.
And I said that the assumption was I would hold flat and not have any additional wells come on and contribute by the end of the year.
And so it's an apples-apples because I'm not looking at the same timeline Mark.
The real issue going forward with new people and new processes is to make sure that we're comfortable with the targets that we're setting.
And timing of wells is clearly end-of-year thing can get you a number one way or the other.
So real comfortable at the 80 000 number in November.
I don't quite know where we'll be at December.
LLC</strong> Okay.
What happened with the fourth well at Azurite? And what do you think has plateaued? Now it's increasingly looking like plateau might have been achieved already and it's in decline.
Azurite's been a little bit of a surprise subsurface.
This last well we did this -- let me get this right.
We did a sidetrack and the pay looked good had to another sidetrack to make sure it was in connection with a water injection well.
And when we got the well on we didn't see the performance that we expected.
And so now we're in the process of reevaluating that.
We believe that the oil in place number isn't the question.
It's the connectivity between water injection and the producer.
I think that's the issue.
So it's a question for us today and we're working it today.
LLC</strong> So it's a recovery factor issue? Well I can't answer that Mark until we get to understand why based on our -- up to drilling the well work we thought we were drilling a well in the right place related connectivity-wise to a water injector that we thought was in the right place.
We just have some more work to do there.
LLC</strong> David you referenced in your comments takeaway capacity constraints in the Eagle Ford.
Are you addressing that through choking the wells back? Or how was -- is there a capacity number in place that would suggest capacity currently is greater than the 7 200 you're producing? Oh I think we've got full wells that are producers that we don't have on.
So unconstrained I think we could produce more.
We have a number of field batteries being developed.
We have a number of pipelines.
This is not a "all flow into one place" sort of development.
And so I think that the offtake capacity is going to have to be improved through this year and into next year for us and for a number of other players to start removing some of the bottlenecks.
And so we got some growing pains and I think the infrastructure in the areas that we're developing have some growing pains.
But I'm pleased to see that there's commitments being made for new offtake arrangements and pipelines.
So I think all this will be worked out here certainly into next year.
LLC</strong> David of the exploration program in place are any of the prospects stratigraphic as opposed to structural? Let me see.
Probably the one in South Barito in Indonesia is and everything else that we're dealing with is a bump.
LLC</strong> I'm sorry everything else is...
A bump.
Structural.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And just a final word for me on the U.K.
tax.
I'm a little bit confused as to what the $15 million charge in the third quarter is.
Is the -- is that a deferred tax remeasurement? Is it the prior period impact? Or is it the current period impact? Kevin maybe you can clarify that for me? This is John.
It is a -- it is an adjustment of our deferred tax liabilities going forward due to the 12% increase in rate Mark.
LLC</strong> Well don't you have to book a prior period given that the effective date is March? Oh you're talking about adjusting prior period numbers? LLC</strong> Well no.
The effective date of the increase John is March.
That's correct.
LLC</strong> You haven't been accruing it I don't think.
Have you? No.
No but you book it as -- when it's enacted Mark.
And it was enacted in July.
So you take your adjustment when it's enacted officially by the U.S.
-- U.K.
government and that happened in July.
Mark the $15 million gets us up-to-date through September.
LLC</strong> So it includes both deferred tax remeasurement and the prior period? Yes.
I mean the $15 million includes the impacts from March 24.
Don't hold me to that date.
I believe that was the day.
But it does include some impacts of that 12% increase on pretax earnings from March 24 forward.
LLC</strong> Okay but it does not include...
[indiscernible] a deferred tax liability adjustment.
LLC</strong> Okay.
But it does not include the normal third quarter impact.
No.
LLC</strong> Was that a no? I'm sorry I didn't hear you.
That's a no.
And moving on we will go to Paul Sankey with Deutsche Bank.
David there's been a direct press speculation about a potential merger or takeover by Husky with you guys.
Are you in any whole company negotiations for Murphy to either merge or sell itself to Husky or anyone else? Paul we don't make any comments on market rumors.
[Operator Instructions] And it appears that we have no further questions at this time.
Operator thanks very much.
I appreciate everybody calling in and look forward to our third quarter call later in the year.
Thank you.
Thank you very much.
Well again ladies and gentlemen that does conclude today's conference.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Murphy Oil Corporation Third Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
Today's call is being recorded.
I'd now like to turn the call over to David Wood President and Chief Executive Officer.
Please go ahead sir.
Thanks operator.
Good afternoon everyone and thank you for joining us on our call today.
With me are Kevin Fitzgerald Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; John Eckart Vice President and Controller; Mindy West Vice President and Treasurer; Barry Jeffery Director of Investor Relations; and Tammy Taylor Assistant Manager Investor Relations.
I'll now turn the call over to Barry.
Thank you David.
Welcome everyone and thank you for joining us.
Today's call will follow our usual format.
Kevin will begin by providing a review of third quarter 2011 results.
David will then follow with an operational update after which questions will be taken.
Please keep in mind that some of the comments made during this call will be considered forward-looking statements as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
As such no assurances can be given that these events will occur or that the projections will be attained.
A variety of factors exist that may cause actual results to differ.
For further discussion of risk factors see Murphy's 2010 Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the SEC.
Murphy takes no duty to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements.
I will now turn the call over to Kevin for his comments.
Thanks Barry.
Net income in the third quarter of 2011 was $406.1 million or $2.09 per diluted share that compares to net income in the third quarter of 2010 of $202.8 million or $1.05 per diluted share.
For the 9 months ending September 30 2011 we had net income of $986.6 million or $5.07 per diluted share compared to net income of $624 million for the 9 months ended September 30 2010 or $3.24 per diluted share.
Beginning in the third quarter of this year operations related to the Superior and Meraux refineries which were sold on September 30 and October 1 respectively have been reported as discontinued operations.
Excluding these results income from continuing operations totaled $335.7 million or $1.73 per diluted share in the third quarter of 2011 compared to $197.4 million or $1.02 per diluted share in the third quarter of last year.
For the 9 months period ended September 30 income from continuing operations totaled $854.2 million or $4.39 per diluted share in 2011 and $630.1 million or $3.27 per diluted share for 2010.
Looking at income from continuing operations by segment.
In the E&amp;P segment we had net income in the third quarter of 2011 of $261.9 million compared to net income of $186.7 million in the third quarter of last year.
Higher earnings for the 2011 quarter were primarily due to higher crude oil and Sarawak natural gas price realizations partially offset by higher exploration expenses.
The current quarter also saw a net benefit of $11.1 million from income tax matters.
Crude oil and liquids prices averaged $95.95 per barrel in the third quarter of '11 versus $65.45 last year.
North American natural gas prices averaged $4.20 per MCF this year compared to $4.24 last year.
On Sarawak third quarter 2011 natural gas price realizations averaged $7.54 per MCF compared to $5.71 per MCF last year.
Crude oil and gas liquids production for the quarter was over 96 400 barrels per day compared to approximately 119 900 barrels per day in the corresponding 2010 quarter.
The decrease was mostly due to lower production from Kikeh offshore Malaysia where wells have been shut in or curtailed for workovers.
Natural gas sales volumes averaged 470 million cubic feet per day in the third quarter of this year compared to 371 million per day in the third quarter of last year.
This increase was primarily due to production from gas fields offshore Sarawak Malaysia and higher production from the Tupper West area in Western Canada which commenced during the first quarter of 2011.
In the R&amp;M segment income from continuing operations for the third quarter of 2011 was $68.9 million compared to income of $45.2 million in the third quarter of last year.
In North America an earnings increase of $29 million was primarily due to higher fuel margins in the retail business.
In the corporate segment the third quarter of this year saw a net benefit of $4.9 million compared to net charges in the third quarter of 2010 of $34.5 million.
Improved results in this segment were primarily due to foreign currency gains where we saw an aftertax benefit of $28.3 million in the 2011 quarter compared to aftertax costs of $15.8 million last year largely as a result of the weakening of the Malaysian ringgit against the U.S.
dollar.
Capital expenditures for the year estimated about $3 billion.
This is down slightly from previous guidance of $3.2 billion largely as a result of the timing of the spending such as in the Eagle Ford area where we have seen some delays in getting additional rigs onto our acreage.
As of September 30 2011 Murphy's long-term debt was $974.5 million or about 9.9% of total capital employed.
In early October outstanding balances under our revolving credit agreement of $725 million were paid off from proceeds of the U.S.
refinery sales.
It is expected that by year end our long-term debt as a percentage of total capital employed will be in the low-single digits.
With that I'll turn it over to Dave.
Thanks Kevin.
WTI crude prices recently settled back into the current $85 to $90 range after exhibiting weakness in the third quarter.
Dated Brent the marker for 80% of our production continued to outpace WTI with the spread averaging just under $24 for the quarter.
The recent contraction in the WTI-Brent spread is likely to remain through year end and doesn't appear to have a single course.
North American natural gas prices suffered through the summer shoulder season averaging near $4 in MMBtu for the quarter and more recently dropping to the $3.50 range ahead of the start of the winter heating season.
Consistent with our pricing strategy we have sold approximately half of our monthly gas production for this year.
Our exploration program restarted late in the third quarter with the non-operated wells being spudded in the Gulf of Mexico and Brunei.
In the Gulf drilling of the Deep Blue sidetrack continues.
We have found some oil pay but plans are to finish the drilling phase and move toward further evaluation.
In Brunei the first well in the CA-2 block was expensed as a dry hole.
The objective section being largely devoid of reservoirs.
The rig has moved and spud Meranti #1 the second CA-2 prospect.
Drilling operations at the first well in Block CA-1 are still ongoing.
Both Brunei blocks have multiple prospects featuring very large structures with the biggest risk related to this play associated with mass transit deposits that erode and influence reservoir distribution.
Through the next few months we will see a number of other impact wells started with Iraq early in the new year as well as the testing of deeper targets offshore Republic of Congo.
Drilling in Block H Malaysia will start up in the fourth quarter of this year and be timed for the return of our rig from Indonesia.
In the Gulf of Mexico we have finally gained approval for Thunder Hawk #4 in-field development well and hope to secure a rig to spud this before year end.
Global production for the third quarter averaged 174 803 barrels of oil equivalent per day just ahead of guidance of 173 000 per day.
This positive variance was attributable to higher production from the Eagle Ford Shale and Tupper West as new wells came on stream.
We also experienced less downtime at Syncrude Hibernia and Terra Nova in Canada and better on-time performance at the non-operated LNG facilities in Malaysia.
This was partly offset by a lower production at Azurite due to field performance from the Gulf of Mexico which was impacted by a tropical storm system in the quarter.
Plans to reposition our company remain on track as we executed on our strategy to exit the refining business having closed on the sale of the U.S.
refineries located at Superior Wisconsin and Meraux Louisiana.
Cash proceeds were approximately $960 million that we use to pay down our revolver while we look to redeploy these funds.
We have moved our focus onto completing the divestiture of our downstream assets in the U.K.
The Northwest Europe refining market remains challenged and is likely to take a little longer than originally planned to divest the Milford Haven refinery.
Our U.S.
downstream business turned in a solid performance for the quarter with $88 million of net income.
The U.K.
downstream business continues to deliver reliable operational performance in a difficult market environment with the U.K.
retail providing consistent returns.
Production guidance for the fourth quarter is estimated to be 198 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day up just over 23 000 from the third quarter.
This increase over the third quarter is primarily attributable to recovery of production in Malaysia the ongoing recompletion work at the Kikeh field additional development wells at the West Patricia and ramping up of new wells on stream from the North American resource plays at Eagle Ford Tupper West and Seal as well as less downtime in the Gulf and also the U.K.
where maintenance work at Schiehallion is completed are also part of this.
This will put overall 2011 production just below prior expected levels due to slower than expected ramp of new wells coming on stream in the fourth quarter and unplanned downtime at Schiehallion and Syncrude.
The workover program at Kikeh remains on track to restore production from that field to 80 000 barrels a day in the fourth quarter.
We have recompleted and flowed back 2 wells to date with the new gravel pack technique both with expected results and have executed recompletion work on 3 other wells all without issue and are about to flow those 3 back within the next week.
We also recently completed the workover on the well with the downhole mechanical issue again successfully.
Looking forward I expect to see 2012 production levels to show attractive year-on-year growth as we ramp up activity in the Eagle Ford Shale and Seal areas of our North American resource portfolio with the emphasis on oils -- oil and liquids.
While the budget process is still ongoing I expect we will average 200 000 barrels of oil equivalent in 2012 and 225 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day in 2013 as we march towards our 300 000 barrel a day target for 2015.
Low North American natural gas prices remained a factor in the short term as we balance growth in our Montney and Eagle Ford Shale dry gas developments with oil-weighted opportunities.
Updating our North American resource program we currently have 11 rigs active with 5 working in Eagle Ford and 6 in Canada.
Reorganization of our North American business unit is well underway bringing expertise and compliments from our Montney development team to our fast-growing business in the Eagle Ford Shale.
Activity in the Eagle Ford Shale continues to ramp up where we plan to add 2 more rigs near term.
To date we have drilled 45 wells with 8 awaiting fracs.
Well results continue to be very encouraging and are trending better than our tight curve wells in the play.
Gross production is currently 9 375 barrels of oil and 9.4 million cubic feet of gas.
The region continues to be impacted by takeaway capacity although we've seen improvements and we look for this to get even better as infrastructure projects move forward into next year.
In Western Canada we have 6 rigs operating between the Montney acreage at Tupper and our heavy oil operation at Seal with the first phase of appraisal drilling in the Southern Alberta Exshaw play just concluded.
The Tupper area continues its good operational performance with the rates currently over 200 million cubic feet per day as the buildup continues to fill out the new Tupper West gas plant.
Heavy oil production growth at Seal is moving forward at an accelerated pace as we focus on additional development drilling down-spacing opportunities multi-leg laterals and advancing our EOR projects.
We are fortunate to have the flexibility to redeploy capital to Seal as we manage the pace of development from the Montney pending some support there in natural gas prices.
In Southern Alberta our Exshaw Bakken appraisal program has completed the first phase.
We have drilled a total of 6 wells the last well is awaiting completion 2 wells are showing productive capability in line with expectations 1 well is producing at very low rates and 2 wells are shut in to evaluate.
Overall production results from the first phase of wells have been mixed and we continue to evaluate the play to identify sweet spots and areas for improvement.
In business development we are finalizing the terms for a PSC on 2 blocks offshore Vietnam and are close to finalizing a new block offshore Cameroon in West Africa.
We continue to evaluate bolt-on opportunities for our resource plays and are adding to our land position in a fifth North American resource play bringing our total North American resource acreage to over 800 000 net acres.
Our U.S.
retail chain broadened its partnership with Walmart and extended the current $0.10 per gallon rollback program on gasoline prices through December 24.
We have added 20 stores year-to-date bringing the current station count to 1 119 and should add 6 new sites before year end.
Longer term we are excited about the opportunity to expand both within and outside our current footprint with Walmart.
In the renewable fuels business the crush spread averaged $0.35 a gallon for the quarter despite its easing off into the $0.20 range in September as corn prices moved off their highs near $7.50 a bushel pulling $1.50 as markets sold off in response to global economic concerns despite supported fundamentals for corn with lower yields and tight supply.
Our ethanol plants at Hankinson and Hereford continue to focus on safe reliable operations with production rates in the range of 120 million and 105 million gallons per year respectively.
In summary the third quarter showed good performance and our repositioning is on track.
We completed the sale of the 2 U.S.
refineries and efforts are now focused on the sale of the U.K.
assets.
Our North American onshore business is moving forward under reorganization with accelerated development of Eagle Ford and Seal heavy oil property.
I see both gaining strength and making even greater contribution going forward.
Drilling continues in the Montney to fill out the Tupper West facilities with a continued focus of managing development and production growth from our dry gas opportunities pending some level of price support.
We should end the year within sight of our recalibrated 2011 production target and should exit the year near 218 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day.
Our budget and long range plant activities are well underway and we remain focused on the 300 000-barrel target by 2015 from our existing resource base.
Project execution remains very active with 7 projects sanctioned this year that will provide nice production growth starting in 2013.
We already have plans for a further 3 field sanctions next year all helping build towards our goal along with active development across our Eagle Ford Shale position.
The exploration program is back in action with impactful prospects to be tested near term in Brunei Congo and Iraq.
Our prospect inventory continues to develop with the addition of new exploration blocks and new country entries witness Vietnam and Cameroon.
The U.S.
retail continued its excellent performance and provided a solid contribution in the quarter and it's very well poised for future growth.
We are still working through our 2012 and '13 budgets for next year as we spend close to $3.5 billion and a budget price stack that puts CapEx just ahead of cash flow.
Of course if current prices are maintained through next year that position will be held.
That concludes my prepared remarks.
I'm now happy to take your questions.
[Operator Instructions] We'll go first to Blake Fernandez with Howard Weil.
Research Division</strong> Two questions for you if I could.
The first is on the exploration side.
Given the discovery that Tullow had in French Guiana I'm curious if that changes your view or the prospect opportunities that you may have in Suriname? Okay.
Blake we entered that play recognizing that the margin had the type of opportunity that Tullow had found success in French Guiana.
And we tried to -- different prospects and they didn't work or really updip Seal issues which we knew going in were the main risk.
We're back looking again on our current acreage and we're back looking at other acreage in the play to see where to go next.
So I'm not discouraged dry holes happen in our business.
But I am encouraged that the play has been shown to work by somebody else.
And so we were there and I think now our exploration guys have just got to find out is there other things for us to do on our block or are there other pieces of acreage that we would like to have and so that process is ongoing.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then the second question was on the production side.
You've lowered the exit rate by a couple of thousand barrels a day although it sounds like you're fairly optimistic on the workover wells in Malaysia.
I'm just trying to get a sense where did the -- where did the I guess the shortfall if you will come from? And can you give us a sense of what volumes may look like in Malaysia overall into next year once all of the workover wells are on and producing? Yes Blake it's a good question.
The simple answer is that we got a little bit behind on one well at Kikeh where we had a poor cement job and we lost some timing and then we did not factor in downtime in Schiehallion and Syncrude to the level that actually took place.
So October was a bit of a delayed month for us and that's really where the problem lay which is why we're a little off here in the fourth quarter.
Third quarter was good.
I was very happy with where we were in our new processes and our ability to predict.
As we look at Kikeh and I'll just kind of jump into Kikeh I think probably other questions will probably be answered by this.
We're currently just under 63 000 barrels a day today.
We said at the last call that we had 6 wells to bring on by the end of the year.
We brought 1 on.
As I look in front of us we've got 3 wells ready to come on within the next week.
And if we haven't had the delay that I mentioned earlier they will be on today and so I think that's really the issue.
And so by the end of the year we see ourselves being at the 80 number and so we feel really comfortable about it.
We've had good results from the well that we brought on for some period of time with the sand fines migration.
This gravel pack technique has worked well.
The jobs to do the same on the 3 wells that we're getting ready to bring on here in the next week have also gone well and so we expect those wells to perform as expected.
And so we feel overall very good about where Kikeh is going.
If I look at where we're going to go from today to the end of the year we've got actually 48 wells to come on between now and the end of the year so that drives that exit rate at the end of the year.
We've got 19 at Tupper 11 at Seal the 5 at Kikeh I mentioned 11 at Eagle Ford 1 at West Pat and 1 at Front Runner.
And so that drives the curve and -- Barry why don't you break down the pieces there? You may give a little more granularity to it.
Sure.
Blake this is Barry.
Current production today is right around 190 000 barrels a day.
So to get to the 218 000 exit rate basically you've got the Kikeh workover program bringing on 9 000 barrels a day.
And our resource plays here in North America they're all ramping up with additional wells coming on.
So you've got Tupper West 5 000 BOEs a day.
You've got Eagle Ford at 2 500 BOEs a day and you've got Seal at 1 500 barrels a day.
So those are the resource plays.
And our non-operated Canadian projects at Terra Nova Hibernia and East Coast we've got another 3 000 barrels a day coming on there with less downtime maintenance this quarter.
And the same can be said for Syncrude about 3 500 barrels a day there with less maintenance downtime.
And finally in the Gulf of Mexico we've brought on A7 at Front Runner so at 1 500 barrels a day there.
And then finally the U.K with Schiehallion and Amethyst coming off their maintenance programs and back on that's 2 000 a day.
So that gets you from the 190 000 to the 218 000.
Next up we have Evan Calio with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> My first question is on Kikeh realizations they're now either higher in the quarter maybe a function of tapest [ph] differentials but also probably a partial function of cost recovery through the PSC.
And so kind of given the spend levels how could you kind of guide us through your elevated realization in Kikeh in 2012 would be helpful.
Evan I'll take that call -- that question.
This is Mindy.
Our actual price for realizations that we got in Malaysian oil side was just under $120 a barrel this quarter.
That differs from last quarter it was $125 in the second quarter.
Our supplemental payment however was lower this quarter versus last quarter because due to our workover programs more of our barrels are being recovered as cost barrels and therefore are not subject to that supplemental payment.
And our overall realization or entitlement has been in the high 60s versus the low 60s and we didn't expect that to continue into this quarter as our workover program continued but probably should level out from next year and be closer to where we have been previously so entitlement in the lower 60s.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
That's very helpful.
Also on the realization side the Sarawak gas volumes and the realizations were both higher.
I know there's been recent articles discussing a sharp increase in Malaysian natural gas demand year-to-date.
I mean does that accelerate your potential expansion plans? Or how does that influence that pricing formula? Is there any -- I presume it's partially a component of Pac basin and LNG pricing.
It's a function of LNG prices.
We can't discuss particulars about the formula and there is a little bit of lag to the formula as different cargoes get priced in but yes it's due to the strengthening of the overall price for LNG globally with a lag built in.
Evan it's a -- it's a very good project for us.
We've been averaging north of $250 million a day there good operational results have found additional resource to bring on to be able to extend the plateau there or if we're asked to be able to produce more.
So we have great flexibility there.
And the fact that gas price has got an oil-weighted index clearly as oil prices have moved up gas prices have moved up.
I think this time last year we were talking $5.70 and now we're in the $7.40 range.
So that's what happened over the last 12 months.
Research Division</strong> I mean the production levels are somewhat a function of demand so you could produce at a higher rate than you did this quarter? Well we're producing pretty steady state.
If we're asked by Petronas to produce more once we do a little bit of change around we certainly could do that.
So it's not a resource or deliverability issue per se but we budget around this 250 260 level.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And maybe lastly if I could.
Just given the -- you touched on this in your opening comments but given the natural gas prices how should we think about your Montney expansion here? I mean are you going to grow to fill the new gas plant or potentially just run third-party volumes and shift some capital to other -- more liquid portions of your portfolio? Evan it's kind of the key question for us.
We believe we have a very nice resource up there with good oil and costs around 350 but it's just smart I think to hold that program flat.
So if you look at our budget next year and the year after we don't really show any growth there.
We have the technical capability and the desire to do that but absent any gas price support we'll not.
So we'll be averaging about 230 next year and the year after absent any price improvement.
And so that gets us to filling the plant say for some third-party production that we already have going through so that's kind of where we're trying to get to.
Next we'll go to John Herrlin with Societe Generale.
Some quick ones.
With Kikeh what were the workover costs? And were they all absorbed by the PSC? Or did you have some direct costs? All costs get put through the PSC John so -- And as far as exact costs I'll have somebody here dig a number for you.
So go ahead to your next question while...
Okay.
Sure.
In terms of the new concessions in Cameroon or Vietnam are you looking at abyssal plain type of targets in Cameroon and what about Vietnam? Cameroon is a turbidite play.
It's a foreman by us to accompany part of the acreage.
It doesn't have access right now.
We've just actually yesterday got our agreements done.
We think that it's a highly prospective for oil in an area that has worked for the people for a play that's worked for other people.
So we're very pleased to be there.
Vietnam is in deeper water off the East Coast.
We think it's largely untested play.
But with our knowledge in the South China Sea which is pretty good knowledge we think it's quite perspective.
And so I see these first blocks in Vietnam be a first of the few.
And I'd like to see us grow our footprint there because I think there is other opportunities to explore.
Okay great.
With the Eagle Ford what are your well cost running? Eagle Ford costs vary by area.
But let me look at my little cheat sheet here so that I don't give you an incorrect number.
Drilling runs between a little over 3 to a little over 5; and completion cost a little over 4 to a little over 5 that's kind of what they've been running.
In some areas we're down at 12 000 foot to the Eagle Ford.
In some areas we're shallow at 6 000.
So that's the reason why there's a wide range.
How long are the laterals? And how many stages are you using for the fracs? Usually 15 or 16 is the number of fracs.
And we'll usually go 3 500 to a full 1 000 foot that kind of range.
Okay.
Last one for me if you think in the future you might break out your North American unconventional plays in your disclosures? Break out so...
At Eagle Ford just list the production so we can watch it.
Oh believe me I'm watching the production.
We've got some pretty nice growth for Eagle Ford so we'll end the year a little over 9 800 barrels net.
In '12 we should exit a little over 20.
In '13 we should exit a little over 36.
That's why I like it disclosed.
2014 a little over 50.
So that I think gives you a sense as to where we're going with that program.
[Operator Instructions] We'll go to Pavel Molchanov with Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> A few things guys.
First on the Eagle Ford can you just update us on the acreage position and whether you're still adding acreage either through just additional bolt-on deals or anything else? Yes Pavel we like to.
It's getting pretty pricey in the oily plays.
But we're just a little under 240 000 net acres in the play.
And as we see opportunities to add which tend to be small we'll do that.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Any particular target or just entirely opportunistic? It's pretty frothy there and so I would say opportunistic there's some cases small pieces of acreage and some some larger deals to be done.
And so we're in the game we're active.
But I don't have one that's right in front that I can say we're going to do it today.
But we're looking to grow that footprint.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And then lastly with regard to the U.K.
refinery sale how has the level of interest from potential buyers been compared to your 2 domestic plants? I'd say today we've got 3 or 4 folks that are talking to us about the refinery and quite a bit more than that that are interested in our retail business.
And so the question is and of course end of the year well December is a very difficult month to do anything anyway which is why I have suggested that maybe it's going to be more of a first quarter next year kind of business.
And then we always have the option with Milford Haven of looking at the -- trying to get into a terminal which is something that we've thought about and have that option as well.
So I think it's a 2012 decision on all of that.
Next up we have Mark Gilman with The Benchmark Company.
LLC Research Division</strong> Let me see if I understand what you were saying in terms of Tupper West correctly.
Are you deferring Tupper West Phase 2? We don't have to make that decision until next year.
So if gas prices stay the same I would say that it's more than likely that we would not do it.
But we don't have to make that decision today.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
What working interest numbers should we be applying to your gross Eagle Ford volumes as you discussed them or quote them? When I give you net it's net.
But our working interest varies from 90s down to something in the 50s throughout.
But what I tried to do Mark is to give you a net production number.
LLC Research Division</strong> Yes but when you quoted where -- where you are currently David and this was similar to oh I think the comments were made in the prior call you talked about it on a gross basis.
No I gave net today Mark.
That was -- so let me give that again...
LLC Research Division</strong> Yes let's try that again if we could please? Yes so we're looking to exit here -- so at about 9 800 barrels a day net equivalent net.
So the 90...
LLC Research Division</strong> So the numbers that I -- the 93 75 that you quoted earlier in your prepared remarks I believe was a gross figure.
Was it not? That's gross today.
The 98 figure is the end of the year exit net.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
What's the net on -- what is the net on the 93 75 and the 9.4 million feet a day? It is 6 951 barrels of oil equivalent per day net.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
Can we talk a bit about the Cameroon for just a second? Is this the same play as the -- I probably am going to mispronounce this but the Sapele discoveries that you're looking at there? Yes I think I mispronounce things too Mark I think they call it Sapele and it's quite similar to that.
So yes you're right.
LLC Research Division</strong> And David I want to see if I can understand correctly the Suriname situation.
It was my understanding that the 2 wells you drilled there were separate play types and were -- and only one of which was analogous to the -- to Tullow's French Guiana discovery.
Is that accurate? Well I don't have any data around Tullow's discovery Mark.
So all I got is data on mine and what's been publicly said about Tullow's discovery.
But what we were looking at in the 2 wells we tested was to drill fans that were very near or within the Turonian source rock interval and that's what we did.
And as my understanding from what's been publicly said is that was the equivalent interval in age that Tullow were testing.
So in that regard I would say they were similar.
As far as geometry et cetera I only know what the issues were with ours and we believe our updip Seal was not present in both cases.
We did have oil shows as we reported in this section and believe that the leakiness of the trap was the primary risk for us.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
Can I just move to Seal for a sec and what you're seeing in terms of a polymer pilot? Mark it's going very well.
The voidage is very good and the incremental rates basically were taking wells and doubling the rates so they've gone up from 50 to 80 barrels to 2x there.
And so that's all very positive and we will go through next year with a beyond pilot and have an actual development in an area.
So that's very positive.
We've also had a couple of multilateral wells come on.
These are 6 laterals built from 1 vertical borehole and have over 400 barrels a day from those wells which is very positive.
So there's a lot of things associated with our Seal work that are very attractive for us and we like what we see.
LLC Research Division</strong> When do you think you might be in a position to sanction the major polymer project? We're going to break it down and probably do 3 or 4 or 5 areas with the polymer.
And as soon as they get on my desk I will approve them so I expect the first one to be next year Mark.
The other thing that we're working on which I think is important for folks to remember is that the thermal component of EUR we believe will work nicely at Seal and through the course of next year that will be something that we will be working on.
Of course we have to go through a series of approvals to do that but that's got some nice upside for us.
LLC Research Division</strong> David who is the operator on CA-2? CA-2 is Petronas.
LLC Research Division</strong> And the second well I think what you referenced in your prepared remarks is that a different play type from the first well? No it's a similar age section.
It is a separate 4-way dip structure a little further outboard than the first one it's called Meranti.
I referred in my remarks to these mass transit deposits we've seen these along the Sabah margin they're basically shallow water sediments or shelf sediments that are redistributed into the deepwater and they either wipe out the reservoir that's already there or they influence the deposition of reservoir that takes place.
And so the first well that we've drilled in CA-2 saw a thick section of these MTDs.
They generally are not reservoir quality themselves.
And so that is one of the risks going in that we are aware of.
And so understanding the MTDs and where the MTDs are not is a critical element I think in exploration in all of Brunei.
We'll go to Katherine Minyard with JP Morgan.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of quick questions.
As we think about your production growth to 300 000 barrel equivalent per day through the middle of the decade or in 2015 I know we've got a few projects or some of those volumes that will need to come from additional project sanctionings what might we be looking for over the next say 12 to 15 months or so in terms of milestones in terms of sanctionings that would kind of bridge some of that delta? Well really the first thing is the projects that we sanctioned this year that start to come on in 2013 are going to have as big an impact as any and we sanctioned 7 this year Siakap North in deepwater Malaysia Serendah Patricia South Acis Permas and Enbau in Sarawak and then Schiehallion redevelopment and that will be a little later that will be 2016.
But those deals were new deals to be brought on.
Next year Dalmatian potentially Tupper West Phase 2 if we get some gas price assistance.
And then what we were just talking about earlier which is Seal will all add in the 2014 kind of range.
So those are some of the milestones that we're looking at.
And then we have some things that we're working that we hope to bring forward to the course of next year as well.
So it's those this year and next year that I think really will drive that 2015 target.
And what I'm not including in there is our Eagle Ford which for me is just kind of an ongoing development of the footprint that we've already got so it will add on top of that.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
All right.
And then I apologize if you guys already addressed this but I'm just -- I'm looking at your exit rate for the year of 218 000 and then your 200 000 barrel equivalent per day as your full year guidance for 2012 am I missing a big maintenance project or a big maintenance undertaking or something that kind of results in that drop from the exit rate to full year next year? No Katherine.
It's kind of like my golf game.
In any one given shot I can make a good shot but you've got to put all 18 holes together to get the full picture.
218 000 barrel equivalent a day at the end of the month doesn't reflect normal downtimes normal workovers et cetera.
The 200 000 is the average for next year.
And so you should compare that number I think to the 185 000 or the number close to 185 000 for this year.
And to me that's the year-on-year number and then compare that to the 230 000 number or 225 000 number that we're talking about for 2013 on average.
I think that's really the comparison that I would point you at.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
All right.
Great.
And then if I can just squeeze one final one here.
Just thinking about your cash balance and clearly you guys have maintained a pretty strong balance sheet and you're looking at debt to cap in the low-single digits by the end of the current year if I got Kevin's remarks correct.
Are there any other potential uses of cash? I mean clearly developments are one of them you've got the dividend.
But should we be thinking about looking for anything like for example funding maybe some underfunded pension liabilities or any other uses of cash that we might be looking to see? Or are you going to try and kind of retain that strong cash position? Yes we don't have any underfunded pension liabilities and we do have an exceptionally good balance sheet here.
We have all things kind of on the table Kat and that's the way I would look at it.
We clearly are prepared for success in our exploration game for developments.
We would like to acquire some things that will help bolster our growth and asset base in our upstream business.
And so we're working that actively now and other things that will help our overall business we're actively looking at.
So it's a nice position to be in and we feel good having executed on the refinery sale that allows us to be in this position so.
A call from Blake Fernandez with Howard Weil.
Research Division</strong> Guys sorry to reprompt in but I had one more question for you on the Western Canadian gas prices.
I know Shell is exploring the potential for LNG export from the West Coast.
Just curious have you had any discussions with them? And is that something that you think is on the horizon that you could participate in? Blake I'm happy to sell gas to anybody for more money.
So if there's an opportunity to do that we would look at that and have looked at it.
I think LNG export from Canada is a little way down the line and there is a lot of gas that's there.
But as I've talked before I actually think there's probably a better opportunity for some gas price appreciation in Canada because of that versus the U.S.
So I think we're positioned but I don't know that it will be a '12 piece of business or '13 piece of business.
It probably is beyond that.
Let's take a call from Joe Citarrella with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> In terms of assets I think you mentioned in the past that you don't believe you're getting enough credit for namely the retail marketing business and Syncrude.
Any update there on how you're thinking about realizing those values going forward where you stand on the potential for the retail marketing business to be on its own and how at this stage are you thinking about Syncrude in the context of your E&amp;P portfolio? Yes Syncrude I think is a great asset.
And if you generally believe in increasing prices longer term given the long life of resource there it's a nice thing to have.
So I don't feel very motivated to do anything with that other than keep it and enjoy it.
As far as the retail business goes I've said that it's in my view reached critical mass.
It is a great business has got good results as we've talked about.
I think it has a very very bright future.
But I also think that it's something that we as Murphy Oil Corporation necessarily don't get full value for.
And as I've commented I think at some point in time we will look very hard at seeing whether we want to make that a separate business or not.
And that isn't a 2011 decision but I will say that I will look very hard in 2012 at that business and bringing that forward is a possible thing for us to do so.
Research Division</strong> That's very helpful that's helpful.
And quickly apologies if I missed this but in that 200 000 BOE a day number for 2012 how much of that is Kikeh? Kikeh will be near 80 on a gross basis -- gross basis that's not net.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And the net basis in that number? It would be somewhere...
The entitlement is in the low 60s specifically.
Yes.
We have a call from Paul Sankey with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> David I was wondering and you've been very clear about the 300 target for 2015 for sometime now.
I was wondering for example at the time of the Analyst Meeting was 200 your anticipated rate for 2012? Or is that now a lower number than you would have thought midyear? Paul I don't have the number in front of me but I believe it's lower because of what has taken place at Kikeh and yes I think it's lower because of that.
But I believe that the work at Kikeh has shown that we can address the problems and now get some stability there.
And I think going forward I think we're in good shape.
Research Division</strong> Yes I see.
I mean I guess the issue is that there's an implied acceleration kind of later in the period we can infer sort of a 2014 number from your -- I think you said 225 for '13 didn't you? Yes.
Research Division</strong> Yes so if we go -- obviously if we go to 300 by '15 the kind of treadmill is going to get quicker in the '13 to '15 time frame but your confidence in Kikeh and your sanctioning ability is making you stick with the 300? Yes.
We have moved forward some of the projects that I mentioned that we sanctioned this year Paul which helped that.
We also are climbing the curve faster on Eagle Ford than we had before.
We have more rigs now and that's really a rig function.
So we have made compensation within the rest of our program to be able to meet that target.
And I think the important thing here is that we're not looking for things that we don't have to make that contribution.
Now we talked a little bit about dry gas and gas prices and I think if we pulled out Tupper Phase 2 we'd probably take out 30 000 BOEs equivalent out of that number.
But we're working to make up that production with more liquids production to accelerate Seal to accelerate Eagle Ford.
So all of those things are kind of working around here so that we can kind of move towards that target.
So there is some flexibility in there which you would expect from a program with many different things in it.
Research Division</strong> I mean the level of detail David suggests that you're happy with the portfolio as it stands and that you can clearly get there organically.
Would we then infer the acquisitions are unlikely from you? No I think it's always good to make additions to your portfolio.
As we've talked about before I have -- I really want to be focused on returns for BOE produced and you kind of have to have new things keep coming into your program to help you drive that be it through exploration be it through acquisitions be it through growing programs.
So I'm happy where we are today but tomorrow I would like to keep growing what we're doing and get better at what we're doing.
And so -- but today and on track to get to this number Paul I feel pretty good about it.
Research Division</strong> David a separate follow-up if I could.
The retail you were talking about the retail and the potential long term for that part of your business.
I was wondering whether you see it remaining within Murphy as such or whether that could become a separate company? We've had a -- I think it's a good topical question Paul.
In the past we had a timber business that we spun to our shareholders.
And that the business even though it's external business is a difficult environment I think has done well.
And so I think our shareholders are getting rewarded for really creating this retail business.
It's a great way to go.
I do believe it's a different business with different drivers than an E&amp;P business.
And so I would say one logical step one thing for us to consider seriously is that we would spin that to our shareholders.
And so as I addressed the question that was asked earlier that is something that is not a 2011 look but certainly will be looked at pretty heavily in 2012.
We have Gene Gillespie with the Gillespie Consulting Group.
Listen in terms of investment options going forward is repurchase of your stock at all on the radar? It is on the radar Gene.
It gets looked at like a whole bunch of other things so yes.
We have a question again from Mark Gilman.
LLC Research Division</strong> David the prospects that you're looking at in Cameroon and in Vietnam stratigraphic or structural? The play in Cameroon is turbidite fan off the margins so primarily stratigraphic and Vietnam has both elements to it.
LLC Research Division</strong> I had thought for some comments either you Sam or both May -- back at the May Analyst Meeting that going forward the focus would be almost strictly on structural type prospects? Yes I think he was talking about as an overall weighting Mark and not on kind of in total.
And so I think picking up both Vietnam and Cameroon is entirely in context with where Sam was going.
LLC Research Division</strong> CA-2 same question.
CA-2 has mainly structural prospects to it but there are stratigraphic opportunities there that we'll have to evaluate as we go down the drilling program both there in CA-1 and in CA-2.
And so we don't rule that out as being an important element given what I said about MTDs and how they influence reservoirs.
That was all the questions we have for today.
Operator thanks a lot and everyone we appreciate you dialing in.
And we look forward to our next call and talk about the fourth quarter.
Thank you.
Once again that does conclude our conference call for today.
We thank you for your participation.
Good afternoon ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Murphy Oil Corporation Fourth Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
Today's call is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the call over to David Wood President and Chief Executive Officer.
Please go ahead sir.
Thanks operator.
Good afternoon everyone and thank you for joining us on our call today.
With me are Kevin Fitzgerald Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; John Eckart Senior Vice President and Controller; Mindy West Vice President and Treasurer; Barry Jeffery Director of Investor Relations; and Tammy Taylor Assistant Manager Investor Relations.
I will now turn the call over to Barry.
Thank you David.
Welcome everyone and thank you for joining us.
Today's call will follow our usual format.
Kevin will begin by providing a review of fourth quarter 2011 results.
David will then follow with an operational update after which questions will be taken.
Please keep in mind that some of the comments made during this call will be considered forward-looking statements as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
As such no assurances can be given that these events will occur or that the projections will be attained.
A variety of factors exist that may cause actual results to differ.
For further discussion of risk factors see Murphy's 2010 Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the SEC.
Murphy takes no duty to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements.
I will now turn the call over to Kevin for his comments.
Thanks Barry.
For the fourth quarter 2011 we showed a net loss of $113.9 million or $0.59 per diluted share.
This compares to net income in the fourth quarter of 2010 of $174.1 million or $0.90 per diluted share.
For the full year of 2011 we had net income of $872.7 million or $4.49 per diluted share compared to net income in 2010 of $798.1 million or $4.13 per diluted share.
From continuing operations in the fourth quarter of 2011 we showed a net loss of $113.3 million or $0.59 per diluted share compared to 2010 fourth quarter where we had net income of $149.5 million or $0.77 per diluted share.
For the full year of 2011 income from continuing operations was $740.9 million or $3.81 per diluted share compared to net income from continuing ops in 2010 of $779.6 million or $4.03 per diluted share.
As a reminder Murphy's 2 U.S.
refineries and certain associated marketing assets were sold near the end of the third quarter of 2011.
The financial results related to these assets are now presented as discontinued operations.
The fourth quarter and full year results of 2011 included a $368.6 million impairment charge for which there was no income tax effect for the Azurite field offshore of the Republic of the Congo.
Poor well performance led to a cut in proved reserves at this field at year-end 2011.
Excluding the impairment income for the fourth quarter of 2011 was $254.7 million $1.31 per diluted share.
There were no one-off type items of significance in the fourth quarter of 2010.
Looking at income by segment.
In the E&amp;P segment we had income in the fourth quarter of 2011 of -- loss of $139.9 million versus income in the fourth quarter of 2010 of $154.1 million.
The lower earnings in the 2011 quarter were mostly attributable to the previously mentioned impairment of the Azurite field.
Fourth quarter 2011 also included higher exploration expenses but the quarter benefited from higher realized prices for crude oil and Sarawak natural gas.
Crude oil and gas liquids production averaged approximately 108 800 barrels a day in the 2011 quarter compared to about 117 100 barrels per day last year.
The decline is primarily a result of lower production from Kikeh in Malaysia and from Azurite.
Natural gas volumes were 488 million cubic feet a day in the third quarter of -- fourth quarter of 2011 compared to 365 million cubic feet a day in 2010 the increase primarily due to higher production from the Tupper area in Western Canada and from Sarawak Malaysia.
In our R&amp;M segment from continuing operations we showed net income in the fourth quarter of 2011 of $61 million even compared to net income from continuing operations of $19.8 million in the fourth quarter of 2010.
The main drivers of the income increase for the 2011 quarter were stronger retail marketing margins in the U.S.
and improved refining and marketing margins in the U.K.
The corporate segment we showed a net charge of $34.4 million in the fourth quarter of 2011 compared to a net charge of $24.4 million in the fourth quarter of 2010.
In 2011 we experienced higher foreign exchange losses and higher net interest expense.
Capital expenditures for 2011 totaled just under $3 billion.
Approximately 94% or a little over $2.7 billion was spent in the E&amp;P segment; approximately $863 million in exploration of which about $300 million was in lease acquisitions; and the remainder for development projects with the Tupper Kikeh and Eagle Ford Shale projects accounting for over half of the expenditures.
For 2012 our budgeted capital expenditures which were approved by our board in early December totaled $3.5 billion with approximately 94% or $3.3 billion slated for the E&amp;P segment.
Of that approximately $3 billion is for development projects.
The remainder or about $300 million is to be spent on exploration activities.
Our budget assumes WTI pricing of $85 per barrel and Henry Hub pricing of $4.25 per MCF.
Dave will elaborate a bit further on CapEx in his comments.
At year-end 2011 Murphy's long-term debt amounted to approximately $250 million or 2.7% of total capital employed while cash cash equivalents and short-term investments in marketable securities totaled a little over $1 billion.
And with that I'll turn it over to Dave.
Thanks Kevin.
Looking back 2011 saw benchmark WTI prices range bound between $90 and $100 a barrel for much of the year with excursions above this range in the second quarter largely due to the shut-in of Libyan production and below the range in the third quarter as the market reacted to European Union sovereign debt issues and the S&amp;P downgrade of U.S.
government dent.
Dated Brent the marker for much of our production outpaced WTI with the spread starting the year near $10 then widening significantly over $25 by the third quarter before retreating back to current levels near $10 a level likely to be sustained given a number of regional transportation factors.
We have set our 2012 budgeted oil price at $85 WTI and $100 Brent which should be a conservative position given current pricing levels and global crude fundamentals.
Natural gas prices in North America languished through 2011 working downwards from $4.50 at the beginning of the year to current levels below $3 as warm winter weather temperatures exacerbated the supply-demand picture.
While we do not expect natural gas prices to remain at this low level midterm we do expect pricing to be under pressure throughout 2012.
I see us redirecting spend away from pure dry gas investments as the year plays out.
We are fortunate that our North American portfolio has opportunity and flexibility to be able to move money and rigs to oilier plays timely.
We are almost 2 years removed from the unfortunate and tragic events of the Macondo incident in the Gulf of Mexico.
And while the pace of the play has improved new permits require higher levels of manpower and much more time to complete.
That coupled with fewer rigs makes for a much slower and for us a smaller business.
This year we are lined up to spud in February a new development well at our Thunder Hawk field.
Given this backdrop 2011 saw some significant achievements for us as we established the framework and began executing on our plans to reposition Murphy Oil as an independent E&amp;P company.
We successfully closed on the sale of the 2 U.S.
refineries at the end of the third quarter and are now focused on the disposition of the U.K.
refinery at Milford Haven.
We are also evaluating the potential to separate our retail business and to unlock its value which we believe is unrealized within the current corporate structure.
Activity in our North American resource program ramped up in 2011 as we grew this position to complement our global exploration portfolio.
This resource program now extends over 800 000 net acres with our entry into a fifth play where we have just spudded our first well.
We currently have 16 rigs drilling in North America: 7 in the Eagle Ford and 9 in Canada.
Our on-shore North American business is now organized as a single unit to bring expertise and complementary disciplines from our successful Montney development program to the accelerating businesses in the Eagle Ford Shale and Seal.
In the Eagle Ford Shale we exited the year near 9 000 barrels of oil per day net as we ramped up our rig count from 3 to 6 over the year.
We now have 7 rigs running and we'll add 2 more by early March and average 8 for the year.
To date we have drilled 56 wells with 9 awaiting fracs.
Well results continue to be very encouraging and are trending better than our type curve for wells in the play.
Costs are being worked down with improved service contract terms as well as improved efficiencies in drilling and completion operations.
I expect to see further improvements in costs as gas rigs and equipment stand down across industry this year.
Production growth at Seal heavy oil project in Northern Alberta is moving forward at an accelerated pace as we focus on additional development drilling down-spacing opportunities multi-leg laterals and advancing our EOR projects.
Current production levels at near 9 000 barrels a day and we look for a steady growth profile going forward with a currently planned exit rate near 13 000 barrels of oil per day.
We have plans to run 3 to 4 rigs this year but I expect this will be revisited as we move rigs away from gas-only areas.
While our South Alberta play has witnessed mixed results early on we have just seen our best well come on production.
It IP-ed at over 300 barrels a day and has naturally flowed for 42 consecutive days near that level on a small choke.
It's high-quality oil and we are budgeted to drill and complete 2 more wells in this play this year with an ongoing review to increase that number based on this recent good news.
We have also entered a fifth North American resource play and are continuing to build a land position which currently stands at well over 100 000 net acres.
We are drilling our first well in the play now and expect to be able to discuss it more detail by the next quarterly update.
Activity levels and results from our exploration program were disappointing in 2011.
For the year we drilled 4 wells testing targets in Suriname Indonesia and Brunei.
The process of lining up rigs and finalizing well schedules pushed some activity into this year so I expect to see 2012 as a more normal 12- to 15-prospect program.
At year end we were active on 2 wells in Brunei.
Both are finished now and expensed as dry holes having failed to find reservoirs.
It's still early days there and I expect further drilling to take place this year.
In Malaysia we have just reached TD on an exploration well in Block H and made a nice gas discovery that will be developed as part of the Rotan Floating LNG program.
It's a good start to 2012 and will be followed up with another nearby and larger potential feature.
The big upsides prospects for this year will come later testing prospects in Congo Iraq and Australia.
2011 fell below expected production targets.
We have reorganized this function under a single executive to ensure consistency of reporting and implementation of an improved process.
Part of the issue continues to be too few wells and individual fields having an overly significant impact.
This situation will improve as we continue to ramp up production and contribution from our North American resource program.
Fourth quarter production averaged 190 100 barrels of oil equivalent per day with December averaging 196 900 barrel of oil equivalent per day.
That included a high rate in the month of 213 000 a day.
We did see improvement in the ability to predict production from our assets in the quarter with most of the miss in production for the fourth quarter being attributed to non-operated fields or third-party downstream operated facilities.
Looking at previous guidance for the fourth quarter we undershot by 8 000 barrels equivalent a day of which almost half was due to obstructions in the non-operated Kikeh gas export pipeline and unrelated to the oil production from the Kikeh facility.
Kikeh was producing near the 70s at year end as we were waiting to bring on delayed completion.
That well should be on shortly.
The gravel pack workover program at Kikeh to remediate the sand/fines migration issues has been successful with no further issue and we see that field on track for this year.
Production for 2011 averaged 179 400 barrels of oil equivalent per day.
This was just under our yearly guidance and mainly related to delays in returning wells to production at Kikeh and the gas export line issues I just mentioned.
A further portion of the miss was related to lower production levels at Thunder Hawk in the Gulf of Mexico where we were delayed in obtaining development well permits.
The poor production performance at Azurite in the Congo also contributed to the miss.
Reserve replacement for the year was strong at over 200% as we were able to book significant reserve from our North American resource play in addition to Malaysia adds with the new projects we sanctioned in 2011.
In business development we continued to add new growth opportunities and replenish our inventory of prospects with the new country entry in Cameroon West Africa.
We also added a new block in Suriname and are actively engaged in adding acreage in Vietnam.
Our U.S.
downstream business turned in a steady performance for the fourth quarter with $51 million of net income despite a difficult month of December.
The U.S.
business had a very solid year turning in net income of $223 million and cash flow of $414 million the second highest in our history building upon the most profitable first 6-month and 9-month periods ever.
Build out of our chain continued with the addition of 29 stations bringing the total number of retail outlets to 1 128 at year end.
Our U.S.
retail chain broadened its partnership with Walmart and participated in the $0.10 per gallon rollback program on gasoline prices from June through December.
Longer term we are excited about the opportunity to expand both within and outside our current footprint with Walmart.
In renewable energy we completed the construction and upgrades to the Hereford Texas ethanol plant and started up at the end of March on schedule and budget.
Startup and commissioning went well and the plant has ramped up to its nameplate capacity of 105 million gallons per year.
Operations at our Hankinson ethanol plant continue to be reliable and production rates have been steady at the 120 million gallons per year range.
This business contributed over $18 million of net income $31 million of cash flow for the year.
Chicago crush spreads averaged $0.39 a gallon for the fourth quarter and $0.20 a gallon for the year while corn prices exceeded $7 a bushel.
During the year the cattle feed by-product kept pace to more than cover operating expenses and contribute to earnings.
The focus here is safe reliable operations as the market rebalances in the absence of the ethanol tax credit.
Our U.K.
retail business continued its steady performance and contributions.
Northwest Europe refining margins remained under pressure for much of the year with some recent improvement linked to capacity coming offline in the region.
The Milford Haven refinery divestment process is ongoing.
And in the absence of an acceptable offer we are evaluating the potential conversion of the facility to a terminal with its excellent location water access and storage capacity of over 9 million barrels.
For 2012 we will see an active exploration program aimed at testing at least a dozen prospects.
During the year important prospects in the Kurdistan Iraq Congo sub-salt and Australia are scheduled.
We also have 2 prospects to drill in the Gulf of Mexico pending rig availability and permitting.
Two more Block H wells in Malaysia are budgeted in support of that likely FLNG development.
Our total capital budget for 2012 as Kevin mentioned is $3.5 billion with over $300 million earmarked for the exploration program.
$3 billion will be spent largely on development projects with $1 billion slated for the U.S.
primarily in the Eagle Ford Shale; a further $700 million in Canada of which $200 million is for Seal heavy oil development; and $300 million is budgeted for Montney.
$1.2 billion is budgeted for Malaysia with $600 million for Kikeh field development $465 million for Sarawak oil and gas projects and $120 million for Kakap key capital development.
I expect some movement here especially in North American dry gas as we respond to current low prices.
The downstream business is budgeted $200 million to cover 15 new station bills and other upgrades.
Production guidance for the full year is 200 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day which represents an 11% increase over 2011 volumes.
Production increases will primarily come from growth in our North American resource plays such as Eagle Ford Shale and Seal as they ramp up activity with the Montney gas production staying at full capacity for the year along with stabilized rates at Kikeh.
In summary we're off to a good start in 2012 building upon the improvements seen last year.
Average production for the year of 200 000 barrels of oil per day is on track as I speak here at the end of January.
Kikeh workovers to remedy sand/fines have been successful and the field is on track for the year near 80 000 barrels a day gross.
We have made our first discovery of the year in Block H Malaysia adding to an important resource base there and de-risking a number of other prospects.
Our Southern Alberta efforts have seen the first good well and we look to step up the evaluation of that large acreage position.
We have just spud the first well in our new onshore resource liquids play with more news to follow.
Impactful prospects will be drilled throughout the year with the notable wells as I mentioned in Congo Australia and Kurdistan having big upsides.
Reserve booking for 2011 was strong at over 200% of production replacement.
U.S.
retail continued its excellent performance and provided a solid contribution in 2011 and is well poised for future growth.
The repositioning is on track and we will evaluate the potential separation of our downstream retail this year.
That concludes my prepared remarks and I'm now happy to take your questions.
[Operator Instructions] We'll take our first question from Arjun Murti with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> David it sounds like the Kikeh program has gone well in terms of the workovers.
Is there anything left to do? Or is it now done as -- in terms of getting everything back online? Arjun Kikeh is a great field but we still got a lot of work to do.
I think in a prior call I said that we still had some original wells to drill from the sanctioned field development plans.
So we've got a pretty active program this year.
I think we drilled 12 wells including some water injection wells.
And as we go forward we'll be looking to maintain this level.
So there's still quite a bit of work to do.
Research Division</strong> But as far as the workover program it sounds like that is now completed and behind you.
Yes.
As we sit here today I feel in pretty good shape with that field.
This time last year we didn't really have the rigs in the field to do the work and we had not started doing the work to fix the problem.
And now that's behind us now.
So yes I feel very much better today.
Research Division</strong> And then 2 very quick North America resource questions.
You alluded to some dry holes or exploration write-offs in Southern Alberta.
Presumably that's the Exshaw Southern Alberta basin Bakken position.
Can you just talk about what the status of that is? And then the second question is any thoughts on how results in your Tilden area are comparing and contrasting to what you're seeing in Karnes County and the Eagle Ford? Yes.
So Southern Alberta we drilled 6 wells and we wrote off 5 of them.
The sixth well is actually a pretty strong well.
The thing you need to appreciate is it's actually not in the Exshaw.
It's in the Three Forks.
And so that's part of the logic for us in writing down the Exshaw.
It's not that I don't think the Exshaw has potential.
A couple of those wells I think gave us some encouragement but this is a very nice well.
And so I think our focus is shift it a little bit here.
And I said in our budget we have a couple of wells.
Clearly given this well result we're going to do more drilling there.
And clearly given the fact that gas prices have got quite low here we can move some capital and some rigs away from Tupper and move in that direction.
So to me it's the first time that we've seen some encouragement in that geography and we're going to be quite active in going after that.
As far as Tilden goes we're a little bit behind that in terms of our development than our Karnes area but I think we're pretty pleased with what we've seen so far.
And so I'm comfortable that that whole Eagle Ford program for us which is quite important is pretty much on track.
The evacuation in the Karnes area is -- in terms of pipeline is slightly ahead of what it is in Tilden but I think Tilden will be right behind it.
But well results better than what we thought.
We'll now take a question from Leo Mariani with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> You guys addressed obviously weak gas prices here discussed pulling rigs potentially away from the Montney redirect them to other areas.
I mean clearly gas has been pretty weak below $3 for about I guess several weeks now.
Is there a plan to do that in the very short term? Could you just give us some kind of thoughts on timing of when you may reshuffle the rigs? And how do you expect that to impact your Montney production? Do you expect to keep your Tupper plants full? Or could we start to see that production decline later in the year? Leo it's a great question.
It's one that we're working now.
We've actually been pulling rigs off Tupper.
So let me kind of say what the budget for this year and next year is and the impacts of what we think is going to happen.
So for this year we were forecasted to drill 37 wells at Tupper and spend just over $300 million.
If we take that down to a minimum number of wells which for us is 14 we have some obligation wells to drill then our CapEx falls to -- falls by about $160 million.
The net impact of that is about 3 000 barrels equivalent a day on the year so not much impact for the amount of capital we pull out.
If we do the same thing next year in 2013 where we were budgeted about $430 million of CapEx to drill 45 wells if we drop that well number way back we'll save about $350 million of CapEx but we'll lose a further 9 000 barrels a day of production.
So we could lose 3 000 this year and 9 000 next year just from declines and not putting new wells back on production but we would save over $500 million of capital that we could redeploy.
And so part of the exercise that's ongoing now and we have an integrated group is where should we put those rigs for best effect? The nice thing is we have some options.
We can step up the program at Seal.
We can do some more drilling in Southern Alberta.
Those of you that have done the math realize that when I said what the rig count was and the fact that we have spudded a well on our new play -- realize that the play is in Canada.
That gives us great flexibility in putting rigs up there as well.
So we have ability to physically move equipment and then we have places to redirect capital.
Of course we also have the Eagle Ford to play.
So that's kind of the name of the game for us as we look at the next 2 years with dry gas.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I guess clearly as you redirect capital I'm assuming that the effects on the production that's just losses in the gas but clearly there will be some potential increases here on the oil side.
Could you elaborate that on a little bit? And also could you talk about potential takeaway on the Southern Alberta basin? Clearly it looks like you've got a nice well there but are you guys going to be able to get that oil sold in the short term? What's the infrastructure like over there? 300 barrels a day doesn't cause me any problem.
If I got it up to some multiple of that I think we'd have to look at it.
That's getting ahead of ourselves here.
I think we need to get in and get more active and get some other good wells but I don't see that as being an issue specifically.
You're right in terms of redirecting the spend off [indiscernible].
We can go ahead and bring on production in these other areas.
What the exact offset would be for the dollars I don't have yet.
That's being worked.
But if the baseline is a 3 000 barrel a day loss this year and 9 000 next year I certainly would expect to close some of that back through redirecting that capital and I'm also redirecting it to more valuable production.
So I think on a bottom line basis it'll be kind of a win for us.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I guess in the Gulf of Mexico you guys talked about clearly having some delays in 2011.
I think you mentioned spotting a Thunder Hawk well in February.
Were you guys also drilling a well at Front Runner at one point? Is that still on the schedule here in early 2012? Yes.
It's all tied to permits.
Last year we tried to get an approval for the Thunder Hawk well and finally got it at the end of the year and we now have a rig lined up.
So that's the most important drilling that'll impact production this year in the Gulf would be the well at Thunder Hawk.
And so we -- we're anxious to get on with that and we have a rig lined up here in first quarter to get that started.
We'll now hear from Blake Fernandez with Howard Weil.
Research Division</strong> A question for you David.
You just covered the I guess redirection due to potentially some natural gas weakness and a slowdown in activity there.
But I guess from a little bit of a longer-term perspective last conference call we've talked about the potential sanction of Tupper Phase 2 and obviously that's predicated on a decent gas outlook.
So it seems feasible to think that that project's probably deferred and I'm just curious to see how you're thinking about that and how we could potentially fill that void or if that's even in the cards.
I mean maybe we just defer that and go with the lower volume.
Yes.
If you look long term so we've talked about a 2015 target from existing assets that we have excluding things like South Alberta we just talked about.
In 2015 Tupper in that number is supposed to be producing about 40 000 BOEs and the Phase 2 Tupper an incremental -- little over 20 000.
So 60 000 BOEs from that area is dry gas.
Clearly if we slow the investment then it'll decline but it won't be 0.
The decision on the Phase 2 is kind of an end of this year next year type decision for what we think gas prices are going to be in 2015.
So if we just say we get pessimistic about 2015 we'll probably have something in the 20 000 to 30 000 maybe even 35 000 BOEs to replace.
So that would take us down to 260 000 265 000 is what we would attain and then the gap would be the shortfall in Tupper.
But we would have also unlocked a large amount of capital I think to be able to redirect to these other plays.
So I think we have a good chance to call that back in terms of production and certainly in terms of value in other plays.
So I'm still not worried about the 2015 target because I think we have some flexibility.
The important thing for me was getting on this quickly and getting on this decisively and then redirecting our spend and the guys that run that program have been right on it.
So I'm comfortable where we're going.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And with the discovery over at Rotan is there a potential to maybe accelerate that production? In other words I think the original target was first production in 2015.
Could that potentially fill the void? It could.
I don't know that bringing that thing forward -- I mean it's -- I'd like to stick with that late 2015 2016 date.
But I think proving up more resources there so now we have Rotan.
Now we have Bulu which is this well we've just drilled.
We have Bunga Lili as prospect.
We'll get to spud right now.
We have some other resources and we de-risked a lot in that area.
I think the size of that facility is really what we're studying now.
So rather than quicker I think it could potentially be bigger but that's part of the discussion that we'll have.
But it's good news.
I mean it's a nice looking well log and so forth so I'm happy about it.
Research Division</strong> Sure.
Okay.
The last one for me David and this a little bit more strategic in nature.
But we heard from one of your peers yesterday that has had a I guess you could say a lack of exploration success over the years and basically trying to minimize their exposure to exploration.
Given the I guess you could say lack of success from Murphy is there any change in your philosophy on deploying capital into the exploration program going forward? No.
We spend about 20% of our capital on exploration and I think that's a comfortable level for us to do.
We've had years where we've been quite successful and years where we've been not successful at all.
Last year we only drilled 4 exploration wells.
The problem I think last year was 4 isn't the right number.
I think we need to give ourselves an opportunity here to let the numbers work for us and drill a dozen and that's kind of what we're going to do this year as we set out.
Of course drilling and discovery with the first well which you drill in the year always sets a good tone albeit not a big discovery.
So I think exploration for us is something we have managed.
We're comfortable with the dollars we exposed and I see us doing that going forward.
Whenever we have failures you got to understand why you have failures and make adjustments and our guys are smart to be able to do that.
So I think we'll keep doing it.
I think today as opposed to say 3 or 4 years ago having this North American resource footprint with its predictability and flexibility is a very good thing for us but I don't know that I'd want to do that 100% of the time.
We'll take a question from Paul Cheng with Barclays Capital.
Research Division</strong> A number of quick questions.
Dave seems like that you have been pulling the rigs down.
So at this point that you're still producing oil out on your North American gas even at 2 40? Because I'd assume that you're actually losing cash at 2 40 or that you have shut in any well.
Well we haven't shut in anything and we have some gas forward sold Paul.
So I think our average price is north of $4 right now so that's kind of the situation.
If you look at our operating costs up at Tupper it's in the $0.60 to $0.80 range.
Research Division</strong> Right.
But I mean the forward sales I mean in theory that even if you have no production you can still monetize those.
So you doesn't necessary need to have the physical MCF to go with that contract.
So I mean if you're looking at what your cash cost -- I mean my guess is that in the cash price at 2 40 -- I mean can you mention that anyone actually making cash from that? So I just curious that whether that make a decision that you may just shut in and liquidate the order get the payment from the future contract.
Paul I don't see us shutting in because I don't know we're smart enough to know exactly where gas prices are going to go between now and say the middle of the year.
Are we looking at it closely? Sure.
That's what I've just been addressing redirecting capital.
But I think we're still making a little bit of money here so -- and I think it's smart not to knee-jerk react to these things and take a longer-term view.
The nice thing is it's a great asset below ground.
It operates great above ground.
And so a little bit of price support and it'll do fine so -- but I'm not into the knee-jerk reaction here.
Research Division</strong> Right.
And on the longer-term basis that -- can you just remind us to get to the 2015 your target of 300 are we assuming about $3 billion $3.5 billion a year in CapEx? Yes it'll be a little -- it'll go up and down.
There's pretty big spend there in Eagle Ford which runs between $1 billion and $1.2 billion a year.
Paul that's one of the biggest components.
And I think the spend is $3.5 billion to $4 billion but that includes exploration dollars in there.
I'm speaking from memory here.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And on the retail separation what do you currently leaning towards? Is it going to be just a spinoff to the shareholder because it's more tax effective? Or that you may want to just IPO it? Or that's just trying to sell the operation? I mean which way that -- what is the consideration is going to look like? Paul those are all great questions.
Those are all the things that we're looking at right now.
And as we go forward we've got to look at that and we've got to look at the impact on the corporation as we are now.
And so all of those things are on the table and what I've said is that I think it's a valuable business.
I don't know that it's valued within us.
I'm pretty convinced it's not and so we're going to look at what we should do going forward.
And so all the things that you suggested are kind of on the table and we're actively working on that.
Research Division</strong> And Dave do you have a rough time frame that you can share with us that -- when do you going to make a final decision on that? We're going to talk with our board here this year in the first half of the year.
So I would suspect that sometime by the middle of the year we'd know what we're going to do and what the timeline is.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Perfect.
And in the Kikeh production in 2012 what was your current assumption for 2012 Kikeh? And also that I think due to the performance at North add [ph] I think Kikeh current plan is that you're going to spend about $1 billion more than the regional investment during an additional 16 well.
How much of them will be spend in 2012? Yes.
We're actually drilling more wells in total at Kikeh for some different reasons.
Some of the wells -- so I think 12 wells this year.
Some water injection wells.
Five of the wells are going to be accelerated wells because the deeper horizons didn't water out as quickly as our original development.
And so rather than waiting on those we're going to do some additional investment.
So some of the wells are acceleration wells from our original plan.
I think when we originally sanctioned Kikeh -- and Paul I'm talking from memory here which is always dangerous -- we had about $1.8 billion capital for Kikeh and I think that number now is going to be closer to $4 billion in total.
Part of it is costs have gone up considerably since we sanctioned this at $21 oil and part of it is that we've added new wells and the workovers that we had to do last year.
But oil prices aren't $21 today either so it's still a pretty valuable project for us.
Research Division</strong> Sure.
So the actually increase is not $1 billion.
It's actually $2.2 billion.
Any idea that how much of them has been spent this year? And how that -- the additional spending is it going to be spread evenly over the next 5 years? Or that the -- how's that just going to look like? I can get you -- I can get Barry to give you the exact numbers here but it's going to be kind of the next 2 to 3 years primarily is kind of what I have in my mind from going over it Paul.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
I mean Barry if you don't mind just give us a quick call or shoot us an e-mail in terms of the number.
Will do.
Research Division</strong> And final question.
On the exploration fund I hear what you just said.
But when I'm looking at your current production base roughly about in the 200s.
You'll be going to spend about in the $400 million.
I think that that's what you guys historically spending.
That's about a little bit over $5 per barrel.
So you actually think that that is the appropriate amount of the spending or that this needs to be a little bit lower particularly given that you look like you have some very good position in the non-conventional shale plays.
So should we be able to assume that as a result you need to rely lesser on the historical exploration program? Paul you're absolutely right.
Now that we have a meaningful-sized resource program with its kind of minimal below-ground risk that clearly is going to become more important for us.
If I look at this year just in exploration drill dollars we're about $175 million.
The larger number that you talked about which is what we call exploration cost includes other things like seismic and leases and all that other stuff.
There's always a lag between making those sorts of spend and drilling wells.
And so I'm comfortable at this 20% of total capital number in an exploration program knowing that it's not all drilling in any one given year.
One year we may be picking up leases in Kurdistan for instance with signature bonuses and then drilling later.
So I think you have to populate an exploration program with enough dollars and give it enough time to allow it to be successful.
And I think the amount of capital that we're putting in is appropriate for us and over the long term I think we'll be successful.
We'll now move to a question from Mark Gilman with The Benchmark Company.
LLC Research Division</strong> A couple things.
David that new block in Suriname that you've recently taken down I think you took it down in December can you talk a little bit about the play types that you're looking at relative to both what you tested on the original block as well as the trends for margin play? Yes.
So this is outboard of the block that we drilled the 2 wells on which were dry holes.
The primary reason for them being dry holes was updip seal issue.
We believe that this block for the outboard and further down the slope has better opportunity for updip seal.
It's also closer to the kitchen not that that distance means that much.
It's really this updip seal piece that I think is the most important.
So we've been doing 2 things.
We've been working the block that we had and drilled the 2 wells on to see if there's an understanding that we can gain there and then also recognized that perhaps the play is a little better further outboard and that's the reason for picking up the block.
And at the same time we picked up this block there was 3 other blocks picked up right around it.
So I think several players now are getting comfortable with some of the key elements in the play and we were just part of the group that kind of went out there and recognized this area with potential.
So we've got to shoot 3D seismic Mark and so that's going to be kind of the next game and then ultimately go into drilling.
LLC Research Division</strong> So the play concept is analogous to say -- or there are play concepts on the block analogous to today is [ph]? Yes.
I don't -- I haven't seen any data on that particular discovery.
But understanding what the play is about yes I would say that this area has similar elements but I don't have 3D.
And once I get 3D I think we'll have a much better idea of exactly what we're going to drill.
But similar type of things yes.
The critical issue updip seal we believe is better addressed in this particular block.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
Yes.
David can you at least in general preferably in quantifiable terms talk about the source of the reserve adds and in particular the size of the Azurite reserve hit? Yes.
Azurite was kind of not very much Mark.
I think we took down that field by 5 million barrels and took it down to 2 million barrels so it wasn't large to start off with.
Our production last year started the year near 8 000 and ended at 3 000 barrels and we've kind of kept that level this year.
So it's actually on a net basis a pretty small field for us.
So that was the order of the magnitude of the change.
LLC Research Division</strong> And the source of the adds if you could just talk about some of the larger contributors.
I mean I assume Tupper was the biggest.
Yes.
So if we look at the top 5 we have Tupper.
We have Eagle Ford Kikeh and Schiehallion.
So those are the makeup.
It's slightly weighted towards oil close to 60% versus gas 40%.
The gas is clearly all in Tupper.
LLC Research Division</strong> David could you talk for a second about the relationship between the CA-1 the first well on CA-1 relationship if any between that well and your Lepu discovery of some years ago? The well that we've just drilled didn't have any reservoir and -- which is analogous to the 2 wells that we drilled in CA-2.
So I think the question really is where is the reservoir package? Was it there and then wiped out by these mass transit deposits? Or was it just not deposited? And so those are the critical technical questions.
Clearly just to the east both the Kakap Gumusut and at Kikeh the reservoirs are well developed and highly productive.
And so I think there's an understanding yet to be gained as to where we need to go next.
LLC Research Division</strong> And was there any relationship in turn from the conceptual standpoint to the Lepu play type? All of the plays here are similar that they are large thrusted features of about the same age.
They are younger when you go into the western block than in the eastern block because that delta system was deposited separately.
So depth of burial is about the same; age slightly different; mechanism of deposition about the same; mass transit deposits about the same issue.
So I would say there's a lot of similarity here as we look along the margin.
We have a question from Evan Calio with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Sorry if I missed it if it was covered but -- and congratulations on the encouraging well results in Alberta Bakken.
But can you provide more color? I mean is this a different portion of your acreage formation? And while it's early what might it mean in terms of your potential exposure on an acreage basis or ability to add? Yes.
We're -- we have a pretty reasonable acreage position here.
It's north of 150 000 net acres Evan.
This good well that we've just drilled is actually in the Three Forks so it's not in the Bakken.
And whether that's the key or not I don't know.
I don't think I'm smart enough to know yet.
But when you see a good well you kind of follow it and it was kind of a funny way to get it.
When we were drilling this well we were drilling it for the Exshaw.
And we drill it vertically and then the idea is to cut a core in the Exshaw and then turn the well with a heel tie horizontal.
But we realized when we went into the Three Forks underneath that was the place with the best shows.
And not trying to outsmart ourselves our guys said "Well why don't we float test the one that has the best shows rather than stick with prognosis?" And as it turned out the well has been on production 42-plus days.
We choked it back after a few days and its pressure stayed almost flat -- actually flat and has hung in just under 300 barrels a day.
So we're pretty excited about what it means for that particular play but that wasn't really the play that we picked up the acreage for.
So we're in the process of kind of getting all the stuff together understanding what it means and understanding where we need to be.
But we have a pretty nice acreage footprint and we have a piece of information I think that's important.
How important I think we've got to work out but it's still early days yet.
Research Division</strong> That's great.
On the -- are the FLNG discussions in a parallel process? And I'm kind of shifting to Block H.
And when can we expect to kind of hear something on the structure and cost et cetera? Because I know there's -- there are various less capital-intense alternatives in the FLNG market to finance that facility.
Petronas are kind of a world leader in LNG and of course we have with our long-term relationship there a very good working relationship.
And we've been in active discussions with them for quite a long time here on doing this and so we're quite advanced in those discussions.
And so I would think that sometime this year we would reach a conclusion there and that we would have a plan going forward.
And so Evan I'd say once we have that then we'll be able to say "Hey this is the time frame.
This is where we're at and this is what we're looking to do." But it's -- part of our effort is to make sure there's enough resources for whatever size facility is being envisaged and that's what we're doing.
So I'm very happy with what we've got here.
I'm very pleased with how the negotiations and discussions are going so I expect something to be announced here this year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Any -- do you have an update on the Congo exploration farm-out process and any date when you expect to secure that rig? I think Cobalt's still over the first well in its 3 slots.
Yes.
We've got a number of companies that we're in an active dialogue with.
That's really all I'll say about bringing a partner in but I've been very pleased with the degree of interest.
We're clearly keen to get that well spud as soon as possible.
The rig which is -- our rig that we took from the Gulf is contracted to come back to us in the first quarter.
And so we're just going to work out timing of when we get that rig back and when to spud the well but we're pretty keen to get this thing up and running here.
So I think everything will align pretty nicely.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So a second-half well? Yes.
Results second half.
I think that's exactly right.
Research Division</strong> And then just lastly as you give -- you paid down some debt in the quarters and just curious if your view had changed on potential redeployment of capital from the downstream asset divestitures into potential acquisitions or spending organically.
What's your thoughts were or current thoughts were there? If we could add some opportunities to the asset base God Evan I'd love to do that and we have an effort to do it.
So if we can make an acquisition here that fits I would.
We are looking to redeploy some capital from the dry gases that I talked about earlier so that's going to help us in some of these other areas.
So -- but we're in the game to look and we can add some things I would spend and we've got a nice war chest here.
Mindy's pockets are almost too full and so we got to find a place to spend it but we're in good shape.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Maybe -- just one more if I could.
On Azurite is there any production in 1Q? And was there underlift there that kind of liquidates...
Yes.
In terms of production we forecasted something just above 3 000 barrels a day for the year.
So the field's still producing.
That's our net number.
Because it's at a relatively low rate the liftings don't come very often and we've just had a lifting.
So Barry's scratching around here for the schedule but I suspect we've got a couple more liftings between now and the end of the year is what I think.
And we are a little bit underlifted here in the first quarter.
We'll take a question from Gene Gillespie [ph] with Gillespie Consulting Group [ph].
A couple of things here.
One you've referred to the separation in retail and there were comments in your press release saying that you're evaluating -- in 2012 evaluating your presence in the Gulf of Mexico and -- which begs the question to me is where is the U.S.
income going to come from to pay Kevin's salary and more importantly the dividend? Well I think Gene that's a great question and it's one of the ones that we're looking at.
And so the Gulf of Mexico has been a historically active business for us but it's kind of changed here recently as to what we can get done and what value it is to us.
And so naturally when you have that situation you look at it.
So that's on the table to look at.
The retail business is on the table to look at for reasons that I've discussed before.
Kevin loves it here so much he's offered to work for free.
So I think I've got...
There you go the big picture there.
I've got him solved.
The dividend we have plenty of money within the corporation but there's clearly issues of offset of foreign exploration and also dividend money is available.
And so that's all part of the look that we do Gene.
So you're absolutely right and it's right on the table front and center on my desk.
Good enough.
One last thing.
I think in prior conferences or discussions that you guys had indicated that you would reached -- excuse me reach the 300 million barrel threshold on Block K sometime around 2014.
Is that still a good time? Or is it delayed further out now? Yes.
The way the profile has changed particularly on Kikeh it is kind of the end of 2015 2016 Gene is when we reach that 300 million barrel threshold volume point.
We'll take a question from Paul Sankey with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> David obviously your strategy is all towards becoming a -- I guess a North American E&amp;P with international operations and exploration.
Can you just quantify the benefits of that? And obviously I'm thinking about tax.
Yes.
That's all part and parcel of this look that we're doing here with the retail and with the Gulf of Mexico and other parts of our business and if we buy something where do we buy it.
So all those strategic things Paul are things that we're kind of looking at.
I think there's a suite of opportunities available here in North America.
And we started to touch a number of them but there still is a pretty nice suite for us exploration type of opportunities outside of North America and we'd still like to have exposure to those.
So I don't see us not doing that.
Research Division</strong> And I guess that was what I was referring to is the potential for IDCs and the status of how much cash tax you'd be paying.
Oh I think you're starting to dig down here into the weeds and we're just up at the strategic level here Paul.
I think your question is a great question.
It's an appropriate question and like the other one sits on my desk.
So we'll be looking at all of that.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
And just to reiterate you said that you -- I guess the U.K.
refinery process is ongoing.
Retail is on your desk but the general expectation is that we could get this cleared up if you like by midyear.
Yes.
The retail in the U.K.
the refinery that process is ongoing.
It's been slow because of the external environment.
Now here with some of the capacity that's going off in Northwest Europe margins and people's outlook has kind of changed.
So quite naturally people have been engaging with more interest now.
So I still see that as a process ongoing.
As I said in my comments if we go ahead with this retail separation then that refinery as a terminal not as a refinery would be part and parcel of that.
And so we've been spending quite a bit of time and effort looking at making that conversion so all of that is kind of ongoing.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And forgive me.
I believe you've already said this but just to reiterate I think you're at -- you're expecting 200 000 barrels a day of production in 2012.
And can you just confirm how much -- how the moving parts within that have shifted what you're expecting from Kikeh how much you expect less now from Congo versus when you previously gave that guidance? I guess you mentioned some of the potential for less activity in North American gas.
If you could just kind of run through a if that's the number? And I can't help but ask what the exit rate for 2011 was as well of your volumes.
Paul the way it looks here for this year kind of by quarter is the 195 000 is our guidance for the first quarter.
So that means you got the average 202 000 for the remaining 3 quarters.
That gets you to the 200 000.
I feel pretty good about where we are today.
If I look at January so as of yesterday we're a little bit better than the guidance for the quarter but we have some swings.
We've had days as low as 175 000 and days as high as 210 000 and a lot of it depends on rig moves and weather and all this kind of stuff.
But I feel pretty good about where we are looking forward.
I think Kikeh which was one of the main issues we had to manage last year is in a much different situation now than it was.
And now we have rigs on location working.
We have the sand/fines issue I believe behind us.
And so I see Kikeh being in near 80 000 gross a year and it'll have some ups and downs.
The gas component as I mentioned earlier if we slow down our spend significantly this year it won't really have much impact on production 3 000 barrels a day if we cut about $160 million of spend in that program.
So it won't have that much.
That is in the 200 000 and so we'll have to look to get that from somewhere else.
In terms of Azurite Azurite only has 3 000 -- a little over 3 000 barrels a day in that number and it's still producing.
That's -- the issue with Azurite was the write-down of the barrels that wasn't in the production.
And we've known what the production curve of Azurite was looking like and so we've already got that factored into this 200 000 number.
So Azurite is not a factor Paul in what I see.
Research Division</strong> That's very clear David.
I was wondering what's the price of gas required for reinvestment at Tupper and other places in the U.S.
in your portfolio? Well for us it's really just Tupper.
It's the only dry gas place that we're actively working here and something in a $2.60 range is probably what you'd want to see at the plant.
Research Division</strong> So what would that be on the screen then at the NYMEX or the Henry Hub I should say? Well AECO price would be about $2.90.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And at that point it would be economic to pursue growth.
Then you get into the discussion of what the heck are you doing that for when you got all these other good places to spend money? And so my simple answer is I've got a lot of better places to spend money than chase $2.90 gas.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So it's also a function obviously of the oil-gas ratio.
Yes.
And...
Research Division</strong> It's just a big -- it's obviously just a big question.
I'm sorry to interrupt.
It's just a big question for us in terms of where -- how we rationalize the U.S.
gas market and the kind of price below which we begin to see significant step-downs.
But it sounds like your number would be a lot higher than $2.90.
I mean you wouldn't consider reinvesting there.
I don't know.
What's the number? It must be much higher than $2.90.
Yes.
The number I was giving you was just kind of the base number.
And so when you have opportunity for instance in areas of the Eagle Ford that are -- have a little bit of gas component your overall economics are determined more by your liquids piece than they are by gas.
And I think that's the overall problem if you will in gas supply in North America is associated gas.
The problem with Tupper is it's dry gas.
And that will conclude our question-and-answer session for today.
I would now like to turn the call back over to Mr.
David Wood for any additional or closing remarks.
Operator thanks a lot.
I appreciate everybody dialing in and look forward to the next quarterly call.
Thanks everyone.
Thank you.
That does conclude today's teleconference.
We do thank you all for your participation.
Good afternoon and welcome to the Murphy Oil Corporation First Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
Today's event is being recorded.
I'll turn the conference over to Mr.
David Wood President and Chief Executive Officer.
Thanks operator.
Good afternoon everyone and thank you for joining us on our call today.
With me are Kevin Fitzgerald Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; John Eckart Senior Vice President and Controller; Mindy West Vice President and Treasurer; Barry Jeffery Director of Investor Relations; and Tammy Taylor Assistant Manager Investor Relations.
I will now turn the call over to Barry.
Thank you David.
Welcome everyone and thank you for joining us.
Today's call will follow our usual format.
Kevin will begin by providing a review of first quarter 2011 results.
David will then follow with an operational update after which questions will be taken.
Please keep in mind that some of the comments made during this call will be considered forward-looking statements as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
As such no assurances can be given that these events will occur or that the projections will be attained.
A variety of factors exist that may cause actual results to differ.
For a further discussion of risk factors see Murphy's 2011 annual report on Form 10-K filed with the SEC.
Murphy takes no duty to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements.
I will now turn the call over to Kevin for his comments.
Thanks Barry.
Net income in the first quarter of 2012 was $290.1 million or $1.49 per diluted share.
This compares to net income in the first quarter of 2011 of $268.9 million or $1.38 per diluted share.
There were no unusual items significant to the 2012 quarter but 2011 did include $30.5 million of $0.16 per diluted share of income from discontinued operations related to the 2 U.S.
refineries and associated marketing assets that were sold at the end of the third quarter 2011.
Taking a look at net income by segment.
E&amp;P segment for the first quarter of 2012 a net income of $321.6 million compared to net income in the first quarter of last year of $260.4 million.
Higher E&amp;P earnings for 2012 were primarily attributable to higher average crude oil sales prices and lower exploration expenses.
Unfavorable variances in the 2012 quarter included lower crude oil sales volumes and significantly lower North American natural gas sales prices.
Crude oil condensate and gas liquids production for the quarter averaged approximately 107 500 barrels per day in 2012 compared to approximately 113 300 barrels per day in 2011.
This decrease was mostly attributable to lower gross volumes in Kikeh Malaysia and Azurite offshore Republic of the Congo.
Natural gas items however were a quarterly company record of 525 million cubic feet per day in the first quarter of 2012 compared to 413 million cubic feet per day in the 2011 quarter an increase of over 27%.
This increase was primarily due to a full quarter of production at the Tupper West in British Columbia which was on production for only a portion of the 2011 first quarter after coming online in February of last year.
In the downstream segment from continuing operations we had net income in the first quarter of 2012 was actually a net loss of $4.2 million compared to net income in the first quarter of 2011 from continuing operations of $300 000.
In the U.S.
downstream operations reported a loss of $7.2 million in the 2012 quarter compared to income of $9 million in 2011 mostly as a result of lower retail fuel margins which averaged $0.02 per gallon lower in the current quarter and lower retail fuel sales volumes which were down about 6% year-over-year.
Merchandise margins for the 2012 quarter were essentially flat with last year.
Results for ethanol production operations were also down year-on-year due to weaker crush spreads.
U.K.
downstream operations recorded income of $3 million in the 2012 quarter compared to a net loss of $8.7 million last year.
The improvement was largely due to better refinery margins and higher throughput volumes at the Milford Haven refinery.
In the corporate segment we had a net charge of $27.3 million first quarter of this year compared to a net charge of $22.3 million in the first quarter 2011.
This unfavorable variance is mostly attributable to higher administrative costs and lower interest income in the current quarter.
At the end of the first quarter 2012 our long-term debt amounted just under $250 million a 2.7% of total capital employed.
Cash cash equivalents and short-term investments totaled over $1.4 billion at March 31.
Earlier this week our 10-year $350 million bond matured and were paid off through borrowing under our revolving credit agreement.
We're currently working a process to sell $500 million of new 10-year notes.
The proceeds from which if successful will be used to repay those borrowings and for general corporate purposes.
And with that I'll turn it over to David.
Thanks Kevin.
Benchmark WTI prices averaged near $103 for the first quarter.
Dated Brent the market for much of our production outpaced WTI with the spread currently below $15.
Our 2012 budgeted oil price was set at $85 WTI and $100 Brent.
Based on recent history we revised these benchmark prices up to $95 and $110 respectively for our latest outlook.
Natural gas prices in North America have been disappointing for many in the first quarter of 2012 and Henry Hub beginning the year near $3 and continuing to fall settling near the $2 mark as unusually warm winter conditions exacerbate on oversupply situation.
We continue to see weak North American natural gas prices over the midterm.
And as a result we've cut spending on all our dry gas initiatives and our redeploying capital and rigs to our oilier North American plays.
We also have plans to shut in 30 million cubic feet a day at Tupper.
Naturally this will impact our budgeted production volumes for the year but with liquids places to invest will stand us in better financial stead.
U.S.
retail margin struggled in the first quarter at the back of consistently rising wholesale prices.
These have recently started to rebound as we exit this typically weak shoulder season.
We continue to move forward on our repositioning efforts with evaluation work on the retail spin continuing and U.K.
downstream sales process still ongoing.
And we look to take this to our Board later this year.
We're off to a nice start with our 2012 exploration program with 3 discoveries from 3 attempts already in the first quarter.
Our 2 Block H wells in Malaysia made nice gas discoveries which will be combined with plans to develop flooding in [indiscernible].
In addition the Julong East well and Block CA-1 offshore Brunei is a discovery.
We have recently spud our first well in Iraq on our Central Dohuk block in the Kurdistan region are making encouraging progress.
The rest of the year we'll see continual activity.
In the Congo we should look to spud our pre-salt prospect in the MPN block in the third quarter and test other prospects in Australia Malaysia Brunei and the Gulf of Mexico.
Our activity level in the Gulf of Mexico is slowly ramping up as we commence sidetrack operations at the Thunder Hawk #4 development well late March and expect to have it completed and on production in the second half of the year.
To support our program there and worldwide we are securing a 3-year term on another deepwater rig.
Moving to our North American resource plays.
We currently have 14 rigs contracted in North America 10 in the Eagle Ford and 4 in Canada waiting on spring break-up.
Three of this rigs will be back to work at Seal and the other rig will float between the Montney South Alberta and our new oil play in the Muskwa.
In the Eagle Ford Shale we now have 10 rigs running and are looking to add 2 more by year end.
We are operating 2 dedicated frac spreads and are looking to add a third crew shortly.
We've stepped up the pace here based on strong results and redeployment of capital from dry gas areas and now expect to drill 43 more wells budgeted and complete an additional 34.
To date we have drilled 87 wells in the play and have 18 awaiting completion.
Current net production today is 11 800 barrels of oil equivalent.
With our revised outlook we should average approximately 15 000 barrels of oil equivalent to date net for the year.
We have lots to do in the Eagle Ford with over 2 000 oilier locations yet to drill.
Accelerated activity is ongoing at the Seal heavy oil project in Northern Alberta.
With 3 rigs operating coming out of breakup we expect to drill 71 production wells this year up by 22 wells from our budgeted plan as part of our capital redeployment.
Results from our polymer pilot continue to be encouraging and we have received approval on our commercial polymer project with Phase 1 injection to begin around midyear.
We have also received subsurface regulatory approval for cyclic steam pilot lead and are awaiting facility's approval with expectations to stop pilot work late this year.
Additionally we will submit an application for a steam flood project by midyear.
Production should average approximately 10 500 barrels for the year with sights set on getting to 20 000 barrels a day as soon as we can.
At Tupper and Tupper West we have reduced our capital spend in the Montney dry gas by $153.6 million from budgeted levels.
For the year we will know drill 14 wells compared to our original budget of 37 wells.
This will impact our 2012 production by approximately 3 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day.
We are also going to shut in an additional 30 million cubic feet of gas per day while still managing to take -- still managing our take-or-pay export capacity level.
This is clearly the right bottom line focus in this low-gas price environment.
And if needed we will curtail production further.
In Southern Alberta we continue to see positive results from our first well completed in the Three Forks zone with production rates now over 400 barrels of oil per day of light oil a well that has been producing over 120 days.
We have fixed the wax buildup in that well and have been rewarded with these higher rates a promising sign for this area.
We have just completed our second well on the same zone and are monitoring initial production results.
With this encouragement I expect to step up activity here this year.
Our fifth North American resource play is located in Northern Alberta the Muskwa oil play.
So far we have an accumulated 170 000 net acres in our first well flowed light oil with initial production rate in the 50 to 100 barrel a day range.
This is somewhat encouraging and we are looking to put that well on pump for further evaluation.
It is still early days for us and we are planning to drill another well later this year to continue testing the play and our completion techniques.
First quarter production averaged just over our guidance of 195 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day.
Production guidance for the second quarter has 185 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day down 10 000 barrels a day from quarter 1 as we see the impact of unplanned turnaround activities associated with Syncrude the Medusa pipeline and methanol plant taking Kikeh gas; and this collectively contribute nearly 6 000 barrels of the shortfall.
The remaining 4 000 is related to a lower Kikeh oil and Montney dry gas production.
The reduced Montney gas production is tied to less spend and a decision to curtail some production due to price.
For the full year this will reduce production by 4 500 barrels of oil equivalent for this asset.
Kikeh is being impacted by slower-than-planned workovers field shutdown for new manifold installation and 2 wells shut-in pending workover.
For the year we see Kikeh near 46 000 barrels of oil equivalent net.
Altogether these production revisions place the 193 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day compared to our original 200 000 barrels equivalent per day budget with 2/3 of this reduction reflecting less North American dry gas production.
Business development.
We continue to pursue both on acreage and our North American resource plays and evaluate new growth opportunities.
I expect to announce new adds in West Africa and Southeast Asia later in the year.
The U.S.
downstream business had a difficult first quarter as U.S.
retail margins were depressed in a steadily rising wholesale price environment.
Retail margins started to turn around in March and have recovered to stop the second quarter as they typically do.
First quarter net income was a negative $7.7 million with positive cash flow of $9.4 million.
We added 5 new stations to the U.S.
retail chain in the first quarter bringing our total to 1 133 with plans to end the year at 1 175.
As I speak today our station count stands at 1 137.
In renewable energy our 2 corn-based ethanol plants at Hankinson North Dakota and Hereford Texas continue to operate reliably at full capacity in a tough market environment.
Crush spreads have been under pressure as ethanol prices remain well below gasoline with strong ethanol supply effectively hitting the blend roll on a sluggish gasoline demand.
Cattle feed prices have remained strong tracking corn to provide a solid revenue stream to offset operating expenses.
The U.K.
downstream business provided a positive contribution for the quarter in an improved margin environment where the U.K.
retail business continuing its steady performance.
Our Milford Haven refinery took the opportunity in the first quarter to do some maintenance work and is now benefiting from an uptick in the market as margins have improved due to run cuts associated with seasonal maintenance programs.
In summary we're off to a good start in 2012 and are making the prudent adjustments in response to low North American natural gas prices.
The exploration program is off to a promising start with 3 discoveries from 3 attempts first quarter production met guidance we have cut spending in our dry gas areas and have redeployed capital and rigs to our oilier plays Eagle Ford and Seal in response to current market conditions.
We continue to appraise our Southern Alberta acreage with good encouragement and our new Muskwa oil play has flowed oil on the first test.
U.S.
retail has rebounded from a difficult first quarter just typically a weak shoulder season.
And we're showing expected improving performance heading into the second quarter.
And lastly our repositioning efforts continue with the U.K.
sales process and evaluation of separating our E&amp;P and downstream businesses.
That concludes my prepared remarks.
And I'm happy to take your questions.
[Operator Instructions] We will go first to Blake Fernandez of Howard Weil.
Research Division</strong> David if I could go back to Kikeh can I just confirm the workover issues does this have to do with the previous workover wells or is this ongoing maintenance that you just haven't completed yet? Blake there was really some things in the first quarter that impacted Kikeh.
One of which we changed a rig out that was not performing very well and we brought a semi-rig over from Indonesia.
It has been in Malaysia before we brought it back and so it's performing much better.
We did that the end of January.
We did on the other rig -- this is 2 rigs working field one on the spar had a stuck-pipe incident which kind of lost the 6 weeks on our workover program and that has impacted us.
We also had a manifold installation there for wells are going to be brought on later in the year.
So all of those had an operational impact.
And then we had 2 wells that went -- that were shut in for screen failure basically.
And these are carryover from wells that we had before.
So if we look at our workover program we have 6 expandable screen wells to work over including these 2 that went off and we will work those over during the course of this year the 2 that have gone off.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just to confirm though the previous -- the kind of gravel packs -- and are you experiencing problems with those that were done last year? No no.
If we look back a year ago we now have equipment in the field to remedy this.
And we now have done 7 wells where we've completed them with these open-hole gravel packs or frac packs.
Four of those were wells that had problems -- we have no problems with any of those 7 including the 4 that were remedies.
So I think we're in a good shape here in now with both equipment in the field to perform the workovers if needed and also with the technique that has shown that it fixes the problem.
So this time a year ago we didn't have that.
Now we have them.
Research Division</strong> Got it okay.
And then on the commodity outlook you suggest that you have now a higher Brent I guess in WTI assumption.
Are you alluding to potentially a shift in strategy or maybe CapEx higher CapEx? Is that where you're going with that comment? Well it's just a recognition of where kind of we see oil prices.
I think our budget for the year was about $3.5 billion and now it's likely to be about $3.7 billion.
We've clawed some money out of Tupper as I mentioned about 100 -- a little over 150 and we're doing some more spend in places like Eagle Ford and like Seal and like Malaysia.
And so that's the reason for the change.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
If I could sneak in one last one.
I'm just curious it's kind of outside the typical upstream realm but I noticed your retail same-store sales were down 6% which seems a bit inconsistent with what we're hearing from some of the I guess downstream players.
Is there anything unique you're seeing whether it's Wal-Mart traffic or what could be driving that? That seems much lower than what we've heard.
Yes.
It was a poor quarter for us.
We typically in our business have poor first quarters because we haven't got into the main driver.
But remember we don't sell much in a box.
We sell mainly gasoline.
And we struggled in the first quarter because wholesale prices rose pretty steadily which is a pretty tough environment for us.
So those are the real reasons.
We're looking at it and I can tell you that since then we've rebounded nicely.
And so to me the second quarter is setting up on these early numbers like it should do for us.
We will go next to Leo Mariani of RBC.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just wanted to follow up on Kikeh.
How many total producing wells do you have in the field? There's 21 wells completed to produce.
There's 19 currently producing and the 2 wells I mentioned that are shut in.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then you've done gravel packs on 7 of those then you mentioned you're going to do essentially the same thing I guess on 6 more is that right? Yes.
Of the -- where we had the problem was these expandable screen completions and we have 4 more to do.
And when those wells go off and they're not off yet they're producing now so at some point if they do go off we will re-complete those.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And what happened with the 2 wells that were shut in here for failure as well? The screens failed and so we had to replace those.
LLC Research Division</strong> Those are also expandable screen design now? Yes we had to replace those.
They were making about 5 500 barrels a day net between the 2.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
But that -- so just to clarify that will be a total of 6 wells we have to replace the screens out? I'm just trying to understand the numbers here.
Yes.
Left to do Leo that's right.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay got you.
And could you give us some more information about this Julong discovery well in Brunei? What did you guys find? Any idea about potential there? Yes I think the operator needs to report and what's been said which I would confirm is it's a discovery has some oil and gas in it.
Our size going in was kind of less of than 100 million barrel size.
I don't know that that's the right number because we have to appraise it.
So that's kind of really all I would say Leo until the operator reports.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
I guess in terms of your Seal volumes look like they were sort of flat this quarter with the prior quarter.
I guess obviously spring breakup right now just any color on how we should expect those to grow during the year? Yes we're going to be as I mentioned in my comments we're going to be a lot more active in Seal this year.
And so as soon as spring breaks a little earlier this year as soon as we get back with our 3 rigs working I think we'll have a pretty active program.
So we're pretty high on what we've seen so far in our polymer pilot in Seal.
And as I mentioned in my comments we'll be a lot more active there.
So as soon as we can get to 20 000 barrels a day I'll like it and our guys are focused on it.
We'll go to Paul Cheng of Barclays.
Research Division</strong> David couple -- several quick questions hopefully.
There seems also -- in the first quarter is that really 6% down on the gasoline sales warning on an apple-to-apple basis? Paul I'm sorry I didn't follow that question..
Research Division</strong> The retail -- in your retail network the gasoline sales same-store sales if we're looking at for only those stores have opened 12 months what is that year-over-year in the first quarter? And also do you have a number for April? I think you said they were down 6 -- that's right that's correct.
The other part of your question...
Research Division</strong> Do you have the number for April? In front of me I don't.
But we can if you call we can mention that number for April...
Research Division</strong> Yes.
Maybe Barry can send it over.
Yes I don't have it.
I will follow up on you on that one.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
All right.
On the CapEx David do you have a number for 2013 preliminary? 2013 where reworking it in light of moving capital out of Montney and so that's something that we're actively working now.
Research Division</strong> And that -- based on what you just said I believe -- I suppose that we should assume that Tupper 2 is not going to get fund and so your 2015 targets should we assume now is more like in the 255 260? Yes Paul that's a great question and we're going to address that next week in our Analyst Meeting.
But let me kind of finger paint that.
It kind of ties in to spend as well which you've highlighted.
So if I go back to last year's AGM we talked about a target in 2015 of 300 000 barrels equivalent.
And included in that was a Phase 2 Tupper which was about 35 000 barrels equivalent.
So if you took that out and I can tell you today that we will not sanction that clearly given these gas prices that 300 number in 2015 goes to 265.
And so then the question is what in that 265 is still Tupper and still dry gas? And that's about 28 000 barrels equivalent.
So you end up with a number just shy of 240 looking back at AGM 2011 making the corrections for gas.
Now I personally believe that gas is probably going to be $4 or a little bit better in 2015.
So I wouldn't take Tupper to 0.
So my number apples-to-apples would be like 265.
So what you're going to hear next week when we go back is we're going to recalibrate that because we had a years’ worth of knowledge on projects like Seal and like Eagle Ford which are doing better and of course the results in Southern Alberta are much more so we have to recalibrate and we're going to do that.
We're also are going to be able to support where we're at with the fact that we've gone through a complete redo of how we evaluate production and predict production within our company.
And so that I think is a more rigorous more consistent way and so that's yet another review that will be included in that.
And then lastly because we've done a look-back and said "Hey in certain cases your guidance was x and you had a different number than x.
There's a factor there." And so being kind of prudent we've gone in and applied a factor to that as well.
So I think it's a better improved process.
I think it is complete relook.
It's dialed back from natural gas and so that allows us to build from what I think will be the 260 type number back towards the 300.
So all of that is fingerpainting but the details that we'll be able to talk about will be at the meeting next week.
Research Division</strong> And if I could just add I mean I'm that glad you mentioned that you're changing the way to how you putting up the forecast and [indiscernible].
I think you will be better than any of us on the phone that we'd be able to say that's nearly always have some unintended or intended hiccup in the operation on the 12-month basis.
So it seems like it's always important that to manage the expectation by building in unintended downtime in your system.
Yes Paul I may not be the smartest guy but when I keep getting banged on the head it hurts after a while and so I fix it.
So I think you'll see that we'll have a good review next week.
Research Division</strong> Should we assume that -- David should we assume that your current forecast in the second quarter as well as full year 2012 you already applied that methodology? Yes.
So this year we're -- the 195 we met for the first quarter.
We have 185 second quarter 185 third quarter and 205 fourth quarter for the 193.
And yes we have applied that process absolutely.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
On the retail spinoff process there's some concern about if you do spin it off that would take off a big chunk of your cash in the domestic front to fund your dividend.
Is that a consideration or concern for the company? I think we see the merits of separating the 2 businesses Paul and that consideration plus others are all part of this diligence process that we're going through.
So we recognize I think all of the issues that we have to address and [indiscernible].
It's bit of a moving target as you think about I mean for instance Eagle Ford is doing much better than we originally thought.
I mean there some several moving parts in here and we just want to get our head around all of it and then at the appropriate time bring it to our Board.
So that's kind of where we are.
Research Division</strong> Final question.
The drilling time in Eagle Ford right is how many days per well? Our guys are doing pretty well here.
I have some information on it.
We've improved drilling time by about 40% year-on-year.
So if I look at 2011 our average time was a little over 33 days.
And here so far this year were 20 days.
So we're doing significantly better and great credit to the guys we have working there.
And we now have I think a better process.
We're also reducing our completion costs here costing -- just looking at the data of about 17% less per stage so that's almost $900 000 per well improvement.
So as we build momentum have more rigs have more staff have more focus we're seeing better and better results.
Research Division</strong> And how many stage are you doing now? On average 15 Paul.
[Operator Instructions] We will go next to Paul Sankey of Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> On the Kikeh could we just confirm some of the volumes please? I think I might have missed it.
Did you say that -- I think you said the Q1 liquids number if we could get liquids to gas and then the outlook for the rest of the year that would be great.
Q1 I think you gave Q2 and then if you could do full year as well.
Yes we're -- Barry will pull those numbers together here in a minute Paul.
So Q1 Paul -- Q1 actual on Kikeh that's just under 45 000 barrels of oil net okay? And then Q2 guidance Kikeh it's just shy of 43.
It's about 42.5.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I mean let's just go for a -- those are both liquids numbers right? Yes.
That's the oil play.
Research Division</strong> Is the gas number easy to give just to complete the question in that respect? Certainly the -- you want Kikeh gas or Sarawak gas? Research Division</strong> Let's do both.
Okay.
So second quarter Sarawak gas is about 175 million cubic feet.
Kikeh is going to be about 35 million.
Research Division</strong> That's Q2 guidance.
That's Q2 yes.
Research Division</strong> Now do you have those numbers in Q1? That's right in front of you probably so.
Q1 gas I've got -- Sarawak was about just under 185 Kikeh just under 44.
Research Division</strong> And then while we're just driving into this point can we do the full year average expected and then the exit rate for the year that you're receiving? The full year gas on Sarawak gas is about 168.
Kikeh about 46.
Research Division</strong> Kikeh liquids? Kikeh liquids is about 46.
Research Division</strong> And then the final one which might one asked too many would be the exit rate that you'd be hoping to get? I have that.
The exit rate Paul for Kikeh gas should be about 58.
Serawak gas is around 166 and Kikeh oil is roughly 51 or so.
That's based on the December average not a day rate.
It's December average.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
I'm thinking that we'll get a new outlook for your targets and longer-term targets at the Analyst Meeting next week and I'm assuming that you don't want to talk about it right now.
Yes I've fingerpainted the numbers Paul and that's going to be about where we're going to land but I'd rather have the details shown next week.
You asked questions about Kikeh.
We're actually quite active there this year and I think in the last 4 months we are going to add 7 wells come on.
So that's the reason why the tail of our production is so strong.
And so if I go from now to year end we'll get Terra Nova back from its turnaround.
We'll have 10 new wells at Kikeh.
We'll have 114 new wells at Eagle Ford.
We'll have 2 wells at Kakap and we'll have 45 new wells at Seal.
So that drives that end-of-year growth.
Research Division</strong> David you spoke about your target methodology changing somewhat to avoid if you like missing we've got another downgrade here.
Is there something different about what's happened here against the new methodology employed.
I think you said that you've got some of the employees to look at this and to avoid it happening.
Yes if you look at the change today what we're signaling is North American natural gas dry gas is minimal no value and so 2/3 of what we've changed here is basically saying when you go from 251 million cubic feet which is what we're producing in Tupper in January something in the 160 million to 180 million a day by the end of the year and probably keep that flat for as long gas prices are unattractive.
That's just a sound I think decision to say "Hey I'm not putting money in things I'm not making any money at." Syncrude got no option there but an unexpected turnaround because it's impactful to us I got to recognize.
Kikeh it's relatively small in terms of 2 workover wells.
The problem there is we didn't do a very good job in managing workovers and that's being a focus for us.
So I think you can break down the change and understand in those terms.
The process I think that we have going forward allows us to feel more comfortable about where we are.
It would have been relatively easy for us to say "Well we'll make that up later." But that's not how we do that.
And so we recognize the issues at this point in time and communicate them.
And that's what we're doing.
We will go next to Pavel Molchanov of Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Two quick ones about Kurdistan.
First on the existing well that you're drilling any pre-drill estimates on that one? All those ones Pavel are pretty big multi-hundred million barrels.
I think the low end of our range is 500 million barrels.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And at the upcoming lease sell in Iraq I'm assuming you guys will have no role given your Kurdistan exposure is that fair? I'm happy with the 2 blocks that we've got.
I think that's fair exposure for a company our size anyway and so it really wasn't an issue of being invited or not invited.
I'm just happy where we're at.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just one on the potential spinoff of the retail business.
One of -- it's probably not a peer company but certainly a large fuel marketer has been trying to spin off its purely fuel marketing business for the last couple of years has not yet done that.
I mean does that give you pause perhaps that the market might not be as receptive to this as it could have been? We evaluate the kind of the outside factors and also the internal factors and the nice thing about this is I don't feel as though I'm in any great rush or forced to have to make a decision.
I think we'll make the decision for us when it's right and I think we're in the window when it could be right and so we're looking at all the information.
So that's kind of what I'd say.
We will go next to Guy Baber of Simmons &amp; Company.
Research Division</strong> Guy Baber with Simmons &amp; Company.
Just wanted -- a quick question.
I wanted to talk about the balance sheet a little bit.
But obviously you guys have tremendous amount of cash and short-term investments on the balance sheet limited debt.
You've been carrying more cash than debt for the last couple of quarters.
Can you just talk a little bit about planned usages of cash as well as how you plan on managing the balance sheet going forward and then along with that could you touch on some commentary with respect to potential M&amp;A? I think you've been clear that you would consider an acquisition if the fit's right? Are you primarily looking North America unconventional or is your scope more global in nature? M&amp;A is one of those things that you usually can talk strategically but not specifically and so I'll kind of keep in that vein.
I think strategically I would love to broaden our asset base.
We've been quite successful in being able to pick up acreage in plays for relatively modest amounts of money and so I haven't felt compelled to go and make an acquisition in resource plays so witnessed Eagle Ford before that Montney most recently Southern Alberta and now Muskwa.
So I don't feel like we have to go and pay premiums necessarily to enter new plays because we still have those avenues.
Ideally if I was to make an acquisition I think it would be a nice fit to some of the things that we've already got maybe a bolt-on or maybe something in a place like Canada where I see a lot of good opportunities.
It gets tougher as you go overseas but overseas the types of assets that would nicely complement us are available.
So I'm open.
I don't think it's ever going to be a better forum for a company like us but that's something that fits with what we're doing I think kind of make sense.
Our balance sheet is in a very good shape.
It allows us a lot of flexibility in up-- uptimes and downtimes particularly downtimes.
It also allows us to move forward quickly when we have exploration success as we've had in the past for large fields and we hope for and plan to have in the future.
So it's a nice comfort to have to be able to respond that way.
So that's kind of how we treat our business overall and I feel very comfortable with.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then one more strategic question for me.
You mentioned in the past that you've been frustrated at times in the Gulf of Mexico with respect to regulatory hurdles and the permitting process but activity does seem to be ramping up there.
Can you just give us a quick update on how you view the importance of the Gulf of Mexico to the Murphy portfolio and what options you might be considering there how you think about that business? Yes.
If you look at balance I think it's a good question and one that we look at.
For us if you want to sit at the budget table if you will you need to be having an asset or group of assets that collectively make about 20 000 barrels a day because then you are a meaningful contributor.
Part of the problem with us in the Gulf particularly since the Macondo incident is that decline has been quite fast and that's pretty typical of the type of assets that we have.
And so now we're able to get back to work Thunder Hawk oil well should help us a lot.
Dalmatian development should help us a lot.
We still have to find a way to grow that business so that it's a meaningful contributor at the table.
The Gulf generally is quite expensive.
I think the new approval process make things much slower to get done.
And for smaller companies like us in the Gulf that means you dedicate a large amount of capital and a large amount of people for something that may not necessarily move the needle as much as you would like and much as it moved the needle in the past.
So those are the strategic issues that we have to get comfortable with.
I'm very comfortable with the talent that we have to work in the Gulf but it's just a question of how do we get it to be meaningful to us.
That's really I think the key question.
We'll go next to Paul Cheng of Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Dave two questions.
One do you have a deadline that you guys impose in terms of when you decide whether you're going to convert the Milford Haven into a terminal or that the -- you're going to continue -- try to hope for that someone's going to buy it? Paul that's a good question.
We actually have several parties interested in our U.K.
assets.
While we have parties interested collective meaning the refinery and the retail and parties interested in just 1 of the 2.
So the last we are active at the table here I think I'll push off any decision to make that into a terminal because I think there's a reasonably good chance here in the near term that will end up with a deal that we're comfortable with.
Research Division</strong> Right.
Just in Uganda unfortunately that deal cannot be consummated or cannot be conclude.
Do we have a higher deadline that you guys set saying that okay at what point do we have to make a decision? What we've done internally is we have actually looked at what it would take to make it into a terminal.
And we have our own assessment that if we can't get a price and/or we can't get a deal in a timeframe that's comfortable for us and that it impacts or is likely to impact any spend that we will convert it to a terminal and so it kind of ties in with that.
Research Division</strong> Right but there's also -- but you may not want to share with us then what's that timeline? That's right.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's better.
Second question going back into earlier that when you're talking about the Gulf of Mexico deepwater when we're looking into the size of the company relative to your peer they actually have more international exposure and actually that's spreading in more regions than other people.
Are you concerned that you may be stretching too thin and then you may need to perhaps consolidate and refocus your operation into fewer areas? You have all the people and the technical skill set to attack all the entire portfolio as of today.
Yes it's a good strategic question.
If you look at us today and you look at us 5 years out our production contribution is basically Malaysia or Canada the U.S.
and it stays about the same 5 years out.
And where we are active is in looking and exploring for new things.
And as we've seen in some country we may be in there for a short period of time.
Explore if we're unsuccessful leave.
If we're successful do something else.
So I think the base piece of business for us is kind of pretty consistent and we have I think the talents to be able to do that.
It's these other places where we're going to start something afresh where it's different.
And so -- do I think we're in too many places? No.
We've kind of said we want to be in about 10 countries and that's about where we are.
Do I see us going to 20 countries? No.
I think we would have to shed some countries in order to keep it in that kind of range.
So that's overall where we're at.
My problem is with the offshore Gulf is kind of get it to be meaningful in the size of company of ours and that's the question that we're really asking ourselves given the fact that it cost a lot of money to drill wells there and given the fact that it takes time to get things approved and given the time that the fields that you find generally produce pretty good margins but they don't last very long and that's the big issue there.
We will go next to Pavel Molchanov of Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> On Malaysian Floating LNG project that you referenced earlier do you have a critical mass of resource to make a decision on that in the near future? And if so what sort of timeline to first gas would you anticipate? We're working on kind of a timeline that's got some moving parts here.
So I'll kind of bracket it.
But I don't see gas before 2016.
Do we have enough resource base to be able to go forward? I believe we do.
We've made now discoveries at Rotan discoveries at Biris.
And these 2 new discoveries we're going to do some more drilling later this year.
So I think the resource base for something that's about 1.5 million metric tons a year type of vessel is kind of there.
So I think the resource base question is being addressed.
I think we're out to-- Petronas out to feed for the ship.
We'll be making some sort of investment decision next year.
And I think 2016 is about when first gas should be expected.
So that's kind of where we're at here.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> So FID in 2013.
Yes.
We will go next to Kate Minyard of JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Just a quick question on your guidance for 2Q.
You're talking about a $67 million contribution from downstream.
Which would you make quite a recovery from the first quarter? So what are some of the factors that you've been noticing in April and in your first couple of days of May that would be driving that level of recovery? Yes we typically do much better in the second quarter and all I can say is what we started to see here as we get into the spring driving season is kind of consistent with what we've seen in the past.
So that's really all the flavor I could say.
It's a little early yet granting we've only seen a month here in the quarter.
But a month is usually enough to give you a reasonable assessment.
So I haven't seen anything yet.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So are you seeing an uptick from that 6% same-store sales decline in the U.S.
or are we may be looking at some U.K.
strength coupled with U.S.
retail in April so far? Kate I really think it's margin improvement is what we have seen.
Research Division</strong> Okay all right.
And then I know it's kind of early in the year so just maybe a better question for toward the end of the year but do you see any potential implication for reserves from the gas shut-ins or drilling curtailments at Tupper? And then also the Kikeh work and whether there's any not only an impact on proved reserves but any kind of potential migration from developed back into undeveloped or anything that you can cite so far? Kate it's a great question and you're absolutely right.
But it is just kind of early to think about it.
And we'll clearly have to look at Tupper reserves here and migration as the year goes on.
I think as we start to spend more money and do more things in the Eagle Ford for instance we'll probably do much better there.
I think the drilling efficiencies alone are going to gain us 20 more wells versus our budget.
So the guys are doing a good job and then we're adding more capital into that business.
So I think there'll be some nice offsets there and it'll be more oily versus more gassy.
And so I think overall it would pretty positive.
So I haven't seen anything so far that would cause me any concern but it's early days in the year but I'm not worried about it.
At this time there are no further questions in the queue.
I'll turn the conference back to management for any additional remarks.
Operator thank you.
Thanks everyone for calling in.
Appreciate it.
Look forward to seeing that are going to be here or listening in next week and if not we'll talk to you again at the next quarter's results.
Thank you.
That does conclude today's conference call.
Thank you for your participation.
Good afternoon and welcome to the Murphy Oil Corporation Second Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
Today's event is being recorded.
I'll turn the conference over to Mr.
Steven Cossé President and Chief Executive Officer.
Good afternoon everyone and thank you for joining us in our conference call today.
With me here in El Dorado are Roger Jenkins our Executive Vice President and Chief Operating officer; Kevin Fitzgerald our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; John Eckart who's our Senior VP and Controller; Mindy West who's our Vice President and Treasurer; Barry Jeffery Director of our Investor Relations; and Tammy Taylor who's the Manager of Investor Relations.
And Barry you got some statement to make? Thank you Steve.
Welcome everyone.
Today's call will follow our usual format.
Kevin will begin by providing a review of second quarter 2012 results.
Steve and Roger will then follow with an operational update after which questions will be taken.
Please keep in mind that some of the comments made during this call will be considered forward-looking statements as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
As such no assurances can be given that these events will occur or that the projections will be obtained.
A variety of factors exist that may cause actual results to differ.
For further discussion of risk factors see Murphy's 2011 annual report on Form 10-K filed with the SEC.
Murphy takes no duty to publicly update or revise any of forward-looking statements.
I'll now turn the call over to Kevin for his comments.
Thanks Barry.
Net income for the second quarter of 2012 was $295.4 million or $1.52 per diluted share.
This compares to net income in the second quarter of 2011 of $311.6 million or $1.60 per diluted share.
For the 6 months ending June 30 2012 our net income was $585.5 million or $3.01 per diluted share compared to net income for the same period in 2011 of $580.5 million or $2.98 per diluted share.
There were no unusual items of significance in the 2012 quarter or for the 2012 6-month period.
However the 2011 quarter did include $31.6 million at $0.16 per diluted share of income from discontinued operations related to the two U.S.
refineries and associated marketing assets that were sold at the end of the third quarter of 2011.
2011 year-to-date results included income from those same discontinued operations of $62 million or $0.32 per diluted share and an after-tax gain of $13.1 million $0.07 per diluted share from the sale of natural gas storage assets in Spain.
Looking at income by segment.
In the E&amp;P segments net income for the second quarter of 2012 was $230.1 million compared to net income in the second quarter of 2011 of $243.3 million.
Lower E&amp;P earnings for the 2012 quarter were primarily due to lower crude oil and North American natural gas price realizations.
Crude oil and gas liquids production for the current quarter was approximately 104 000 barrels per day as compared to approximately 94 200 barrels per day in the corresponding 2011 quarter.
The increase is mostly attributable to production at Kikeh and in the Eagle Ford Shale area of South Texas.
Natural gas sales volumes averaged 507 million cubic feet per day in the second quarter of 2012 compared to 457 million cubic feet per day in the second quarter of last year.
This increase was attributable to higher production at the Tupper West areas in British Columbia.
In the downstream segment we have net income from continuing operations in the second quarter of 2012 of $80.5 million compared to net income from continuing operations in the second quarter of last year of $60.1 million.
The increase in the 2012 quarter was primarily attributable to operations in the U.K.
where we experienced improved refining and retail margins.
In the corporate segment second quarter 2012 saw a net charge of $15.2 million compared to a net charge in the second quarter of last year of $23.4 million.
The lower charges related to favorable impacts on transactions denominated in foreign currencies and to a higher proportion of financing costs being capitalized to ongoing oil development projects offshore in Malaysia.
Capital expenditures for 2012 are currently estimated at $4.1 billion.
The increase over what was projected at the time of our annual meeting is mostly attributable to the sanction of the Dalmatian development in the Gulf of Mexico no farm-outs of any our acreage in the Eagle Ford Shale or the drilling of our MPN prospect offshore in Republic of the Congo and an active lease acquisition program.
As of June 30 2012 Murphy's long-term debt amounted to just under $800 million which is approximately 7.8% of the total capital deployed.
During the quarter our existing $350 million 10-year bond matured that was effectively replaced by a new $500 million 10-year bond due 2022.
And with that I'll turn it back over to Steve.
Thanks Kevin.
Before getting to operational matters I'd like to emphasize that the recent management change here at Murphy was a change in personnel only.
It's not a change in strategic direction of the company.
We will continue our international exploration and as you'll see in a little bit we've got 4 big wells to spud here in the next 2 months which is going to step up significantly.
We will continue our Gulf of Mexico exploration where we were recently very successful at the lease sale and that exploration program is going to be balanced by our continued development of our resource plays here in North America particularly the Eagle Ford Shale and gas price permitting at the Montney.
Now we will also continue our efforts to divest the downstream in United Kingdom.
It's been a very tough market but we'll continue with those efforts.
In the United States we regard our retail businesses as a very good business.
However the question remains whether it stays part of Murphy or whether it continues its growth as a standalone held directly by Murphy's shareholders.
And that's the decision to be made but before we get to that decision I have to say that we have to understand and address some of its underperformance it sustained here recently.
We don't believe it's performing up to its capability.
We need to understand that and address it and that work continues.
With that I'll get to operational update.
Benchmark WTI prices averaged a little over $93 in the second quarter.
Dated Brent the marker for much of our production continued to outpace WTI averaging near $100 for the quarter -- $108 for the quarter.
In our latest outlook for the rest of the year we're forecast $85 WTI and $100 Brent which is in line with our original budget for the benchmark crude.
Natural gas prices in North America continue to be under pressure with Henry Hub averaging $2.36 per MMBtu in the second quarter.
Although recently prices have shown improvement due to warm weather across much of the United States.
With weak North American natural gas prices expected to continue over the midterm we continued to cut spending on our North American dry gas and moved capital to our oilier North American play.
U.S.
retail margins bounced back in the second quarter as crude and wholesale prices fell.
The improved refining margins at Milford Haven provided a solid contribution from our downstream business for the quarter.
Roger now will address the exploration production update.
Thanks Steve.
First in exploration today.
Our 2012 exploration program is continuing on track for the year with all of our wells being successful so far.
We completed drilling of our Linnava exploration well on our Central Dohuk block the Kurdistan region of Iraq and preparing to test the observed oil shows across 6 potential intervals which total 278 meters of net pay in Jurassic and Triassic age of reservoirs.
Over the next 6 weeks we'll be conducting detailed core analysis and production testing.
In the second quarter drilling was completed on the Julong East sidetrack and the Jagus East 1 well in the CA-1 Block of Brunei.
Each of these wells were discoveries.
Last -- later this quarter we'll spud the Opal [ph] Marine #1 well in the MPN block offshore Congo and test the 250 million barrels 10g [ph]carbonate target.
In the Gulf of Mexico we plan to spud a Miocene amplitude test and the Dalmatian South prospect in DeSoto Canyon 134 in August.
In offshore Sabah Malaysia this year we anticipate drilling 3 additional exploration wells.
We'll drill a Miocene-targeted structure on Block P and we'll drill 2 additional low-risk gas prospects as a follow-up on our 2 recent discoveries in the Rotan area of Block H which is slated for floating LNG development.
Petronas the owner of the proposed floating LNG vessel continues to progress the project in recent placement of FEED awards.
Rounding out this year's program internationally [indiscernible] with #1 well in Block WA-423-P in the Browse Basin offshore Australia which is scheduled to spud in early quarter 4.
We're back to work in the Gulf of Mexico.
Our board recently sanctioned the Dalmatian development.
This project was sanctioned as a 40 million barrel equivalent resource which will be developed at a 70% working interest and scheduled to have first oil in quarter 1 of 2014.
To develop this project and for our other exploration plans we signed a long-term drilling contract or DP drillship.
We're in the completion mode on a new well at Thunder Hawk which should produce in September a rate of 8 400 barrels equivalent per day.
Further in the Gulf of Mexico we're successful in adding 14 blocks in the recent Central Gulf of Mexico lease sale where we focused on Miocene amplitude plays the Norfolk play in DeSoto Canyon and the subsalt Miocene play.
Today we're closing on the purchase on additional 25% working interest at our 2 Front Runner -- at our Front Runner and Thunder Hawk fields bringing our working interest to 62.5% in each field.
This will add approximately 2 100 barrels equivalent production for the year.
In this development we've been very active in strengthening our global exploration portfolio.
Recently we've been awarded as operator at Vietnam shallow water Block 11-2 in the Nam Con Son Basin at a 60% working interest with our partner PetroVietnam.
We signed an MOU to form a new PFC offshore Equatorial Guinea at a 40% working interest as operator.
We framed out 50% of our 100% working interest to Inpex in the AC/P36 block in the Browse Basin of Australia and planning on exploration well in the first half of next year.
We've been awarded our first block in the Carnarvon Basin of Australia WA-476-P at 100% working interest.
We continue to be very active in Southeast Asia and West Africa where we hope to announce continued acreage entry in the near-term.
Unfortunately the initial exploration program of our Baranan Block in the Kurdistan region of Iraq has expired.
It could not be extended as our partnership group was not able to spud a well at the lease expiration date.
An application to extend the lease was not approved.
I'll now move into our North American onshore business.
We have 14 rigs working today in North America 10 in the Eagle Ford and 4 in Canada.
In the Eagle Ford Shale we're operating 10 rigs 2 dedicated frac spreads and a call for a third crew and we drilled 118 wells in the play this year-to-date with 81 of those wells producing and 37 wells in various stages of completion and/or flow back.
In the latest outlook for the rest of the year we expect to drill 149 wells and complete 123.
We're currently producing near 16 000 equivalent net production which is up from 11 500 the last time we had a conference call where we're 80% oil production in the [indiscernible].
We see our 2012 full year average near 15 000 BOE per day.
We continue to see drilling record-setting improvements in fracs replacement.
We also see positive results from an 80-acre downspacing in the Karnes area following a 100-acre downspace plan.
We're now moving to 80-acre downspacing in Tilden and Catarina.
In Seal heavy oil project in Northern Alberta we will be adding a third rig in the area by mid-August and expect to drill a total of 71 production wells this year.
The prolonged break-up period prevented a number of wells planned for the first half of the year from being drilled on schedule.
Regulatory delays along with unseasonably wet weather contributed to putting us behind our drilling schedule and production targets.
Production for the year should add to approximated 8 400 equivalent per day which is around 2 000 below our forecast.
We continue to progress our EOR projects in Canada as we work through the regulatory and stakeholder processes to achieve the necessary approvals.
We've received approval on our commercial polymer project with Phase 1 injection to commence in August.
We received regulatory approval for our cyclic steam project with steam injections scheduled for the fourth quarter of this year.
Initially in July we're submitting application for our vertical steam drive projects scheduled to start in the second half of 2014.
At Tupper and Tupper West we've implemented our plan to reduce capital spending in these assets and continue to focus on North America oil positions.
Among the acreage is an excellent low-cost asset however we need price support to resume its growth trajectory.
In Southern Alberta we continue to see positive results from our first well completed in the Three Forks zone with production rates of 280 barrels a day of light oil and the well has now produced over 200 days.
Our second Three Forks well has now been on production for more than 70 days and is producing near 100 barrels a day.
The third well has been selected and will be drilled in the fourth quarter of this year.
As we gain better understanding of the Three Forks reservoir and refine our completion techniques we expect to continue seeing positive results in this play.
Moving down into our global production.
Second quarter averaged 188 575 barrels a day exceeding our guidance level of 185 000 primarily due to favorable production performance and less downtime at Kikeh Sarawak gas and Schiehallion in the U.K.
offset by lower production from Seal.
Production guidance for the third quarter is 183 000 equivalent per day down close to 5 500 barrels equivalent a day from quarter 2 primarily due to the impact of production curtailments at Tupper and Tupper West planned maintenance programs at Sarawak gas and also Terra Nova.
We also have downtime at Kikeh to pull in risers for some offsite production into our FPSO.
These downfalls will be offset by production ramping up at Eagle Ford Shale Syncrude and Thunder Hawk.
We're maintaining our yearly production target of 193 000 barrels equivalent a day for the year.
We see fourth quarter production growth in the range of 22 000 barrels per day will come from Kikeh with the addition of 6 new wells and less planned Kikeh downtime continued ramp-up of Eagle Ford Shale a new well Thunder Hawk #4 online for the full quarter and our East Coast Canada projects Terra Nova and Hibernia returning from long-term down periods in that quarter 3 and with planned maintenance at those facilities.
We also have additional wells coming on at Seal and the early production flow from to our Kakap through our Kikeh FPSO vessel.
I will now turn the call back over to Steve.
Thanks Roger.
Our U.S.
downstream business rebounded in the second quarter as U.S.
retail margins improved in a falling wholesale price environment averaging $0.197 per gallon for the quarter.
Overall the U.S.
downstream second quarter net income was $73 million.
We added 6 new stations in U.S.
retail chains in the quarter and today our total station count is 1 142 and our plans are in the near at 1 175 outlets.
In renewable energy our 2 ethanol plants at Hankinson North Dakota and Hereford Texas continue to operate reliably but in a tough tough market environment.
Crush spreads remain in negative territory as corn prices climbed to near all-time highs due to drought conditions impacting the domestic crop.
Cattle feed prices however continue to be strong in a rising corn market and help us offset operating expenses.
The U.K.
downstream business provided a positive contribution for the quarter in the first half and improved margin environment with U.K.
retail business continuing its steady performance.
Retail margins benefited from improved market conditions associated with the recent idling of several Northwest European refineries.
And in summary 2012 is moving forward on pace.
The exploration programs are well underway as I alluded to earlier with our Linnava #1 well in the Kurdistan region of Iraq having reached total depth and has begun testing.
We've got full -- we have important wells to drill in Congo Australia Gulf of Mexico and Malaysia all to spud in the next month -- in this month or next.
Second quarter production exceeded guidance and we remain on track for the remainder of the year at 193 BOE per day.
Our Eagle Ford shale project continues to show strong production growth and we'll continue to appraise our Southern Alberta acreage.
Our downstream business has benefited from improved margins in both the U.S.
retail and U.K.
refining segments in the second quarter.
Both the sales process for the U.K.
downstream assets and the valuation of the U.S.
retail business is ongoing.
With that I'll open it up for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Leo Mariani with RBC.
LLC Research Division</strong> I wonder if you could give us a little bit more color on the CapEx increase.
You guys talked about moving higher to $4.1 billion.
Does that include the Gulf of Mexico acquisition that you guys talked about there? And I guess just looking for the amount in terms of what you paid for that.
Yes it would include that.
It's wrapped up in there Leo.
This is Roger.
Today is the closing for that sale.
I'm really not at liberty to talk about it.
I would say that it's a situation where we are the operator there and it's approved reserves that we're comfortable with and the comparable price to that was something that was attractive to us.
We executed that deal.
To answer your question the purchase of that is included in the roll-up of that additional CapEx.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And you guys talked about 2 700 barrels a day being added is that like a sort of a number for the rest of the year? Is that kind of a full year average? Any color you have around that will be helpful.
It must be a mistake maybe on my part.
It was 2 100 barrel equivalent a day additional that's included in our guidance from that purchase.
That's an annual average number.
An annual average number.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay got you.
And just in terms of Kikeh all the workover is done this year? No we'll continue on with the programs there.
I mean we're -- Kikeh just to back up for a second August 17 will be the fifth year of production there and so it's a long-term project for us.
We have an ongoing program there of adding additional wells working on wells that will one day need to be -- have a new completion and that we'll be working there through all of next year as well.
So Kikeh however did have a good quarter and the way I look at it from call to call Kikeh production is very flat without adding a well.
And I think it's in good stand for our forecast that we have.
We've maintained the forecast 2 calls in a row now at Kikeh.
LLC Research Division</strong> All right.
I guess in your ethylene business you talked about it being very challenged here in the second quarter which hurt results.
Can you kind of quantify that in terms of like a cash flow-type of number in terms of how much you guys might have lost versus the previous quarter? We're searching for that now.
If you just want to go on the net income basis -- and this is Mindy talking the ethanol business for the second quarter lost approximately $3 million which is a little bit above what -- a little bit under what it lost in the fourth quarter where it lost between $4 million and $5 million.
Fourth quarter was really the last good positive quarter it has had.
LLC Research Division</strong> Got you.
So it didn't really dramatically affect sort of the sequential results then is what you all are saying? It's been similarly weak for a while? That's correct.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I guess in terms of the retail spin out sounds like you guys are still going through a decision there.
Do you have any kind of key factors in your mind or kind of 1 or 2 things that would lead you to move one way or the other on that? Now before we get to the -- actually before we get to the spin no spin decision you've got to understand this underperformance we saw in the first quarter.
It improved in the second quarter but still we felt like it's underperforming its capabilities and we really need to understand that and address what -- why that is.
Our next question comes from Evan Calio with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Maybe just a follow-up on your last comment.
I thought you had real strong margins in the quarter in retail.
I mean could you help us understand what you think the operational issues might be that you're seeking to? Well let me say first of yes we did have margins but we -- on a relative basis we sort of underperformed the competition.
We really did and while others were gaining volume and margin we weren't and we need to understand that.
Research Division</strong> I got you.
And maybe also on the same kind of strategic side I know it was regard the cash position as well as other potential receipts from the downstream sale.
I know there was originally an intent to look for attractive assets to acquire to further diversify the production days.
I mean is that still the plan as well as you see going forward? Yes I'm thinking we're always in the hunt for attractive oil and gas asset I'll say that.
So yes that remains unchanged.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Maybe just shifting to Canada.
I know that you were reducing the spend in Canada in Tupper yet your 2Q will volumes were flat.
I thought you said 1 rig running.
I mean was there a big big well backlog? Or what am I kind of missing there? Well we didn't start our curtailment of gas in Tupper West and Tupper until July 1.
So we won't see that until next quarter.
That's actually one in the third quarter that's last production.
Our rigs in Canada today are at Seal.
We do have a rig in Tupper drilling today because we have to move some downspace-drilling before the wells deplete further.
So we have some small activity in Tupper but primarily our focus in Canada is in our Seal the heavy oil asset.
Research Division</strong> Maybe just one last one if I could and it's related to Tupper.
With more interest in securing gas in the Montney for potential O&amp;G exports I mean do you see any opportunity there to either participate on emerging or new or export LNG project or monetize your position for -- to someone who does? Right now I wouldn't say we have an immediate plan of that of course we're taking back at some of the price recently paid for LNG and the recent acquisitions up there just northwest of us.
I think as we go into this upcoming budget cycle and get ready for next year the realization where we're going to be on gas price and inability probably to invest in that business we're more likely to take another look at that.
Quite honestly we're just not the size or the perceived size of some of these acquisitions.
We probably are bigger than we have on our books for that but we need to look at that probably.
But to be frank with you Evan I don't think we have the Tcfs they're looking for right now but we could probably dovetail into another one over some period of time.
Our next question comes from Guy Baber with Simmons &amp; Company.
Research Division</strong> I had an exploration question on 2 of your potentially high impact prospects you're considering drilling later this year previously and that's Cameroon and that's your hard-working interest block in Brunei.
So can you share whether you have lined up the rigs? Do you need to drill these prospects and should we still be thinking about those as 2012 spud dates? And then can you share any info on potential size of those early prospects you're targeting there? This is Guy right? I'm sorry is that your name Guy with Simmons? Research Division</strong> Yes.
First in MPN we've had a -- we've solidified really on our rig schedule.
We have the Ocean Confidence rig in Western Africa.
It's coming to us.
To drill a required well we must real this year at in MPN and we'll go back to another operator.
We'll hit that rig around a year from now probably and which we are going to drill somewhere in Cameroon.
We have different opportunities there.
MPN is one of those.
We will go through our budget process to decide where we put that.
It's quite a large prospect and the definitely significant side if you will.
As far as the Brunei CA-2 where we're 30% working interest we should go back there at the real -- near the end of the year and we're drilling some prospects there that are being pulled out of a list.
We have many partners there to work with but we're not operator of that block but we should get back in drilling business at CA-2 right at the end of the year with probably one well and probably a well next year there as well.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then I had one more just on financial priorities and I think you guys touched on this in the prepared remarks.
But obviously you have a conservative balance sheet here a lot of cash a lot of liquidity.
But with a new CEO I'm just wondering if the financial priorities for cash and for the balance sheet have changed at all.
And if you could just outline for us what the priorities are there just with respect to excess cash and maybe just touch on dividend CapEx acquisitions as a means to drive growth and kind of how you rank those.
This is Steve Cossé.
We see no change in priorities.
As you know yesterday we increased our dividend by $0.15.
We have a pretty hefty CapEx program in front of us and I think that's going to pretty much keep us busy as well as our cash flow and probably our cash as well.
Kevin do you have anything to add? No I think what you have to keep in mind is that -- a lot of the cash we have on the balance sheet is in foreign locations and it's there just because of tax efficiencies or inefficiencies whatever -- the game that day.
I mean we look at bringing that money back when it is tax efficient.
Since we have a strong balance sheet I'm not forced to bring that money back.
I can always just follow a little bit under the revolver or something like that.
So it gives us a lot of flexibility and that will just continue.
It's the same MO we've been operating number for several years.
Our next question comes from Paul Sankey with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Listening carefully it seems that you're essentially reiterating everything that was said at the Analyst Meeting in May which I guess had a 5-year outlook for Murphy as presented by David Wood.
We were surprised by the resignation but it seems to me that if I understand what you're saying including your targets for volumes this year every other elements of what you outlined at that Analyst Meeting essentially you standby with the possible exception of the retail spin where you seem to be saying that the operational competitiveness of the business needs to be looked at harder before you can make a decision on that.
Is that fair? Yes I think you summed it up very well.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Steve for you I believe you previously retired.
Is this a long-term position that you see yourself holding as a CEO? Paul I served at the discretion of the board and Mrs.
Cossé and either have yet expressed any great dissatisfaction.
Research Division</strong> That's a very correct answer Steve.
So is there a time frame now that we can think about for the retail spin because it's actually one thing that's kind of different.
Can you give us...
As you know we've got some work to do understand exactly its underperformance and Paul I'd really like to stay clear of the timetable that undoubtedly will be wrong.
We like to proceed with our work to get it done proceed with the decision on spin or no spin and then announce it.
Our next question comes from Arjun Murti with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Steve maybe just a little bit of a follow-up to the last question.
So you're not interim CEO.
The board is not actively looking for a replacement.
We should think about you as the ongoing CEO for Murphy? Yes.
Research Division</strong> And you mentioned the reiteration of the strategy is it operational execution maybe it's the retail thing? Or is it just being more aggressive in pursuing things that sparked wanting to make a change here? You're talking management change? Research Division</strong> In the management change yes sir.
Yes let me address it this way.
Let me tell you what it's not.
It's not some great scandal that's going to break.
There's no other shoe to drop.
No other event of any significance to be announced.
And I really think Arjun it's more -- it's accumulation of little things over time probably communication being one and I think both sides were astute enough to see the trend and where this was going.
And to realize that "Hey now is the time to change.
Now is the time to part amicably and end it now before it got worse." So that's probably the best way I can express it.
But again I want to repeat that the management changes no -- absolutely no change in strategic direction.
Research Division</strong> Appreciate the candor.
Just 2 quick production-oriented questions.
I think you basically reaffirmed the guidance going forward.
Is that true for '13 '14 '15 the production numbers outlined in the Analyst Meeting? Yes Arjun.
This is Roger.
That Analyst Meeting was my presentation and Paul a few minutes ago asked if that was where we're headed.
I still assume that it is.
Of course we have to roll up our budget and we're ever mindful Arjun about your email on capital efficiency and we'll be looking into that and rolling up our budget and see if we can maintain that level of growth.
I'm not worried about the subsurface or ability to get to the targets that were shown at the AGM meeting.
But the pace of that as you know can go up and down especially when you're an Eagle Ford player.
And so overall that general direction is absolutely there same direction same presentation that I gave.
And we are in the middle of our budget for next year and rolling through that process but in general heading in that direction.
Research Division</strong> I appreciate it.
And then just very lastly I know you addressed it in part in the prepared remarks but just Kikeh maybe where do you think production will level out once you're through all the workovers et cetera? Where do you feel Kikeh ends up oil production? Kikeh is a very complicated field.
We have 21 producing wells 8 reservoirs.
We've made 150 million barrels.
We probably injected 200 million to 300 million barrels of water.
It's going to reached we think around 75 000 gross at near year end and maintained that for some into '13 and then we'll need to reiterate with our budget where that goes.
We have a good handle though on the forecast.
We've maintained the same forecast now for several months.
We've had some operational problems on our rig on our spar that was hurting getting the production higher.
Those are getting better.
Overall I think it's in good shape but I don't think we'll ever get Kikeh back to some 100 000 barrels a day and just let it ride for several years.
I don't think that's where it's going.
This is always an element of decline and I think to that nature as we get all these wells drilled.
But I don't see anything going on in the operations of great concern and we look to add a good bit of production here in the fourth quarter.
Research Division</strong> And it sounds like there's nothing to really meaningfully change your estimate of the reserves there.
It's more some of the operating issues in the oil field that's natural the declines obviously.
That's right.
Yes I would say that's a fair statement.
We'll take our next question from Paul Cheng with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Several questions.
On Kikeh have you guys already replaced all the sand screen? Paul this is Roger.
I've heard your voice for many years but never spoken to you looking forward to it.
Kikeh today we have 4 wells that have expandable sand screens in them.
They're making a cumulative probably around 19 000 barrels of gross of oil.
When water is projected to hit those wells at various tons we feel that those wells could fail.
So we're in there now drilling twins to those wells to ultimately replace them as new wells and better take points for the reservoir the next 2 if you will of those producers.
Research Division</strong> So that means that Roger is that you learned from the last mistake so we are not going to see all the 7 that you have say "Oh I mean the production is down because the sand screen failed." So now that you are going to [indiscernible] on that by drilling the additional well already.
Yes that's true.
I guess the wells could fail now as we're in the middle of drilling the well [indiscernible].
A couple of them are more prolific than others.
So naturally we will replace the more prolific once first right? So we're in the middle of doing that.
We think we could still have a catastrophic failure there in the well and when we do it it's hurtful to Murphy.
But we're in a process of getting ahead of that and have 4 of those wells left and then we have some additional wells to complete our fuel development plan workovers et cetera to any big major field with the ongoing multiple reservoirs and water injection that you'd find anywhere else in the world.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's great.
And Roger you do you have average 30-day IP run rate that you can share in the Eagle Ford for the second quarter and the well costs as well as what is the unit cash operating cost that now you're running in the Eagle Ford? That's a lot of stuff there Paul.
Hang on there just a second.
In the Eagle Ford one thing unique to Murphy is we're across 4 plays.
So we're in Karnes.
We're in a field we call Tilden Northfield and Catarina all in oil focus.
All those are different levels of depth at Eagle Ford different cost structure.
I would say our wells -- we're drilling and completing wells around $8 million in Karnes maybe $8.4 million there $8 million in Tilden and in the $7 million range in Catarina.
Our drilling costs have reduced by 14% this year.
Our OpEx there is probably a little high in the probably 20s moving down long-term into the 10s.
We have a lot of rental equipment because we have a lot of expansion in new areas where we're drilling and if we build facilities we remove the rental equipment.
We think we're trending down the OpEx.
It will get into next year after that to improve.
All in all our -- I guess the other questions on EUR.
I would we're -- EUR IP was your question? Research Division</strong> The 30-day IP.
30-day IP in Karnes is probably 500 to 700 average for us.
Let me turn it right here in just a second.
I think we have the 4 fields.
It's a lot to keep up with there.
We're around I would say 300 to 400 in the Tilden area and 200 range in the Catarina area for 30-day IP.
It'd be pretty normal.
We really have pretty good performance there and the subsurface in the IP rates are really not a concern for us there.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And that maybe I think it's both for Roger and Steve.
This year with the $4.1 billion in the CapEx you overspend your cash flow -- I mean if we're including the dividend you have to pay more than $1 billion.
Yes you have a very strong balance sheet but how many years that you can continue not to overspend by $1 billion.
So how should we look at in terms of the company strategy? Do you really want to continue that trying to hit the growth target by overspend that dramatically or that you think you need to scale back your CapEx back to live more within your mean? I think our projections show that if we fund our CapEx program over years I don't think we get to a debt-to-cap ratio very very high.
It's very very manageable and with our development projects and production coming onstream it's -- it reduces over time fairly nicely.
Kevin? Yes Paul even with the -- what we're projecting for this year we would end even with the additional capital we would end the year with a debt-to-total cap in the low teens.
And then Roger has got a pretty aggressive exploration schedule.
I hope we'll have some success there and then we'll start to develop those.
We've had development projects which the Eagle Ford itself could be considered a big development project.
We run debt up into the low 30s before.
So if you've got a good project to do that's why we keep the balance sheet the way it is we've got to take advantage of those opportunities.
That being said a lot of that monies being spent at Eagle Ford and most stuff winding down as we get out to '14 and '15.
Research Division</strong> So Kevin should we assume that the 5-year trend you present in your Analyst Meeting in terms of the CapEx those say in the $3.5 billion to $4.5 billion for the next couple of years that still is -- what do you guys have in mind at this point? Well at this stage I think that the number that we showed at the Annual Meeting are probably a good go-by.
But like Roger was mentioning we're in the middle of a budgeting process and a new 5-year planning rollout where we're looking -- Roger mentioned signing up quite a few new concessions and PFCs in different areas.
We got to see how that fits in all along as you go out 3 4 5 years and so we're rolling out that plan.
We'll have a much better feel as we get into October and November of how that's playing out.
Probably on the next call have a little bit more color we can add there.
The thing to remember is in the Eagle Ford the beauty of the resource play as you know is that you can ramp them up and ramp them down a lot easier than you can with some big projects like the Kikeh or these oil projects that we have in Malaysia.
So you just need to keep developing those and if oil prices would diminish or something you can scale back in the resource plays.
So we have a lot of flexibility and that's the reason we keep that balance sheet the way it is.
Research Division</strong> And then 2 final questions.
One is for Steve.
Steve on the U.K.
downstream sales is there a timeline that you will decide say "Okay it's not really going to happen so we're going to turn it into a terminal" or yes I mean that the price is not good and then we're going to keep it running as an ongoing entity.
Is there any timeline that you can share? There's no specific time line Paul.
As I've said earlier it's a tough tough market to sell over time as Mr.
Icon [ph] noted here in the United States.
But converting it to a terminal I think it's probably the last thing we do and as long it's performing -- if the refineries is performing as it is now with margins and not particularly drag on earnings I think we'll continue operating it until we do find a way to divest ourselves of it but again the terminal is probably the last thing we'll do.
Research Division</strong> I see.
And final one maybe either it's Barry or Roger that you can -- if you're kind enough to give us in terms of your third quarter production guidance can you break out more in detail the oil and gas by regions? Okay.
Quickly Paul here we've got third quarter U.S.
oil is about 28 000 barrels of oil a day and about 51 million cubic feet of gas.
Canada is about 27 000 barrels of oil a day 195 million gas.
Malaysia is about...
Research Division</strong> Can you breakdown the Canadian oil into offshore heavy and Syncrude? Yes heavy is about 7 000 oil.
East Coast Canada Hibernia about 5 000 because turnover's on turnaround and sinker is about 14.5.
Then we go to Malaysia you've got 48.5 on oil Kikeh being about 42.5 of that.
And you got Malaysia gas at about 202 million cubic feet with Sarawak being 155 of that.
Those are the big ones.
Research Division</strong> And Congo? Congo is like 2 000 barrels a day Paul.
Research Division</strong> 2 000.
What's the corporate expense that you guys assumed in year EPS guidance? Corporate charge was $23 million.
[Operator Instructions] Our next question comes from Blake Fernandez with Howard Weil.
Research Division</strong> Steve welcome to the party.
I had -- I hate to dig in too deep on the retail.
I know you've covered the underperformance there but I was hoping if you -- I'm just trying to understand.
Is that more of a cost or operating issue or is that simply a function of losing market share which could be related to maybe a slowdown of foot traffic at Walmart? Well no it can be all those things probably.
Until we do the work it's kind of hard to assess.
I wish I could have some more clarity for you on that but I don't right now but would love to soon.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So it sounds like you're really in the initial stages of kind of evaluating that all right.
And then secondly on the Kurdistan well it's -- I understand it's early days.
I know during your Analyst Day this seemed like one of the larger prospects.
You gave quite a large range of anywhere from 100 to I guess 1 500 million barrels.
Can you give any color on the initial indications of where you may be falling in that range? And then maybe talk about when we might see first production and potential monetization of those barrels? Blake yes I would say on a gross basis all those ranges are still accurate that we had at that time.
You see a lot of news come out of wells there up and down.
I think you kind of walk through a stage of gross net pay start and you start hearing about cumulative tests among many reservoirs and you ultimately get into oil in plays.
This is the fractured carbonate Middle East-type reservoir so it's -- if you notice the other folks that are slightly ahead of us in the play it's a good while to get to reserves so it's going to be good a while to get to the reserves as well.
Plus we need to float-test this well and have no oil back to surface in the float test.
We're in the middle of running the perforated guns on the first one.
It will be about 6 weeks there and I anticipated that it would be a slow March there where we go as I said to pay cumulative testing in the [indiscernible] oil in plays.
I know these things to determine if we have a discovery to the size.
The monetization there is a long-term issue that's political.
You saw where KRG was off-production for several months now.
Today they say they're going back on production into the Iraqi-Turkey pipeline system.
There's a lot of discussion in KRG about pipelines to join that major pipeline that has a lot of capacity.
There's also a talk over the pipeline inside at KRG.
But clearly over time those 2 regimes have to agree on a monetization until they do won't be able to do so.
We don't have this in our plan in any other growth plan that was shown.
It's an exploration well and will remain so.
The monetization is clear but I still take a little solace in that super majors follow us in every day so the insight of the large value and size of the structures along with the ability to ultimately monetize it among these 2 governments.
Our next question comes from Pavel Molchanov with Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> One high-level one if I may.
You mentioned your new entry into Vietnam.
By my count that's country #11 for you outside North America.
Do you have any concerns that you may be getting a little bit stretched too thin just in a geographical sense? No not really.
This is Roger.
I thought it was ten so you helped me out up to 11 there for me.
We're a strong player in Southeast Asia big office in Kuala Lumpur also in Jakarta.
We're used to working in that regions.
We've been working there for a very long time to get these concessions.
What we're trying to do in Vietnam is mimic if you will our success in Malaysia but we start with the shallow water block and hopefully obtain some deepwater acreage and try to go into shallow deepwater like we were before.
I don't see the country count getting much higher because we're continuing to work in the same places but it is right at the cusp of where we probably want to go but I'm not concerned with adding a new country in that particular region.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then of the countries that you currently have in the portfolio you're obviously not rolling in all of them Suriname I think comes to mind.
Any of them that you're considering perhaps for an exit? No some of them still have commitments wells here and there.
And we usually -- if we have commitments so you have to do the commitment stage and then make a decision on leaving the block in Suriname.
We're shooting seismic there this year.
We're excited about that block.
It's a lot of interest from farming nearby.
So we're active there and active in the other countries that you had up for me and happy to have them all but it's not going into a much longer list than you prescribed.
Our next question comes from Ray Deacon with Brean Murray.
LLC Research Division</strong> I was wondering if I could ask a question about the Eagle Ford and Tilden results to date and how you would compare returns to what you've seen in Karnes.
This is Roger Ray.
I would say that Karnes of course is one of the sweet spot of Eagle Ford.
We are seeing some -- in Tilden the way we described it Tilden is quite big.
We have a North Tilden which has a shallower Eagle Ford so you have well of lower IP.
We haven't -- still economic of course but we haven't drilled a lot of wells in that area but if you talk about the need of the Tilden area which is near many of our competitors I would say it has strong returns as well slightly subordinate to Karnes but in pretty good shape there.
We also have -- I mean you have shallower Eagle Ford naturally.
You drill the wells $0.5 million faster and we're happy about expanding out of Karnes and we've been doing well away from Karnes and that's one of the areas we're focused.
If you look at our rig plans for the rest of the year where we carried 10 rigs we'll have 3 at Karnes 2 out in Catarina West and the 5 rigs in Tilden.
And so most stuff in there in a small area.
That's heavily competitive area competitors all around us.
So I see it to be a very nice growth area for us and also an area that we have a higher working interest in Karnes.
Carret &amp; Co.
LLC Research Division</strong> Got it.
And I guess 2 more quick ones.
Do you see any opportunity to test the pure salt on your acreage? Do you think it's present? And how long before you expect to see some signs of success on the polymer injection at Seal? Let me take the Seal first.
We've done a polymer injection pilot and it's been very very good.
Now we're going with phasing in of 10 wells at a time and 20 wells in different phases.
It will take maybe 8 or 9 months to see impact there but it's doing very good in the pilot.
Moving down to [indiscernible] back in the Eagle Ford we do see opportunity for [indiscernible] players nearby [indiscernible] to have it.
We may see another play there and we think we would have an opportunity to participate in it.
We have planned next year working in [indiscernible].
This year we going to try to drill the wells if we have enough time [indiscernible] for the time being.
The next question comes from Mark Caruso with Millenium Partners.
Steve this question more of a strategic question and a follow-up on the retail.
One of the hurdles in the past when we talked about has been the cash flows and the dividend and we've got a great dividend update last night and I want to kind of get your thoughts on that going forward.
Is it better to keep everything integrated given the cash flows of retail? Can it be strong at times to help fund the dividend or can both entities pay dividends separately? And just want to see how that influences your thoughts.
Well let me say first of all I wouldn't prejudge the -- if we do decide to spin I wouldn't prejudge that spin codes board on dividends but I think the -- our capability to continue our capital expenditure program post-spin as well as the dividend are eminently sustainable.
It appears there are no further questions at this time.
I would like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Cossé for any additional or closing remarks.
Thank you very much everyone for participating in the conference call.
As you may have detected Roger and I are very very new to this process and if we stumbled a bit please forgive us.
I hope we'll get better as we get on with the process.
And once again thank you all for participating.
Thank you.
That concludes today's conference.
Thank you for your participation.
Good afternoon ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Murphy Oil Corporation Third Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
Today's call is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Steven Cosse President and Chief Executive Officer.
Please go ahead.
Good afternoon everyone and thanks for joining us on our call today.
With me are Roger Jenkins our Executive Vice President and Chief Operating officer; Kevin Fitzgerald our Executive VP and Chief Financial Officer; John Eckart our Senior VP and Controller; Mindy West our Vice President and Treasurer; Barry Jeffery Director of Investor Relations; and Tammy Taylor Assistant Manager of Investor Relations.
Barry you've got the customary cautionary statement? Thanks Steve.
And welcome everyone.
Today's call will follow our usual format.
Kevin will begin by providing a review of third quarter 2012 results.
Steve and Roger will then follow with an operational update after which questions will be taken.
Please keep in mind that some of the comments made during this call will be considered forward-looking statements as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
As such no assurances can be given that these events will occur or that the projections will be attained.
A variety of factors exist that may cause actual results to differ.
For further discussion of risk factors see Murphy's 2011 annual report on Form 10-K filed with the SEC.
Murphy takes no duty to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements.
I'll now turn the call over to Kevin.
Thanks Barry.
Our net income for the third quarter of 2012 was $226.7 million or $1.16 per diluted share.
This compares to net income in the third quarter of last year of $406.1 million or $2.09 per diluted share.
For the 9 months period of 2012 we had net income of $812.2 million or $4.17 per diluted share compared to net income for the first 9 months of 2011 of $986.6 million $5.07 per diluted share.
During the third quarter of this year Murphy's board agreed to sell our U.K.
upstream operations and as you know our U.S.
refining operations were sold near the end of the third quarter of 2011.
Accordingly all of these have been reported as discontinued operations in the respective periods.
Excluding these results income from continuing operations totaled $228.9 million or $1.17 per diluted share in the third quarter of 2012 compared to $347.3 million or $1.79 per diluted share in the third quarter of last year.
For the 9 months period ending September 30 income from continuing operations totaled $801.7 million or $4.12 per diluted share in 2012 and $847.4 million or $4.36 per diluted share for 2011.
Looking at net income from continuing operations by segment.
In the E&amp;P segment net income from continuing ops in the third quarter of 2012 was $221.1 million compared to net income in the third quarter of 2011 of $273.4 million.
The lower earnings for 2012 quarter were primarily due to lower North American natural gas prices higher DD&amp;A expenses and lower income tax benefits partially offset by the effects of higher crude oil sales volumes.
Crude oil and liquids prices averaged $96.09 a barrel in third quarter of 2012 versus $95.95 last year.
North American natural gas prices averaged $2.61 per MCF this year compared to $4.20 last year.
While in Sarawak third quarter 2012 natural gas price realizations averaged $7.59 per MCF compared to $7.54 per MCF last year.
Crude oil and gas liquids production for the current quarter was approximately 105 800 barrels per day as compared to approximately 96 400 barrels per day in the corresponding 2011 quarter.
The increase was mostly due to higher production in the Eagle Ford Shale and at Kikeh partially offset by lower volumes from Terra Nova which was undergoing a long-term turnaround in Azurite.
Natural gas sales volumes averaged 454 million cubic feet per day in the third quarter of 2012 compared to 470 million per day in the third quarter of last year.
The decrease was primarily due to voluntary shut-ins and deferred development activity at the Tupper area in Western Canada due to depressed North America natural gas prices.
In R&amp;M segment income from continuing ops in the third quarter of 2012 was $42.8 million versus income in the third quarter of 2011 of $68.9 million.
Lower results in the U.S.
due to weaker margins for both retail marketing and ethanol operations were partially offset by improved performance in the U.K.
where we experienced much stronger margins at the Milford Haven refinery.
Additionally a couple of weeks ago we announced the plan to separate U.S.
Downstream business into an independent company in 2013.
For the corporate segments third quarter 2012 saw a net charge of $35 million while in the third quarter of 2011 we had a net benefit of $5 million.
Lower results in the Corporate segment was primarily due to foreign currency transactions where we saw an after-tax loss of $12.6 million in the 2012 quarter largely as a result of the strengthening of the Malaysian ringgit against the U.S.
dollar compared to an after-tax benefit of $28.3 million last year.
Capital expenditures for the year estimated at about $4.4 billion.
This is up slightly from previous guidance of $4.1 billion primarily a result of a planned bolt-on acquisition of properties we hope to finalize before year end.
As of September 30 2012 Murphy's long-term debt was just under $1.2 billion or 11% of total capital employed.
It's also one of the things I'd like to clear up from our conference call a couple of weeks ago when we announced various initiatives.
None of the currently existing revolving credit or public debt of Murphy Oil Corporation will be allocated to the spun company.
And any debt to be placed on the books of the U.S.
Downstream operations will be as a result of entering into its own banking arrangement or of its own access of the public debt markets.
And with that I'll turn it back over to Steve.
Thanks Kevin.
WTI averaged $92.20 in the third quarter.
Dated Brent which as you know is the marker for the majority of our crude oil production continue to outpace WTI averaging $109.60 for the quarter with the spread recently going beyond $20 a barrel.
Crude price has fallen off a bit recently on economic concerns but they still remain within our budgeted levels for 2012.
Our natural gas prices in North America showed some improvement with Henry Hub averaging $2.89 in the third quarter and more recently rising into the $3.50-plus range due to a warm summer and strong demand for power generation with some impact of switching from coal to natural gas.
U.S.
retail margins were challenged in a rising wholesale market during much of the third quarter.
We have recently shown significant improvement.
We did see strong refining margins at Milford Haven which was a contributing factor to overall downstreaming results.
As you know we recently announced our decision to proceed with the spinoff of the U.S.
Downstream business subject to confirmation of its tax-free status and other regulatory approvals.
We expect the spin process will be concluded in 2013 and a new company would include all of retail U.S.
retail outlets currently 1 154 stations 2 ethanol plants and 7 product distribution terminals.
The U.K.
Downstream business will remain with Murphy Oil Corp.
until the sales process for those assets is complete.
Roger Jenkins is going to give us now an update on the E&amp;P business.
Good afternoon everyone.
First off on exploration.
In Malaysia we drilled the Block H of Bemban well and made another nice gas discovery our sixth in a row in this play and counting 262 feet of pay.
Bemban has a resource level of 100 BCF and we continue to work with our partner Petronas toward a 2013 sanction of a floating LNG project for Block H Malaysia.
In our shallow water Sarawak gas filled go lot we successfully delineated a deep objective.
This successful well would allow us to add 60 to 100 BCF of resource to this long-term asset.
We drilled our final commitment well in Block P offshore Sabah Malaysia.
The well did find oil and gas but the volumes were not commercial.
In the Gulf of Mexico we have an oil discovery on a DC 134 Dalmatian South well and counted 50 feet of oil pay in the original hole and 86 feet of oil pay in the planned side track.
We're currently performing studies as to the proper development options for Dalmatian South.
The Miocene oil amplitude play is a focus area for Murphy in the Gulf with high returns.
Over to Congo we're currently drilling the Opale Marine #1 well in the MPN Block offshore the Republic of Congo.
The well should finish in December with the total projected cost of $65 million.
The target zone is the Sendji carbonate which is a pre-drill estimate of 260 million barrels.
In Iraq.
We have completed drilling and testing and we're now the #1 exploration well in our Central Dohuk Block in the Kurdistan region.
While the log show numerous pay-in rules we failed to produce hydrocarbon in the testing program and plugged and abandoned the well.
We did encounter evidence of heavy oil that had very high asphaltine content but we're unable to achieve oil flow to surface.
We're evaluating the well results and what impact it may have on another prospect we have in this block.
In Australia we plan in November spud of our Eugene well in Block WA-423-P in the Browse Basin.
We're in the final negotiations entering into a new block in the Browse which contains several large gas prospects.
Our business development and new adventures efforts are focused in 4 areas: The Gulf of Mexico deepwater the Atlantic margin Southeast Asia and offshore Australia.
This quarter we received official notice of award of Block WA-481-P in the Perth Basin of Australia.
We continue to progress our growth opportunities along the Atlantic margin Cretaceous and span play in West Africa.
This week we signed a production sharing contract to explore Blocks 144 and 145 in the Cuu Long Basin of Vietnam.
These deepwater blocks encompass more than 4 million acres and represent our first entry in Vietnam a country we feel that's many of the under-explored characteristics that first attracted us to Malaysia.
We hope to announce further PSC signings in the coming months both shallow and deepwater.
As part of the ongoing review of our asset portfolio we decided to exit the U.K.
Upstream business with the sale of Amethyst Mungo/Monan and Schiehallion for a total consideration of over $300 million.
We will be foregoing 1 400 barrel oil equivalent production in 2013 and 24 million barrels equivalent of proved reserves with the sale which is expected to close in the fourth quarter.
We see the exit of the U.K.
Upstream as an example of continued portfolio rationalization and will allow further focus in assets where we operate and add value.
In Malaysia our development work at Kikeh remains on track with 2 wells brought on in the third quarter and 5 planned for the fourth.
Our new completion designs are working as planned.
We have completed all of the subsea tie-in work and have 4 new subsea wells flowing now that were drilled and completed earlier this year.
Our production level at Kikeh is now exceeding 80 000 barrels a day gross and 52 000 barrels a day net which has not been seen in this field since February of 2011.
We have progressed the tie-in of the Kakap early production system and now have a complete conduit between the Kikeh FPSO and the subsea wells of Kakap.
The major shut-ins at facilities at our Kikeh site is behind us.
We're in the final hookups stages of surface equipment which should flow these new wells later this month.
In the Eagle Ford Shale the development work continues at a steady pace.
We have 10 rigs and 3 frac crews working continuously.
We've now drilled 175 wells in this play with 108 on production.
Our production rate today is 20 000 barrel equivalent net.
We're planning on a December average net rate of 24 000 BOE per day and place our 2012 yearly average at near 15 000 barrel oil equivalent net.
While the budget process is still ongoing currently I expect we will produce 30 000 barrel equivalent a day next year in the Eagle Ford Shale.
We continue to progress down-spacing to 80 acres across our 3 play areas.
We've selected our first pure soft shale location.
And we'll drill a vertical well and take conventional core at the Adecose [ph] accounting location this quarter.
We're now planning on drilling our first horizontal well in play prior to year end.
At Seal in Canada we currently have 3 rigs drilling horizontal wells and a fourth rig drilling water source wells else for our polymer injection process.
We expect to drill in complete 78 wells at Seal this year.
Polymer injection on Phase 1 of our commercial polymer project began in August.
We have just received regulatory approval for cyclic steam project with steam injection scheduled for the fourth quarter of this year.
Additionally in July we've submitted an application for vertical steam drive project scheduled to start in the second half of 2014.
In Southern Alberta Canada our initial well the 15-21 completed in the Three Forks zone has now been on production for over 300 days and still achieving rates near 200 barrels a day.
We have spud also in this location on October 16.
Depending on appraisal success we plan to drill additional wells there next year.
As to production the third quarter averaged 181 558 barrel oil equivalent per day missing guidance of 183 000 per day due to impacts of hurricane Isaac in the Gulf.
We were fortunate to not sustain any significant damage to our facilities but were slow in coming back on production due to delays in the startup of third-party downstream facilities.
The actual amount of lost production for the quarter due to the hurricane was 2 900 BOE per day so we were able to make up some of the shortfall with better than planned production from other operating areas.
We are maintaining our 2012 annual production guidance of 193 000 barrel equivalent per day with production guidance for this quarter of 207 000 barrel equivalent per day.
The significant ramp-up into production will come from additional Kikeh wells just mentioned the new subsea wells flowing from Kakap additional wells at Eagle Ford and Seal as well as Terra Nova which have returned to production this month after a long period of planned downtime.
I'll now turn it back over to Steve.
The U.S.
downstream business is operating well in a tough market of rising wholesale gasoline prices.
Overall in U.S.
Downstream third quarter net income was $17.3 million.
We added 12 new stations to U.S.
retail chain in the quarter.
And today our total station count is 1 154.
We plan to end the year at 1 165.
And we'll have 10 stations as sort of flop over into 2013.
The U.K.
Downstream business provided a positive contribution for the quarter and for the first 9 months and in an environment of strong refining margins and the U.K.
retail business continuing its steady performance.
Now looking to 2013 while we're still in the middle of our budgeting process our budget gets approved in the December board meeting.
I see us maintaining our production target for 2013 of 200 000 BOEs per day but we'll have more details on that at the fourth quarter call in January.
In summary we drilled 2 successful wells 1 in Block H Malaysia and the Dalmatian South well in the Gulf of Mexico.
Our exploration program continues in the fourth quarter with the well offshore Congo and one offshore Australia.
Development work is moving forward on our offshore Malaysian projects and the Eagle Ford Shale continues to show predictable production increases.
We added acreage positions in 2 exploration focus areas Australia and Vietnam.
And as part of the continued review of our portfolio we decided to sell our U.K.
upstream assets.
We'll continue the sales process for our U.K.
Downstream business and lastly we're continuing to execute on our plan to spin off our U.S.
downstream business.
And with that we'll open up to questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question will come from Blake Fernandez with Howard Weil.
Research Division</strong> Question for you on the U.K.
retail -- the sale I'm sorry the upstream sale.
Obviously this wasn't part of the conversation when you recently came out suggesting you were hiring bankers to evaluate Syncrude and Montney.
Should we take from this maybe an increased appetite to maybe move ahead with some upstream sales? I don't think so Blake.
The sale of the U.K.
has been underway for a long time we just weren't able to disclose it until now.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
On the buyback front I know we have a $1 billion authorization.
Can you say whether that program has begun yet? Well obviously work on it has begun but we're constrained from executing stock purchases in the blackout period on up to earnings announcements so we haven't completely done anything yet.
Research Division</strong> Right.
Okay that's true.
The last one I have for you is on the retail.
Steve I know in the past you were evaluating some of the performance.
It seems like you were addressing that.
I'm just curious this quarter's performance obviously we had weaker benchmarks across the board but I'm just curious is there any underlying improvement that you've seen whether it be market share gain or anything like that? Yes.
Yes we have.
Let me say we've had I think I mentioned in the last call that we had teamed up with a leading consulting firm to help us understand some of the underperformance issues.
And when we got their recommendation started implementing them in August.
But as I noted earlier it's pretty tough wholesale gasoline market.
We started seeing the results though with some of the steps we took towards the end of September and I have to say now looking at it currently we're showing real significant increases but we're pretty buoyed pretty happy about it.
We'll take our next question from Leo Mariani with RBC.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just a question on Seal.
Just looking at the numbers.
It looks like the production's kind of been down like for 3 quarters in a row there.
I mean has there been any kind of maintenance there or anything? And when will we expect to see some growth.
I know you guys are kind of running through rigs out there? Yes we've got real behind Leo this is Roger we got real behind on our rigs due to our extended breakup period there and really hit our stride.
We've increased production just this month about 600 barrels a day net just in the month of October.
There was a shut-in of a Fenwest facility a gas handling facility that drove us into a shutdown back to upstream to us.
So that's way we didn't have an increase this quarter with some planned shut in there.
But we see a pretty good build this quarter there of probably 1 000 barrels a day and like I said well on our way through this month of having that.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And where do you think Seal can sort of go to as we get into 2013? Well we see next -- Barry do you have the numbers for Seal next year? I would say in the mid-7 500 at this time.
We have a lot of these projects going on with the vertical steam drives and cyclic steam that could really help increase production down the line.
We see a long-term business there hopefully in 20 000 range are going to stay with it way out in the long-range plan.
But I would say next year just some noble small gain there as we build up these new pilot areas.
But over long haul this is a focus area for us for sure Leo.
LLC Research Division</strong> Got you.
Okay.
Question here with retail.
Obviously margin down pretty significantly here in the third quarter.
I'm trying to get a sense of where those margins have sort of gone here in October.
They have widened they really have.
Let me just leave it at that.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay widened as in have improved considerably for you guys? Yes.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
Got you.
And can you just give more color around Vietnam? Talk about how you thought it was underexploited area kind of like when you got into Malaysia can you give us any details on sort of size of potential targets out there you identified targets you might drill? And when would we expect to see a well possibly gets spud out there is there a seismic? Just any kind of more color you have around your recent Vietnam deal will be helpful.
Sure Leo.
One clarification.
Seal for next year we have probably in the 8 000 range.
I misspoke at 7.
Of course Vietnam very under-explored area very large acreage position.
If you look back to Malaysia we went into that area with a shallow water and deepwater focus meaning we would have the lower risk shallow water blocks accompanied by the deepwater riskier blocks.
In the deepwater there we see a lot of 2D seismic and very large structures very large stratigraphic trap features but a long way to go to get to 3D-ready status but very very large blocks probably same acreage we had in Malaysia.
We of course want to have other awards there.
We find that going a little bit slow and getting to final PSC signature there quite frankly.
But continuing to progress both at shallow water and a deepwater focus.
In the shallow water blocks there is previous discoveries that are there similar to what was in Malaysia before where you can delineate off of those and add in smaller oil accumulations in cluster environment.
So all in all we see it to be a mirror image of that but greatly under-explored now with a big upside as to 3D and to structures down the road.
I would say probably late '14 '15 sort of drilling time there.
LLC Research Division</strong> Got you.
Okay.
Just jumping over to Congo I guess it's an area where you haven't sold any oil for the past couple of quarters.
When would we expect that to start to get back up and moving? We do not have a low level of production there.
Of course that's been a very troubled asset for us.
We're making about 4 000 net barrels a day with a bigger ship and we won't have a sale there till early '13 because we have other parties there partners and government who take their share along the way of a pretty poor performing asset.
LLC Research Division</strong> Got you.
Okay and you also discussed a bolt-on acquisition that you are working on here.
You're done by the end of the year.
Is that like a U.S.
asset? Could you give us just the city color on sort of approximate where that might be? It's North America.
We're always constantly looking at our North American positions there.
Not a gas one but in oil and I'm just not at liberty to talk about it today.
And we'll hear next question from Evan Calio with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> My first question is on Kikeh.
I know you gave the number of wells that you plan to bring online in 4Q yet are there any wells still to be brought online in 2013.
And can you give just a year-end exit rate? We don't really go into exit rate.
Our December rate there is -- our gross number would be a little in the mid I believe it's the mid-70s right now and we're ahead of that today.
As far as wells this quarter we have 4 already flowing with what I mentioned of the 5.
And next year we'll have an ongoing program there on our platform rig but our floating rig is -- will be off at sea cap north another project we have nearby so we're probably over next year.
What we have at Kikeh is an ongoing business there of replacing wells that have its older completion which we have very few of those left.
So we have wells where we're accelerating where reservoirs have flown long -- have flowed longer than they originally planned.
And finishing up our original field development plan work.
So among workovers recompletions sidetracks and wells keep the Kikeh platform rig going I don't have it off the top of my head but I would imagine about 5 to 6 wells next year.
That will sort of keep the decline at bay hopefully in that project.
Research Division</strong> Maybe you could help me with the PSCs.
I know that you've increased capital spending related to recompletions.
At current oil prices when would you expect any material production impact post cost recovery within those PSCs? I guess I was looking at it 207 000 in the fourth quarter with I guess a 200 000 barrel a day.
Would you tentatively talk about guidance wise to understand where the drop-off is in the portfolio other than asset sales obviously? Okay.
Lots of things there Evan.
As to the changes in production from the end of the year to next year we've got to keep in mind that in the third quarter alone we had 300 shut-in days of turnaround on 6 facilities.
And 2 shut-in periods at Kikeh.
Next year we'll have turnarounds and shut-ins again.
This typically not very often happening in the winter.
So we will cross into that.
That's where you get from the 207 000 to the 200 000.
To your question on Kikeh I'm sorry? I don't recall? Research Division</strong> Yes just I mean you increased capital spending related to recompletion so what I'm trying to understand...
I'm sorry.
We're under -- of course we are cost current there we're recovering our costs through our PSC.
We don't see a significant change in entitlement in the Block K area till probably 2018.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's good enough.
Well one other just a question on taxes if I could.
I know there was a big -- can you tell us the bigger driver in the increase in deferred taxes in the quarter? And then secondly in 2013 following disposition of U.S.
retail and U.K.
refining would you expect to avail more preferential tax expensing of IDRs as not being an integrated company? I leave you with that.
Evan this is Kevin.
Deferred taxes in the third quarter related to the timing of drilling and the spend in Eagle Ford and in the Gulf of Mexico so it's all U.S.
driven.
Nothing unusual that's just the timing.
As far as next year once we become 100% pure E&amp;P company we'll be entitled to 100% of IDC instead of 70%.
We'll hear the next question from Pavel Molchanov with Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> A couple of exploration program.
As you think about it on a year-to-date basis what is your success rate specifically in exploration? Hang on one second.
On this year we have -- this year we have been successful at DC 134 in Gulf of Mexico.
We have a dry hole in Kurdistan.
We've been successful at 3 wells in Block H Malaysia and we had a dry hole at Block P in Malaysia and 2 successful wells at small working interest offshore in Brunei.
I don't know that percent but pretty high.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> So 5 out of 7 or something like that.
And I mean so it's obviously higher relative to 2011 would you agree? Yes correct much high.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> As we look at exploration expense which is down about 30% from a year ago how much of that relates to lower interest in the exploration wells and how much of that is a function of higher success rates if you arrive at...
We have really big spend coming up at this time.
We have a big well going on in MPN.
We'll drill an additional well at Block H in Malaysia and we have some other international wells.
We have a good bit of dry hole in this quarter so I think we'll get our spending up in the 200-plus range that we normally have.
You will see that as the year folds out at our next call.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And for next year would you expect to maintain the current pace of exploration drilling or would you try to curtail that? We're going to try to maintain it and keep the 10 well program and anticipate the spending would be similar.
We'll take our next question from Guy Baber with Simmons &amp; Company.
Research Division</strong> In light of your plans to strategically review your Syncrude and Montney assets just had a conceptual question here around your targeted reserve life for your portfolio but currently proven reserve life is a little over 8 years and a potential divestment of Syncrude and Montney would obviously be diluted to that.
So can you just talk a little bit more about internal reserve life targets and the roadmap you see over the next couple of years for reserve growth above production and potential adds with some of your major areas? Thank you Guy this is Roger.
We as you say is nearing 8 of course sales are dropping the 5 7 range if you did both of them it'd be quite significant.
We outside of that want to target ourselves being up in the 8 to 10 range.
And then our long-range plan without those significant sales we would see that taking place.
Place like Eagle Ford Shale with well over 300 million barrels net to us and only 45 million booked.
We continue to book at Kikeh every year.
We have a very strong position of booking at SK Gas.
And so we rode up here with some of the highest production levels in the industry so it's pulled us back a bit on our RFP but over our long-range plan unless we were to do a divesture in Canada with major assets we see ourselves at the 8-plus range over the planned period.
And I consider a decent shape with the level of production we have.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then I have a follow up on the Eagle Ford but I think you mentioned the 30 000 barrels a day target or expectation for 2013 and that looks stronger than the previous guidance I think we have which was around 25 000.
So do we have those numbers correct first? And then if so can you talk a little bit more about the upgrade to production there what the primary improvements revolve around? And then also could you maybe just conceptually talk around potential upside to some of your long-term Eagle Ford projections you gave at the May Analyst Day early this year or maybe what's changed since then? If you go back to that number it's probably lower that's just the basis of going through your bids and having another year of business there.
We continue to do very well in the drilling like most operators there a 20% increase.
We were able to drill the wells.
We're an all pad drilling now.
We're putting more wells online per quarter.
If you look at our quarterly information it's -- continue to do well.
I think it's just a matter of getting into the detail of drilling improving pad drilling improving EUR improving and just the real solid.
While we have 10 rigs now if you look back at the exact detail we had some rigs -- some new rigs we got late.
And we ended up really this year with only an average of 8 so it's a matter of better drilling better EUR and more completions per quarter and just really into the detail after having a real good quarter of a big build behind us is the reason.
For us the long term there of course pure soft shale we're in the middle of that area where other operators are ahead of us a bit because we continue to protect the acreage that we have of course.
And we look for that to be growth.
And of course you see Buddha shale and other Wilcox and other formations across the Eagle Ford down the road.
And also I would assume that further downspacing we have delved often to 80 acres everywhere but of course other operators are talking 40 and that would mean additional upside.
We probably won't show all that to our annual meeting in May but you have a lot of detail about the other additional things to happen to that long-term profile.
But obviously Eagle Ford's a place we're very happy with very consistent predictable growth.
It's a place that allows us to add more wells and help with production guidance.
And it's doing very well and we're very happy with it.
We'll take our question next question from Kashif Malik with Crédit Suisse.
Can you give us an update on your recent conversations with Moody's? And just broadly thinking how do you view your investment grade ratings? And also if you've had any conversations with Fitch over the last couple of weeks? Sure.
This is Kevin.
We're in discussions with all the rating agencies.
As we mentioned the initiatives that we have they'll be funded primarily with some additional debts and so we are currently in negotiations -- I said negotiations is the wrong word discussions with the rating agencies.
And I don't want to get ahead of that.
We're meeting with some of them next week.
As far as the investment-grade ratings we would certainly like to keep the investment-grade ratings.
It certainly helps with raising the money.
It certainly at the times when you have like in 2008 when we had the credit crisis it just makes your access a lot better so we certainly like to keep the investment-grade ratings.
We went into these initiatives we knew it would be kind of pushing the envelope relative to debt to total cap relative to some of our peers but we certainly didn't think it was going to be an issue.
Okay.
And Kevin can you just give us some color in terms of recent conversations you've had what more you have to do to keep the investment-grade ratings as far as the rating agencies are concerned? I guess you'd have to ask the rating agencies.
As far as we're concerned we're doing what we have to do to keep the investment-grade ratings.
We'll hear next from Arjun Murti with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to follow up I think it might've been Roger's comments regarding some of the completion issue the Kikeh bin behind you.
If we look at the longer-term outlook I think before you had these issues we would have thought Kikeh would have been entering its kind of longer-term decline after several years of plateau.
But you've now had a couple of years of lower production.
Just wondering if that bodes better for the volumes here the next couple of years or if maybe you just have an updated outlook for Kikeh growth your net production over the next 2 or 3 years would be great.
For the ability of the field we said to be similar and we'll probably -- I want to get through this buildup in December and get into our January budget and talk about the timing we have of Siakap coming on in Block K in general.
But I do see a pretty good situation there through '13 and '14 and moving in their origin.
I do not see a big worry about the field in anyway and it's been performing probably a little better than we thought of late.
I just feel real comfortable about where we are.
If you want to talk about wells at risk and all completions of an 80 000 gross number 62 000 from new completions today.
So we hardly have any production at risk anymore and sand production issues are well in check compared to a few months ago.
And just in pretty good shape at Kikeh long term and we will get back on a plateau drop in the outer years as you would anticipate.
Those fields flowed for 5 years on August 17.
So all in all I don't see a big worry with Kikeh would prefer to get into the '13 '14 production when we talk about our budget further in January.
Research Division</strong> No I appreciate that.
It does sound like though that at least you should be able to maintain this production for longer than you might otherwise would have given that it wasn't producing that where...
Oh yes.
If you go back to '11 I mean we had some really difficult issues with these completions.
And it's been flat now for almost 3 quarters in a row.
So we're doing pretty well there.
Research Division</strong> And is the 80 where it's going to be or is there still more stuff to come on and you kind of end up higher than the 80? When you get to 80 you're constantly having -- you have decline in the field that's old.
I don't see us getting above 80 for long periods of time.
And then we have -- we still have wells that come offline and wells that are planned to come offline as we replace them with timing.
So in general it's going to be hard to hold the 80s but I would say when the facilities not have tie in with other facility or something going on to it it has an ability to be a 70 player next year for a lot of the months.
Research Division</strong> That's great.
And if I'm repeating an earlier question I apologize but do you have total company production thoughts for 2013 at this point? Yes we maintain our 200 000 that we've said in May.
And our current draft to the budget is holding up with all of what we have going on with buying and selling et cetera.
We'll hear next from John Herrlin with Societe Generale.
Just a quick one for me.
You said you want to maintain your exploration exposure on kind of a dollar basis in terms of wells drilled.
What about your risk profile? Are you going to stay high risk because you are losing free cash from some of the other business issues spitting out? What I see is a -- what we're trying to get at every year is a 10-well consistent program.
It's primarily offshore driven in 4 areas: The Gulf of Mexico Atlantic margins Southeast Asia Australia.
We want to get to a point to have a bigger portfolio which we will and do see in '14 and '15 and get that mixture into some lower risk opportunity such as the Block H gas we have been very successful.
Shallow water Malaysia we have been very successful.
Gulf of Mexico amplitude oil plays where we've been very successful.
So we're going to blend that in a mixture of your big 300-million barrel swings along with the smaller and it's my goal to have a profile across that paradigm.
And not be all of the big swings and have the high risk.
On occasion with rigs and things lined up and like this those things lined up and have some dry hole risk more quarters than others.
But our goal is try to have a total yearly program of some lower risk blended in with the high risk.
That sounds good.
What about a capital split would that be even as well or more skewed to Asia? I'm sorry the question again please sir? What about the capital split will it be kind of geographically distributed if you will or...
I haven't thought about it in that way but I would say it's fairly evenly split.
Next year maybe a little more Gulf of Mexico than in the past.
We'll hear next from Paul Cheng with Barclays.
Research Division</strong>.
A number of questions.
Can you remind me on the PSC term for Kikeh? I believe the initial profit split is 80-20 and then you will move to 50-50 when you recover 300 million barrels.
So how many barrels have you already recovered at this point? Well first of all if my understanding is correct? Yes you're exactly correct.
And there's a 300 million-barrel threshold in Block K for the whole block.
And today we've recovered around 100 million barrels I believe.
And the field's probably recovered 150.
So no the field's recovered 150.
We net 100 so the total...
Research Division</strong> So the 300 million is for the total for you.
We see that hitting in for the block Paul in 2018 that's what you're getting that.
Research Division</strong> When Kakap come on stream because Kakap is actually at least partly how that is going to be count? How's that going to be I'm sorry? Research Division</strong> How that is going to be count? There will be a -- it's a Block K development.
It's totally -- all the wells are in Block K.
All the partners are in Block K.
It's flowing into our facility starting hopefully this month.
And all that production will come in split through the partners and go through the total PSC for the Block K.
So each partner will have its own Block K spending profile.
We have ours the other partners have theirs.
We'll net the barrels and go through the calculation that way.
Research Division</strong> But that will be counted in the 300 million barrel also is it? That's correct.
All of the Block K production counts Siakap North Kikeh and the Kakap.
Research Division</strong> And on if I'm looking at your exploration program over the last 10 years do you have maybe a number you can share if we exclude Kikeh because that will I mean Kikeh by itself will pay for over the last 10 years of the exploration expense.
And if you exclude what are the internal way of return for the remaining of your program has been any kind of rough idea? I don't know.
I don't have that number Paul.
I look at many things all the time but I don't have that.
But if you look at a 10-year period by a very comprehensive Wood Mac study you would find that Murphy over the long haul is on the top quartile probably second place of all the explorers which means it is the power of one and if we started excluding Kikeh that's really unfair.
It's one of the big winners that we have and that's why we're out exploring to have that one other hit.
And I believe we will do that.
So over the -- but I do know for the Gulf of Mexico for example I did calculate it there we have a full cost all-in rate of return of 13% across all of our Gulf business so it should be an example of big exploration and discoveries over...
Research Division</strong> So in Gulf of Mexico is about 13%? Yes.
So I haven't calculated it globally but overall if you look at the Wood Mac Study we would be a top quartile over the long haul.
And over the short period of 5 years we being even as poor as we've been are still in the middle of the pack.
So I feel good about the benchmarking while I may not be happy with the result of late it's a long-term program of consistent drilling of low and high-risk opportunity.
If we stay with it we will be successful.
Research Division</strong> On the U.K.
sales for the $300 million for Schiehallion you said just for Schiehallion only or including everything else? No.
That will be all the fields combined and we're unable to say the split out Paul.
Research Division</strong> And is that going to result in any cash tax payment.
Kevin? No no will not.
Research Division</strong> So with that you are going to receive $300 million in cash and net to your after-tax? Subject to some post-closing adjustments yes.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
All right.
I know that you guys probably were coming up with a new CapEx number for next year.
Any kind of rough estimate is that going to be pretty similar to what you put out in your May Analyst Meeting for 2013? Well I think it's fair to say that the number will be somewhat similar to what you're seeing in 2012.
Research Division</strong> In 2012 so $4.4 billion? If you look overall that's considering for a full year downstream and you won't get that when we conclude the spend right.
I don't know many months you have but it'll probably be a little bit less than that.
But it's in that ballpark.
Research Division</strong> And Kevin I just want to make sure that when you say 2012 you're not talking about the original budget but you're talking about your revised budget 2012 which is $4.4 billion so you're saying that next year...
Yes.
In that ballpark.
Research Division</strong> In that ballpark but that -- okay I just want to make sure.
That is about I think is that $600 million higher than your Analyst Meeting back in May? I think it's about...
I have to go pull the slide to see.
Paul well so far sounds familiar yes.
Research Division</strong> And is there any particular area that the increase is going to be? I don't want to go there until we get the budget approved.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's fair.
Roger can you give us some data about the Eagle Ford operation? Can you show with us what is the unit cash operating cost in the third quarter? And if the well cost you're still talking about in the $7 million to $8 million a piece? We're going to dig out the cost for you.
Let me just walk you through this a little bit Paul.
We're in several areas in Eagle Ford.
We're about 8.3 million in Carns all in 7.7 in Tilden area and 6.5 over in the Catarina which is shallower.
That should be our drilling and completion costs.
And what's the number you asked for earlier I'm sorry? Research Division</strong> The cash operating cost? Third quarter OpEx was 25 81.
Research Division</strong> And do you expect that that is going to trend lower as you ramp up your production over the next several quarter or that is actually it may not -- it will take you a couple of years? I'm looking at it now and what we have in our long-range plan today is in '13 to be $16 for 2014 to be $13 and kind of leveling off in the $12 range.
And that's been little longer than we had hoped to get to that number because of rental equipment and drilling so many wells and the building of all our facilities.
But like I say we do see that number coming down.
And in '13 and '14 is a big focus area for us.
Research Division</strong> A final one in the Eagle Ford.
Roger what is the CapEx do you expect to spend in this year and next year? Well you always give us the same questions Paul hats off to you.
I think this year we spent $1.3 billion.
And when you run 10 rigs in those facilities we'll probably spend pretty close to that again.
We'll hear our next question from Jason Gilbert with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> The company has historically run with very low leverage and you're clearly going to lever up here a bit as the result of the transactions previously announced.
Do you guys have a target leverage level for the company over time? This is Kevin.
I would say in the 30% range.
Once it gets beyond that we really start looking at it.
I'd like to have -- I'd like to be able to point to things that are going to be paying that down because like I said we do like to keep it conservative.
We like to keep dry powder around for opportunities.
So it'd be in that range.
Research Division</strong> And that 30% debt to cap? Yes.
Yes.
And part of that you can't -- in our situation it's hard to go by the exact number.
You almost have to look at net debt because typically I tend to have some cash overseas that I could bring back I could bring back that debt number lower but I choose not to voluntarily in a lot of cases because it's just tax inefficient.
And so it's probably more fair to look at it from a net debt position.
Research Division</strong> And then just sort of a related question I'm just trying to figure out how much we should view the share repurchase and special dividend as a one-time event or just a real change in the financial policies since you haven't done this before.
Is this the kind of thing we could expect to see again in the future? I think for now I would characterize this as a one-time event.
I wouldn't want to foreclose it entirely for the future because who knows what's in the future.
But for now it's a one-time event.
And we'll hear our next question from Blake Fernandez with Howard Weil.
Research Division</strong> Just 2 points of clarification.
Roger you mentioned the reallocation of cost from Block P over to K.
Is it fair to assume that there will be no ongoing spending in P? That's fair.
We have the lease would be expiring in early 2013 Blake.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then Steve I was just curious.
Can you give us some kind of feel for how we're going to get communication on the asset divestiture evaluation process.
In other words is there a time frame that we should think to hear something from you guys as to whether you're actually going to market these assets or not? And basically I mean let's just say you were to decide to pursue the sale should we think we're just going to get a press release one day where you've sold it or we're going to hear beforehand your decision? Let me say that work is just underway.
And I don't want to prejudice it by putting it on a time table.
And as to a sale or no sale how we disclose that let's leave that to the future and how this work unfolds.
And gentlemen it appears we have no further questions at this time.
Well thank you very much everyone.
And thank you moderator.
Thanks very much.
Again this does conclude today's conference.
We thank you all for your participation.
Good afternoon ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Murphy Oil Corporation Fourth Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
Today's conference is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the call over to Mr.
Steven Cosse President and Chief Executive Officer.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you operator and good afternoon everyone and thank you for joining us on our call today.
With me here are Roger Jenkins our Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer; Kevin Fitzgerald our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; John Eckart Senior Vice President and Controller; Barry Jeffery Director of Investor Relations; and Tammy Taylor Assistant Manager Investor Relations.
Barry? Thanks Steve and welcome everyone.
Today's call will follow our usual format.
Kevin will begin by providing a review of fourth quarter 2012 results.
Steve and Roger will then follow with an operational update after which questions will be taken.
Please keep in mind that some of the comments made during this call will be considered forward-looking statements as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
As such no assurances can be given that these events will occur or that the projections will be attained.
A variety of factors exist that may cause actual results to differ.
For further discussion of risk factors see Murphy's 2011 annual report on Form 10-K and the September 30 2012 quarterly report on Form 10-Q on file with the SEC.
Murphy takes no duty to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements.
I will now turn the call over to Kevin.
Thanks Barry.
Our net income for the fourth quarter of 2012 was $158.7 million or $0.82 per diluted share.
This compares to a net loss in the fourth quarter of 2011 of $113.9 million or $0.59 per diluted share.
For the entire year of 2012 we had a net income of $970.9 million $4.99 per diluted share compared to net income in 2011 for the full year of $872.7 million or $4.49 per diluted share.
From continuing operations net income in the fourth quarter of 2012 was $162.4 million $0.84 per diluted share.
This compares to a net loss in the fourth quarter of 2011 of $117.9 million or $0.61 per diluted share.
The entire year's comparisons from continuing operations in 2012 we had a net income of $964.1 million or $4.95 per diluted share compared to net income last year of $729.5 million or $3.75 per diluted share.
The fourth quarter and full year results for 2012 included after-tax impairment charges of $239.6 million associated with both the Azurite field offshore of the Republic of Congo and our ethanol operations in Hereford Texas.
It also included U.S.
income tax benefits of $108.3 million associated with operations in the Republic of the Congo and in Suriname.
The fourth quarter and full year results for 2011 included a $368.6 million impairment charge for which there was no income tax effect for the aforementioned Azurite field.
Looking at income by segments in the E&amp;P segment net income from continuing operations in the fourth quarter of 2012 was $145 million compared to a net charge of $144.6 million last year.
The higher earnings in the 2012 quarter were mostly attributable to the larger impairment of the Azurite field in 2011 and the previously mentioned tax benefits recognized in 2012.
The fourth quarter 2012 also included higher crude oil sales volumes and lower exploration expenses but these were mostly offset by lower realized prices for crude oil and natural gas and higher extraction and administrative expenses.
Crude oil and gas liquids production averaged just under 133 000 barrels per day in the '12 quarter compared to about 108 800 barrels per day in 2011.
The increase is primarily a result of ongoing drilling in the Eagle Ford Shale and a purchase of additional interest earlier in the year in the Thunder Hawk and Front Runner fields in the Gulf of Mexico.
Natural gas volumes were 473 million cubic feet per day in the 2012 quarter compared to 488 million cubic feet per day in 2011 with the decrease primarily due to lower production from the Tupper area in Western Canada as we scaled back operations there due to persistently low North American natural gas prices.
We'll go to downstream segment.
In the fourth quarter 2012 we had net income from continuing operations of $38.5 million compared to net income from continuing ops of $61 million in the fourth quarter of 2011.
The main driver of the income decrease for the current quarter was the previously mentioned impairment charge related to our ethanol plant in Hereford Texas.
The corporate segment in 20 -- the fourth quarter of 2012 we had a net charge of $21.1 million compared to a net charge in the fourth quarter of 2011 of $34.3 million.
In 2012 we experienced more favorable results from transactions denominated in foreign currencies and lower net interest expense partially offset by higher administrative costs.
Capital expenditures for 2012 totaled about $4.4 billion approximately 97% or a little over $4.2 billion was spent in the E&amp;P segment approximately $583 million in exploration $311 million for proved property acquisitions and the remainder for development projects.
For 2013 our budget of capital expenditures which were approved by our board in early December totaled $4.3 billion with approximately 95% or about $4.1 billion slated for the E&amp;P segment.
Of that approximately $3.6 billion is for development projects and the remainder or about $500 million is to be spent on exploration activities.
Our budget assumes WTI pricing of $85 per barrel and Henry Hub pricing of $3.50 per MCF.
The year end 2012 Murphy's long-term debt amounted to approximately $2.25 billion or 20% of total capital employed while cash cash equivalents and short-term investments and marketable securities totaled a little over $1 billion.
With that I'll turn it back over to Steve.
Thanks Kevin.
2012 is a profitable year for us with $971 million of net income and cash flow of $3.5 billion.
In the upstream business we drilled 10 exploration wells and had 7 discoveries.
We increased production by 8% year-on-year which puts us near a 14% compounded annual growth rate over the last 5 years.
We had an excellent year in reserve replacement with Eagle Ford Shale leading the way.
We continued portfolio rationalization last year and signed agreements to sell our U.K.
business and those transactions we expect to close them here in the first quarter.
In addition we acquired bolt-on acreage at our Seal heavy oil property.
And we added production reserves that fit well with our long-term enhanced oil recovery plans.
In the downstream we approved the spinoff of the U.S.
retail business into a separate entity and solidified our relationship with Walmart through an agreement to grow the retail network with over 200 additional locations.
We moved forward with some key initiatives for shareholders including an -- increasing our regular dividend by 14% declaring a special dividend to shareholders and implementing the share repurchase program.
Dated Brent is the benchmark for the majority of our crude oil production and continued to outpace WTI for the quarter and the full year with the spread averaging $21.80 and $17.70 respectively.
After hitting lows near $2 per MMBTU earlier this year in a oversupplied market natural gas prices in North America showed some strength in the fourth [ph] quarter Henry Hub averaging $3.55 per MMBTU.
While [indiscernible] continued strong demand for LNG provided support for our oil indexed Sarawak gas production.
U.S.
retail margins started the fourth quarter strong overall as wholesale prices fell through October but then eased off in December in a rising market averaging $0.141 per gallon for the quarter.
We continue to move forward with the spinoff of our U.S.
retail business and in December we filed a ruling request with the Internal Revenue Service seeking [ph] confirmation of tax-free status of the spin.
We expect to receive an answer by midyear.
This month we announced the appointment of Andrew Clyde to the position of President and CEO of our U.S.
retail marketing subsidiary.
Andrew brings a strong background in gasoline and convenience retailing and will provide key leadership as we transition the business in the coming months.
In the meantime we're working on all aspects in establishing 2 separate companies to be prepared to move forward pending confirmation of the tax-free status of the spin.
We are working to identify key members of the new management team and preparing a strategic business plan.
We anticipate completing the spin transaction in the second half of the year.
U.K.
downstream business as we've announced before will remain with Murphy Oil Corporation until the sales process for those assets is complete.
Roger you want to update on the E&amp;P? Thanks Steve.
Sure.
On exploration starting off in Malaysia.
We drilled the Block H Alum well and made another gas discovery there the seventh in a row in that play encountering 280 feet of pay with a resource level near 150 BCF.
So we'll drill another well later this year and continue to work with our partner Petronas towards sanctioning the upstream portion of our floating LNG project the Block in late third quarter of this year.
We've now established over 1.1 TCF gross per source for the project and have a third-party verification process ongoing.
In Brunei we are currently drilling the Kelidang Northeast-1 well in the CA-2 Block.
The well is prospective for gas and is part of a larger cluster of gas-prone opportunities.
A gas discovery here would  fit well with Brunei's current LNG supply requirements.
In Congo we've relinquished our interest in operatorship in the MPN Block effective at the end of last year.
In addition we have given notice of our intention to relinquish our interest in MPS Block at the end of this quarter.
In our Atlantic margin focus area we've signed a PSC for Block W in Equatorial Guinea.
We hope to start sizing [ph] work there late this year on this new acreage area.
Further in the play we signed a farm-in agreement for the Elombo Block on board of our current Ntem Block in Cameroon.
We now have a significant list of prospects in Cameroon focused on the Cretaceous span play.
Elombo Block also contains shallow water prospects and the spud of the first well is scheduled to take place later this quarter.
We plan on spudding 2 deepwater wells one in each of our license later this year.
We will operate at 50% working interest in the deepwater portion of these blocks.
The prospects here are significant with over 200 million barrels gross each.
In Australia we drilled an unsuccessful commitment well at the Eupheme-1 Block WA-423-P in the Browse Basin offshore Australia to test a 3-way trap in the Permian section.
The well reached TD in January and was plugged and abandoned.
In November we announced our foreman to the WA-408-P Block at a 20% working interest with Total as operator and Santos as the other partner.
We're drilling the first well now at Bassett Deep West.
The results of the well are expected near the end of this quarter.
We will then partner in the Dufresne well with results in late quarter 2.
These 2 large Jurassic-age Plover 4-way closures have a total gross resource combined of 7 to 14 TCF.
In business development and new venture we'll continue to progress land additions offshore Vietnam.
In our portfolio we signed a purchase and sale agreements for all of our U.K.
upstream assets at Schiehallion Mungo/Monan and in Amethyst in the fourth quarter and expect to close those 3 transactions this quarter.
As mentioned earlier we have closed on the Seal acquisition at year end.
Malaysia our work at Kikeh continues on track.
We've seen a very stable production rate of late on Kikeh and expect the same flow capability well into this year.
We do have scheduled shut-ins planned in quarter 2 and quarter 3 to install production facilities associated with the Siakap North – Petai field which should be tied into the Kikeh FPSO.
K'ak'náab Ku-Maloob-Zaap early production system came online as planned.
We currently have 2 wells flowing into Kikeh.
This production should remain stable through 2013.
The main K'ak'náab Ku-Maloob-Zaap project with its standalone floating production unit comes on stream late this year or early 2014.
In Sarawak Malaysia we continue to progress the development work on our 4 new oil fields to flow later this year: Patricia Serendah South Acis and Permas.
Prices for Sarawak gas remained strong in this oil index production price is at or near $7 now since mid-2011.
We had a planned 7-day shut-in this month to install a new compressor system that will enable us to increase production to 300 million per day gross starting later this quarter.
We now have a third-party certified total-proven EUR SK gas of over 1.1 TCF gross and a probable total recovery of 1.5 TCF.
To date we have produced 276 BCF gross of this total.
Recently our partner Petronas confirmed that we can extend our gas agreement for the total 1.1 TCF proven amount.
This will allow our current 250 million a day gross production level to be produced past 2022 under our current terms.
As mentioned in Kevin's remarks set an impairment on the Azurite development taken at year end 2012.
In the course of the fourth quarter we attempted a sidetrack on existing well to access a large portion of the remaining reserves to the field.
Sidetrack suffered a mechanical failure preventing us from performing the operation.
We continue to produce the field while we evaluate options.
In Eagle Ford Shale development work is continuing at a steady pace with 10 rigs and 3 frac crews working continuously.
We now have drilled 216 wells and have 163 on production.
Production averaged over 15 000 BOE per day net in 2012 a decline [ph] to average approximately 30 000 BOE per day net this year as per our current budget.
Field development optimization continues as we move to all pad drilling and progress downspacing to 80 acres across all 3 play areas.
We continue to see improvements in drilling and completion costs with the drill curve showing improvement of 35% to 40% across the entire play with the pace setter wells being drilled in each area in the fourth quarter.
Total days to drill in case across our acreage now ranges from 11 to 13 days.
We see additional upside to the play with potential in the Pearsall Shale and the Buda Lime [ph].
We drilled a vertical well through the Pearsall and logged and cored the zone.
We since spud our first horizontal well in this play and hope to have initial flow results late in quarter 1.
We see a follow-on well with flow results expecting in quarter 2 both of these wells are in Atascosa County.
The Seal in Canada as reported in the press this week had a fire in a heavy oil treater their Seal 433 [ph] battery causing us to shut-in approximately 5 000 barrels production per day.
Their working on plans to restore close to 2 000 at this time and are assessing the full extent of the damage and timing to restore the remaining shut-in production.
We have planned for an active 2013 at Seal where we will integrate the Shell acquisition to our operation and continue with both primary and EUR [ph] development projects.
Currently we have 2 rigs drilling production wells and 1 rig drilling strat wells to support our EUR plans.
However with the recent poor netback prices we're going to reevaluate primary production investments.
Our polymer injection on Phase 1 of our commercial polymer project began last August and continues on track.
We expect to start steam injection on our first cyclic steam pilot in February.
We submitted an application for vertical steam drive project scheduled to start in the second half of 2014.
We spud our second well in Northern Alberta to test the Muskwa Shale.
Our initial well produced at low rates and we have moved further west in the play where we anticipate liquids-rich gas.
We've drilled a well through the Muskwa cord and evaluating and are now drilling a horizontal section.
As to production the fourth quarter averaged 211 833-barrel equivalent per day exceeding our guidance level of 207 000 BOE per day which resulted in full year production for 2012 of 194 278 barrel equivalent a day.
During the quarter we had an entitlement change for our shallow water oil fields in Malaysia.
However had this entitlement change not occurred we would have still exceeded all external guidance levels in the fourth quarter equaling 208 363 barrel equivalent per day and  the full year at a level of 193 406 barrel equivalent per day.
Quarter 4 ramp up in production is primarily attributable to additional wells at Kikeh early production system startup from K'ak'náab Ku-Maloob-Zaap continued ramp-up of Eagle Ford Shale a new well at Thunder Hawk and had [indiscernible] returning to production following the planned maintenance.
Production guidance for quarter 1 2013 is set at 200 000 barrel equivalent per day.
Reserve replacement for the year was 184% and major reserve booking at Eagle Ford Shale of some 80-plus million barrels equivalent at an 86% oil.
Additional reserves are booked in Malaysia at our Sarawak oil and gas developments in the Gulf of Mexico with initial bookings for Dalmatian.
We now have an average of 157% reserve replacement for the last 5 years.
The all-repeat [ph] of our business now stands at 8.4 with total resource base of 3.5 billion barrels at 56% oil.
I'll now turn the call back over to Steve.
Thanks Roger.
U.S.
downstream business operated well in the fourth quarter with solid margins in October giving way in December to rising wholesale gasoline prices.
Overall the U.S.
downstream had fourth quarter net income of $22 million.
Volumes continued to recover as our new measures implemented in the third quarter began to show results.
We added 14 new stations in U.S.
retail chain in the fourth quarter and ended the year with 1 165 outlets as planned.
The U.K.
downstream business recorded net income of $16.5 million for the fourth quarter.
In 2013 our exploration program will include drilling close to a dozen prospects.
We plan to drill 1 well in Block H Malaysia; 1 well in Block CA-2 Brunei which is currently underway and pending results likely a second location there; 2 wells offshore Cameroon; 2 Browse Basin wells in Australia with the first well currently drilling; 2 to 3 wells in the Gulf of Mexico and a possible well in Semai II Block of Indonesia.
The total capital budget for 2013 is $4.3 billion with $4.1 billion for our upstream business.
In the upstream business $500 million is earmarked for the exploration program and $3.6 billion will be spent on development projects of which $1.5 billion is slated for the United States mainly at the Eagle Ford Shale and a further $1.5 billion is budgeted for Malaysia and $500 million slated for Canada.
Downstream budget is approximately $200 million primarily for new station builds and upgrades.
We plan to add 65 to 75 retail outlets this year and the future growth plans for the U.S.
retail business will be rolled out in the coming months as we move towards the spinoff transaction.
Production guidance for the full year is 200 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day which represents a 3% increase over 2012 volumes.
Production increases will primarily come from growth in the Eagle Ford Shale which is offset by a lower average production from the Montney for the year.
New projects in Malaysia are scheduled to come on stream later in the year which will provide growth heading into 2014.
On our call in October we indicated we'd hired an advisor to review alternatives for our Montney and Syncrude assets along with certain other upstream assets.
Syncrude and Montney are really great assets one is a huge large-life gas resource the other is huge long-life oil resource.
These kinds of assets are difficult to obtain and they're harder to replace.
They kind of really fit well into our strategy of growing our oil-weighted production profile maintaining an upside on North American gas prices the emerging Canadian LNG development.
That said if we have a need to fund development of our other projects or if we were to receive a compelling offer we would seriously consider a sale.
We don't plan to have a formal process at this time.
We'll continue to review our overall portfolio including these 2 assets and we'll rationalize our asset base as we think appropriate going forward.
Now to summarize in exploration we drilled another successful well at Alum in Block H Malaysia.
Our seventh in a row there and a very active 2013 ahead.
Development work is moving forward on our offshore Malaysian projects and the Eagle Ford Shale continues to show predictable growth.
We continue to add acreage in -- acreage positions in Cameroon and Equatorial Guinea.
We signed agreements to sell our U.K.
upstream business and we expect to close on those transactions in this quarter the first quarter.
In addition we closed on our acquisition at Seal in Canada and we continue the sales process of our U.K.
downstream business.
And lastly we are executing on our plan to spin off our downstream business later this year.
Now with that we'll open it up for questions.
[Operator Instructions] We'll go first to Leo Mariani with RBC Capital.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just a question here on Congo.
Do you guys expect to get some production on that asset? In the first quarter you kind of mentioned writing it off a couple of your blocks.
I'd previously thought that you guys were planning on getting some sales in the first quarter.
Is that still accurate? Yes it is.
Leo this is Roger.
We're going to continue to produce the asset at this time.
We have a long-term lease obligation there and while we did impair the book value et cetera we are continuing to operate and probably will do so going through this year.
LLC Research Division</strong> All right.
And I think you guys incurred a decent chunk of costs in the fourth quarter in the Congo.
Do you expect to continue to see significant costs there? I think maybe you guys are trying to do some workovers to boost that production any color you have around that would be helpful.
That workover is unsuccessful and I see very little spend in Congo going forward outside of normal OpEx at this time.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I guess just looking at your LOE your lease operating expenses I mean it looks like to me they came down pretty significantly in the U.S.
in the fourth quarter versus the prior quarter.
Just any color you have around what was driving that and how we should expect that to behave in 2013? Well we rolled that all into one U.S.
Leo this is Roger again.
Our Thunder Hawk had a very nice well come on in the fourth quarter and that's a leased FPSO facility.
Also we continue to improve on the Eagle Ford Eagle Ford Shale as we build up production and production more in 4-well pads allowing us to accumulate more facilities there and lower our OpEx.
So yes our OpEx is trending down led by those 2.
LLC Research Division</strong> All right.
That's helpful.
And I guess in terms of your overall production guidance I guess you guys are saying about 200 in the first quarter it was about 211 in the fourth quarter.
You talked about getting some sales volumes out of Congo.
Can you just kind of help us out with what the other moving parts to kind of get from 211 and 200? When you say 211 you mean 211 in the fourth quarter down to where we are now is that what you're talking about? LLC Research Division</strong> Yes 211 in the fourth quarter down to 200 or so in the first quarter trying to bridge that gap.
Yes I'll talk [indiscernible].
We have 4 300 coming down from West Patricia as I mentioned in my remarks the SK oil entitlement change.
That's a reduction in pay per barrel I suppose primarily.
SK gas had a 7-day shut-in of almost 2 900 equivalent installed to compression that I mentioned.
We sell in the U.K.
a 2 800 and then we have the Tupper area continues to decline around 1 600 and Syncrude has not been operating that well about 800 down from the other quarter and we have some builds going the other way with the K'ak'náab well on for the full quarter.
Terra Nova about the same and then Eagle Ford adding to that other quarter and that marches you back in that range where we are.
We had -- I forgot to mention Leo of course we had it in my remarks.
But we had that fire at Seal that we just had to rush to add to the last variance before we went out.
We'll take our next question from Roger Read with Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> I guess a quick question as I look at the kind of the performance here in the fourth quarter strictly from an earnings standpoint and then I look at both the production guidance for the first quarter and the earnings guidance is there another charge out there we're expecting to see in the first quarter? And if not what else is it that's occurring on the cost side that's affecting the bottom line so much? Roger it's Barry here.
Let me -- why don't I walk you sort of through and get you from 4Q to Q1.
And it might help you see a little bit there.
So let's -- if we -- when you normalize Q4 your in that $1.50 a share range for Q4 and we've come out with guidance here in the $0.55 to $0.90 range.
So let's just walk through some of the moving parts.
Corporate costs as we said before in the fourth quarter were $21 million we're showing $52 million here in the first quarter so that's $0.16 a share right there.
Higher ForEx expenses higher interest expenses and higher G&amp;A expenses in that corporate number for Q1.
Go to the downstream when you normalize it and bring back in the Hereford impairment you're moving from about a $78 million quarter to a $10 million loss you've got a change there of $88 million.
That's $0.46 a share and that's all driven by Q1 lower margins in our U.S.
retail as well as lower margins projected in our U.K.
downstream business.
And then we get back to the upstream piece.
When you normalize it and bring back in the Congo impairment and then those tax benefits we talked about that was roughly a $1.22 a share quarter in Q4.
And we're showing about $0.86 of our Q1 as being attributed to the upstream here.
U.S.
is pretty flat from Q4 to Q1.
You've got growing Eagle Ford volumes offset by some G&amp;G and OpEx expenses that are offsetting that.
Canada you're down quite a bit.
You're down about $35 million $36 million in Canada.
You've got some higher costs at Syncrude and we've got some -- we've got lower volumes both Seal and Montney gas and lower prices for gas and heavy oil in Canada as well as we have the well we're drilling at Muskwa in that Canadian number.
So that's down about $36 million from Q4 to Q1.
Then the other big one is Malaysia.
We're showing oil sales in Q4 were significantly higher than oil sales projected here in Q1 on liftings so we're down about 1.2 million barrels of oil sales from Q4 to Q1 offset obviously by the OpEx you're not going to show against those barrels until you lift them.
So those are the big ones.
Then I would say the Congo and our other foreign kind of offset each other.
Congo will have less.
In Q4 we have the Opale Marine and the Titane wells that we had to take.
We won't have those repeat.
But on the foreign side we have a drilling program going with Australia Brunei and Cameroon as well as higher G&amp;G costs so those kind of offset.
So all of that E&amp;P stuff is about another $0.38 a share so those are kind of the moving parts that sort of bridge the $1.50 back down to our $0.55 range.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
So it sounds -- if I interpret that correctly the cash impact in the fourth quarter was less so because you had mostly a charge whereas we're looking in the first quarter most of this is either production that's not going to occur the liftings or it's actually higher costs and so we are talking sort of a less free cash flow availability or less free cash flow generation in Q1 than we had in Q4? That's fair.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
The other question I had can you walk us through what's going on on the exploration side during 2013 just kind of what we should be looking for in other wells that you'll be drilling on that front? Yes Roger great name there by the way.
Steve walked through some of this so I'll go through another little bit of detail and Block H on a nice run there and we're going to drill a well there some time this year these wells are very inexpensive to drill and we can come in and out of our development plans there and do them as we need to.
So we'll probably have a Block H continuation well in the third quarter we're drilling a well now in Brunei the same type of a gas play same type of size resource as we have in Block H we'll more than likely have a follow-on well there around midyear.
Now the Elombo block that I mentioned earlier is something we worked on for a long time.
It has a shallow water well to be drilled here real soon and then a well of a cretaceous fan a pretty big 200 million-barrel-plus prospect to be drilled at midyear we'll drill a very large 700 million-barrel-type gross prospect right at yearend we'll spud that well.
We have the ongoing program in Australia we drilled very large gas projects there one called Basset West one called Dufresne and we just started the Basset West well and set surface casing we'll be drilling there almost continually through midyear.
We have possibly 2 wells to drill in Indonesia for our continuation of our commitments there we're waiting on a jack-up rig from [ph] BP there.
And we will get back to drilling in the Gulf of Mexico where we're bringing in our own deepwater rig we will first complete our Dalmatian development wells and do some exploration work there at 2 of our prospects.
So we have a good many to choose from we'll be getting back to work in the Gulf in the second half of the year and that would pretty much wrap up a end of 11- 12-well kind of program which is where we want to be.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
So the 2 Gulf of Mexico wells that you may drill those have not been identified yet? I have them here but I'm not identifying them yet.
So yes I have many options there and partners and things I'm working on at this time but there will be an oil amplitude well to drill and a Northfield [ph] well to drill for sure in that 2 to 3 pocket.
We take our next question from Blake Fernandez with Howard Weil.
Research Division</strong> Roger while we're on that exploration I just want to make sure and clarify when you said you relinquished the Congo MPN and MPS is it fair to say that the presold exploration well is no longer on the books? Well we drilled our MPN well and we announced that well as dry sometime back as when we had our debt offering [ph].
We actually penetrated went ahead and drilled ahead into the subsalt didn't see good reservoir there and it's been a long run of poor success in Congo for me Blake and it's time to move on.
We're letting those blocks go.
Research Division</strong> Understood.
Okay.
And then Roger I guess we'll have you you talked about moving down 80 acres in the Eagle Ford I know some of your peers are testing below that.
Are you at a position where you're ready to start running pilots on below 80-acre or are you just going to wait and see what industry has to offer and then move from there? Well I think we have -- I think I said we have 160-something wells producing today 40 of them are downspaced to 80 already and we have about 13 months of history on our 80.
It will be the longest one we've had.
We've seen no interference and any problem with it.
We'll probably with the way my rigs are shaking out the way my land is shaped I may have some 40 acre downspacing later in the year probably may not have results on it this year but I'm sure all my good friends around me will have plenty of data to talk about.
Research Division</strong> Right.
Kevin if you don't mind could you give us an update of where you guys stand with regard to the buyback status? Yes we ended the accelerated share repurchase back in I guess it was mid December $250 million.
Now we had -- and there's a cap to that.
We had a little over 3.8 million shares that were delivered to us.
The counterparty that we entered into the ASR with is currently buying back that position in the market.
We had set a timeframe of 2 to 5 months to complete that.
But depending on what price is ultimately achieved we could get an upward adjustment it wouldn't be more another couple hundred thousand shares but we could get an upward adjustment to the shares we receive.
Now that 3.8 million-plus shares that we've gotten back have been taken out of the share count as of the end of the year and removed from -- the 250 million was removed from equity.
Again we'll just make the other adjustment when the program is completed.
Research Division</strong> Got it okay.
Final one I have for you Steve if you don't mind I know you addressed Syncrude and Montney I was just trying to help and clarify is it fair to characterize this as a situation where you hired a consultant you marketed the assets and at this point that process is over and now it's kind of like Montney and Syncrude are similar to everything else in the portfolio that at the right price you're a willing seller but basically we finalize that process is that a fair characterization? I think so.
It's only we didn't solicit offers or anything.
We went out and tested the market I guess from an inquiry standpoint but yes that process is over.
The conclusion we come to is hey these assets fit nicely in our portfolio for now.
But again as we said having said that if we need more cash for the Eagle Ford shale or other project developments we'll look at asset rationalizations.
And Syncrude and Montney could be part of that rationalization process but for the time being we're not going to put it ahead of the formal process.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
If I could just risk maybe asking is it fair to say your interaction with Third Point has been finalized or are you still interacting with them? Well they're shareholders just like a lot of your clients are so no and I guess we're not finished interacting with them as long as they're shareholders.
We'll take our next question from Paul Cheng with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Set of quick question.
Roger I think or that maybe is for Kevin I think in your press release you're saying that you have a higher working interest in Thunder Hawk and Front Runner can you tell us what's the current working interest and then what's the production and earning contribution in the fourth quarter because of that higher interest? We announced last year that we bought out our partner Statoil in the Gulf of Hall [ph] and that we're now 62.5% at both Front Runner and Thunder Hawk.
Research Division</strong> Yes Front Runner I think Statoil originally stated [ph] 37%? Yes yes that would be right.
Now we're 62.5% at both.
[indiscernible] in the fourth quarter I don't have the earnings income of an individual field but look at the Gulf of Mexico Thunder Hawk net fourth quarter we made 64 95 oil and 5 million a day gas BOE 7.3 7 300 a day.
Research Division</strong> And that's Thunder Hawk? Thunder Hawk yes sir.
Research Division</strong> How about Front Runner? Front Runner we've been delayed in putting a new well on it's been fairly stable for a long time the well should be on today probably.
In the fourth quarter we made oil there 44 79 net oil and 3.2 million a day gas per BOE around a little over 5 000 a day.
Research Division</strong> By the way Roger those numbers is it net to you or just gross? That's net to me Paul.
Research Division</strong> So that means that seems that you essentially doubled your working interest so that means in the fourth quarter your higher working interest have contributed roughly about 6 000 barrels per day for you? Not really.
Well we -- if you go back from third quarter to fourth quarter we bought it back in June.
So there is some attributable to that sure.
But I don't believe that my success in making the quarter was due to buying out Statoil I can tell you that it's too much sweat to get it besides that it wasn't by the pen.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Fair enough.
On Eagle Ford Roger can you tell us what is the current unit operating cost cash cost? John can you help me with that? Let me get Eckart here exactly what is Paul if you don't mind.
12 months ended December Paul the Eagle Ford Shale OpEx was right around $23.
Research Division</strong> How much? $23 for the full...
Research Division</strong> $23 do you have a fourth quarter number? Sorry? Research Division</strong> Do you have a fourth quarter number? Fourth quarter number was -- I got it right here $18.28.
Research Division</strong> And I assume that we should continue to see that trending down right? Yes we hope to.
We probably have -- probably be in the 14 before we make enormous improvement below that.
But I'd also get that into 13 14 range...
Research Division</strong> So long-term debt you are targeting '13 '14.
Do you think Roger that you can get there by the end of this year or sometime next year? I think a year from now yes.
Research Division</strong> And well cost right now is it still about $8 million or did that change? No we've been doing really well on that Paul.
If you look at Karnes where we've set some pace setter wells like I said around 13 days drilling case which would be equal to any of the other players nearby probably lowered our budget cost from 7.9 million to 7.2 million total in Karnes.
Hilden [ph] where we're heavy driller.
Hilden [ph] area if you look in our slide decks we're drilling those wells now in 11 days and we're drilling them now and completing for 6.7 million in lieu of 7.7 million previously.
And over at Catarina which Eagle Ford Shale is shallower around 8 days and we're costing those wells with fracs at a little over 5 million and we used to think that would be 6 million.
So real good situation [indiscernible].
Research Division</strong> And Roger have you announced that trucking order or [indiscernible] order is actually using a more effective means to get the oil out? Well what I think has happened if you look at the end of the year we'll still be 75% trucking we're about 86% trucking today.
What's changed in the Eagle Ford shale is that the series of truck depots across the play used to be a lot of long-term mileage and backups and issues around the trucking.
We very rarely have a tracking problem today and it's talking less than 20 miles instead of 80 miles.
There's many places to unload the trucks many depots many options.
We're doing very well with our crude.
Murphy's land situation is not a condensate one.
For black oil 41 42 degree API we've been getting a $13 positive margin to WTI there for some time.
And people want our crude in that area and we're doing very well with the marketing quality of crude because we have very little condensate in our business.
Research Division</strong> And should we assume that at this point your production have not been curtailed because of transportation issue? So you've been able to produce whatever that you could? During the holidays some of these truck drivers don't come to work.
You'll end up losing about 500 barrel a day type of tank top issue.
Corpus Christi area is becoming more just in time with barges there are some crude being barged out of here.
On occasion you'd get a tank top issue.
And once you're [ph] doing an FPSO and other things we have in our business but talking 500 700 barrel a day curtailment for 2 or 3 days we're making way more than that [indiscernible] better than it was 1.5 years ago.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Two final question.
One do you have F&amp;D costs for 2012? It's probably going to be around 30 Paul we spend a lot of money and we booked a good many reserves but our 3-year average on that is probably about 27 but if you look at the F&amp;D in our Eagle Ford we're pretty proud of that around 14.
So that's -- so you can take our CapEx and divide into our barrels that we just announced so that's around 30...
Research Division</strong> Sure.
And final one there on Congo.
If we look back in hindsight is there anything that you may have learned now that we have changed the way how departure was originally being interpreted or analyzed or they're [ph] being developed? What we may have learned? Well everything in life when you have a mistake you learn from it Paul of course.
I've been around it's my 30th year it's the only impairment I ever worked on I don't think it's something happens very often.
Let's say looking back in general a couple of things it was a small project.
Anytime you go to develop 70 million barrels where you have no infrastructure you have to be careful.
I would characterize it as how you delineate more aggressively early on.
And then also we went to some one-off equipment that worked and we got it in the field on time and on budget from that one-off equipment that led to difficulties in performing the work over that we needed.
As you know in Kikeh we're able to work on wells easier because the wells are set up differently and more uniform to industry.
So those factors I suppose but this is something quite rare and I don't anticipate happening very often [indiscernible].
Research Division</strong> Sure.
Have you subsequently instituted any changes in the way how your team the process have worked or that you think that this is somewhat of an obscure situation and so correspondingly you don't have to change your process? I would say we always are changing our process.
We do a lot of business with Petronas which has a very rigid 5-step gate approval process.
We have to do so much business there that we put our business in that way.
We have a formal review of resources now that's probably much more rigor than it was in those days.
So of course there's always improvements in sanctioning the projects are very expensive.
And I'm certain that the lessons have been learned and the process are in place to prevent it again.
We'll take our next question from Pavel Molchanov with Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> On the U.K.
assets obviously it's a tough market to sell anything refining related in Europe.
At what point would you just say you know what let's just shut it down or convert it into a terminal? Good question.
I think we've got pretty close to that decision probably a year ago.
But the U.K.
operations started -- it didn't become a drag on earnings it didn't become a drag on cash flow so we sort of deferred that.
It's a good question but I really can't answer it right now.
I think for now we're engaging different parties and hope -- we are hopeful remain hopeful that we'll be able to conclude something in the near future.
But we're not there yet.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then once you presumably sell the U.K.
and spinoff U.S.
downstream have you done the math on what would be the cash savings on your income tax based on the different treatment of independents versus integrated companies under the U.S.
tax code? Well it will be 100% in the U.S.
because I'll operate at a net operating loss as long as they allow IDCs to be deductible as they currently are.
I mean my issue will be -- we've talked about it several times in these calls and a lot of one-on-ones biggest issue I have will be tax efficiently moving money around the world because of that potential net operating loss position in the U.S.
that will be driven by the intangible drilling cost adoptions [ph].
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
But I guess any sense of in dollar terms what the savings might be for example in last year had you been treated as an independent what would it have been? Well I don't have those particular numbers I could tell you for 2012 we're going to have a big net operating loss to the tune of $500 million that we're going to carry back to prior years where we had a lot of taxable income.
Now a lot of the taxable income in say in 2011 was driven by the sale of the refineries.
And then I've had taxable income driven by the downstream.
But when the retail gets spun off a large portion of both my U.S.
cash flow and taxable income goes away and I won't have taxable income in the U.S.
As long as they keep IDC deductions I won't have taxable income in the U.S.
for some time.
We'll take our next question from Guy Baber with Simmons &amp; Company.
Research Division</strong> You guys added to your exposure at field during the quarter but Roger you also mentioned the poor netbacks that you're seeing in your prepared remarks.
I was just hoping you could discuss your outlook for a heavy Canadian oil differentials how they could impact the way you allocate capital there and are there any initiatives to really improve those realizations in light of what could be a pretty challenging price environment over the next couple of years? Yes our marketing folks and we believe that it will show some improvement in the second half with lighting refineries and chart refinery and certain in-bridge improvements the in-bridge thing has become quite a surprise to industry.
We'll only need our netbacks in the 50s here to have the rate of return that we need.
Of course it's much below that now.
We are working on many initiatives on rail I think rail will be attractive there.
I know we're working at some items we'll have to do to change our -- the way we treat the crude in order to get it rail-ready and we're working on that a good bit.
I'd say off the top of my head right now and I'm fairly close on this it's a couple hundred million of drilling probably 100 million on the conventional old fashioned horizontal drilling.
We can move that to Eagle Ford quite easily and because our Eagle Ford is drilling so fast we're ending up with 40-something wells parked there today more than we've ever had.
So we have that flexibility we're organized with 1 onshore North American team.
That won't be difficult to do.
But we have to be careful pulling back on EOR the prize here is EOR.
I do believe that the refineries in the United States still will want heavy there'll be a market for heavy there's enormous business for heavy there is a long-term enormous pipeline expansion for heavy.
So we're going to stay -- we have to be careful not to -- one of the problems in Seal in the past they have to pull back the capital and move it somewhere else.
Now of course we have a very lucrative Eagle Ford to move in into but we have to be careful with that on the strat side the steam side.
But I think we can move some capital on the conventional and are looking to do so and planning to have that worked out in the next couple of months.
Research Division</strong> Okay very helpful.
And then my follow-up is you all are forecasting downstream losses during 1Q so can you just speak to expected U.S.
retail performance.
I know early last year you all talked about volume and margin under  performance there relative to peers but you since identified some initiatives to improve performance and have been encouraged so just looking for any update there just with respect to how those initiatives might be progressing? Guy it's Barry here.
I mean Q1 of course is typically a shoulder season for that business and always difficult and has been in the past.
We talked about these initiatives we had.
I think we saw some nice results in terms of volume recovery balanced with margins and showed a pretty good fourth quarter as result of those initiatives.
I think this year we're just anticipating that moving along but the normal seasonal trends holding true as well as part of that business.
So I think we anticipate obviously coming out of it in Q2 and through the summer and with the usual strong seasonal results.
We'll take our next question from Stephen Simko with Morningstar Equity Research.
Research Division</strong> My question is just to -- just on your exploration program and looking at the results over maybe the last couple of years they haven't been -- they've been mixed you guys have spoken to that in the past but looking at your 2013 drilling plans I don't personally identify any major changes in strategy and I'm just wondering are you guys looking at your -- at exploration at all in terms of spending levels or just even in any ways how you approach it day to day operationally in terms of possibly changing it in the future or are you pretty content and feel that you're in a good spot [ph]? Well I think we've made a good many changes in the rigor of the decision-making we've put forth and work that we make commitment wells on definitely made a change in that.
We just happened to -- we have had pockets of success in Block H Malaysia 7 in a row means that you can analyze seismic and find and drill wells successfully and we have that ability.
We're involved in Western Australia offshore that has a very high success rate.
We're glad to get into that at ground-floor basis.
we've been working a long time on the Atlantic margin with the Cretaceous span play which is a new play for us and we've established a very nice position in Cameroon the 2 blocks that have been sought after and had competition by others.
And we just added a block in EG along that same margin the steep margin where the Cretaceous span plays exist.
I think another difference for us at Murphy we're getting back to work in the Gulf of Mexico.
Due to Macondo we didn't work for a while.
A place we focused on less.
If you look back at our history over a 10-year period we're a top quartile exploration company.
Company of our size only takes one significant exploration hit to be needle moving.
We believe we're an exploration-first company.
We're using our very strong North American onshore business to be complementary to our exploration program.
And I believe that sets us up unique and I do believe we've improved the rigor in the work and I'm happy with the way we're doing it.
I'm glad to get back in the Gulf and I'm glad for the new acreage that we have.
I do see it to be different and I do see it to be better in the future.
Research Division</strong> Very helpful.
And then a real quick follow-up is does what's happening on the ground in Australia right now change your opinion of how much capital you want to put there going forward or is that to you just possibly a short-term issue with that really doesn't impact how you're going to be thinking about your...
We have been very successful in Malaysia selling a small volume of gas to Petronas for a long time.
We're actively involved with Petronas on floating LNG.
But I believe Petronas to be the leader in gas total value chain LNG in the world.
So when they're interested in building 2 floating LNG I think floating LNG will become the way forward away from the super large onshore multi TCF projects and 5 TCF project with the floating LNG may end up being better than larger TCF on land I think the execution may end up being easier I just have a feeling that floating LNG in that part of the world is going to be successful.
It's the reason I'm in West Australia now and that's the difference in the play that I see is the emergence of floating LNG and you are hearing of a good bit of flowing LNG work in Australia today due to the CapEx the timing and the stakeholders and the increased times to gain those approvals on the big onshore plants.
That's my view of it.
Ladies and gentlemen in the interest of time we have time for one more question.
We'll take our final question from Ray Deacon with Brean Capital.
Research Division</strong> I had a question about reserve replacement and what -- have you broken down the sources of reserve adds? Well many many fields Ray we start off yearend '11 and make the changes subtract the production if you look at the changes this year is that what you're looking at some color on some of the...
Research Division</strong> Yes just largest sources of reserve adds.
It sounds like Eagle Ford was...
Eagle Ford shale is around 87 million barrels these are all BOE Ray but it is around 86% oil for us Dalmatian around 9 million barrels.
And our Sarawak gas projects which we continue to add reserves there probably around 11 million BOE.
And SK Oil that we'll be flowing later this year and after we have those sanctions around 10 million barrels there.
And then at West Pat which is a project we've had for a long time a really super performing project around 4 million barrels.
Those are some of the biggers [ph] of -- the rest are in the 1 to 2 range and numbers to that effect Ray.
Research Division</strong> Okay got it.
Great.
And the wells that you're going to drill at Dalmatian midyear that would add new reserves or is that...
When you initially book at the sanction we don't book all of it we're probably not even halfway there.
So we have some -- when you drill these Gulf of Mexico wells and tie them back we'll be completing the original discovery wells that's what makes it so economic and so robust.
So we have not drilled the exact water level we have not fully delineated these wells are flowing to another facility do not have the infrastructure to build out as in a Congo example.
So a long way to go in the book and they're probably not even halfway at Dalmatian.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And just one more quick follow-up.
In Australia would you -- how does the risk profile of the 2 remaining wells compared to kind of what you've done so far is it the same kind of geology and traps you're going to be drilling there? No this will be totally different.
We drilled a stratigraphic trap early on in this AC/P36 Block.
These are large 4-way plover [ph] closures.
We had this on our Block all along it was deeper the Conoco Poseidon discovery nearby opened this up from a reservoir-ability perspective because they're deeper than we are.
And that opened up the play there's been several discoveries in a row the 4-way closure plover [ph] in this area is over 50% chance of success and the real risk is volcanics bleeding into the reservoir section in lieu of charge of Seal.
So we see it to be a very prospective play and once it was derisked by the Conoco discovery it opened up a nice play set to drill in my view.
That does conclude our question-and-answer session for today.
Thanks everyone for participating in our call.
Have a good day.
That does conclude today's conference.
We thank you for your participation.
Well good afternoon ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Murphy Oil Corporation First Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
Today's conference is being recorded.
Now I will turn the conference over to Mr.
Steven Cossé President and Chief Executive Officer.
Please go ahead Mr.
Cossé.
Thank you.
And good afternoon everyone and thanks for joining us on our call today.
With me here is Roger Jenkins our Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer; Kevin Fitzgerald our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; John Eckart our Senior Vice President and Controller; Andrew Clyde our President and CEO of the U.S.
Retail Business; Mindy West Vice President and Treasurer; Barry Jeffery Director of Investor Relations; and Tammy Taylor Assistant Manager Investor Relations.
Barry? Thanks Steve and welcome everyone.
Today's call will follow our usual format.
Kevin will begin by providing a review of first quarter 2013 results.
Steve and Roger will then follow with an operational update after which questions will be taken.
Please keep in mind that some of the comments made during this call will be considered forward-looking statements as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
As such no assurances can be given that these events will occur or that the projections will be attained.
A variety of factors exist that may cause actual results to differ.
For further discussion of risk factors see Murphy's 2012 Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the SEC.
Murphy takes no duty to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements.
I'll now turn the call over to Kevin.
Thanks Barry.
Net income in the first quarter of 2013 was $360.6 million or $1.88 per diluted share.
This compares to the net income in the first quarter of 2012 of $290.1 million or $1.49 per diluted share.
This year's first quarter included income from discontinued operations of $152.6 million or $0.80 per diluted share compared to income of $8.6 million or $0.05 per diluted share in 2012.
The 2013 disc ops results related primarily to a gain in the sale of 2 E&amp;P properties in the U.K.
So income from continuing operations in the first quarter of 2013 is $208 million or $1.08 per diluted share compared to net income in the first quarter of last year of $281.5 million or $1.44 per diluted share.
The decline in 2013 compared to 2012 was due primarily to higher expenses for exploration and administration financing and income taxes.
So looking at income by segment.
In the E&amp;P segment net income from continuing operations in the first quarter of this year was $231.9 million compared to net income in the first quarter of last year of $313 million.
Lower E&amp;P earnings for 2013 were primarily attributable to lower average crude oil and Sarawak natural gas sales prices higher exploration expenses and higher income taxes.
The increase in effective tax rate is largely a result of incurring exploration and other expenses in certain foreign jurisdictions for which no income tax benefits are currently available.
Crude oil condensate and gas liquids production for the quarter averaged approximately 127 000 barrels a day in 2013 compared to approximately 107 500 barrels a day in 2012 the increase being mostly attributable to volume growth in the Eagle Ford Shale.
Natural gas volumes were approximately 450 million cubic feet per day in the first quarter of this year compared to 525 million cubic feet per day in the 2012 quarter.
This decrease was primarily due to lower production in the Tupper area in British Columbia and lower volumes from gas fields offshore Sarawak Malaysia due to planned maintenance downtime.
In the downstream segment we had net income in the first quarter of 2013 of $25.3 million compared to a net loss in the first quarter of last year of $4.2 million.
In the U.S.
downstream operations recorded income of $29.4 million in the 2013 quarter compared to a loss of $7.2 million in 2012 mostly as a result of higher fuel margins advantaged product supply acquisition costs and RIN sales.
U.S.
retail fuel margins average $0.039 per gallon higher in the current quarter.
However retail fuel sales volumes on a per-store basis were down about 1.5% year-over-year.
Merchandise margins for the 2013 quarter were also down slightly.
U.K.
downstream operations recorded a loss of $4.1 million in the current quarter compared to income of $3 million last year.
The decrease was largely due to weaker refining margins and downtime for planned maintenance at the Milford Haven refinery.
In the corporate segment we had net charges in the first quarter of this year of $49.2 million compared to net charges in the first quarter of last year of $27.3 million.
This unfavorable variance is mostly attributable to higher administrative costs and the increased interest expense in the current quarter.
At the end of the first quarter of 2013 our long-term debt amounted to approximately $2.5 billion or 21.5% of total capital employed.
Cash cash equivalents and short-term investments totaled a little over $1.3 billion as of March 31.
And with that I'll turn it over to Steve.
Thanks Kevin.
The first quarter of 2013 provided a solid start to the year with as Kevin noted $361 million of net income of which $208 million is from continuing operations.
Benchmark WTI prices averaged over $94 for the first quarter with Dated Brent and LLS each pricing over $112 and $114 per barrel respectively.
I think it's important to note here that Dated Brent and LLS both serve as markers for nearly 70% of our crude oil sales.
While North American dry natural gas is not a major portion of our upstream portfolio we're pleased to see pricing showing signs of strength in March as year-on-year storage levels decreased with Henry Hub averaging nearly $3.50 for the quarter and even showed 1 year forward curve levels above the $4 mark.
Although this is positive news we continue with our strategy of minimizing CapEx lowering our operating costs and delineating the liquids-rich areas in our Canadian market fields.
In U.S.
retail operations fuel margins averaged $0.11 per gallon in the first quarter with January and February struggling against rising wholesale prices but rounding out nicely in March as we exit what is typically a weak shoulder season.
In the upstream business we've drilled and evaluated 3 wells with 1 success in the first quarter.
We exceeded our production guidance for the first quarter getting us off to a good operational start for the year.
Now in the downstream we continue to move forward with the spinoff of our U.S.
retail business which we expect to complete in the second half of this year.
Andrew Clyde who as I've said earlier is President and CEO of the retail business and his team are focused on efforts on all aspects of establishing a separate company to be prepared to move forward pending confirmation of the transaction's tax-free status and the receipt of customary approvals.
We expect to file the SEC Form 10-10 next week which represents another significant step in the process.
Our full effort is set on completing this spin in the second half of the year and the sooner the better.
The sales process for our U.K.
downstream business however continues and we are engaged with interested parties to divest those assets.
I'll turn it over to Roger now for an update on our exploration and production movements [ph].
Thanks Steve.
First in exploration Kevin McLaughlin [ph] has joined us as an Executive Vice President of Global Exploration.
He comes to us from a major oil company in Canada with over 28 years of experience in worldwide exploration and new ventures.
We welcome Kevin to our organization where he'll lead this important function in our business.
In Australia we're near total depth on our Bassett West prospect.
Wells have been delayed by rig repair and weather issues.
We now anticipate the well to be drilled and logged by the end of May.
Post the drilling and evaluation of this well a partnership group will be moving the rig and drilling the nearby Dufrense prospect with results expected in quarter 3.
As mentioned previously the Bassett West and Dufrense prospects are large Jurassic-aged Plover 4-way closures with combined total resources of 7 to 14 TCF or 1.5 to 3 TCF net to Murphy.
In Brunei the Kelideng Northeast 1 well in Block CA-2 drilled early in the quarter is a gas discovery where we encountered 115 feet of gas pay.
This well de-risked other gas prospects in the block and the partnership group plans to drill 2 additional wells in nearby similar structures later this year subject to rig availability.
A successful project here would tie in nicely to LNG feedstock demand in Brunei going forward.
We're excited to have a possible oil-linked LNG project to join our 2 projects in the region namely the Sarawak gas project producing today and the future Block H floating LNG project in Malaysia.
In Cameroon we drilled our initial commitment well in the Elombo Block in shallow water early in the quarter.
We failed to find commercial hydrocarbons.
We have firm rig slots now in place to spud our 2 deepwater prospects in Cameroon this year.
The Elombo deepwater well will spud in early July.
And the Ntem well is slated to spud near year-end subject to final government approvals and rig timing.
These 2 prospects have predrilled gross estimates in the range of 300 million barrels and 600 million barrels respectively.
In the Gulf of Mexico our exploration program will be active right at year-end with average of 3 wells spudding all dependent on rig availability.
We will take delivery of our long-term contracted rig from Transocean in the second half of the year where the timing has been delayed by operational difficulties by another party.
The rig will start on completion work at Dalmatian development before drilling our first exploration well at Titane a Jurassic Norphlet prospect underlying our Dalmatian blocks.
Titane has a range of 150 million to 300 million barrels gross reserves.
The other 2 exploration wells are non-operated projects with spuds near year-end.
In business development new ventures we continue to progress acreage addition in all of our focus areas.
We participated in the recent Gulf of Mexico lease sale where we were high bid on 7 blocks across 4 prospects.
In Equatorial Guinea with -- the PSC has been ratified by the government in April and we're planning a 3D seismic shoot in the fourth quarter.
We continue to progress acreage adds in Vietnam.
And we closed on our U.K.
upstream assets at Schiehallion and Amethyst in quarter 1 and we hope to close on Mungo/Monan this quarter We'll move to operations now.
In Malaysia Kikeh continues to operate the plan with production levels this quarter equaling those of the first quarter of 2012 in a 6-year-old-plus field.
We do have scheduled shut-ins planned in this quarter and in August to install production facilities associated with Siakap North – Petai development which will be tied into our Kikeh FPSO this year.
We have completed the critical lifts on Kikeh this quarter on time and we're returning the wells to production today.
We have initiated development drilling on the Siakap North – Petai project with first oil planned in quarter 3.
Kakap/Gumusut early production system is producing at planned levels.
The first oil for the full field development using the recently built floating production system is slated for late in the fourth quarter.
Development work is progressing on our 4 Sarawak shallow water oil projects to plan with top sides load-out completed on Serendah South Acis and Patricia with Permas planned for load-out in June.
Production starts for these 4 projects are staggered through the second half of the year as planned and we should have all of them online by year-end.
Operations are going well in our long-term oil-price-indexed Sarawak gas project.
Quarter 1 production levels were a bit below last year primarily due to planned maintenance at the gas receiving facility where we have added new compressor equipment that will allow us to produce 300 million scuffs per day with 100% redundancy.
Post this planned maintenance program we have been producing normal rates this month.
The realized gas price post PSC adjustments continues to be strong at $6.82 per MCF for quarter 1.
In the Gulf of Mexico we are progressing our Dalmatian deepwater tie-back project with all contracts awarded and field installation work scheduled in the fourth quarter.
As mentioned our contracted rig will be doing well completions at  Dalmatian as its first task.
We are on schedule for first production in quarter 1 of 2014.
I'll move now to our North American onshore business.
In the Eagle Ford Shale the development is really going well for us.
Due to drilling efficiency we've cut back our drilling plans to 9 rigs at present.
However with continued pad drilling performance at such a rapid pace and improved efficiency and frac work we expect to reduce our rig count to as low as 8 rigs by mid-year in order to maintain our planned capital spend in the play.
In addition to our rig program we are continually running 3 to 4 frac units at this time.
We're currently focusing on our 100% working interest lands in the Tilden area.
This month our net production at Tilden will exceed that of our Karnes field.
We continue to focus on supply costs with operating expenses in quarter 2 seem to be below those of quarter 1 with new facilities coming online and rental testing being removed in the Tilden area.
We've now drilled 268 wells in the play and have 222 wells on production.
Production averaged just under 29 000 BOE per day net in quarter 1 and we're currently planning on producing over 38 000 net this year.
This quarter 1 2013 production level is over 4 600 barrels a day higher than the fourth quarter of 2012.
The processor is strong in the Eagle Ford for quarter 1 averaging over 115 per barrel at an $8.70 discount to LLS.
The progress in 2 40-acre downspacing projects in the Eagle Ford with 1 6-row pilot at Karnes slated to flow in July.
In addition we're testing a 40-acre pilot in Tilden with planned production in September.
We're continuing to experiment with all forms of well design including azimuth length and orientation as well as frac techniques.
As with any resource play there will be continued technological upside here in the long term.
In our 48 000-acre Pearsall Shale area that lies beneath Tilden Eagle Ford Shale we've drilled cored and logged 4 wells and have completed 2 horizontal wells in the play.
The first well our most northern well has flowed over 50 days at levels approaching 200 barrels a day with little gas seen in the production strain.
Our second well has just started to flow.
It's been flowing for 8 days and it's presently exceeding 400 barrel equivalent at near 70% oil.
Both of these wells have been flowed on normal technique of using very small choke sizes for long periods of production.
This flowback method has clearly shown to exhibit top quartile production levels and improved EURs in all of our Eagle Ford Shale completions.
We're encouraged by these initial results in the Pearsall and plan to follow up with more wells over the next year.
As with any new plays we're in early days as to completion design optimization and well orientation.
We see current drilling and completion costs in the Pearsall to equal those of our Karnes Field.
Up in Canada at Seal we've restored all production online following the January fire.
The net production is back at over 10 000 barrel equivalent per day.
In response to low netbacks early in the quarter we  deferred some of our capital spend on primary drilling at Seal and redeployed those funds in the Eagle Ford.
We have released all of our rigs through spring break-up but we were able to complete our winter strat program drilling a total of 23 wells.
We're continuing on with our EUR projects as planned with polymer injection Phase 1 of our commercial polymer project which began pumping late August and continues on track.
We have additional phases of polymer injection which will show production responses later this year and next.
We started steam injection of first cycle steam of 1 well pilot earlier in April.
We should see results in the third quarter.
We're waiting regulatory approval for the next 2 wells in the pilot program.
We recently sold approximately 5 000 barrels of heavy crude by rail starting in the first quarter to establish that capability.
The pipeline netbacks were low as we saw at the start of the year.
Our early year low netbacks have caused us to reallocate capital.
We have seen small periods where higher netbacks are available in the market.
We have recently sold approximately 40% of our heavy crude for May and June at a price near $50 per barrel.
And we look to lock in similar prices for the remainder of the year.
In the Montney our only North American onshore dry gas business we continue to operate well and focus on cost-cutting measures reserve increases and third-party gas processing opportunities through our facilities to improve margins in the field.
We're encouraged by the subsurface studies taking place in our liquids-rich area of Tupper Main.
We're assessing this upside of necessary facilities to capture this price.
We currently have 1 rig drilling in Montney due to our original reduction in North America dry gas.
We've also made a forward sale of approximately 80 million a day at an average price of $3.75 for the remainder of the year which is near our earnings breakeven point.
At Muskwa Shale we drilled and completed our second horizontal well in the play but the well did flow oil with rates in the 100 barrel a day range.
We've stopped the project for the time being.
As a result we have written off the drilling and completion costs for the first 2 wells and reflected those in expenses and results discussed in -- for quarter 1 here today.
In production we're pleased with where we stand as to oil and gas production.
First quarter averaged 201 876 barrel equivalent per day exceeding our guidance of 200 000 primarily attributed to strong production growth at Eagle Ford and less impact from the Seal fire than originally anticipated.
The growth in our complementary onshore business is taking hold and in line for improvements in production guidance as we've significantly increased our company's total producing well count with reliable predictable Eagle Ford Shale wells.
Starting in quarter 2 of this year we will report NGL production separately in our upstream business.
We're doing this to reflect the growing significance of this production stream going forward with our Eagle Ford Shale growth.
We have realized full value for our wet gas streams in the past.
Now we will say our production guidance for quarter 2 2013 and the full year is 202 000 barrels equivalent per day which includes near 2 000 barrels of NGL production.
I'll turn the call now back over to Steve.
Okay.
The U.S.
downstream business reported total net income of $29 million with cash flow of $51 million.
The first quarter was better than expected primarily due to strong U.S.
retail margins advantaged product supply and RIN sales.
Year-on-year U.S.
retail margins improved 55% from the first quarter of 2012 turning higher late in the first quarter in a falling wholesale market.
This upward trend in fuel margins continued into the second quarter.
And merchandise sales of $515 million were slightly lower than the first quarter of last year but margins of nearly 13% remained flat.
We added 7 new U.S.
retail stations this quarter bringing our total count to 1 172 with plans to end the year near 1 235.
And our latest fuel discount program with Walmart has kicked off April 1 this year looking forward to those results.
In summary then the spin off of the U.S.
retail business continues to move forward on plan to complete the process in the second half of this year.
In exploration we're off to a good start with the discovery and have an active program for the rest of the year with impactful prospects to drill offshore at Cameroon Australia and the Gulf of Mexico.
We continue to meet or exceed our production targets as Eagle Ford Shale outperforms expectations.
And our oil developments in Malaysia are on track to come online later this year as planned.
Now that concludes our prepared remarks so we'll open it up for questions now.
[Operator Instructions] We'll hear first from Evan Calio with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> This is actually Drew Venker.
Just curious on the U.S.
retail.
Have you received your tax-free spin approval from the IRS at this point? No we haven't yet.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Could you provide a trailing 12-month EBITDA number for that portion of the business? Kevin trailing 12 months.
The first quarter was about $67 million but I don't have the trailing -- do we have a trailing 12 months? It was EBITDA right you were asking for? Research Division</strong> That's right yes.
Okay as I said the first quarter was 6 -- maybe over $67 million.
We'll try to get back.
Can get that for me? Yes.
Research Division</strong> And then I guess one while you guys are looking for that.
Do you have any updated thoughts on potential divestitures beyond this retail spin I guess maybe in light of gas prices increasing recently? You said divestitures? Yes I think the 2 ethanol plants.
We don't view those as strategic to the retail business going forward and we'll probably divest those in the short near term.
We have a terminal or 2 as well that aren't strategic to retail and we'll likely divest those as well.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And any reconsideration of potential Syncrude sale or your Tupper properties? Well as we said in late January the last call these 2 are really really great assets.
If we didn't have them certainly we'd be out trying to buy them.
That said if we would receive a compelling offer and I think we'd know what a compelling offer was if we saw it but barring that and some other strategic need for the proceeds either in development of other projects no we really don't see it a process getting started.
We'll move on to Leo Mariani with RBC.
LLC Research Division</strong> I was hoping you could elaborate a little bit more on this gas discovery you made in Brunei.
I know you guys have made kind of a series of gas discoveries over there that you guys have talked about especially getting that to LNG project.
And I guess do you think you have the scale at this point to do that? And what do you think will the timing to get production on something like that? Well I mean -- thanks Leo.
This is Roger.
Yes we do a have strategy of exploring for this type of LNG with the right partner groups in this region and in Australia.
We've built up a good bit of gas discoveries in Malaysia where we've worked with Petronas to -- they are in a FEED process of building a floating LNG vessel there.
This will be very similar in sizing to that.
I don't want to get specific on what we have.
I'd say north of 500 BCF from this well.
These are 3 to 4 structures.
They are very similar in look to the Block H we have in Malaysia but they are different age rock.
They're Pliocene type aged both stratigraphic and structural features very similar to Block H.
I would say that this cluster opportunity here is 1.5 to 2 TCFs sort of a thing if we can get all this to work with future drilling.
It's a little bit different than Malaysia in this play as there is a shortage of gas in outer years in Brunei.
They do have an LNG plant that will need gas.
There's some gas infrastructure there.
If we were to put all this together I think you could see some flow there in 2020 but a long way to go to delineate the other discoveries get all this organized with gas sales et cetera.
But it is an appropriate partner group that are in long-term LNG that we want to be in.
It's a place that does have a need for gas in their plant long haul the way we understand it and we're glad to have it.
LLC Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
And I guess it sounds like you're pretty close to TD on a well here in Australia.
You had some delays there.
Any kind of preliminary look at that? Any indications of hydrocarbons at this point? No we're right on top of the reservoir the rigs and really struggling with some maintenance issues there and just rather drill the well and announce it when we get finished Leo at this time.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I guess in terms of Tupper.
You guys talked about doing some science work explore a possible liquids-rich area.
I just wanted to get a sense of kind of where you're at there and what you might think the liquids content could be in that part of your acreage.
Sure we have it in a corner of Tupper Main.
Some of the folks around us have advertised this as well.
There's a certain strat of the Montney that has this liquids-rich feature.
Next week at our Analyst Day we'll be going over some maps and talking more specifically about it.
This is not an earth-shattering thing.
I think it's a 20 million barrel kind of thing.
But it can help add $1 to gas price there and really help the economics of something like that really turn to an earnings provider fairly quickly.
We're all going to have to do some work to our plant to catch more of those liquids.
It's not designed for high liquids.
We're talking about 12 barrels -- 1 million wells making 4 million a day kind of a number.
LLC Research Division</strong> All right that's helpful.
I guess in terms of Kikeh.
I just wanted to clarify what I heard on the call here.
Did you guys say that you think you started to see some natural declines in there kicking in the second quarter of '13? Did I hear that right? No.
If you did I said it totally wrong.
That wasn't the intent.
The projects flowed the same rate this quarter as a year ago.
And when a field's that old I think it's really good.
Our barrels are the same from 1 year to the next.
Thanks for clarifying that if I misstated it Leo.
Appreciate it.
LLC Research Division</strong> All right.
And I guess additionally I think are you done with your workover program at this point at Kikeh? No we have -- we finished -- there was some well repairs early in the program and now some additional wells are required to develop the field some of which were originally planned.
We have that ongoing both water injection and producers that's in our budget.
It's been in our plan.
It would be going on into next year.
And Kikeh has been rolling along from the high to -- high-60s and low-70s for a good while now doing pretty well there.
Our next question will come from Blake Fernandez with Howard Weil.
Research Division</strong> Steve I was hoping to maybe get an update from you on the U.K.
The process is obviously dragging on for quite a while.
I'm trying to recall if there was any integration between the refinery and the retail itself.
Are those being marketed as a package? Basically any kind of update you can give on that -- and maybe even convert it to a terminal? Yes.
Let me first say it is integrated.
That could technically be sold separately.
It would be a little bit difficult to structure but we've marketed them together.
But we are not adverse to separate them.
But to date as judged by the time it has  taken us -- the time we have engaged in this process it's just the tough tough market Blake.
It has been.
And converting it to a terminal yes we have looked at that.
But as long as -- this refinery and the marketing system itself as long as they're not a drag on earnings or not a drag on cash flow I think the best way to -- or at least the most economic way of marketing is as a refinery as a marketing system.
But having said that if we aren't able to divest this pretty soon we may have to take different approaches.
And like I said terminal is probably the last thing we'll do because once you've done that really I don't think there's any going back to converting it to a refinery if ever those things come back up back into the seller's market so to speak.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Kevin would you mind giving us an update on the status of the buyback program? How much do you have remaining on the authorization? Well we did the $250 million accelerated share repurchase that we announced back in December I guess and we got the initial tranche of 3.8 million shares that will retire at the end of last year.
That piece is still ongoing.
It still has another couple of weeks to run before it would end.
At the current -- the prices that the stock has been trading at the last couple of months we would expect maybe another couple of 100 000 shares to get.
Once that program ends in the next couple of weeks we'll take a look at doing the next piece.
So so far all we've done is the $250 million.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Roger you introduced I think what you categorized as the new head of exploration.
I was hoping maybe you could elaborate a little bit.
Is there a change in strategy? Or how should we think about this? Well no.
I don't believe there's a change really in strategy at this point.
He's just has just been here a short time.
We as you know have Mike McFadyen and Gene run 2 parts of our upstream organization.
And our exploration business is quite 2 big businesses the Southeast Asia/Australia business and the Gulf of Mexico/West Africa business each led by 2 folks.
And I had an opportunity to bring in someone new.
Had some meetings with them and decided I would have an overall leader at Mike and Gene's level and let those 2 gentlemen run the exploration in the other 2 areas.
And really like working with him like his focused areas that he has worked -- is very similar to what we have and brings a lot of experience to the table.
And that's why it's not -- no one left.
It's an add-on.
It gives me another set of eyes at a very senior level an experienced guy with the issues -- the experience I needed to help me and that's all it is Blake.
Research Division</strong> Okay got it.
The last one for me Roger I know there has been issues with Syncrude and the lower guidance.
And then of course it sounds like you're pretty much raising the Eagle Ford.
So I guess I'm just hoping for maybe a little context from a broader standpoint as it relates to the entire company.
Obviously you had a very strong 1Q.
I see you haven't changed full year guidance.
I'm just trying to piece them all together.
Does increasing Eagle Ford increase the likelihood of meeting or maybe even exceeding production guidance for the year? If I did that Blake I'd raise the guidance.
Blake first on Syncrude.
We have always risked that back to some of our other partners there.
And I would say that the cutback of a major player there yesterday is very similar to what we have in our forecast and we were probably there already.
So I don't think that that's a culprit.
Eagle Ford's doing very very well for us at present.
We've had some issues at Seal where we had a fire.
It was some very low netback crude at the time.
And then we've had some delays with some rig issues in the Gulf of Mexico.
And of course this Azurite machine I just can't get away from had -- we did do a workover that led to the writeoff in the previous quarter.
So those are the issues pulling us down to keep from a big increase due to the Eagle Ford.
But I think the positive for us is I've been saying for a long time and I'm going to keep saying it more is we had the lowest -- we have the highest production per well of anybody in our group.
And we had hardly any onshore wells.
And our strategy of adding onshore wells allows us to have -- the issues with the high drop and decline of offshore and where the facilities can go off and hurt yourself I think our strategy is working to become very predictable on the guidance.
If you see 5 quarters in a row only 1 quarter missing at this point 8% not that I'm tracking it that close so there you go.
[Operator Instructions] We'll now hear from Paul Cheng with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> A number of quick questions.
Roger is the 2014 outlook still about the same at this point for production? Yes.
Research Division</strong> And how about in terms of CapEx you...
Let me back -- at your conference we had an ability to lower the gas further.
I think it was 2 43 or something Paul.
And it's that same graph that we showed at your conference where you were chairing the room.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just the CapEx still talking about somewhere close to this year's level for next year also? Yes.
It could be pretty close.
Naturally it will be overall down a little bit once the retail spin happens.
Research Division</strong> Right.
But excluding the retail Kevin will it be [indiscernible]? On the CapEx it'd be pretty -- for the E&amp;P it'll be pretty flat.
Research Division</strong> And Kevin do have a rough estimate after the spinoff of the retail what is the percent of the IDC  that you will be able to generate or that you will have enough income to show IDC -- for the IDC to show in 2014? Let's assume say $90 WTI.
Well right now we have 70% of the IDC that we can take.
And once we have become full E&amp;P that would go up to 100%.
But we still have to divest the U.K.
downstream is my understanding before we qualify for that to go 100% IDC.
Now these levels of IDC with the amount of drilling we've been doing at the Eagle Ford we had a net operating loss tax-free since last year that we'll carry back and get a refund.
And at current levels we'll have a net operating loss this year.
And perhaps that should start to turn around as we get into 2014.
And the Eagle Ford will start -- the back end of 2014 as Eagle Ford turns cash flow positive and the amount of the money [indiscernible].
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Maybe let me ask it this way.
In 2014 what is your estimated IDC going to be? Paul I couldn't tell you at this point in time.
But we'll look at it and let you know.
I don't have that number.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Roger do you a have percentage split in terms of your current Eagle Ford production between black oil condensate and gas? Yes we're about an 86% oil player now.
We have very little gas.
This Pearsall Shale will probably be a gassier thing for us but our Eagle Ford is a really black oil play Paul.
Research Division</strong> So yes 86%.
You don't have -- do you have a split between black oil and condensate? Well I'm 86% -- 86% of my production is oil so the rest will be associated gas.
Research Division</strong> Okay so I thought that you say [indiscernible] ...
We have only about I think 7 million or 8 million a day of dry gas.
We're making about 22 million a day of total gas.
So the rest of that would be associated gas of oil.
Research Division</strong> And Roger can you give us an update where are we in the Canadian Bakken? Well that's a place where we didn't do very well with our wells.
We drilled the best well in the play and the well's still making 200 barrels a day as good as any Eagle Ford well.
But from seismic and additional well results we didn't see the thickness of the strata and we've just pulled back that drilling.
We do see some word nearby of some folks that are doing better in some other strata.
They called things differently the Three Forks and Big Valley and things on that side of the border.
But it's just the same thing that we would have here.
We are marketing our bit of acreage there externally and monitoring the well results of the folks around us at present.
And with my capital that I have this year in Eagle Ford going so well it's just hard to spend additional capital up there at this time because of the value that I have.
And that's kind of -- I'm pulling back a bit in those additional shale plays in Canada at this time.
Research Division</strong> Roger can you remind us how much you're spending in Eagle Ford this year? I think it's $1.3 billion of revenue.
Research Division</strong> And that's unchanged right? I'm sorry Paul? Research Division</strong> That's unchanged from your original budget even though you have been doing so well...
It might be $100 million more than the original budget.
But we were looking at a day when we stop completing.
When you're frac-ing 4 wells a day you can stop somewhat at the end of the year if you want.
Research Division</strong> Sure.
And I know that you're talking about Tupper that you guys at this point have no interest to restart the process to develop it.
Under what circumstance or what condition do you need to see in order for you to go back and be more aggressive in the development there? Well I think $5 gas.
And if you'll see next week at our Analyst Meeting we have some projections of production and we have 5 gas -- $5 gas premium that many of our  competitors do.
And I see that as a way to go.
But we have to get ourselves back into a free cash flow game and it would depend on the gas price and how much of a rig program that could churn out because we've got to get back to free cash flow on our business.
It's a goal we want to get to.
And with the Eagle Ford going so well it's going to need to be good shape to compete in North America there.
Research Division</strong> Roger do you have an update in terms of the floating LNG project for Block H? Petronas is in the middle of their FEED process.
We visit with them continually.
They have a full team on it.
They're looking to build that and move forward.
They paid a very expensive FEED.
The results of that will be coming out in July.
So of course they're not going to negotiate a gas sale agreement with Murphy until they get their FEED work and they're doing that now.
And we're on track and hope to progress it throughout this year it.
To -- for both of us to sanction this year is the plan at this time Paul.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Steve if I can ask 2 final questions.
One on the retail same-store sales gasoline sales for those stores that have been more than a year year-over-year how's that look and so in the first quarter and so far in April? And then finally in the first quarter how much is the income you generated from the sales of RIN? First of all well in terms of the RIN I mean to that question first.
First quarter we had $13 million in revenue and that's pretax.
So I guess somewhere in terms of net income somewhere between $7.5 million and $8 million.
Now same-store sales first quarter over the first quarter last year? Research Division</strong> That's correct.
Only on those stores that have been there for more than a year.
Yes same-store sales I'm sorry.
Down about 1% this year over -- since last year.
Research Division</strong> How's that in April so far? April I don't think -- April to April up about 4%.
Research Division</strong> April up 4%? Yes over last year's April.
Our next question will come from with Guy Baber with Simmons &amp; Company.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to ask about your expectations for overall upstream margin evolution because obviously you're bringing on a lot of new production in 2014 and 2015 and almost all of it's oil and most appears to be high margin.
And at the same time your North American gas production should continue to decline.
So I'm just wondering if you have any upstream margin targets that you've identified that you'll be monitoring and holding your people to.
I'm wondering if you could share those targets in light of what should be a pretty positive mix shift coming over the next couple of years.
I think it's something that next week we're going to be showing a lot of EBITDAX per BOE information and everything to do with our operating range there Guy.
I mean clearly we're in the $60 range going forward in the Eagle Ford and we're going to be presenting in our Analyst Day how that's looking out through to 2017.
And we've been oily for a long time.
A lot of people strive to be oily like us.
I don't specifically have a margin in each play.
We are very much concentrating on our OpEx at present and trying to get our OpEx much lower in the Eagle Ford.
We've done all we can really do what we can but still working some small things.
But all in all we're in a very high margin game.
Our Kikeh crude's one of the most expensive crudes in the world and really good shape there on that.
But our shallow water Malaysia we're going through a period where those are not some of the highest margin in the world so we'd be putting that in with our other mixtures that we have.
But all in all I think you would find we'd be a high-margin player to our competitors.
And I'm going to have a lot of data next week in slide and I think it'd be easier to look at it at that time.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then my follow-up was in the Eagle Ford with the new guidance of 38 000 previously you've talked about that being a 50 000-barrel a day type play for you all by 2015 or so.
Do you have an updated view on the longer-term potential now? Or is that something that would be covered at the Analyst Day also? We're going to be talking about all of our production of all of our fields through 2017 including of course the Eagle Ford.
I really want to get back in a good shape on free cash flow so we could make it 65 000 if we wanted to.
So it's a matter of blending in and keeping that consistent getting to a good program.
We're working on our metrics more than it is just getting the barrels out of it.
So we've got to get this OpEx in great shape and we are and it is improving.
But it's not a time where I think I'm spreading more than raising because I need to get cash flow CapEx in proper order going forward.
Pavel Molchanov with Raymond James has the next question.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> To go back to one of the earlier questions about the U.K.
divestiture I guess sounds like you're going to leave an open-ended process.
Or are you willing to set a deadline of some sort for arriving a decision on that? Thus far the last 3 years it's been sort of open-ended.
I guess at some point we'll have to draw the line but I don't see it just yet.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then on 2 of your areas where I know you've relinquished some acreage last year Kurdistan and Suriname any CapEx dollars spent in either of those areas this year? No no plan to do so.
We have -- we're still focused in Suriname and we have another block there which we're shooting seismic on probably starting today.
That was a block we owned for a long time and drilled previous dry holes on.
So we're still at Suriname a new Atlantic margin player.
In Kurdistan it's a place that I just don't see us going back to at this time.
We do have a block.
We do have a nice prospect left in our blocks.
We're talking to folks about farming into the block.
It just really doesn't fit the strategy I have at present of an offshore explorer where we made our hay through years and a complementary onshore business.
And that's just kind of where I'm headed right now.
[Operator Instructions] We'll move on to Ray Deacon with Brean Capital.
Research Division</strong> I was wondering if I could ask Roger whether -- the Pearsall doesn't sound as though it's something where you would ramp capital or view it as kind of accretive to returns in the Eagle Ford but you're kind of encouraged by what you're seeing so far.
Is that kind of fair? Well there's a lot of information in wells and one good thing about the Eagle Ford is everybody talks about everything they have.
So we have a very nice well.
There's second well it's a very good well.
But that region is lacking gas infrastructure but there's a very rich gas stream coming off this well.
We are very interested in how we could fit that into Eagle Ford and would we want to keep all Eagle Ford capital one thing and keep that acreage rolling there.
And we're just in the middle of that and we're excited about this well result that we have for sure.
But with the lack of infrastructure and the timing of leases it's a little bit subordinate in timing to the Eagle Ford.
But it's a nice well.
It's a matter of putting together all the other folks' wells and see our acreage in the area what will be prospective.
We need to drill about 3 more wells probably and see what we have there if you will.
But the issue is the wells and our wells making about 1 million a day of gas.
And we need to get some gas infrastructure into that area.
Research Division</strong> Got it got it.
And could you talk about your well cost in the Eagle Ford where they are? And one of your competitors talked about going to 100% white sand in the Eagle Ford.
And are you already doing that? Or do you have plans to do that I guess? No our sand over -- our sand we're looking to leave it alone as we normally do.
For costs today Karnes well we're looking at our Karnes wells in the first quarter $6.7 million drilling complete; Tilden where we have 80 000 acres $6.8 million; in Catarina we've brought that down to $4.7 million.
Probably best in class which is what everybody else talks then the Karnes will be $6.4 million; Catarina $4.6 million; and Tilden $6.3 million.
Very very well in that situation there.
Research Division</strong> Yes it sounds great.
And do you see much of an impact from rail at Seal.
I mean could that impact your...
There was a $10 impact when we moved it and we trucked it to a depot near Peace River.
And we had to do some cash gating in some tanks to get our oil in a better shape to have a prude option and we're working on that because we want to be part of a big rail the big need.
I think for us long term Seal is a big resource and we've got to get our EUR going.
There's no question that the special refinery in the United States need heavy oil and we want to be a part of that.
And rail will be part of it and we're getting ready to do more railing as we can going into the next couple of years.
We have no further questions.
Mr.
Cossé.
I'll turn the conference back to you for closing or additional remarks.
Well thanks everyone for participating in our call today.
We look forward to  seeing most if not all of you next week at our analyst meeting.
So thank you very much for participating.
And again ladies and gentlemen that does conclude our conference for today.
We thank you all for your participation.
Good afternoon ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Murphy Oil Corporation Second Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
Today's conference is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the call over to Mr.
Steven Cossé President and Chief Executive Officer.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you operator and good afternoon everyone.
And thank you for joining us on our call today.
With me here are Roger Jenkins our Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer; Kevin Fitzgerald our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; Andrew Clyde who's a President and CEO of Murphy USA Inc.; John Eckart Senior Vice President and Controller; Mindy West Vice President and Treasurer; Barry Jeffery Director of Investor Relations; and Tammy Taylor Assistant Manager Investor Relations.
Barry? Thanks Steve and welcome everyone.
Today's call will follow our usual format.
Kevin will begin by providing a review of second quarter 2013 results.
Steve and Roger will then follow with an operational update after which questions will be taken.
Please keep in mind that some of the comments made during this call will be considered forward-looking statements as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
As such no assurances can be given that these events will occur or that the projections will be attained.
A variety of factors exist that may cause actual results to differ.
For further discussion of risk factors see Murphy's 2012 Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the SEC.
Murphy takes no duty to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements.
I'll now turn the call over to Kevin.
Thanks Barry.
Net income for the second quarter of 2013 was $402.6 million or $2.12 per diluted share as compared to net income for the second quarter of 2012 $295.4 million or $1.52 per diluted share.
For the 6 months ended June 30 2013 we had net income of $763.2 million or $4 per diluted share compared to net income for the first 6 months of last year of $585.5 million or $3.01 per diluted share.
This year's second quarter included income from discontinued operations of $70.5 million or $0.37 per diluted share compared to income of $4.1 million or $0.02 per diluted share for the same period last year.
For the 6-month period 2013 included an income from discontinued operations of $223.1 million or $1.17 per diluted share compared to income of $12.8 million or $0.07 per diluted share in 2012.
The increases in the 2013 income for discontinued operations resulted primarily from gains on the sales of all E&amp;P properties in the U.K.
From continuing operations we had income in the second quarter of 2013 $332.1 million or $1.75 per diluted share compared to income from continuing ops the second quarter of 2012 of $291.3 million or $1.50 per diluted share.
For the 6 months 2013 we had income from continuing operations of $540.1 million or $2.83 per diluted share compared to $572.7 million for the 6 months of 2012 or $2.94 per diluted share.
Improved results from continuing operations in the second quarter of 2013 as compared to 2012 is mostly attributable to growth of oil production in the Eagle Ford Shale area.
Looking at income by segment.
In E&amp;P we had income from continuing operations in the second quarter of $290.2 million compared to income from continuing operations second quarter of last year of $226 million.
Higher E&amp;P earnings for the 2013 quarter were mostly attributable to higher oil sales volumes and natural gas prices in North America partially offset by lower realized crude oil sales prices in the U.S.
and Malaysia and lower natural gas sales volumes in Canada and Malaysia.
Crude oil and gas liquids production for the current quarter was approximately 136 000 barrels per day compared to approximately 104 000 barrels per day in the corresponding 2012 quarter with the increase mostly attributable to higher production in the Eagle Ford Shale.
Natural gas sales volumes averaged 431 million cubic feet per day in the second quarter of 2013 compared to 507 million cubic feet per day in the second quarter of last year.
The decrease was attributable to lower volumes at the Tupper area in British Columbia and from fields offshore of Sarawak Malaysia.
In the R&amp;M segment from continuing operations we had income in the second quarter of 2013 of $72.2 million compared to $80.5 million in the second quarter of last year.
The decrease in the current quarter was mostly attributable to weaker results from operations in the U.K.
In the corporate segment second quarter 2013 we had a net charge of $30.3 million compared to a net charge in the second quarter of last year of $15.2 million.
The increased cost primarily related to higher interest expense and administrative expenses.
During the quarter we completed the initial accelerated share repurchase program we began last year and retired an additional 196 711 shares over that previously reported.
Additionally during the second quarter we repurchased just under 4 million shares of our common stock through the completion of a second $250-million accelerated share repurchase program.
The total number of shares we've repurchased under the authorization approved by our board last October is 8 044 378 shares at an average price of $62.16 per share.
As of June 30 2013 Murphy's long-term debt amounted to just over $3 billion which is approximately 24.9% of total capital employed.
This long-term debt figure includes approximately $320 million associated with the capital lease of production equipment for the Kakap field offshore Malaysia.
Excluding this lease long-term debt to total capital employed at June 30 would be 22.9%.
And with that I'll turn it over to Steve.
Thanks Kevin.
Benchmark WTI prices has averaged just over $94 for the second quarter with Dated Brent and LLS each pricing over $102 and $109 per barrel respectively.
This quarter Dated Brent and LLS benchmarks served as the markers for more than 80% of our crude oil sales.
North American natural gas prices started the quarter with Henry Hub over $4 but eased off to a $3.75 range with an average just over $4 for the quarter.
In U.S.
Retail operations fuel margins rebounded in the second quarter averaging $0.156 per gallon.
In addition we saw a strong contribution from the sale of RINs related to the blending of ethanol into gasoline throughout our retail network.
In upstream business we've followed up on a solid first quarter by exceeding our production guidance again in the second quarter progressing all of our Malaysian oil projects as planned continuing our growth in the Eagle Ford Shale area.
And we also closed on the sale of our last upstream property in the U.K.
After the planned spinoff of our U.S.
downstream business and as we mentioned in our release yesterday we've made substantial progress.
We've announced the Murphy USA Inc.
Board of Directors the management team and organization are in place up and running we've received a ruling from the IRS confirming a tax-free status of the transaction.
We're making good progress on our SEC filing.
And Murphy USA is in the process of finalizing its capital structure.
Again as we noted yesterday our board was will consider this progress at its meeting next Wednesday.
And we expect to announce the board's conclusions shortly thereafter.
The sales process for our U.K.
downstream business continues and we're actively engaged with several interested parties to divest those assets.
Roger for an E&amp;P update? Thank you Steve.
Hello everyone.
In our exploration and global offshore business we continue to focus on 4 areas the big water Gulf of Mexico the Atlantic Margin Southeast Asia and Australia.
First in Australia in the Browse Basin our partnership group is drilling the Dufresne-1 well where we hold a 20% working interest.
The well is located approximately 35 kilometers west of the Bassett West well which is expensed this quarter as noncommercial with over 20 feet of net gas pay.
We're continuing with work to evaluate the large Bassett structure and anticipate results on the Dufresne well early in the fourth quarter.
In Brunei the partnership group plans to drill 2 prospects offsetting a recently announced Kelidang discovery in the fourth quarter with results expected in quarter 1 of next year.
The spud timing remains uncertain here and in most of our global operating areas as a shortage of deep water and high-capacity jack-up rigs worldwide is pushing drilling schedules to the right.
We've made progress and added acreage in Vietnam with the official signing of the shallow water Block 11-2 PSC at 60% working interest.
We're now shooting seismic on the Block and we hope this will lead to a well spud in 2014.
We continue to work on increasing our footprint in Vietnam.
In the Atlantic Margin we spud our first deep water well in Cameroon yesterday.
The Boning [ph] #1 well in the Elombo Block should take approximately 45 to 60 days to drill and is testing both the tertiary and Cretaceous age sand target with a predrill gross resource estimate in the range of 300 million barrels.
The exploration well in the NTEM block is scheduled to be drilled with the same rig in early 2014 following a planned shipyard rig inspection.
The predrill estimate for this well's in the range of 600 million barrels on a gross basis.
In offshore Equatorial Guinea in block "W" we plan to start 3D seismic program in quarter 4.
In Suriname we finished shooting seismic on our Block 48 and have an agreement to take on a partner to join us in this acreage position at 50% working interest.
In the Gulf of Mexico we remain very active in the Gulf especially in the Jurassic Norphlet Play.
We have recently signed a formal agreement with Marathon to participate in their Madagascar well in Block DeSoto Canyon 757 at a 30% working interest.
The well is scheduled to spud in September or October of this year.
In our Murphy-operated Titan prospect located in DeSoto Canyon 178 we have lowered our working interest from 70% to 50% in a promoted farm out to the Nori [ph] resources.
The Titan prospect will be drilled with our new long-term contracted rig the Transocean Discoverer Deep Seas is spudding in early quarter 1 next year due to continued rig delays with another operator.
We hope to take possession of the rig in October and will immediately focus on our Dalmatian development prior to the spud of Titan.
We're very excited about this 2-well opportunity in the Gulf area that has some recent substantial success.
The 2 wells will bookend the recently announced discoveries in the play.
Both Madagascar and Titan have a gross mean resource estimate in the 150 million to 200 million barrel range.
Moving away from exploration to operations offshore first in Malaysia.
Our deepwater projects offshore Sabah Kikeh remains at planned production levels on the oil side despite some recent downtime events at the nonoperated onshore methanol plant where we deliver Kikeh-associated gas production.
We are still on schedule with planned shut-in of production during August and September to install production facilities associated with the Siakap North/Petai development which will be tied to the Kikeh FPSO later this year.
At Siakap North/Petai we're currently drilling the third of 8 production wells with the first of 5 water injection wells also drilled and completed.
Drilling results to date have been to plan.
We're also progressing facility work and first oil is expected in early quarter 4 of this year.
The Kakap-Gumusut early production system is producing at planned levels through the Murphy operative Kikeh FPSO.
The nonoperated full field development's progressing to plan with the permanent floating production system now moored on location and the production riser installation ongoing both major milestones towards achieving first oil this year.
We've achieved a successful startup in the first oil from the Serendah field in June 29 of this year just 20 months from field development plan and approval.
The project was executed on time and budget.
The Serendah field and Block SK 309 is located 45 kilometers offshore Bintulu Sarawak Malaysia in 112 feet of water.
The production facility has a design capacity of up to 15 000 barrels of oil per day with pipelines tied back to our existing oil and gas gathering infrastructure.
Oil is evacuated through the West Patricia FPSO with associated gas being sold through our shallow water gas infrastructure blending in our Bintulu onshore gas facility.
We have initially 3 wells online at a rate of 6 500 gross and 4 000 net barrels of oil per day.
We have an 85% working interest in the field with our partner PETRONAS Carigali holding the remaining 15%.
This is the first of 4 shallow water oil fields that we plan to bring on this year.
Development work at the 3 remaining projects South Acis Patricia and Permas continued on plan with a major milestone in South Acis achieved yesterday with the successful installation of the top sides.
Production starts for these projects are staggered through the remainder of the year.
Sarawak gas production continues to be a steady performer with strong realized prices in the range of $7 per MCF in quarter 2.
In addition to our 4 oil projects we have also brought on production from the Merapu [ph] gas field on July 15 as part of our long-term shale light gas development program which will produce with contracted and certified volumes until 2022 and beyond.
In the Gulf of Mexico development work at the Dalmatian deepwater tie-back project is progressing on schedule with first production slated in quarter 1 next year.
Now to our North American onshore business first in Eagle Ford Shale.
And we're currently running 8 rigs and 2 frac units.
We continue to focus on supply costs and seeing solid improvements in our operating expenses with these costs showing a 33% improvement in quarter 2 over quarter 1.
We've now drilled 308 wells in the play and have 255 wells on production.
Production averaged 39 700 barrel of oil equivalent net in quarter 2 an increase of some 10 800 barrel of oil equivalent per day over quarter 1 with an oil waiting of 92%.
Production's expected to continue to ramp-up over the year.
Prices continue to be strong in the Eagle Ford Shale production with net back prices in quarter 2 averaging just over $100 per barrel.
We have 2 down spacing projects one project on the [indiscernible] in our Karnes field has 6 wells on a 40- to 60-acre spacing.
We brought 5 wells on production so far and the initial total rate for the pad is 3 280 barrel of oil equivalent today per day at 88% oil so we're very pleased with this result.
The other down spacing project the 100% Tilden acreage in Nassau County [ph] at the Y-bar lease [ph] has 40-acre spacing and 5 wells and we expect results in late August.
We're now formulating plans to use longer lateral wells across the play.
One of our recent rigs Karnes Wells has a lateral length of over 6 300 feet and has shown as expected a near 10% increase in EOR with 30% improvement in initial rates.
We're also working a long-lateral project in Catarina that we hope to drill laterals over 8 000 feet in length that would dramatically lower well count pad count and will require less infrastructure driving costs down.
In the Pearsall Shale we've approximately 45 000 acres in the play with a focus area now of some 25 000.
We plan to drill 3 additional delineation wells starting in the third quarter and extending into early next year.
We have hedged approximately 10 000 barrels of oil per day of our Eagle Ford Shale production by forward selling Calgar Monte [ph] WTI at a price level of $101.55 per barrel through the end of this year and 10 000 barrels of oil per day at an average price of $96.20 in the first half of 2014.
Up in Canada in Seal we continue to focus primarily on EOR.
Our first cyclic steam stimulation pilot in the Cadotte area continues to go well.
We completed the first injection production cycle and saw encouraging results with production increasing fivefolds over 100 barrels of oil per day.
We're now injecting steam in the second cycle.
In addition we're preparing a second well for steam later this summer.
Our commercial polymer project continues on track.
We're seeing good pressure response in Phase 1.
And we started injecting the polymer in the second phase wells last December and expect to see pressure response by year-end.
In the meantime we're preparing the next group of wells for polymer injection by the end of the year.
Heavy crude netbacks improved in quarter 2 to near $50 per barrel up from $28 in quarter 1.
We continue to take advantage of market opportunities and forward sell heavy crude due to volatility in the market.
We sold approximately 3 000 barrels of oil per day of our Seal heavy crude production in July August and September at an average net back price of $54 per barrel.
In the Montney with AECO prices currently under CAD 3.
We're focused on evaluating liquids-rich area in the play and we are now float testing 2 additional wells in the southeast edge of the play and early days of the well test here.
In addition we recently received approval to expand the Tupper West gas plant from 180 million to 210 million cubic feet a day because down the road we hope to bring forward gas processing agreements from nearby competitors to continue to drive our costs down.
We continue to take advantage of gas forward sales agreements in the Montney with close to 80 million sold at CAD 3.75 for the rest of the year and 50 million a day sold of gas in 2014 at CAD 4 per MCF.
We're seeing incremental hedging focusing on costs bringing in liquids-rich areas and working with nearby operators to process their gas at our facility is the game plan here going forward.
Second quarter production averaged a little over 207 barrel of oil equivalent per day exceeding our guidance level of 202 000 barrel of oil equivalent per day primarily attributed to continued strong performance in the Eagle Ford and higher volumes from Sarawak gas.
Production guidance for quarter 3 is set at 190 000 barrel of oil equivalent per day to reflect the planned shutdown to our -- at our Kikeh FPSO in August and September at the Siakap North/Petai project I just mentioned.
The fourth quarter will be strong with Kikeh back on line continuing growth at Eagle Ford and the Malaysia oil projects both shallow and deepwater coming onstream.
We're now increasing our yearly guidance to 203 000 barrel of oil equivalent per day for the year.
For now I want to turn it back over to Steve.
Thanks Roger.
The U.S.
downstream business reported total net income of $77.9 million.
RIN sales contributed $18.4 million of income at an average price of $0.78 per RIN credit.
In a period of fluctuating wholesale markets U.S.
retail margins were $0.156 per gallon for the second quarter increasing from $0.11 per gallon in the first quarter.
This is down from $0.197 per gallon in the second quarter last year where we experienced a sharper fall in wholesale markets.
Merchandise sales totaled $553 million in the second quarter an increase of $38 million from the first quarter of 2013 and $12 million year-on-year.
Margins were relatively flat at 12.8% this quarter compared to 12.9% last quarter and down 13.4% from a year ago.
We added 7 new retail stations this quarter bringing our total count to 1 179 with plans to end the year with over 1 220 outlets.
In summary then the spinoff of our U.S.
Retail business continues to move forward with key milestones achieved and our Board of Directors will be meeting next week.
In exploration we only drilled 1 well in the second quarter but have an active program for the rest of the year with impactful prospects to drill offshore Cameroon Australia and the Gulf of Mexico.
Development work on our Malaysian projects is progressing well with the first project at Serendah coming onstream as planned.
And lastly we continue to deliver on our production targets.
With that we'll now open up for questions.
Operator? [Operator Instructions] We'll take our first question from Leo Mariani from RBC.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just a question on the Eagle Ford.
Sounds like it had a really big ramp up in the second quarter I guess talked about 39 000 barrels a day and change.
Where is that production currently? Production today is around 45 000 BOE per day and kind of near 90% oil range.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
All right.
And I guess just in terms of your number of wells what's the plan for total number of wells in 2013? And would you happen to have the number of wells you brought on in both the first and second quarter of '13? Yes I happen to have that just one second.
Brought on 49 wells in the first quarter 48 in the second.
We're going to be probably tailing down our current plan to have 41 in the third and 30 in the fourth because we've so efficient we've out drilled ourselves worked ourselves out of a job a little bit here and we're trying to keep our capital in check and we have less wells coming on.
And we kind of frontloaded our CapEx there Leo.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I guess obviously that's a pretty good program.
I mean I guess is that potentially to accelerate next year at all? How should we think about that? I think it should maintain it.
I mean we have a strategy of being an E&amp;P explorer and offshore and complementary onshore business that we said many times we're running about a $1.4 billion CapEx business here.
I'd see that trying to keep that the same at this point.
There's going to be -- I think 160 wells Leo.
Could be add up a little more than that but it's around that number.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
I guess Seal looks like you guys saw a really nice increase in production at Seal during the quarter.
Should we expect that to kind of continue to trend higher for the rest of the year or that might plateau a little bit? Probably not.
We had a fire in February and we've recovered very well from that.
We're probably a little ahead of our plans.
I would imagine with the breakup system breakup being pretty rough in Canada this year no drilling we have no rigs today.
And we don't have any rigs usually dropped.
It won't drop a whole lot but I don't see the growth we had quarter 1 to quarter 2 continuing that out.
LLC Research Division</strong> All right.
So basically just watching your polymer pilot and you stick with the steam pilot and if you get results there might you accelerate those at all next year? How are you guys thinking about it? It's probably not.
We have this $1.4 billion CapEx trying to get ourselves into back to cash flow CapEx parity very -- really working that issue in our budget.
When you compare -- while we're excited about the EOR opportunity we do have a long-range vision of price there and it's been a very volatile and very good at times.
But Eagle Ford's a pretty hot running card to play right now for us in our capital allocation.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
In terms of retail spin I guess your board's meeting next week.
I guess my understanding was that you guys have sort of already approved that formally as a board so it sounds like maybe you're just making decisions on the exact capital structure and amount of dividend to do then back to the parent.
Is that right? Am I missing anything? Well we hadn't met.
The board has not decided to actually do the spin.
But we're moving in that direction.
And I'd like to answer that question the middle of next week.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay understood.
Makes sense.
And I guess in terms of RIN you talked about $18 million of income benefit this quarter.
I guess prices are still strong.
I guess we should expect to see continued incremental income from that for the rest of the year.
And I guess could you potentially highlight roughly what the cash flow impact is of the RINs? Certainly this is Andrew Clyde.
We've been doing 12 million RINs a month and that's a consistent rate for our proprietary blending.
We can buy more bulk barrels and blend more when the economics support it.
But we'd look to continue to do around 12 million conservatively for the rest of the year.
LLC Research Division</strong> Alright.
And so Andrew that translates into sort of rough cash flow? Not until I could predict RIN prices.
So currently they're around $1 and we're selling ratably on a monthly basis.
So we're blending and generating capturing RINs of about 12 million a month and we'll be getting the market price on a ratable basis.
And we'll take our next question from Guy Baber with Simmons &amp; Co.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to talk about production costs and your focus on margin improvement.
But your U.S.
production costs seem to hit their lowest per barrel level in about 2 years and the Malaysian production costs this quarter hit their lowest level in 3 years I believe.
So my question is was there anything unique to this quarter that caused the cost to be abnormally low? And then also could you maybe just elaborate on efforts to continue to reduce OpEx and what the per-barrel trajectory might be for some of your key assets in the U.S.
and in Malaysia to the end of this year and into next year? Okay.
First just some general comments on that.
In offshore probably up a little bit this quarter to the first and that number will probably be fairly consistent throughout the year.
Big improvement in our Eagle Ford Shale.
We're in the $15 range per BOE which is a big improvement.
That was due to the big ramp up and the building of facilities and more concentrating of the buildout of all of our equipment and less rental equipment.
I would see that drifting down in pennies throughout the year down into the 14 level in the fourth quarter.
I don't see it making these continued giant improvements.
Over in Malaysia we did have a onetime credit.
We sell condensate.
Condensate are NGLs come off with the gas project in Malaysia at the Sarawak gas.
And we've had been accruing a certain level of operating expenses in the long-term negotiation with our partner there Petronas and received a credit a onetime credit for this quarter bringing that down in that business slightly.
And then in the next quarter in Malaysia we'll be up.
Again we have this Kikeh shut-in.
And when you shut in Kikeh with a leased FPSO you anticipate operating expenses to go up.
So -- and then we'll get kind of back into where we are -- where we were at the first quarter in Malaysia toward the end of the year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Very helpful.
And then I was hoping you could also just touch on Gulf of Mexico volumes really how you see your base performing.
But I noticed in some of the charts that you're not really building in any decline to the base in the Gulf of Mexico over the next couple of years.
So just looking for some detail on how that base is forming now and what type of activity is going on right now for you to mitigate any declines you might see there.
Well we have around a 15 000-barrel a day business not having a very good year in the Gulf quite frankly.
Had some operational problems and rig delays here and there.
About a 15 000-barrel a day business would be declining on base but we have the Dalmatian project coming on next year.
It's quite prolific almost the same size of what we're producing today net.
That's on schedule to come on in the first quarter.
And later from there we have the Medusa subsea development where we -- Medusa's one of our better fields and becoming one of the better margins in the company a very nice field.
It's still producing it's original wellbores.
So we're unable to produce some success.
We have upped the hole if you will.
We need to put in some subsea equivalent working with our partners to gain that approval.
And that should work into 15 kind of maintaining that Gulf of Mexico and that toward the 20s kind of a business until we have a hopefully a discovery guy.
And we will take our next question from Blake Fernandez with Howard Weil.
Research Division</strong> I had a couple of questions for you.
One is on the hedging strategy.
I know historically you've had some gas hedges in place but if I'm not mistaken this is a bit new to have the oil hedges in place.
I'm just curious if you could talk a little bit about the strategy there? If this is a kind of a one-off call on commodity prices being elevated? Or if this is a function of the potential retail spin and the idea that you're going to have more volatile earnings stream going forward? No I don't believe that latter's the case.
I think when you look -- I'm a benchmarker Blake.
I benchmark everything to my competitors' OpEx DD&amp;A you name it.
Primarily most of our competitors are probably -- have hedged positions for 25% to 30% of their barrel of oil equivalent especially on the oil side.
We of course have been a very low debt player compared to our competitors in that type situation.
But we have taken on some debt on a net debt basis still very low.
We do have some U.S.
debt.
We have a very good business in the Eagle Ford that we want to maintain our certain level of capital.
We are working a strategy to hedge our forward sale if you will about this level of production.
I don't see us going over 25%.
And we saw an opportunity when the market shot up ahead of what we have in our budget and I took a small position there.
I don't think of us as increasing it a whole lot.
I don't think of us as becoming a big hedge player.
I thought it was remiss to not have any hedge position at all in our business protecting cash flow in the U.S.
where we want to run with a $1 billion-plus budget if we can because it's going very well for us.
Research Division</strong> Okay fair enough.
And then on the Eagle Ford I guess I had maybe 2 separate questions.
One Roger you said you're currently producing around 45 000 barrels a day.
Could you remind us what your kind of "peak estimate" is? And then secondly on M&amp;A I mean it sounds like you're focused on about 25 000 acres.
There's obviously some other packages out there being marketed.
I'm just curious if you see an opportunity to maybe core up a bit.
Obviously prices are well above what you originally paid but it seems like maybe you could build out some additional running room? First on Eagle Ford.
We had a pretty high rate today.
It's a big complicated business a lot of things running.
We do have running into some pad shut-ins where we shut in production to frac nearby wells et cetera.
So we're probably going to be in the low 40s and probably an increase in my mind of around 3 000-something BOE a quarter going forward for the next couple of quarters Blake.
People trick me on the daily question to get at the guidance all the time.
I failed to answer that accurately.
On your other question about Pearsall we have a very good 1 well and a very mediocre second well.
We're fitting in some wells.
I think for us to do a deal or to look to do that we need a little more information.
And so we've strategically picked 2 or 3 spots that we're going to drill between now and the first quarter of '14.
I think that would be the time to have that kind of discussion.
Research Division</strong> Okay the last question I had.
I'm not sure if this would be Steve or someone else.
But can you -- if I recall the working capital on Milford Haven was about $500 million.
I was hoping if you could kind of confirm that it's still in that range? And then secondly if you had any estimate at all what it may cost to actually just close that facility and walk away? Well that $500 million is -- remains still in the range.
And no I really don't have any estimate what it would take to close it.
And we'll take our next question from Ray Deacon with Brean Capital.
Research Division</strong> Roger I had a benchmarking question about the marketing side.
I guess if you look at the retail margin and the gasoline margin in the quarter where do you think that would stack up relative to your peers'? Hold up there Ray.
I'm an upstream guy but I got a downstream guy right here with me.
Well our margin on fuel for the quarter just ended was $0.156 per gallon.
Most of our peers I would say we are taking a lower-price position on the street day in and day out.
That's where we target our customers in front of Walmart.
So we would expect to have on average lower margins.
That said some of our competitors buy branded fuel and pay -- have a higher cost of goods sold where we're buying on the spot market and typically buying at a lower cost of goods.
So you would have to go through to make those adjustments apples-to-apples who's got the lower cost of goods sold.
We're typically going to be in that space.
But we're also going to have on average lower street prices to most of our public comps.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
Got it.
Great.
And I guess Roger one more question I guess in terms of your thinking on 2014 a few months past the Analyst Meeting.
I guess has there been any shifting in your mind in terms of capital based on either seismic in Vietnam or I guess anything else or...
No it's [indiscernible] is lumpy like any global explorer.
Our CapEx that we had just for the upstream business should be the same as AGM pretty close.
We have to add on of course the corporate part of us being alone at that time which our presentation didn't include.
But a $400-million- to $500-million-a-year type exploration program among all the types of exploration both seismic and wells that's our goal.
Quite frankly it's tougher to deliver.
A lot of rigs are late a lot of rigs are going to the right rigs we're waiting to receive from others.
But in general that's the goal and I see us headed in that same direction now.
[Operator Instructions] And we'll take our next question from Pavel Molchanov with Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> First on the comment you guys made about the board has not yet made a decision on the retail spin off.
Is that just a formality at this point or is there actually some viable course of action that you're contemplating besides a spin-off? Well I don't want to characterize any board decision as sort of pro forma but ask again.
Ask that question next week and I think we'll be prepared to answer it for you.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay understood.
On the Dufresne prospective if I'm pronouncing that right in Australia.
Do you have a predrill estimate for that? Yes it's -- hang on one second.
I got it right here in my notes.
We've had it in our AGM.
It should be the same but it's 2 to 2.8 TCF gross which should be 0.4 to 0.6 TCF for Murphy there.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And who's the operator there? Total.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Total okay.
And we'll take our next question from Guy Baber with Simmons &amp; Co.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to ask about the Kakap-Gumusut full field development project.
Pretty important for you all for your 2014 target.
Can you just provide a little bit more detail around confidence levels around start-up timing? And then also is that expected to ramp to peak capacity through the course of 2014? Any more color you could put on that will be helpful.
Yes I feel better about it Guy because we -- the facility is offshore.
And when you're in a deepwater development business first step is getting them offshore.
It's offshore.
It's moored.
The production risers are being installed.
There's like 8 to 10 I forget the count producing wells in the field.
Two of which are flowing to our facility now.
The wells are a common-type completion technology.
We flowed them now for several months almost a year.
We have good success some very high rates from the wells.
The wells are very prolific.
So to me the start up before the end of the year is very much there.
And Barry's got the guidance for '14 and I'll let him speak to that.
But I feel good about the project coming forward.
You can look on the horizon and see it today from our facility which is good.
And Guy just going back to Analyst Day numbers which I'll balance to here.
Next year we were showing at just a shade under 10 000 barrels a day our share with '15 taking it up in the '14 range.
So there's still a bit of growth into '15 from '14 as everything comes on.
And we'll take our next question from Evan Calio with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of quick ones for me.
Any update on the potential return of the Syncrude upgrader from unplanned maintenance? I thought that should be back in early August.
It's supposed to be in August.
And that's what we've been told and planning on that cautiously I'll say.
But that's what we planned.
You're right.
Research Division</strong> Understood.
I know you mentioned progress on U.K.
asset sale yet.
Any timing expectation final sale there for 2013? I know that's been going on for awhile now.
It's been going on for a great long time.
And for that reason I think I'm going to decline to give you an estimate.
I think if we have something to disclose we'll -- you'll hear a great shout of great joy from -- all the way from here to wherever you are.
Research Division</strong> And I guess additionally on that asset sale.
I mean do you think about those proceeds as a potential reload for the buyback? Or exit [ph] as you pull more into free cash flow neutrality? Well we certainly look at it.
This is Kevin.
Once that deal ends we'll certainly look at what our options are and all of those would be on the table.
We'll just see exactly what the timing is and where we are at that point in time.
You got to remember I've got to bring that money back from overseas so I could have some time depending on just how it all works out.
Research Division</strong> Well great.
Understood understood.
And lastly on Cameroon what is the -- what do you estimate the commercial threshold for that prospect is? I know I think you mentioned the P50 was 300 million barrels? I imagine [indiscernible] around 100 million in a rank one-off place like that should work.
That's very careful delineation and not over delineate at that size to get your F&amp;D too high.
But it would be -- these wells are not expensive to drill like a Gulf well so hopefully it'll be that type of size in my mind.
[Operator Instructions] It appears there are no further questions at this time.
Mr.
Steven Cossé I'd like to turn the conference back to you for any additional or closing remarks.
Thank you.
I'd just thank everyone one more time for participating in our call.
We have particularly enjoyed this conference call as we would with any good quarter as we recently reported.
But stay tuned.
We expect to have some announcements probably as early as next week.
So again I thank everyone for participating.
And that does conclude today's conference.
We thank you for your participation.
Good afternoon ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Murphy Oil Corporation Third Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
Today's conference is being recorded.
At this time I'd like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Roger Jenkins President and Chief Executive Officer.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you operator and good afternoon everyone and thank you for joining us on our call today.
With me as usual is Kevin Fitzgerald Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; John Eckart our Senior Vice President and Controller; Barry Jeffery Vice President Investor Relations.
And I'll turn it over to Barry for his customary comments.
Thanks Roger.
Today's call will follow our usual format.
Kevin will begin by providing a review of third quarter 2013 results.
Roger will then follow with an operational update after which questions will be taken.
Please keep in mind that some of the comments made during this call will be considered forward-looking statements as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
As such no assurances can be given that these events will occur or that the projections will be attained.
A variety of factors exist that may cause actual results to differ.
For further discussion of risk factors see Murphy's 2012 Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the SEC.
Murphy takes no duty to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements.
I'll now turn the call over to Kevin.
Thanks Barry.
Our net income for the third quarter of 2013 was $284.8 million or $1.51 per diluted share compared to net income of third quarter of 2012 $226.7 million or $1.16 per diluted share.
For the 9 months of 2013 we had net income of $1.05 billion or $5.51% per diluted share and this compares to net income for the first 9 months of 2012 of $812.2 million or $4.17 per diluted share.
This year's third quarter included income from discontinued operations of $32.7 million or $0.17 per diluted share compared to income of $15 million or $0.08 per diluted share for the same period last year.
For the 9-month period 2013 included income from discontinued operations of $363.1 million or $1.91 per diluted share compared to income of $93.9 million or $0.48 per diluted share in 2012.
The increase in the 2013 income for discontinued operations included gains on the sales of all E&amp;P properties in the U.K.
plus earnings through August from the U.S.
downstream operations which of course was spun off to shareholders at that time.
So looking at income from continuing ops.
In the third quarter of 2013 the income of $252.1 million or $1.34 per diluted share compared to income of third quarter 2012 of $211.7 million or $1.08 per diluted share.
From continuing operations for the first 9 months of 2013 net income of $684.9 million or $3.60 per diluted share compared to net income for the first 9 months of 2012 of $718.3 million or $3.69 per diluted share.
Improved results from continuing operations in the third quarter of 2013 as compared to 2012 is mostly attributable to higher crude oil production levels.
Looking at income by segment.
In the E&amp;P segment from continuing operations for the third quarter of 2013 net income of $264.2 million that's compared to income from continuing ops from the E&amp;P segment of $221.1 million in the third quarter of last year.
Higher E&amp;P earnings for the 2013 quarter were primarily attributable to higher oil sales volumes particularly in the Eagle Ford Shale area of South Texas partially offset by higher exploration expenses and higher DD&amp;A and production expenses associated with the higher sales volumes.
Crude oil and gas liquids production for the current quarter was approximately 138 100 barrels per day compared to approximately 105 800 barrels per day in the corresponding 2012 quarter again with the increase mostly attributable to higher production at Eagle Ford.
Natural gas sales volumes averaged 415 million cubic feet per day in the third quarter of this year compared to 454 million cubic feet per day in the third quarter of 2012.
The decrease was attributable to lower volume at the Tupper area in British Columbia as normal well decline occurred following voluntary deferral of development activities due to depressed natural gas prices; and in the Kikeh field offshore Malaysia which was due to maintenance at the third-party onshore receiving facility.
Now U.K.
downstream in the third quarter of 2013 we had a net charge of $12.9 million compared to net income of $25.5 million in the third quarter of last year.
The decrease in the 2013 quarter was mostly attributable to significantly weaker results at the Milford Haven refinery.
And the corporate segments in the third quarter 2013 had net income of $800 000 compared to a net charge in the third quarter of last year of $34.9 million.
This favorable variance is primarily related to after-tax gains from foreign currency transactions compared to losses in those transactions in the prior year.
As of September 30 2013 Murphy's long-term debt amounted to just under $2.6 billion or approximately 22.5% of total capital employed.
This figure includes approximately $339 million associated with the capital lease of production equipment for the Kakap field offshore Malaysia.
Excluding this lease long-term debt to total capital employed at June 30 would be approximately -- at September 30 would be approximately 20.1%.
And with that I'll turn it over to Roger.
Thanks Kevin.
As Kevin pointed out in his remarks on August 30 Murphy Oil Corp.
completed the spin of Murphy USA as a single stand-alone entity.
Murphy USA will report their financial results for the third quarter separately on November 6.
The financial results of the U.S.
downstream business for the first 2 months of the third quarter to Murphy Oil Corp.
had been reported as discontinued ops in this third quarter release.
The sales process for our U.K.
downstream business continues.
We're actively progressing the divestiture of those assets.
Milford Haven refinery continues with safe reliable operations in a difficult market.
The U.K.
marketing business continues to contribute solid results for the quarter and delivered one of its best months on record in September.
Looking at the upstream market we continue with strong oil pricing for our quarter 3 with our Malaysia oil netbacks averaging just over $91 per barrel for Kikeh and near $100 per barrel for SK oil post all supplemental payments.
Our SK gas averaged approximately $6.70 per MCF and Eagle Ford Shale oil sold at $105 per barrel for the quarter.
In offshore Gulf of Mexico we had a Brent-supported price of near $107 as well as continued firm prices in the East Coast of Canada which sold at near $114 per barrel.
Our Seal crude had a strong netback price of $68 per barrel and Montney gas was priced in $281 per MCF both including impacts of hedges in place.
In the United States NGL volumes were approximately 4 000 barrels per day at an average price in the mid-28 level which is included in our reported realized U.S.
crude prices and volumes.
In exploration in our global offshore exploration program we're continuing to maintain focus in 4 areas: Australia Southeast Asia the Atlantic Margin and the deepwater Gulf.
In Australia the Browse Basin our partnership group is drilling a Dufresne-1 well where we hold a 20% working interest.
This is a large closure in the Jurassic with the predrill mean gross estimate of 2 TCF where our net mean resource would be near 70 million equivalent for Murphy.
We anticipate results on this well in the fourth quarter.
We've recently been informed that our work program bid has been accepted for frontier exploration block S12-1 in the Ceduna basin offshore Southern Australia where we will operate on our partnering 50-50 with Santos.
This is a large block covering approximately 17 000 square kilometers and is a 6-year permit with a commitment for 2D and 3D seismic.
We feel we're very fortunate to obtain this block in a competitive environment in an underexplored basin.
In Southeast Asia our partnership group in Brunei plan to drill 2 prospects offsetting the Kelidang discovery we had earlier this year starting in the fourth quarter with the results expected in quarter 1 of next year.
Final spud timing will be dependent on rig availability.
In Vietnam we continue to build our acreage position with the addition of a farm-in to Block 13-3 at 20% working interest to go along with our previously signed Block 11-2 at 60% working interest both in the shallow water area.
The 13-03 block test will be drilled in 2014 and we finished shooting seismic on Block 11-2 and continue to review seismic for possible drilling in early 2015.
We're in the planning stages for a seismic shoot in the deepwater blocks 144 and 145 for next year.
In the Atlantic Margin we plan to drill our second deepwater well in Cameroon in the NTEM block in the first quarter of next year when our rig is scheduled to turn post the planned shipyard rig inspection.
The predrill estimate for this well is in the range of 600 million barrels gross.
In offshore Equatorial Guinea in Block W we plan to be shooting 3D seismic starting late this year with our partnership group.
In Suriname on Block 48 we're concluding our farm-out process at 50% working interest.
We've completed the planned seismic shoot.
And we'll begin processing evaluating data which will lead to drilling the well in 2015.
In the Gulf of Mexico the Jurassic Norphlet Play continues to be a focus for us.
Our partner Marathon is currently drilling in Madagascar well in block De Soto Canyon 757 where we're farmed in at 30% working interest.
We should have results for the well early in the new year.
We're planning to spud our Murphy-operated Titan Norphlet prospect located in De Soto Canyon 178 in quarter 1 of next year.
The well will be drilled with our new long-term contracted rig to Transocean Discoverer Deep Seas when it completes steel development work at Dalmatian.
The rig is expected to begin those development operations in late November.
Both Madagascar and Titan have a gross mean resource in the 150 million to 200 million barrel range and are well positioned in this new exciting Gulf of Mexico play.
I'll now take a look at our offshore operations around the world.
In Malaysia our deepwater project Siakap North – Petai has a planned December 1 first flow date -- first oil date rather.
As previously announced the planned shut-in at the Kikeh FPSO to tie in the Siakap North – Petai risers is scheduled for late November and early December.
Siakap North – Petai consists of 8 producers and 5 water injection wells.
2 of the producers and 1 water injection have been completed.
We anticipate the 3 production wells will be online at first oil.
Drilling and completion results to date both from a subsurface and cost perspective are ahead of plan.
We have progressed the field tie-in work with all manifolds and water injection pipelines in place and the control umbilical has been installed and connected to the Kikeh FPSO.
All that remains is the installation of the dual production flowlines and risers the vessel to lay this production flowline has loaded the pipe and is in transit to a field with the planned arrival early next week.
The Kakap-Gumusut early production system is producing a plan through the Murphy-operated Kikeh FPSO.
The non-operated full field development is progressing with the permanent floating production system moored on location and the production riser installation is complete.
The operator is now targeting startup in the main field in the first quarter of next year.
We continue to progress all of our shallow water Sarawak oil developments.
Serendah continues to produce above plans since its startup in late June.
South Acis completed final hookup and commissioning and achieved first oil on October 29.
Patricia and Permas will be the next 2 fields to start up in November and December respectively.
All of the wells were first oil and these 2 remaining fields have been previously drilled and completed.
These 4 fields are major contributors to our 2014 production growth and I'm pleased with our KL team's execution on these projects.
Sarawak Gas production continues to be a steady performer with production averaging near 175 million a day net for quarter 3.
We continue to ensure security of supply in our long-term Sarawak Gas business with the recent startup of the Merapuh gas field and tie-in of associated gas from all developments along with the ongoing installation of additional gas compression equipment at our onshore receiving facility.
We continue progress towards a sanction for Block H flowing LNG.
The field development plan has been submitted to Petronas and we expect approval of the plan in the fourth quarter.
In the Gulf of Mexico our Dalmatian deepwater tieback project continues to move forward as planned with first production slated for first quarter of 2014.
Now looking at our North American onshore business.
In the Eagle Ford share we're running 8 rigs and 3 frac units at present across the play.
We drilled 348 wells and have 287 on production.
Production averaged 45 600 barrel equivalent net in the third quarter an increase of 5 900 barrel of oil equivalent per day net over quarter 2 with an average oil/liquids weighting of 92%.
We see production holding near this level in the fourth quarter as extremely wet weather in the field has hampered production operations early in the fourth quarter and 6 well pad drilling and associate completions provided fewer wells coming online in third quarter than in previous quarters.
Our total annual production at Eagle Ford Shale will average approximately 40 000 barrel equivalent per day at 91% oil/liquids for the year a real solid performance for our team.
Operating costs continued to show improvement through the year with quarter 3 costs in the range of $13 per BOE down from $15 per BOE in quarter 2.
We have 2 40-acre down spacing projects ongoing one on the Manka lease and our Karnes field of 6 wells which actually ended up on a 26-acre spacing normalized on a lateral length of 5 000 feet.
So far with 3 months of production data the wells are performing comparable to neighboring wells which we're pleased to see.
The second down spacing project is on the 100% Tilden acreage where we are testing 4 down-spaced wells.
These wells have 6 000 foot laterals and are spaced 275 feet apart effectively testing 32-acre spacing.
Initial results were positive with production rates in line with offsetting wells.
We have flowed the wells for 12 days.
And so far the wells are averaging just over 250 barrels of oil per day per well on a 864 choke and are still cleaning up.
In addition to down spacing we're seeing upside from recent pilots around lateral orientation and linked extension.
In the Catarina area 2 wells with optimized lateral azimuths or the top 2 and 3 wells respectively at 25 wells in the field.
In the Pearsall Shale we have zeroed down on 25 000 acre focus area.
We split our first of 2 wells planned for the fourth quarter to further test the Pearsall.
We are finalizing 2 Buda Lime test well locations to be drilled in quarter 1 one will be located in the Catarina area in Dimmit County and the second planned in the Tilden area in Atascosa.
We currently have a focused area of 16 500 acres in the Buda.
We've hedged 10 000 barrel oil a day of our U.S.
production by forward selling calendar month WTI at a price level of $101.55 per barrel for quarter 4 of this year.
So far in 2014 we've hedged 20 000 barrel a day for the first half of the year at an average price of $97.48 and 6 000 barrels forward sold in these contracts on average at $95 for quarter 3 of next year.
In Seal we continue to focus on our EUR projects.
Our first cyclic stimulation project at the Cadotte area continues to go well.
We're now completing our third cycle in the first well.
And are seeing production rates hitting 100 barrels a day which is approximately 4x to 5x cold primary production rate in this area.
We just completed the first steam cycle and the second CSS well in Cadotte and are currently producing it back.
Results are very positive with all rates hitting 250 barrels a day on a single well.
The polymer Pilot continues to produce to plan with 4 producers averaging a total 450 barrels oil per day this year.
We've taken the opportunity to protect cash flow with some strategic hedges and have 4 400 barrel per day of Seal heavy crude hedged at an average netback price of just north of $52 in quarter 4.
In the Montney current production is near 160 million a day.
We continue to generate solid cash flow.
We have 75 million forward sold at CAD 3.75 for the rest of the year and 50 million cubic feet per day of gas forward sold in 2014 at CAD 4 per MCF.
We continue to focus on managing costs and improving netbacks by focusing on liquids-rich areas and working on third-party gas processing arrangements to our facilities.
We're currently processing approximately 160 million of proprietary gas and 15 million a day of third-party gas.
We expect to sign a long-term gas processing agreement at Tupper West shortly.
We're in the midst of negotiating a separate one at Tupper Main.
In the third quarter production averaged slightly over 207 000 barrel oil equivalent per day exceeding our updated guidance level of 198 000 a day primarily attributable to higher production in the Eagle Ford Shale Kikeh SK Gas and the Gulf of Mexico.
Production guidance for quarter 4 is at 199 000 barrel oil equivalent per day.
Quarter 4 guidance reflects the major downtime at Kikeh for the tie-in work for the Siakap North – Petai risers Terra Nova shut-in for a mooring change repair and lower Montney production offset by higher SK Oil and Syncrude production.
Overall a very solid year on production and meeting and exceeding targets.
In summary the spin-off of the U.S.
retail business was completed in August 30 to plan.
We are now a focused E&amp;P company with only the sale of our U.K.
downstream business remaining to complete this transition.
Eagle Ford Shale continues to deliver growth with production targeted at near 40 000 barrel equivalent this year and we continue to improve our operating metrics.
In exploration we're currently drilling impactful prospects offshore Australia and the Gulf.
We continue to add acreage to our exploration program long term and development work on all of our offshore oil project is progressing well and we continue to deliver on production targets.
That's all I have for today and we can open up for questions.
[Operator Instructions] And we'll first go to Leo Mariani from RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> Could you give us a little bit more color in terms of getting from the 207 000 barrels a day of production to the 199 000 in the fourth quarter? I know you talked about Kikeh oil shut-ins and Terra Nova kind of some work-over activity there.
Could you maybe kind of quantify the magnitude of some of those different pieces here as we try to bridge the gap between Q3 and Q4? Yes.
As you go -- you want to go from 207 000 to 199 000 right? LLC Research Division</strong> Yes.
Okay.
Kikeh oil will be down around 10 000 a day.
Terra Nova 3 600.
It produced just a little bit in quarter 3 and is down for mooring repair change.
Tupper area has declined 3 400 BOE a day.
SK Gas is down 1 500 a day.
That's usually -- we forecast in based on downtime of that facility there.
And those are some of the major ones.
And we have some positive with Syncrude having a better situation to the prior quarter and also the new SK Oil coming on.
Those are the 2 uplifts at around 4 000 each and the rest are sort of counterbalancing each other out.
Leo is that good enough for you? LLC Research Division</strong> No that's great.
And I guess additionally you guys talked about sales volumes of 1 91 so obviously lower than sales.
Maybe you can just kind of help us kind of get to that as well? Yes the major underlift there is in Malaysia Leo.
Basically that's what all it is their timing of lifting.
We have a couple right at the end of the year.
But we don't have them in Leo because it's literally on the date.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
No that's helpful.
Looking at your U.S.
operating cost this quarter they've been dropping pretty hard the past couple of quarters.
I think you guys -- I had calculated just somewhere kind of just on LOE maybe it's close to $10 a barrel.
Maybe just kind of give us some more color.
That is all Eagle Ford that's bringing op cost down that you guys said Eagle Ford was $13 a barrel down $2 a barrel from the past quarter.
Where do you guys think that can go in the long term on the op cost there? In long term I mean Karnes our oldest field is in the 10 level now.
And I think that would probably be the bottom.
We may can get it into the 12 range across all the fields but a real good job by our team there.
Also in the Gulf we're still putting all our U.S.
together Leo.
And probably next year we'll change that.
But we have some barrels coming across Front Runner from off-leased production.
That pulls some OpEx down there almost to 0.
But it's a real Eagle Ford player because Eagle Ford's much more production than the Gulf as we stand.
But a great job there.
But I don't see us going below 10 to 12 long term there.
LLC Research Division</strong> Got you definitely helpful.
Just looking at Seal.
You guys did talk about the production sort of kind of hitting lower into the fourth quarter.
You kind of talked about some of these pilot projects your polymer as well as your steam flood.
Are you guys doing any kind of regular way conventional drilling is that activity all shelved? And how you kind of think about that as we go into next year? It's pretty much shelved.
I mean you're looking at Seal next year being pretty close to the levels that it is now.
We're just really focusing in on I'd say almost exactly where we are now.
In production for next year -- I was just looking at it up.
We're really trying to get our EOR lined up for steam which I think is the big growth.
If you look at our long-range plans we really have -- don't have significant growth there to like 17 18.
And these are long-term projects to be approved by regulatory and we've got a team in place looking to do to improve that.
But we're real happy about the well we just have.
But we want to just work on EOR and really get out of the conventional game.
Because on a capital allocation business in North America and that's run by one gentleman it's difficult to compete with Eagle Ford of course there.
But long term lots of barrels lots of steam ahead for us there lot of steam success around us.
But we haven't been a steam player.
We're building up what we need to become one and I'm happy with that transition.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And I guess just looking at your G&amp;A.
If my numbers are right you guys were somewhere around $62 million in the third quarter from your non-E&amp;P I guess your downstream segment.
I guess that number seemed kind of high.
Can you give us any color there maybe there were some transaction costs or something? And where should I go to sort of next quarter and beyond? Yes.
We had a onetime transition costs with the separation of the sale of the business in the U.S.
So we had upwards over $15 million probably $16 million $17 million of onetime costs related to that in the third quarter.
And more than that when you look at it on a year-to-date basis.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful for sure.
In the Eagle Ford you guys commented that you brought fewer wells online in the fourth quarter and kind of talked about flattish production -- sorry fewer wells online in the third quarter then flattish production in the fourth quarter sort of due to weather.
I guess should we anticipate that accelerating as we get into '14 where you'll start to get back on track and start bringing a lot more wells on? And can you maybe just throw some numbers around how many wells you brought on in the third quarter and what you expect in 4Q? Yes it's kind of my fault there.
I've cut the capital machine back trying to maintain some capital efficiency there.
You can spend as much money as you want to in the Eagle Ford I did not want to change our balance sheet to continue.
We put on 90 -- 42 wells in the first quarter 42 wells in the second.
I'm giving you operated wells.
We have 5 to 7 non-op non-limited.
It's an operated game business for us.
And then when we went to 6 well pads and we cut back the CapEx down to 2 to have our spend maintained for the year.
We dropped back to about 35 to 36 wells in the third quarter.
We now are getting away from the 6 well pads.
That didn't work so well for us.
There's a water and sand requirements we needed.
We've had trouble with our equipment frac-ing that many wells in a row.
And it just didn't work well across our acreage.
We're going back to 4 well pads now and we're going to be delivering 42 wells with an upside of 48 wells in the fourth quarter and getting back into probably front-loading our CapEx again as we did last year.
I think we grew production in that play about 24 000 barrels equivalent last year with 182 wells.
And we're looking at growing at about 17 000 with 160.
So we're probably going to be 162-operated well player and probably get into 90 or 100 in the first half of the year every year will be typical how we play that Leo.
We'll now go to Evan Calio from Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> First question on Siakap North.
I think I understood your color on the project.
But could you -- I mean do you expect all that tie-back work to be completed in the fourth quarter before the monsoon season? Or is there -- will the project be completed now in 2 phases one in November and then one in late 1Q? I think that was per the EPIC contractor's the recent update.
What's the...
Yes and we have some real disconnect between you and me on that.
We have contractual agreement for them to do this work.
We've recently signed a contractual agreement with that party.
They're out there doing the work today.
We broke the work up into several vessels and all of that stuff are rattled off.
It's a lot of significant work.
This work is not difficult to do.
You're down to it.
The issue is weather risk.
We have a contractual agreement around weather risk with that party that I'm happy with.
You're talking to a guy that lived there for 6 years and knows all about monsoon weather in Malaysia and built a bunch of stuff there.
We're probably one of the more successful developers in that region.
And we have a contract with a guy to do it.
The guy's doing the work.
We have one significant step left to go.
If you ask me about my guidance our plan on this well -- these wells flowing on December 15 I'd be very disappointed with my staff if they don't.
But I don't have any barrels in the fourth quarter for it we do not have do not have with McDermott a split campaign to do this work.
We have one campaign and the company loaded the pipe and they come in to do the work and they're on the water to do the work today.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's good news for you.
On -- I shift gears onto exploration.
I'm just curious what you learned from Eboni-1 well in Cameroon and how different the NTEM prospect is? And if that is -- is that the Ocean Confidence rig that comes back to drill that prospect in 2014? First on DO matter.
We're using Ocean Rover now.
The Confidence is still off with another party there.
We're kind of working off some of our commitment with DO with the Rover.
The Rover went off to shipyard and coming back.
Yes disappointing that well Elombo dry hole naturally and we're still not concerned about that related to this.
They're 2 totally separate projects.
On the positive side we established sand presence there that we tied to seismic a very nice sand now a very large structure we're drilling in NTEM.
We did take a kick on this well on Elombo and had some heavy gas in our mud log there which derisked petroleum system in the region.
The Elombo well was a stratigraphic trap feature up against the fault.
And that fault had leak seal risk and obviously leaked off.
The feature that we're drilling in NTEM does not have that effect.
It is a stratigraphic feature not down by that same fault.
It's not connected up to Elombo the main feature we're drilling.
So learned something I would say about 2 years ago if we'd had the data from Elombo it would have lowered the risk a little bit on NTEM but it's still rank frontier well.
But it does not disappoint me to have to drill that well today.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's good.
And then lastly if I could.
The new acreage that you mentioned in your opening comments in Australia.
Can you talk at all about what would you think there in terms of prospectivity? Is that...
Well there's been some announcements of other parties.
You can look that up.
There's been a lot of leasing and a lot of award of late.
BP and Statoil they're in the region with 4 blocks and Chevron recently had the other 2 and we were able to come up with 1.
This is rank frontier exploration.
There was 1 dry hole drilled in this entire mass region.
I mean this block we have is almost as big as Mississippi Canyon or half as big as Mississippi Canyon at least enormous area biggest in the entire gulf probably.
One well drilled in it was dry hole.
And one of the blocks another party lease.
Very nice sand there.
There was dredging done to the east -- I mean to the west of that block.
That was some source -- oil sourcing material dredged down in the basin.
This is announced prior to all the leasing.
Our team worked this out.
We have a presence there for a long time in Australia and we were in a competitive bid environment with some others who came out with the block.
And for a company like us it's old-fashioned Murphy rank frontier exploration.
We're proud of it and the advantage we have is there'll be a lot of drilling around us by other parties while we're in our seismic phase.
So it's very positive for our exploration group.
And we'll now go to Blake Fernandez from Howard Weil.
Research Division</strong> Roger you'll have to forgive me.
I'm going to you straight to your probably least favorite topic here.
But on the U.K.
I was wondering if you guys could maybe provide a split on the $12.9 million loss between the refinery and the retail? And I guess where I'm going with that is assuming the refining is really what's weighing on the result is there an opportunity maybe if the sales process continues to drag on to maybe split off the retail and see if that could be marketed as a stand-alone? This thing Blake I don't mind you asking about it at all and you should ask.
When you're trying to sell something like that for a long time first thing you've got to operate wells so you can keep it running to try to sell it.
And our team over there is doing a very good job of doing that.
And very very bad netbacks in refining.
You're right the refining is a big part of that.
We haven't split that out before and while I'm in the middle of trying to sell something probably not going to split it out today.
And as long as we're in a data room and we're putting work in the data room and people are progressing and talking and working toward LOIs and trying to get to buy the thing we're going to keep going forward with the process until that dries up.
And that hasn't dried up and we're working on it.
And really I'm interested in selling it but I'm not interested in just walking away from it at this point.
We do have the opportunity to split it like you say.
But today as long as I have interested parties and do not have to split them into 2 I'm going to stay with it.
Research Division</strong> Okay got it.
This may be for Barry or Kevin but the exploration expense was a little bit above what maybe we would have thought considering that Australia is spilling into fourth quarter.
Are there any other moving pieces in there besides Cameroon that we should be aware of? Well we've got the range we gave you of $100 million right from $50 million to $150 million.
So that's basically made up of -- we're partnering in the Madagascar well in the Gulf.
That's sort of in that 40 -- sorry you're talking about third quarter? Research Division</strong> Yes I'm sorry Barry I am talking about third quarter.
[indiscernible] on that Blake.
I'm disappointed in my team's drilling of that well and it's supposed to cost about $56 million and it costs $70-something million.
So I mentioned in my comments to a previous caller who took a kick on the well so we didn't do a good job of executing the well.
So well is a little more expensive than we thought.
And then Barry can give you the spend of the other things [indiscernible] That's the situation in Cameroon.
Go ahead Barry with the other spend.
So back to third quarter Blake I mean was there any other specifics you needed there? Research Division</strong> No no no.
That was the main issue I was worried about was 3Q because it -- I think Roger basically covered it.
So I think we're squared away there.
The final one for you Roger this is probably back to you.
But just any thoughts on M&amp;A specifically on unconventional.
I know now that you've got the team up and running in Eagle Ford it seems like you guys are delivering there and you've got a team in place.
Any appetite on adding to the portfolio? Well we are up and running well.
We have built that team it's a significant team and a great accomplishment.
There was a previous caller asking about OpEx and we have low drilling costs.
It is going very well.
We built that off of our success we had long term in Calgary led by the same person Mike McFadyen.
We do have a group of people looking at M&amp;A as any company of our market cap would have.
And we do have the ability now to execute that would lead you to where we could pay I suppose.
I know we can do the execution.
But we're not interested in doing M&amp;A for the sense of just growing or worrying about exploration or anything like that.
We need something that has return.
If we have something that makes return and fits into something we think we can execute on we'll look at those.
We probably look at that more than people think.
But we are interested in working real hard on making return for our shareholders.
So looking at it probably harder than we were 2 years ago and going forward as a normal course of our business today would be the best way to describe it.
We'll now go to Guy Baber from Simmons &amp; Company International.
Research Division</strong> Roger I was just wondering if you had any early thoughts on 2014 capital spending.
I believe the prior guidance was $3.6 billion for E&amp;P which would imply slowdown in spending versus the current run rate.
Just trying to get a sense of whether or not that $3.6 billion is still a good number? And where that slowdown might come from in the portfolio? We don't have our budget approved until December.
We usually talk about that in the February call.
But we do not -- we're not going to have a major surprise in that in my view and there will be a major pullback in spending because we're putting all these shallow water Malaysia projects online the Siakap North the Kakap the 4 projects in Sarawak and we're doing a lot of the execution at Dalmatian.
Eagle Ford would be about the same; exploration a little bigger probably.
But we're in the middle of all that with our budget.
But you're not going to be surprised with a blowout of the number that you mentioned.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Great.
And then I apologize this is a detailed modeling one.
But I believe you are scheduled for lifting in Congo during 4Q.
And presumably there would be some costs that you will need to book associated with that.
So can you provide any guidance on the level of cost there that might accompany that lifting just order of magnitude? And could we look back to 1Q the last time you had a lifting there and use that as a base line? Just any information you could provide there will be helpful.
Just don't want to be surprised 4Q on the cost side.
In terms of the lifting we do have a lifting scheduled in Q4.
And because of those low amount of production being produced there the cost will virtually offset on the production.
And the lift itself will virtually offset the value of the oil assuming there's no major change in oil price.
So there's not a lot of P&amp;L impact from that lift at all.
And we'll now go to Ed Westlake from Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> This is Scott Willis on for Ed.
I just wanted to quickly focus on the CapEx.
It looks like based on your current run rate you'd be coming in a little below your current guidance.
So should we expect that the CapEx is going to be more kind of 4Q weighted to get to that amount? Or do you think it will come in a little lower? I think we're pretty in line with CapEx maybe slightly lower.
And we talked about various shortages of CapEx I guess will be about $400 million short this year cash flow CapEx.
And when you add on our dividends and if we're able to do some additional repurchase we feel that that can be a counterbalance throughout the year by the dividend we receive from Murphy USA and if we're able to close on the Milford Haven.
But today we have no pullout of our revolver and all in our long-term debt outside of the Kakap lease.
And Kevin do you want to provide any additional...
I'd have to say that there shouldn't be -- we should be pretty close to the number.
There shouldn't be a major amount that flops over into 2014.
Of course if you ended up with some weather delay or something like that you could always have those sorts of issues.
But -- and for our internal numbers we're still using the same guidance we've given out to you all.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And just one last one.
Would you be able to give me the contribution in the quarter from any of the newly tied-in assets in Malaysia? And which quarter are you talking about sir? Research Division</strong> In 3Q if there was any contribution.
Very little in the third quarter.
We're just putting these assets on.
Serendah's only been on since October 29.
And the South Acis is already in from the prior quarter.
And the others are staged to come on more for the rest of the year.
[Operator Instructions] We'll now go to Pavel Molchanov from Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I know that exploration expense guidance is always a bit of a black box.
But from the low end of $50 million to the high end of $150 million can you just walk us through the major variables there? We have our expert Barry Jeffery to walk you through that.
Sure Pavel.
I try to get off on the wrong foot there with Blake.
So here we go.
So we've got a $100 million variance there that we're talking about where in the Madagascar well and the Gulf of Mexico our share there is say in the $45 million range.
Got the Dufresne well in Australia that's about $30 million.
And then we had a Brunei well scheduled to kick off and that's about $25 million.
So there's your $100 million.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay got it.
And then sorry if you mentioned this already.
But Cameroon obviously a disappointment.
Is -- does that condemn the rest of the program in that country? Or are you rethinking it? In other way sort of Suriname worked out in the past or are you still committed to it? Well we're still very much committed to it.
As I said to an earlier caller we took a kick on the well that proved hydrocarbon migration to that area which is a great derisk for us.
We found nice sand development there and it has a different trapping feature or different risk to trap.
We didn't do well drilling the well.
I think we can learn from that and drill this well cheaper possibly.
And no very glad to drill the well.
And it's up and down that coast the margin Equatorial Guinea that would have nothing to do with that.
And Suriname has both the fan feature surrounded by lots of leased acreage and data and also a very big 4-way closure Cretaceous opportunity there.
I see nothing from that well that would preclude me from wanting to do any of the rest of my program.
It's just another well in the long list of wells we have.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay planning to drill in Cameroon next year? Planning to.
Yes sir.
And it appears there are no further questions.
However I would like to give everyone one final opportunity.
[Operator Instructions] And it appears there are no further questions so I will turn the conference back over to our presenters for any additional or closing remarks.
That's all we have today and thank everyone for calling in.
And we'll see you at our next call.
Appreciate it.
Thank you.
This concludes today's presentation.
Thank you for your participation.
Good afternoon ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Murphy Oil Corporation Fourth Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
Today's conference is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the call over to Mr.
Roger Jenkins President and Chief Executive Officer.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you operator and good afternoon everyone and thank you for joining us on our call today.
With me as usual is Kevin Fitzgerald Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; John Eckart Senior Vice President and Controller; and Barry Jeffery Vice President of Investor Relations here at Murphy and will now make his customary comments.
Thanks Roger and welcome everyone.
Today's call will follow our usual format.
Kevin will begin by providing a review of fourth quarter 2013 results.
Roger will then follow up with an operational update after which questions will be taken.
Please keep in mind that some of the comments made during this call will be considered forward-looking statements as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
As such no assurances can be given that these events will occur or that the projections will be attained.
A variety of factors exist that may cause actual results to differ.
For further discussion of risk factors see Murphy's 2012 Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the SEC.
Murphy takes no duty to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements.
I'll now turn the call over to Kevin.
Thanks Barry.
Beginning in the fourth quarter of 2013 our U.K.
refining and marketing operations are presented as discontinued operations.
So for the full year of 2013 discontinued operations include our U.K.
E&amp;P properties which were sold earlier in the year; our U.S.
retail and related operations that was spun off to shareholders at the end of August; and all of the U.K.
downstream operations.
Net income from continuing operations which is basically our remaining E&amp;P property for the fourth quarter of '13 is $180.5 million or $0.96 per diluted share.
This compares to net income from continuing ops in the fourth quarter of '12 of $123.9 million or $0.64 per diluted share.
For the full year of 2013 net income from continuing ops is $888.1 million or $4.69 per diluted share compared to net income from continuing ops in 2012 of $806.5 million or $4.14 per diluted share.
The fourth quarter and full year results from continuing operations for 2013 included $133.5 million of income tax benefits related to foreign oil and gas investments compared to $108.3 million of such benefits for the fourth quarter and full year of 2012.
Fourth quarter full year results from continuing operations for 2013 also included charges of $82.5 million associated with abandonment and exit activities with the Azurite field in Republic of the Congo while the 2012 fourth quarter and full year numbers included impairment charges of $200 million associated with the write-down of the carrying value of the Azurite.
There was no income tax effect related to these charges within the year.
Looking at total net income for the fourth quarter of '13 a $75.4 million or $0.40 per diluted share compared to net income in the fourth quarter of 2012 of $158.7 million or $0.82 per diluted share.
Net income for the entire year of 2013 was $1 423.5 million or $5.94 per diluted share compared to total net income in 2012 of $970.9 million or $4.99 per diluted share.
Net income for the fourth quarter of 2013 included a loss from discontinued operations of $105.1 million or $0.56 per diluted share compared to income of $34.8 million or $0.18 per diluted share for the 2012 quarter.
The 2013 quarter included an impairment charge of $73 million for the U.K.
downstream business with no tax effects while the 2012 quarter included a $25.7 million after-tax impairment charge related to an ethanol plant.
Looking at net income by segments.
In the E&amp;P segment net income from continuing operations in the fourth quarter of 2013 $242.5 million compared to $145 million last year.
The higher earnings in the 2013 quarter were primarily attributable to lower costs related to the Azurite field and higher recognized tax benefits as previously mentioned.
The fourth quarter of 2013 also included higher crude oil sales volumes but this was mostly offset by lower realized prices for crude oil and higher extraction expenses.
Crude oil and gas liquids production averaged just under 140 000 barrels a day in the '13 quarter compared to about 133 000 barrels per day in 2012.
This increase was primarily a result of ongoing drilling in the Eagle Ford Shale and higher heavy oil production in Western Canada attributable to properties acquired in late 2012.
Natural gas volumes were 399 million cubic feet per day in the '13 quarter compared to 473 million cubic feet a day in '12 with the decrease primarily due to lower production from the Tupper area in Western Canada and at Kikeh in Malaysia.
In the corporate segment the fourth quarter of '13 had a net charge of $62 million compared to a net charge in the fourth quarter of last year of $21.1 million.
Increased costs from the current year mostly relate to higher interest and administrative costs and lower income tax benefit partially offset by favorable results from transactions denominated in foreign currency.
During the fourth quarter of 2013 we entered our third $250 million accelerated stock repurchase program and received almost 3.7 million of our shares.
That program was completed in mid-January of 2014 at which time we received an additional 284 000 shares.
To date we have completed $750 million of our Board-authorized $1 billion program which expires in April 15 of this year repurchasing a little over 12 million shares at an average price of approximately $52.46 per share.
Capital expenditures for continuing operations for 2013 totaled just under $4 billion.
For 2014 our budgeted capital expenditures which were approved by our Board in early December totaled $3.8 billion.
Of that approximately $3.2 billion is for development projects and the remainder approximately $600 million is to be spent on exploration activities.
Our budget assumes WTI pricing of $90 per barrel and Henry Hub pricing of $4 per Mcf.
At year-end 2013 Murphy's long-term debt amounted to approximately $2.94 billion and this includes approximately $340 million related to the Kakap FPSO lease.
And this adds up to 26.5% of total capital employed while cash cash equivalents and short-term investments in marketable securities totaled a little over $1.4 billion including about $300 million that's included in current assets held for sale and on the balance sheet.
And with that I'll turn it over to Rog.
Thank you Kevin.
2013 was a good year for our shareholders here.
Spin-off of Murphy USA was completed in the third quarter and was a seamless transition for the 2 entities.
We've made good progress in our $1 billion share repurchase program which has slowed a bit due to the timing of the spin with $750 million now completed as Kevin mentioned.
We exceeded production targets for the year even when adjusting for the delay in the Kikeh shut-in for field development work downtime at the non-operated Kikeh-associated gas plant and weather delays in Eagle Ford Shale.
Our strategy of building a reliable predictable onshore business that complements our offshore business has greatly improved our ability to meet quarterly and yearly goals.
2013 represented our highest production level in our company's history breaking the 200 000 barrel oil equivalent per day mark with our best year ever in reserve replacement with over 240% on an organic basis.
We set the stage for 2014 production growth with the startup of 4 shallow water oilfield developments in Sarawak Malaysia and we're progressing startup on 2 deepwater fields there as well and 1 in the Gulf of Mexico.
We also restructured our exploration business under a new leadership team to position ourselves for future success.
From a financial prospective 2013 was the second most profitable year ever for upstream operations with only the high oil price year of 2008 taking precedence.
We're continuing to progress our U.K.
downstream sale effort.
We have reported this business as discontinued ops as Kevin mentioned in his remarks.
This will also allow our shareholders to view our E&amp;P business as a whole for 2014 and take a look at our 2013 business as an E&amp;P entity.
In the fourth quarter as prices in major fields Malaysia oil netbacks remained strong edging up slightly with realized prices for Block K averaging $95 per barrel and $104 per barrel for Sarawak oil post all supplemental payments despite a slight drop in Brent quarter-on-quarter.
Our oil-indexed SK gas averaged approximately $6.25 per Mcf.
And our realized oil prices in North America fell on quarter as major benchmarks WTI and LLS fell.
The Eagle Ford Shale and Gulf of Mexico both averaged close to $90 per barrel which includes the effects of approximately 4 000 barrels per day of NGLs which pulled down our realized U.S.
liquids price by close to $4.75 per barrel.
We do not at this time break out U.S.
NGL volumes or price in our statement.
In offshore East Coast Canada we had a strong Brent-supported price of just under $110 per barrel.
In exploration first in Southeast Asia in the Brunei CA-2 Block where we're a 30% working interest a partnership group has opened up a new gas play with 3 discoveries.
We've successfully followed up the Kelidang discovery in 2013 with 2 more gas discoveries at Keratau and Kempas at the end of the year.
All of these discoveries are excellent quality Pliocene sandstone reservoirs around 800 meters below seabed and in close to 2 000 meters of water.
We now see a potential resource site here of up to 2 Tcf gross with additional prospects to drill.
We will be evaluating a variety of development options with our partners.
In Vietnam the 3D seismic program on our operated 11-2 Block is complete and the data is being interpreted to identify our possible drilling locations early next year.
We're preparing to drill the Block 13-03 exploration well later this year at 20% working interest with our partner Santos who is operating.
The 2D seismic program in deepwater blocks 144 and 145 is scheduled in quarter 2 to 3 of this year.
We will be spudding our 2 remaining commitment wells in the Semai II Block in Indonesia in March.
In the Gulf of Mexico the recently drilled non-operated Madagascar well was plugged and abandoned as a dry hole after testing the Southern extent of the Norphlet play.
We're preparing to drill our operated Norphlet prospect Titan at 50% working interest which is expected to spud in early March.
The pre-drilled gross mean resource estimate for the well remains at 200 million barrel of oil equivalent.
The Titan well is located in the northernmost portion of the play fairway that's in close proximity to other successful Norphlet wells.
In the Atlantic Margin our NTEM block offshore of Cameroon we expect to spud the Bamboo-1 well in February.
The well is testing Cretaceous-age stock bands with a pre-drilled gross mean resource estimate in the range of 600 million barrels.
Offshore Equatorial Guinea in Block W we've completed acquisition of our 3D seismic for our partners.
In Australia the Dufresne-1 well in the Browse Basin was plugged and abandoned as a dry hole after failing to find reservoir.
We have begun our evaluation of the Perth Basin in 3D which was acquired in 2013 and we'll be preparing to start our exploration drilling program during late '14 early '15.
In our Block EPP43 in the Ceduna Basin offshore Southern Australia we're planning to acquire 3D seismic toward the end of 2014 and into '15 and expect wells to be drilled in the adjacent blocks starting in 2015 to test similar plays by other operators.
This is a 6-year permit with commitment for 2D and 3D seismic only.
As to global offshore operations in shallow water Malaysia execution on all 4 of our new oil developments at Serendah South Acis Patricia and Permas went very well and all were producing above plan.
Patricia and Permas were the last 2 fields to start up and they came on in the fourth quarter with first oil in November and December respectively.
We will continue drilling in these fields over the years as part of the overall field development plan.
As previously announced we experienced a fire on January 5 in the hole of a tender assisted drilling barge called the SKD Menang which is more adjacent to the Kikeh production spar.
We're shutting production from the spar as a safety precaution while the subsea wells continue to produce directly to our FPSO.
The spar wells were down for approximately 2 days and the wells are being returned to production.
The tender assisted drilling barge was removed from the spar and has been towed to a shipyard in Singapore for repairs.
While the rig inspection to assess the overall damage and extent of the repairs is in early days we project that the rig will be back in operation in April.
In our deepwater projects we continue to progress towards startup of the Siakap North-Petai field which has been delayed due to operational and weather delays.
As we reported the planned shut-in at Kikeh FPSO to execute these tie-ins at the Siakap North-Petai risers have deferred from late in the fourth quarter to the first quarter of this year with shut-in and tie-in work that's currently ongoing.
The Kikeh field shutdown started in January 23 and we expect to be completed and bringing the Kikeh back on line near the second week of February.
Two production risers are now installed for the Kikeh FPSO and work has started on the third and final one which will be used for water injection.
We're moving forward with the final hookup and commissioning work on the facility.
We will then commission the startup of Siakap North-Petai field with first production planned at the end of February with 4 subsea oil producers online.
The Siakap North-Petai development plan consists of 8 producers and 5 water injectors in total.
Drilling to date indicates subsurface results are exceeding expectations.
The Kakap had gone through early production systems producing the plan through the Murphy-operated Kikeh FPSO.
The non-operated larger full field development is going through the final stages of commissioning with indications of startup in the second quarter.
Sarawak Gas production continues to be a steady contributor for us with production averaging near 167 million cubic feet per day net in quarter 4.
The Block H Malaysia's floating LNG project with our partner Petronas is now fully sanctioned by both parties and the oil-linked gas terms agree.
This is a major milestone for both companies.
We feel fortunate to be part of the -- 1 of the 3 first floating LNG projects in the world and to monetize gas from a very successful exploration drilling program in a block taking place over the last 7 years.
The project will be a phased development centered around the Rotan discovery and gas resources from 3 satellite fields.
We are planning on first gas in 2018 with a 10-year peak gas rate near 207 million a day gross or 150 million per day net.
In the Gulf of Mexico the Transocean Discoverer Deep Seas is on site at Dalmatian with the first well of 2 now fully completed.
Our pipeline contract will be in the field soon to perform the subsea pipeline tieback work for Chevron and Petronas hub with first production slated for later this quarter.
North American onshore and Eagle Ford Shale ended the quarter with a new production record of 51 127 barrel oil equivalent per day on December 23.
We're currently running 8 rigs and 3 frac units across the play with now 340 wells producing.
Production averaged 41 900 barrel oil equivalent per day in quarter 4 with liquids weighting in at 92%.
This was down from quarter 3 due to severe weather impacts offset well shut-ins for frac-ing and fewer new third quarter wells coming online to contribute to the fourth quarter.
In quarter 4 we placed 46 new operated wells online which will get us back on track for production growth in the first quarter of this year.
Our total annual production in Eagle Ford Shale averaged just over 39 000 barrel oil equivalent per day 91% liquids in 2013 which is up from approximately 15 500 barrel oil equivalent per day in 2012 with an additional 174 operated wells online.
Drilling and completion performance continues to improve with an average drilling cost improvement another 9% through 2013.
We've reduced drilling and completion costs by a total of 40% as to start up of development in 2011.
Downspacing in the Eagle Ford Shale continues to show excellent results.
Our down-spacing projects in Karnes and Tilden areas continue to show the wells are performing comparable to neighboring wells.
We are now down spacing as part of our field development going forward.
We have 112 down-spaced wells below 80-acre of spacing producing in this play.
Our well optimization work continues to progress with longer laterals and well orientation for spec to minimum regional stress direction in order to optimize frac results and improve overall EUR per well.
We continue to evaluate potential in Pearsall Shales and the Buda Lime.
To date we have drilled 4 wells in the Pearsall: 2 vertical; 2 horizontal; and 1 horizontal well planned this year.
We're targeting this well in the key part of the play fairway and we're hopeful the results trigger a future development.
In the Buda Lime play we have 2 wells planned in 2014 to test the zone an additional resource potential here that add on nicely for us in the Eagle Ford.
We have hedged 20 000 barrel oil per day of WTI for the first type of 2014 at an average price just under $97.50.
The 7 000 barrel oil per day at an average price just over $95 for quarter 3.
This represents 32% of our U.S.
oil production and 13% of our total global oil production in the first type of the year.
In Canada and the Seal we continue to focus on our EOR projects with recent works centered around steam.
Our first cyclic steam stimulation pilot in the Cadotte area continues to show promise.
We have 2 initial wells and are most excited about the second well as the first well had some mechanical issues in the completion.
The second well is currently producing the third cycle and showing the best response to date with production rates of size 670 000 barrels of oil per day.
Steam-to-oil ratio continue to improve in the previous cycle on this well reporting an impressive steam-to-oil ratio of 1.8.
We expect to receive regulatory approval for our third well some time in quarter 2 and we'll then be ready to inject steam in the third quarter.
We will average about 1 a rig here all year and have increased activity in drilling strat wells in the winter season.
We're taking some strategic hedges here and have approximately 3 000 barrels a day of Seal heavy crude sold at an average netback price close to $49 per barrel in February and March.
In the Montney we continue to focus on managing costs and improving netbacks so it's on third-party processing agreements totaling 60 million a day through our 2 facilities where we won 2 rigs here this year and focused on liquids-rich areas and well completion optimization to keep the plant rates maintained and costs down.
We have 110 million cubic feet per day of gas forward-sold in 2014 in approximately CAD 4 per Mcf AECO.
Looking at production in the fourth quarter.
Quarter 4 production averaged 206 255 barrels of oil equivalent per day exceeding our recently updated guidance level of 205 000 per day.
This gave us full year production for 2013 of 205 719 barrels oil equivalent per day.
Looking ahead to 2014 first quarter production guidance is 205 000 per day.
The first quarter takes into account the following: the shift in the planned downtime for Kikeh Field associated with Siakap North-Petai which I've discussed earlier from quarter 4 last year to quarter 1 this year; downtime associated with burrowing the tender-assisted [ph] drilling rigs which resulted in some production downtime and rig repairs that will delay field development work there; lower Kikeh gas production due to further downtime at the third-party methanol plant this year.
For full 2014 we will guide to a range of 235 000 to 240 000 barrel of oil equivalent per day as announced earlier this month which represents strong growth near 15% in 2013.
Key areas of production growth come from Eagle Ford Shale both shallow and deepwater Malaysia oil projects and the startup of Dalmatian in the Gulf of Mexico.
Kevin mentioned this early I'll repeat it.
The capital expenditures for 2014 are budgeted at approximate $3.8 billion $2.1 billion for development drilling $1.1 billion for field development expenses and $595 million for exploration with $295 million of this total for exploration drilling.
Our budget deck is $90 WTI $97.50 Brent $4 Henry Hub and we expect to be close to cash -- cash flow CapEx parity for the year excluding corporate charges.
To summarize our reserve replacement was over 240% which has us replacing reserves now for 8 years in a row with the current oil-weighted off of delevering [indiscernible] of 9 years.
All systems are go for another year of oil-weighted production growth at our new shallow and deepwater fields in Malaysia and Gulf of Mexico as well as continued Eagle Ford Shale growth.
We have a successful year of gas exploration offshore Brunei and this success sits well with our recent sanction of our Block H floating LNG project of a similar size.
Our revamped exploration team will have 2 impactful wells drilled later this quarter as we continue to add acreage to our global portfolio.
We're back to CapEx cash flow parity as a goal for our company with our assumed oil prices just below the full curve.
In conclusion while the quarter had a number of one-off items I'm encouraged with the trend we're seeing in our E&amp;P operating metrics on a yearly basis as we continue our transition to a pure play E&amp;P company.
I'll now be glad to open it up for your questions.
[Operator Instructions] And we'll go first to Leo Mariani of RBC.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just a quick question here.
In terms of your Montney gas you guys talked about a couple of rigs.
Would you expect Canada gas to grow in 2014? I'll let Barry give you the guidance here Leo.
Good to hear from you.
We're going to be drilling a couple of rigs there.
We think we're on to a new completion technique but we're kind of moving some Eagle Ford completion techniques up there and as we work that team as to -- under one management system.
We're pretty close to cash flow CapEx parity for that individual business about $180 million spend and about a -- near that in cash coming the other way with the $4 Hub that we have organized back to AECO.
So Barry why don't you give the guidance? Yes.
So Leo in '13 Montney gas was within the 170 million cubic feet a day range.
And in '14 it's probably going to be just below 145 in that kind of area.
So regarding our production Leo in our business it is oil-weighted so we are declining in Montney.
LLC Research Division</strong> Got you.
Okay and that's helpful.
I guess on your downstream business you guys decided to put it in discontinued ops.
This quarter you talked about sort of being able to view 2013 more as a standalone E&amp;P.
Is there anything else we should be reading into that in terms of -- I'm not an accountant but in terms of accounting rules does this mean that sales are more certain or anything like that? At this point given the discontinued ops treatment can you give us any more color on that? No I mean it's been a long time and we do want 2 things.
We want to be out of that business like I said in my remarks are addressing the sale of it.
There are numerous accounting things you could read into that Leo if you'd like.
But one thing for sure is I'm impatient and want to sell it I can tell you that.
And we're working hard to do that.
And I think it's equally important to be able to explain our company as a standalone because that's our ultimate goal.
LLC Research Division</strong> I guess question on OpEx here.
Within your U.S.
OpEx I think it was up about $3.50 this quarter from the third quarter.
And also just seeing your Malaysia OpEx climbed as well the past couple of quarters.
Can you kind of give us some more color on that and kind of how we should be thinking about OpEx for 2014? We had a pretty rough -- one of our first rough quarters in Eagle Ford.
Our production didn't grow for the first time I guess ever.
Had some severe flooding and cold temperatures happening but other peers were affected by that as well.
So naturally with our volumes down our OpEx have to go up.
We did have a good bit of production but very much coming out of the wells we had very close to the year end.
We had a true-up of some ad valorem and severance taxes there that's about high for that because they would have had normal ad valorem and severance.
We still may need to look at how we report things Leo.
Are a old historic company.
We're not breaking out LOE we have that -- those taxes [ph] in there and have to true that up.
I think it doesn't truly reflect the team's work there on LOE.
So those are the issues around that lower production and some catch-up with some taxes.
Over in Malaysia while we're still trying -- we want to be a onshore complementary business with an offshore business but we're still plagued that we have one of the Kikeh spin on a well that's classified as operating expenses.
That's still real money for us and swings our OpEx.
So that was a single well.
We have a lot of capital in Kikeh to finish the development and work on the field.
And on occasion we have a well that we have to work on that's classified as OpEx.
In this particular well we changed some tubing out with erosion problems with completion that took extra time.
And that becomes an expensive well for us and drives up our OpEx on a kind of a one-off quarterly basis.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
I guess just looking at your oil prices.
You talked a little about this but I guess your Syncrude price was down quite a bit this quarter relative to Brent in 4Q and also just noticing that your U.S.
gas pricing kind of also weakened a little bit relative to Henry Hub.
Can you kind of give us any sort of color around that? And what we should expect sort of going forward? You're right Syncrude was very low in the fourth quarter.
We have around [indiscernible] so we think it'll be higher than that this quarter as it's -- more of this is Enbridge pullback of prices there -- pullback of available pipeline and infrastructure issues around Canada.
We saw that -- it's really tied more to WTI differential lower than it is Brent.
Our East Coast Canada will be more Brent based.
On the gas side we're continuing to grow our gas in Eagle Ford Shale.
Our Eagle Ford Shale gas though is tied back to a Port of Houston type price.
So we don't -- we always have a slight dip below Henry Hub there any way because most of our gas probably in Eagle Ford a very similar amount to the Gulf.
The Eagle Ford is growing.
And I think that would be the answer to those couple of questions there.
LLC Research Division</strong> All right.
I guess with respect to the Eagle Ford do you guys produce significant condensate there? Can you give us any kind of breakdown on sort of oil versus condensate production on Eagle Ford? I'll let Barry the one who gives me my standard breakdown.
It's not been -- and the reason I'm making these comments I think I've made them a couple of quarters in a row we continue to struggle with write-ups on U.S.
oil price realization.
And we just to this point like I say we still have some further work or consideration to do as we become a pure E&amp;P company on things like LOE.
We just haven't ever broke out the NGLs.
I don't want to say they're material because they're growing in the Eagle Ford Shale and they're much below much below oil prices.
So that's what changes our U.S.
price realization because we do not fleet a line for NGL.
And we are very proud of our API crudes that we have in Eagle Ford where we're not a condensate player.
We just have I didn't say I was smart enough to lease oil acreage or anything like that but we are an oil player in the Eagle Ford with very little condensate quite prideful of our API average.
And I'll let Barry give you the exact split out there.
Leo we're about 92% liquids I'd say roughly 7% NGLs.
And as Roger said condensate is really not an issue.
We actually have fairly decent API quality so we're getting a good oil price.
Our next question will come from Guy Baber of Simmons &amp; Company.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to start off back at on the production cost front and thanks for the color on 4Q.
As you're setting the expectations for 1Q and you have some of the guidance out there is there anything that should be one-time or is there anything that you're looking at that could influence the cost as we think about 1Q? I know you had the fire in Malaysia.
I'm not sure if that would have an impact or not.
You have some similar activity going on in Malaysia.
So just trying to get a sense of if there's any near-term risk to OpEx and just how we should think about that.
I am hopeful that OpEx will be down in the first quarter.
And I do not know of any of those one-off -- we don't have a workover at Kikeh which is a big deal.
And we are growing production in Eagle Ford and a new well in the West [ph].
And I do not see that as -- I just don't see that as an ongoing change in operating cost there Gary.
I mean Guy.
Research Division</strong> Okay all right.
That's helpful.
And then I was hoping you could just talk a little bit more about the 2014 capital budget of $3.8 billion.
Just can you talk about some of the moving parts? I know you have some major projects that you're winding down.
Are you offsetting some of that with more capital getting allocated in Eagle Ford? But can you just talk about some of the moving parts? And then how you're thinking about capital allocation in the Eagle Ford specifically how that's changed? And how should we think about that going through 2014? I don't think it's changed a whole lot.
I mean I really think in Eagle Ford for me you have to be a first-class player and we are still a company with both an onshore and an offshore business and we want to maintain our deepwater skill sets and our deepwater self mobility [ph].
We think that's a better advantage for us.
So we're picking through levels of rigs and all with what we think we can operate very very well and we're doing a very good job at that.
If you look at total Eagle Ford Shale this year about 1.5 billion to 1.6 billion in all of the U.S.
Last year it was 1.6 billion.
Eagle Ford Shale this year probably a little bit less 1.3 versus 1.4 as we build the new [ph] facility this year.
So that's really probably not changing.
We want to -- we have a strategy of being an exploration-driven company we're going to remain that.
We're going to have a $500 million-plus spend every year on exploration.
It's not all for wells but seismic and acreage et cetera.
So when you take the exploration material enough to make a difference and you take your Eagle Ford Shale and you take your other project that you've sanctioned we're trying to be pretty close to CapEx cash flow parity in the Montney and in Seal because those are not high net income providers but companies would have long-term aspirations there.
And it ends up what's left is what's needed in Malaysia and our overall look at cash flow CapEx parities letting that be the driver of our capital allocation God forbid.
That cannot exceed in cash flow and baking that discipline and not getting our debt in par and continuing with our repurchase if we can afford to do so without breaking debt et cetera.
And that's kind of my thoughts around the budget if that answers your question.
Research Division</strong> Yes it definitely does.
And then I just had one more modeling one probably for Barry.
But you guys had an underlift pretty sizable underlift scheduled for -- or planned for 1Q I guess within the guidance.
Is that in Malaysia or anywhere else? Can you just tell us where that would be? That will be in Malaysia Guy.
Our next question will come from Evan Calio of Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Yes you guys have a lot of projects coming online in 2014 and to get your full year 2014 average guidance following the first quarter guided number.
Should we expect all 3 of those offshore projects both Malaysia and Dalmatian online at full production levels in 2Q? I mean can you help me with some of the ramp there on the offshore side? I'll just talk to the color and Barry will help with that a bit with the ramp here.
We're -- in Dalmatian we have the wells previously drilled and we've completed one where we'll have gas come on in March.
The gas will flow and the oil will flow later probably at early May.
We're very very happy about how Kikeh is going.
Of course it's been very delayed and not what we wanted it to be because we have to shut in at Kikeh and explain that as to our guidance over and over.
So we're doing that now.
And so we're in the middle of as we speak and it's no small feat to install these big risers in that Kikeh turf.
So we have that behind us.
We feel very good about that starting.
That's in control.
So Siakap North should start as we said in March.
Dalmatian will operate in that and the middle of it should start as I said.
Now the 4 fields in Malaysia are doing very well at shallow water ahead of plan covering some of these other issues we've had at Kikeh et cetera.
So that's all in pretty good shape.
And we have big Kakap which is nonoperated big field.
But not super material for us but important.
We have that starting in March and we believe we risk the startup of that and how we would like to do that in our system.
But it could go from March a couple of months late.
That could happen I believe.
I'm certain we'll be able to stay in guidance levels that we provided with that lateness.
We've modeled that.
That's kind of a rundown of those projects.
If you want any more specifics I'll let Barry get into that for you.
Yes I mean Evan without getting very specific into other quarters that we're not ready to do second quarters we're showing a pretty big jump certainly in that 30 to 40 range.
At this time it's back on or starting to come on.
And then for the second half of the year it's kind of getting another jump by roughly 10 maybe another 5-ish getting into the fourth quarter.
So you see how I'm keeping slamming [ph] up to there.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And what's -- do you have an exit rate on 2014? The average...
I don't know.
But that's going to get you awfully close to that 2 55 range 2 50-plus range.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
On the -- on Block H FLNG the sanction.
Where is the project in FEED? And when do you expect to -- when would you need FID I guess in order to hit that 2018 start-up time frame? We have all that.
We have full FID.
We have that mostly here this week.
Petronas has a special board meeting.
They have -- Petronas is building the ship with a group Korea.
That's their CapEx.
We are timing for their ship.
Every -- all systems go there fully on to flow in '18.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So you just had a toll on that.
Is that how it works with the...
We're going to sell them gas.
We sell gas to Petronas today.
Petronas is one of the leading LNG players in the world.
We sell them gas every day at SK at a factor of an oil link to Japanese crude cocktail price.
We've made that agreement with them and we're going to sell to them that and move forward.
Research Division</strong> Great.
On -- there's a follow-up on the downstream.
If there wasn't a buyer for Milford Haven what's the mark on the release of working capital in the closure? And is there -- are there any charges or how would I think about that down scenario? I'll let Kevin answer that.
I don't believe anything has changed in the bring home scenario there.
Let's let Kevin...
What we've talked about all along is we should have -- once the sale gets completed in the neighborhood of $600 million to bring back.
That's what we're still modeling.
And when we bring back that money from the U.K naturally there's some potential tax implications so we'll look at what our foreign tax credits are and the like and try to maximize tax positions as far as moving some money around in other parts of the world.
And hopefully there's some damage charge that we took in the fourth quarter.
Hopefully that's it or certainly a majority of it but until the deal gets closed and we get final numbers final inventory item all of that nature there's always could be some movement in that number hope we don't get below that number.
Research Division</strong> Great.
Just lastly for me on Cameroon.
You mentioned a February spud days to drill when should we expect results on that one? Is it a bigger well FEED? We're on -- it's going to be about a 50- to 70-day well.
But it's in our control we operate we're picking up the rig from Diamond Offshore and the shipyard with them -- are coming from another operator rather I'm sorry.
When's the next call? I think it could be close for the next call that we make.
So so pleasurable for me.
I can't wait for the next one really I don't know the date.
It's so great.
We will go on next to Roger Read of Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> Well I guess the question I'd love to ask is your quarterly production numbers but I understand you don't want to give those just yet.
But maybe another thing to focus on here as we walk through what needs to happen as you exit Q1 and then enter Q2 what are the particular projects again if you could just where you're the operator or where you're not the operator so we can kind of know what to look at over the next say 4 to 6 months more closely? Well Roger I mean it's -- no we're always into this.
When you're the leading growing oil provider in the space you always have to drill oil all the time.
That's what we've been doing for a long time and we're very very proud of it.
I think first step we always have to grow in Eagle Ford coast.
We're a big Eagle Ford player more heavily pulled back in the fourth quarter.
We think we're in good shape for the guidance in this quarter.
So to me one of the things you look at there is we -- how much we're increasing production there.
So how much we're increasing production first is how many wells we're adding.
If you look at that ratio we feel we're in good shape we're in control of that destiny there.
So that's a big part of it.
Let me get my production sheet here.
And then -- so we have always the Eagle Ford Shale growth feed.
We then have the projects in Sarawak Oil and that would be almost a full year of those projects producing well and they're all online which is no small feat it's 4 platforms we set we drilled wells we have had very good results.
So the Eagle Ford Shale we have the Sarawak Oil project starting we have the Kikeh shut-in now ongoing and not have to be concerned with that anymore.
We have the risers picked up for Siakap North-Petai and we operate that that's a third piece of the growth.
The only part we're not operating is the Kakap piece and which I spoke over a few minutes ago.
We have in March.
We feel we've risked that appropriately in what we have in our guidance and the lateness of that by 2 months.
We should be able to handle in the range we have today.
And the full on year of Sarawak and the continued predictable growth year-on-year of Eagle Ford with the number of wells we plan to drill and the CapEx we have for the rigs should get us where we need to go and plus the promotion from here forgot about Dalmatian that's a project that is drilled and we have the technique held up for weather in the Gulf.
And handed over very quickly where we're completing the wells.
So it’s a lot of new production coming online now Roger.
LLC Research Division</strong> Oh no we're well aware it's a lot just want to make sure it actually -- it gets there.
Roger I can assure you.
I'm worried about it more than you.
LLC Research Division</strong> All right.
I don't doubt that.
And then as you look for growth beyond '14 obviously some of the exploration wells in '13 didn't turn out as good as hoped.
There's been talk in the last couple of months -- last couple of quarters you might be a little more interested in acquisitions.
You mentioned earlier cash flow measuring up or matching up fairly well with CapEx.
If you were to start looking at acquisitions what should we think about maybe in terms of size scale you'd be comfortable with at this particular point given the balance sheet and assuming a reasonable resolution to the U.K.
downstream? Well it's just kind of a misnomer about Murphy that we just fall off the face of the earth after a couple of years because of exploration.
I mentioned earlier today we have very very high reserve replacement.
We have a big running room left in the Eagle Ford.
All these Pearsalls and Budas and steam up in Canada.
These are all 20 million 30 million barrels a piece.
While we've been very unhappy with the deepwater exploration we made a lot of changes to personnel.
We're still a company that's growing production and you know well out into '16.
And I'm not going to ever guide because people will beat me up if I'm still alive in 2018 we're in bad peril here.
But now look at this we're just maintaining production of a very tight band all the way through '18 '19 even if we don't have any exploration success at all in the ocean.
And after routing any of these projects that I just mentioned.
So with that said we do look at M&amp;A more than we probably ever have.
We have a full set of people looking in the Permian today.
I don't ever see us doing a stock deal or a big super major purchase or anything like that.
We do have to get our cash flow CapEx parity always maintained.
We have to get the Milford Haven U.K.
issue behind us before we looked at doing that.
We have been focusing on North America and onshore but I'm looking at things that could help all of the P not get me way out of kilter on cash flow CapEx meaning we could have some level of proven reserves and production.
And those things are expensive and regardless of all that Roger we need to make return for our shareholders.
And if we can do things to help our company help our metrics and have return we'll be looking to do it and we're looking at it now.
But it's not that simple to prove yourself and have -- I'm not interested in NPV [indiscernible] a purchase to be quite honest.
So the fact looking a little bit in offshore globally in the Gulf at the end of '12 and those are really not what I originally wanted because they have a higher decline in the onshore.
But that's the story on that if that answers your question.
And next we'll go to Pavel Molchanov of Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Similar question to the last one but more on the exploration side.
So appreciate the color on Bamboo and Titan.
And then beyond those 2 prospects can you help us with the sequencing on maybe what's spudding in kind of Q2 and in the second half? What's going to happen there is we have our rig at Dalmatian today completed 1 well and have another 1 to go each [indiscernible] not known significant completion.
We're going to take that rig to Titan and operate and drill that well ourselves.
We have finished our work in Brunei for the year.
And we have 2 pretty high risk but properly partnered big gas prospects in Brunei and Indonesia.
Those start in March.
Rig is lined up to go there in March with those 2 wells back-to-back in Indonesia finished in Brunei.
We would like to drill in Perth basin very late this year.
It's probably not going to make it.
A nice well to drill in Vietnam with our partner Santos in the midyear.
And we'll definitely have the rig lined up and frac-ed and towed to the NTEM well Bamboo-1 now and we -- back in the Gulf we originally started to.
So Dalmatian Titan and then we are looking at about 3 different Gulf of Mexico opportunities now.
Would not like to name those specifically at this point but probably finishing off the year at the Gulf.
I'm a little short on wells.
I always say I'd like to drill 10 but I really want to drill all things happened with rig [indiscernible] around the world.
We're probably looking at 7 now.
But we have the CapEx and the ability to drill 10.
So now would look at some other opportunities both in the Gulf and globally [indiscernible].
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Any activity in Kurdistan this year? No.
We have exited those blocks and are no longer playing in Kurdistan.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> No more Kurdistan okay.
I was asking because it's still on the website.
So okay understood.
And what percentage are you...
And I will and this is a -- we still have our name on the door there and we're in the process of exiting and that's probably why it's still on.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Got it clear enough.
What percentage of the total $3.8 billion is allocated to exploration this year? I think I had it in my remarks it's $595 million of exploration and $295 million of the $595 million is for wells and the rest would be at least [indiscernible] in the Gulf and seismic.
Exploration expenditure is around the floor.
And at this time we have one question in queue [Operator Instructions] We'll go next to Rakesh Advani of Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> It's Ed Westlake.
I guess just on the -- keeping on the exploration theme I mean in terms of getting access to acreage I mean obviously you're drilling at a substantial chunk of the CapEx this year which is good.
But can you talk through the general thought process about increasing the pipeline of acreage that you can then drill down the road so that you can hit those kind of 8 to 10 wells year-over-year that you'd like to do? Well I don't think it's really insignificant to drill 7 if it's 7 good ones.
I think if you take Murphy and benchmark Murphy on an acreage basis per BOE per reserves per production almost any metric we would be the leader in an acreage basis.
So we have enormous acreage position per basin with just new 3D seismic in very excited about being able to drill there.
Nice acquisition in Vietnam I mentioned earlier that we have many multiple wells to drill and a very very nice acreage position in Southern Australia where we're surrounded by BP and Statoil and Chevron now and puts us in a very good situation.
Gulf of Mexico we have 7 to 8 of these prospects in the Norphlet left to go plus all of our Miocene older acreage there.
We feel we have a nice set of prospects there.
In Cameroon we have many prospects here but really depends on the success here and building a nice position Equatorial Guinea with seismic.
So we probably are in pretty good shape for '14 and '15 but it's an ever running business to keep that going.
That's why you have the $500-plus million CapEx and over half of it for drilling and the other half has to be for seismic and continuation of that effort.
And if you are inconsistent on that spend [indiscernible] the year where you have 3 or 4 wells which is a lot different than 7 to 10 and that's where the problems arise and that's what we're trying to avoid.
Research Division</strong> Yes in the Australian acreage I mean obviously a frontier but potentially interesting as you say with the majors there.
When do you reckon you'll have done enough -- I mean how long -- will it be 2 years of seismic and...
Well in the first basin we're definitely going to drill the wells.
We're going to drill 3 wells there and we have a rig contract in San Juan do so and it's going to be right at the end of '14.
So we're going to do that and we're very pleased with what we're seeing in the seismic there.
And this is not superexpensive frontier from a weather perspective.
The Southern rate bite or the offshore Southern Australia severe weather will be very similar to what the Chevron would be in the U.K.
That will be something where we're fortunate and happy about our commitment to the Block of seismic only.
And we have other people that will be drilling as it says in my remarks who will be drilling ahead of us.
And we'll be able to have the seismic follow-up their drilling and de-risk there.
And I think puts us in a real good position for a company of our size.
We also have a partner there.
So that's the comments on the Australian side.
Research Division</strong> Thanks for bringing me back to the U.K.
Just final question just switching back to the North American Shale the Eagle Ford.
I mean just run through if you had to look at the year what were the major excitements? Was it Pearsall Buda down spacing some very lower acreages was it just improvements and recoveries or busts or...
All of those.
Everything you said.
Plus if I look back at our team this year in Eagle Ford look at Eagle Ford Shale OpEx of startup quarter 1 at $22.62 and everybody's screaming about it but we ended up to fourth quarter at 17 actually had a 13 in the third quarter.
So increasing OpEx there and improving OpEx metrics is big putting in the facilities there getting a real fine-tuned machine that's drilling some great rigs and has gone very very well for us.
Has a very large reserve booking there about 85 million barrels which took care of our entire company.
We have 2 feeds there probably in the 275 million range and we think that could go to 600 million now versus becoming a real go-to legacy field the biggest field in the company's history and proving drilling significant reserve booking improving the OpEx cost improving continues there.
Like the other players I'm proud of the fact that while we're not a shale scale a big player some would say we are able to drill produce and improve like our peers around us.
And just overall pleased with that whole effort.
Research Division</strong> And just a final reminder on that 600 million barrels what spacing would you assume for that? There's a slide in our decks that talks about walking your way up from the different spacings.
And I think I'd rather refer you to that.
And at this time it appears we have no further questions in queue.
I'd like to turn the conference back over to our speakers for any additional or closing comments.
That's all we have today.
We appreciate everyone's time dialing in for our call and we'll look forward to seeing you next time.
Thank you.
And with that ladies and gentlemen that does conclude today's conference call.
We'd like to thank you again for your participation.
Good afternoon ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Murphy Oil Corporation First Quarter 2014 Earnings Call.
Please note today's conference is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the call over to Mr.
Barry Jeffery Vice President Investor Relations.
Please go ahead sir.
Good afternoon everyone and thank you for joining us on our call today.
With me are Roger Jenkins President and Chief Executive Officer; Kevin Fitzgerald Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; and John Eckart Senior Vice President and Controller.
We've modified our format slightly and have introduced some informational slides as part of our webcasting of the call.
You can follow along with the slides that's part of the webcast which can be found on the Investor Relations section of our website.
Otherwise today's call will follow our usual format.
Kevin will begin by providing a review of first quarter 2014 results.
Roger will then take -- follow up with operational update after which questions will be taken.
Please keep in mind that some of the comments made during this call will be considered forward-looking statements as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
As such no assurances can be given that these events will occur or that the projections will be attained.
A variety of factors exist that may cause actual results to differ.
For further discussion of risk factors see Murphy's 2013 Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the SEC.
Murphy takes no duty to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements.
With that I'll turn the call over to Kevin.
Thanks Barry.
Net income for the first quarter of 2014 was $155.3 million or $0.85 per diluted share compares to net income in the first quarter of last year of $360.6 million or $1.88 per diluted share.
This year's first quarter included a loss from discontinued operations which includes the U.K.
downstream business of $14 million or $0.08 per diluted share compared to income of $177.9 million last year or $0.93 per diluted share.
The 2013 discontinued operations numbers included results from the U.K.
downstream and U.S.
retail operations and also included an aftertax gain of $147.4 million from the sale of 2 E&amp;P properties in the United Kingdom.
On income from continuing operations for the first quarter of 2014 it was $169.3 million or $0.93 per diluted share compared to income from continuing ops last year of $182.7 million or $0.95 per diluted share.
The decline in 2014 compared to 2013 was primarily due to higher exploration costs in the current quarter partially offset by more favorable effects from transactions in foreign currencies.
Looking at income by segment.
From continuing operations in the E&amp;P segment we had net income in the first quarter of 2014 of $210.6 million compared to net income in the first quarter of last year of $231.9 million.
Although the 2014 quarter was favorably impacted by higher oil sales volumes this was more than offset by higher exploration costs.
Crude oil condensate and gas liquids production for the quarter averaged approximately 137 800 barrels per day in 2014 compared to approximately 126 900 barrels per day in 2013 with the 8.5% increase being mostly attributable to volume growth in the Eagle Ford Shale.
Natural gas volumes were approximately 400 million cubic feet per day in the first quarter of this year compared to 450 million cubic feet per day in the '13 quarter.
This decrease was primarily due to lower production in the Tupper area of British Columbia where development drilling activities have been voluntary curtailed due to historically weak North American gas sales prices during the recent years.
In the corporate segment first quarter of 2014 saw a net charge of $41.3 million.
This compares to a net charge in the first quarter of last year of $49.2 million.
This favorable variance was mostly attributable to improved results from transactions denominated in foreign currencies and low administrative costs somewhat offset by higher interest expense in the current quarter.
During the first quarter of 2014 we initiated the fourth and final $250 million tranche of our $1 billion stock repurchase program.
Between the completion of tranche 3 and the beginning of tranche 4 we acquired some 4.3 million shares of our stock during the quarter bringing the total acquired on the program to just over 16 million shares.
At the completion of the ongoing piece which should occur in mid-May we currently expect to receive approximately 130 000 additional shares.
At the end of the first quarter 2014 our long-term debt amounted to approximately $3.4 billion including approximately $342 million related to the Kakap FPSO lease or 29.1% of total capital employed.
Cash cash equivalents and short-term investments totaled over $1 billion at March 31.
And with that I'll turn it over to Roger.
Thanks Kevin and hello everyone.
First just some highlights.
As Kevin said we continued our share repurchase under our $1 billion authorized program.
We produced an Eagle Ford Shale quarterly record of just over 49 600 barrel oil equivalent per day up 18% from the fourth quarter of '13 and 72% from first quarter of 2013.
We completed the Sarawak Gas compression upgrade to 300 million cubic feet per day capacity improved the system deliverability.
We completed the planned shut-in of Kikeh field to tie in Siakap North-Petai development with first production from the field achieved on February 28 of this year.
We sanctioned the Floating LNG project in Block H Malaysia received a full Field Development Plan approval from Petronas.
We reached a new single-day production record in March of just over 226 000 barrel oil equivalent net per day and averaged near 222 000 barrel equivalent per day net for the entire month of March.
We added new exploration acreage in the central Gulf of Mexico by placing high bids on 16 new blocks at the lease sale in March and entered into Block 2613 A/B offshore Namibia in West Africa.
We continue to deliver strong cash margins with our oil-weighted price advantage portfolio.
With respect to our U.K.
downstream sales process this business as mentioned by Kevin is reported financially as discontinued operations.
As previously reported our exclusive period with a potential buyer recently expired.
We're now marketing the business to other interested parties.
The company has entered into a period of consultation with certain refinery employees and their representatives.
The consultation period began on April 7 and must last at least 45 days which would put the end of the process on May 22.
Our goal here is to follow all required protocols and continue with our firm desire to make Murphy a pure play E&amp;P company as soon as possible and redeploy the U.K.
working capital to our upstream business.
As for prices in the first quarter Malaysia oil netbacks remained strong with realized prices for Block K and Sarawak oil averaging approximately $100 per barrel post-supplemental payment despite a $1 drop in Brent.
Our oil-indexed SK gas averaged approximately $5.60 per Mcf including the impact of supplemental payments as well.
Our realized oil prices in North America onshore and the Gulf of Mexico increased compared to the fourth quarter of '13 on improved differentials and increases of over $1 per barrel in WTI and over $4.50 in LLS.
Including the impact of hedges crude oil prices in the Eagle Ford and Gulf of Mexico averaged $97 and $100 per barrel respectively which now excludes the effect of NGLs which are broken out separately in our financial reports.
Seal heavy oil netback price improved to near $51 per barrel.
In East Coast Canada we had a strong Brent-supported price of just over $107 per barrel.
Financially our portfolio continues to deliver leading EBITDA and EBITDAX metrics.
Looking at EBITDA for quarter 1 '14 we delivered $41.81 per BOE which compares to the full year of 2013 metric of $41.21.
EBITDAX for quarter 1 '14 was $49.48 a barrel comparing to $47.89 per barrel in full year 2013.
Operationally we see continued improvements in our lease operating expenses in our upstream business.
Worldwide LOE for quarter 1 2014 excluding Syncrude came in at $11.81 a barrel.
This compares favorably to a year ago when quarter 1 '13 LOE was $16.35 per BOE and to quarter 4 of last year with an LOE of a little over $19 per BOE.
As we move to North American onshore business in the Eagle Ford Shale our development activity in our largest resource base continues to yield steady production growth.
We're currently running 8 rigs and 3 completion spreads across the play with 381 wells on production.
We brought 44 wells online this quarter 37 of those operated and expect to bring a total of 203 total wells online this year with 172 operated.
As mentioned in the highlights the first quarter production in Eagle Ford averaged just over 49 600 barrel equivalents per day which is up from 41 900 barrels equivalent per day in the fourth quarter with new wells added and recovery seen from weather issues.
During the first quarter we set a single -- a new single-day production record of just over 53 000 equivalent per day.
We have a highly profitable production mix at Eagle Ford Shale with 82% oil 9% NGL and 9% natural gas on a barrel equivalent sale basis.
We're implementing 40-acre downspacing on a go-forward basis in all main Karnes and Tilden development areas and have significant running room across the entire play with over 1 750 new well locations identified at these downspacing intervals.
While downspacing in the lower portion of the Eagle Ford Shale's our standard development plan going forward we have 3 long-term Upper Eagle Ford Shale wells within our existing acreage at Karnes Tilden and Catarina with over 2 years of production history each.
A staggered well development that integrates the Upper Eagle Ford Shale has potential at approximately 270 well locations to the field -- to the full field development on top of the 1 750 just mentioned.
In addition we're also testing a fractured area of the Upper Eagle Ford Shale in the Tilden field.
We'll continue to evaluate the potential of other zones across our Eagle Ford Shale acreage.
We're planning 2 wells to test the Buda Lime in the second half of the year one in Catarina and the other in the Tilden area.
Well performance continues to improve through technical evolution as we're focusing on well placement optimal lateral length and completion design across the play.
We've hedged approximately 24 000 barrel of oil per day of WTI in the Eagle Ford for second quarter through fourth quarter of this year at an average price of just over $95 a barrel.
Our Eagle Ford asset continues to improve in cash flow and profitability.
Aftertax income for this business this quarter yielded $90 million with an EBITDA of $269 million.
In Eagle Ford Shale operating metrics -- in operating expenses we pulled up severance and ad valorem taxes for the first time in our quarterly update to highlight lease operating expenses.
We had a total LOE of just over $11 per barrel in the Eagle Ford similar to results in quarter 4 and strong improvement of near $7 per BOE as compared to last year at this time.
In addition to making good progress in OpEx we continue to improve drilling and completion costs.
Based on current prices we see Eagle Ford Shale near cash flow CapEx parity in the second half of 2014 as production continues to ramp up.
In Canada and Seal we continue to see good progress at our cyclic steam pilot in the Cadotte area.
The second pilot well is now producing on its fourth cycle with peak rate sitting over 600 barrels per day early in its latest cycle.
SOR continues to demonstrate top-tier performance in the pilot.
We recently began steam injection on a third pilot well in the field and the pilot performance to date supports our plans for commercial development in the Cadotte area.
In Montney and the Tupper area in Western Canada we currently have 2 rigs operating with current plans to drill approximately 25 wells this year.
We're planning to implement a strategy of utilizing slick water 100-ton fracs and a choke management plan on flowbacks similar to our practices in the Eagle Ford Shale.
Offset wells in the area show improved EURs averaging 4 to 7 Bcf gross per well increase reserve opportunities to what those we've averaged in the past.
We have approximately 320 million cubic feet gross of gas processing capacity between Tupper Main and Tupper West gas plants.
In addition to processing up to 70 million a day of third-party gas 10 at Tupper and 60 at Tupper West the plan is to drill to fill the existing gas processing plant capacity which will lead to lower overall costs.
We have close to 110 million cubic feet a day of gas hedged at CAD 4 AECO for 2014 and another $65 million a day at approximately CAD 4.10 AECO.
These are both in Canadian dollars.
We'll now move to our global offshore business.
In Malaysia as mentioned earlier our first production from Siakap North-Petai was achieved on February 28 with 4 producing wells coming online.
We now have 6 wells producing with 2 more to follow.
The repairs of the Tender Assist Drilling barge used in the Kikeh Spar were completed in the first quarter with the rig back on location.
The Kakap-Gumusut early production system continues to produce to plan to the Murphy-operated Kikeh FPSO.
The 2 subsea wells that are a portion of the overall field development have now flowed for 17 months which has greatly derisked the resource base the completion design and the subsea system operability for the greater field.
The nonoperated full field Kakap-Gumusut continues to be delayed.
And while the field is forecast to start in quarter 3 we have further risked the production in our annual guidance.
Production from our 4 shallow water oilfield developments placed on production early this year offshore Sarawak continue to plan and will contribute to our production growth in 2014.
Long-term gas in the Sarawak Gas project we have a contracted volume there of 250 million cubic feet per day gross.
We have worked with our partner Petronas in developing a new compression -- gas compression system that would allow a gross production level of 300 million cubic feet per day with full redundancy.
We completed the project improved the well delivery and system capacity by producing in excess of 300 million per day for a 24-hour period.
This increased capacity provides the opportunity to deliver rates above contracted volume.
As reported earlier the Block H Malaysia Floating LNG project with our partner Petronas is now fully sanctioned by both parties the Field Development Plans approved with oil-linked gas price terms agreed.
We're beginning engineering and procurement work and anticipate awarding initial upstream contracts in the first half of 2015.
In the Gulf of Mexico the Transocean Discoverer Deep Seas finished up the completion operations on the 2 wells at Dalmatian with 1 well being an oil producer and the other being a high-yield gas well.
First gas production began on April 20 with oil production on the second well scheduled later in quarter 2.
The company has acquired a 29% working interest in the Kodiak oilfield located in Mississippi Canyon Blocks 727 and 771.
The field is being developed as a 2-well tie-back to Devils Tower host platform with first production expected in late 2015.
We expect to hit peak production of near 5 000 barrels a day net in 2017.
In exploration in the Gulf of Mexico the central lease sale in March the company was named high bidder on 16 new blocks with focus on Norphlet and Upper Miocene amplitude plays.
The Titan well in DeSoto Canyon Block 178 spud on April 4 with the Discoverer Deep Seas and we expect to reach TD in early August.
We hold a promoted 50% working interest and operate the well.
This well is targeting oil in Jurassic Norphlet sands with a predrill gross mean resource estimate in the range of 200 million barrels.
The Titan well is located in the most northern portion of the play fairway and is close proximity to other successful Norphlet wells.
We farmed into the Urca prospect located in Mississippi Canyon Blocks 653 and 697 as operator with a 50% working interest.
This prospect is targeting oil in the Midland Lower Miocenes with a mean resource level of near 130 million barrels.
We expect to spud this well in the second quarter.
Our Southeast Asia focus area in Vietnam with partner Santos has spud the Block 13-03 Hon Khoai #1 exploration well on April 27.
Murphy holds a 20% working interest.
The well is targeting the Oligocene sandstone in a faulted 4-way trap with predrill gross mean resource estimate of approximately 90 million barrels equivalent.
In other shallow-water activity we continue to progress our evaluation of the recently acquired 3D seismic survey over Block 11-2.
In the deepwater 5 000-kilometer 2D seismic program in Blocks 144-145 has been completed.
In Indonesia we expect to spud our 2 remaining commitment wells in the Semai II Block starting in May.
We added to our prospect inventory in Atlantic Margin with a farm-in to Block 2613 A/B in the Luderitz space in offshore Namibia.
We will operate this block with a 40% working interest.
The area is prospective with high-impact oil prospects in multiple play types and we have a 5 000 square kilometer 3D program already ongoing.
In offshore EG in Block W we completed acquisition of a 3D seismic with our partnership group in the first quarter and we are processing the data.
On our MPN Block offshore Cameroon we expensed the Bamboo-1 well and plugged and abandoned it as a dry hole.
In Australia we continue with our strategy to acquire acreage in under-explored oil-prone basins with an entry in the Vulcan basin in Northern Australia offshore.
We were awarded one block as operator with 60% working interest with Mitsui as our partner.
The basin has multiple oil and condensate discoveries and excellent reservoirs.
On our Ceduna basin acreage in Block EPP43 we hold a 50% working interest and operatorship.
We're in the process of confirming our plan to acquire approximately 8 000 square kilometers of 3D seismic in the fourth quarter of 2014 about a year ahead of schedule.
On drilling and seismic work for the full year as highlighted on our exploration schedule we expect to spud 4 to 5 wells this year with a focus on high-impact prospects.
As we look at production first quarter production averaged 204 436 barrels oil equivalent per day which is 1% lower than last quarter while shutting down the Kikeh field for 18 days.
Production guidance for second quarter is 217 000 barrel equivalent per day.
So far in 2014 we've placed Siakap North–Petai on production.
We progressed Dalmatian with first production on April 20.
We added 44 wells in the Eagle Ford Shale.
We ramped up the 4 new Sarawak oil fields.
We tested the new 300 million cubic feet per day capacity for Sarawak Gas.
In fact we're on track to establish another production record this year which will be our third consecutive year we've achieved record volumes.
Our annual production guidance is now 225 000 to 230 000 barrel oil equivalent per day primarily reflecting reductions at 2 non-operated properties.
While the startup of Kakap-Gumusut project is now estimated for third quarter with further risks at start date in Syncrude we'll have a recently announced unplanned maintenance downtime event.
This revised guidance represents an increase of approximately 11% over 2013 production levels.
We've gotten a great deal of balance and predictability to our global portfolio with a focus on North America onshore.
We have divided our production per well metric by 4 since 2010.
However we're still subject to minor production guidance issues associated with global deepwater execution and reliance on third-party performance.
Our strategy of maintaining a balanced portfolio continues to add value with our global offshore business provided over half of our quarter 1 production with cash margins exceeding those generated by North American onshore business.
CapEx in 2014 continues to be on track at near budgeted levels of $3.8 billion.
We have some closing takeaways here.
We're still on track to deliver double-digit production growth led by our operating positions in Malaysia and Eagle Ford Shale.
Our oil-weighted diverse portfolio continues to produce competitive financial metrics.
The fields we operate are moving forward to plans this year.
Our focus continues in international exploration with seismic execution Namibia entry and a well spud in Vietnam.
A refocus on the Gulf of Mexico continues with the spud of Titan high bid in the recent lease sale and new entries at Urca and Kodiak.
The Sarawak Gas compression expansion provides upside to our oil-indexed gas business in Malaysia.
And finally our early entry into the prolific Eagle Ford Shale is producing results for our shareholders with significant running room ahead.
That's all I have today and I'll open it up for the questions you might have.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question will come from Paul Sankey with Wolfe Research.
LLC</strong> Forgive me if I missed this but could you just repeat or go over the U.K.
refining process timing and plans? Well the business Paul as you know if we want to not be in that business anymore there are certain protocols and processes to do that.
We -- at the refinery if you want to cease operations in a refinery like that you have to consult with the union and their representatives for a certain period of time.
We started that process on April 7 discontinued work and meetings and that would end on May 22.
That would be the first step toward doing that.
We are engaged with people who want to buy the business as we have been in the past and all that continues.
But I think it's -- in my mind it's a point in time we're no longer approaching crude there and people that are interested in buying the refinery know that.
And it's part of the -- you've got to stop somewhere and get ready to move forward and that's what we're doing.
LLC</strong> Right.
So the May 22 is kind of a hard line at which point I think you referenced that you would be releasing the working capital.
I guess it would be a shutdown process.
We'll have to then get rid of the midstream business sell it to someone -- not get rid of sell it it's valuable.
Sell the retail business.
It'll take a while if we do not find a buyer to get that freed up Paul.
LLC</strong> Okay.
Sorry to keep pressing on this but what's the -- so what's the overall timing that we'd be looking for for this to be resolved? If we don't have someone take it out between now and then buy the business in parts it could take upwards of a year for that to happen Paul.
LLC</strong> Right I understand.
Secondly it sounded -- I don't know if you've slightly changed the disclosure in your communications but it sounded like you've greatly increased your leasing and -- across sort of seismic-level activities across the globe.
Is that just the way you're kind of handling the call or is that a real step-up? I would've thought that there would be costs associated with that but your CapEx seems to be in line with guidance.
Am I sort of missing something here? Well we're guiding the exploration expenses are we not Barry? Yes yes.
Everything is part of our plan Paul.
LLC</strong> Yes.
But I guess the way the call came across it sounds like you've had a significant step-up in leasing? Not really.
We had in our budget in our CapEx to enter into the lease sale in Central Gulf.
We participated in the sale probably slightly lower than we had in the budget.
We had all these seismic areas in our budget absolutely.
And then we disclose every quarter how much is going to be spent that quarter and the last quarter and how much we're prognosing for the next and it's all in our plan all in our exploration spend.
Our exploration spend and our CapEx has not been increased.
Your next question comes from Ed Westlake with Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> I'm just interested -- I guess there's been lots of press circling around the overall strategy within Malaysia.
I mean there's more prospects to drill.
There's obviously a lot of cash flow.
But any comments on the potential sale of the stake? No.
Ed we've said this a bunch of times.
I'm not a guy to talk about business development opportunities and I don't want to turn this call into just a win win win on business development.
We have a lot of things in our portfolio.
I think we're taking a closer look at our portfolio.
We have a very nice business development team we formed in Houston with experienced staff.
We're looking at both our portfolio and external to our portfolio.
And I think in those type of processes just like an example here in the U.K.
we got out ahead of that a long time ago and said we were going to sell that.
And it's become when now I don't know I guess 12 quarters in a row or more.
So not really going to comment on timing and plans on that type of an event.
When you hear about it you'll read about in the paper.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just operationally saw some decent wells in Catarina Dimmit County.
And obviously you've got a decent well inventory there.
Maybe talk through -- obviously you mentioned the Upper Eagle Ford inventory potential.
At what point would you come back to the market and update us about your sort of plateau for the Eagle Ford production given that you're doing a good job so far? We're really happy with the Eagle Ford out there.
We're heading up into the 60s and marching away up to 70 000 barrel equivalent net.
We are an oil player in the Eagle Ford not a gas player.
Briggs has been a place that some of our lower -- we have 3 different distinct plays over a very vast wide acreage position.
We've disclosed a good bit of information about how to model that.
It's a 200 000 barrel plus EUR to us but we do have some very very nice wells that continue on to produce and it looks like we will have some EUR increases there.
And we are intrigued by Upper Eagle Ford there.
We think we have a good bit of it in our acreage position in our northern part of our -- our Catarina area is quite one big block if you will and we have some very very nice wells there.
And if you looked at our Howard Weil deck from a month or so ago you would find some information about that.
So we have 130 locations of Upper Eagle Ford there.
We have 270 total upper that would include that number.
I think what we're trying to do is to pay close attention to not over-capitalize Eagle Ford.
We're doing a lot of reservoir analysis around what is the proper downspacing.
You just not jump in and go to 40s across the play.
We see this to be about a 72-acre downspace is the best recovery for us.
But if we could get an Upper Eagle Ford going where it would be on a 40 acre and the rest of the Lower would be on a 70 then it could be quite a prolific play for us.
These are not the headline-making wells.
These are 200-barrel-a-day wells but they make 200 for a long time with real low cost and pretty shallow depth.
So a lot of running room left there.
But we're not going to be a player probably to increase the plateau in Eagle Ford.
We want this to be a long flat business and not turn it into an offshore business because we want our onshore to be a balanced effect to the other things that we're trying to do.
And we probably aren't interested in changing CapEx or changing the strategy in the Eagle Ford even though we have some success in the Catarina area right now Ed.
Research Division</strong> Great.
One little small question.
Gulf of Mexico seems to be growing quite substantial.
I know you've got some projects you're bringing on but I'm just trying to get some color as to why the Gulf goes sort of 15-ish up to 30 just reading off the slide.
Well we have -- we're bringing in Dalmatian.
Dalmation is a BOE machine.
We made 52 million a day on that well today and we have another oil well to go at a very very nice pace.
And the well is already completed.
So rate -- Gulf's known for high rate.
Rates -- Gulf's known for high NPV due to high rates.
And we've been in the Gulf for all of our careers here and it's just a place I see as all the topics for companies just about in our industry are there.
And I want to be there and we're playing it heavy there.
Research Division</strong> So mainly Dalmatian and that small acquisition you made? Yes.
There's -- Medusa has been one that -- Medusa is one of the highest the most profitable margin business in Murphy history.
And it's produced so long in the original completions that we have to do some subsea work there out in times.
So we have 2 wells and Dalmatian coming on.
We have a Medusa subsea development that's in our plan.
We have a third well to add in Dalmatian next year.
And then we're participating in this entry just made into -- a ground-floor entry into a development in the Gulf.
So focusing back on it again and the profile we have in our plan would be the things I just mentioned.
Our next question comes from Guy Baber with Simmons and Company.
Research Division</strong> I had -- my first question was around the 2014 production guidance.
So you reduced the guidance by about 10 000 barrels a day on Syncrude and Gumusut but the cut seems a little bit bigger than we would have expected just looking at those 2 items.
So the question is is there anything else contributing to your changing view and could you be a bit more specific on the split there? And then when are you assuming Gumusut actually begins to ramp up? Have you basically taken that out of 2014 even though you mentioned a 3Q start-up? Yes.
Let me walk you through it here Guy.
Glad to do it.
January 7 we issued a press release that said our guidance would be 235 000 to 240 000.
The reason that was lowered is we had a shut-in of Kikeh that was moved into this year which is just pure shut-in of the field.
That was 1 650 barrels for the year.
We had a fire on our rig there that's attached to the spar.
We had to move the barge to Singapore and repair it.
That's 3 350 barrels a day.
That adds up to 5 000 barrels a day.
So that's why our guidance was at 237 500.
It would be the midpoint of the 235 000 to 240 000 range.
So we're sitting here with a big field every month.
The Kakap is late just over 750 barrels a day for the year for Murphy.
It became apparent that the operator would not have production in March.
So if we move it from March to July that's 3 000 barrels a day.
The Syncrude choker repairs are absolutely 1 000 barrels a day.
So those items are real lowering that 237 000 down by 4 000 to 233 000.
And then I said to myself "I have a lot of risk going on in my business offshore.
I have different things that could happen in execution." So I lowered it down 2 000 just 1% for global risk business across our whole business.
That gets my plan to around -- I got to have my folks focusing on 231 000 to 233 000 a day.
Then I went and said that Syncrude in the past has disappointed me about like this Kakap thing has disappointed me.
So I added 4 000 more.
I moved Kakap out to November the end of November.
So I think it'll happen in July.
I don't know.
But the next time I speak to you Guy will be right here the day it's supposed to flow and I don't want to lower this guidance again and have to read about it on my iPhone in bed over and over and over again.
So I lowered the hell out of it so I don't have to do that.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
That's very helpful.
And then my follow-up was I wanted to ask about your Malaysian oil price realization.
So realizations relative to Brent obviously very strong this quarter.
You mentioned that in your comments.
The strongest it's been in some time.
Was there anything specific driving that from a mix perspective? I know there's some moving parts with your Malaysian production right now.
So just wondering if there's anything you could point to and how we should be thinking about that going forward.
I think it was an exceptional quarter.
I don't if it'll be that high coming up in the next -- I'll let John comment as to what we're estimating on that.
I'll let Barry...
Barry? Yes.
I mean Q1 as you said Guy came in pretty strong just shy of $100 on our sub after supplemental payment.
I think for Q2 we're rolling about maybe just in the $90 range for Q2.
So we're not seeing it quite as strong looking forward.
We will proceed to Leo Mariani with RBC.
LLC Research Division</strong> I was hoping you could speak in a little bit more detail to the ramp you might see in production at Sarawak Gas.
You basically talked about adding compression getting that capacity up.
I know you got the contract for 250 but maybe hopeful to sort of expand that or whatever.
Could you maybe just give us some color on what might occur there and what the timing can be? I'm assuming that you don't have any of that expansion in your guidance this year but maybe just kind of walk us through how that could unfold over the next couple of years.
Well I mean this is something that we work with our partner Petronas who's the owner of the LNG business and has spot sales and the leader in LNG value chain in the world.
So when they want you to increase compression usage you try to do it.
We did get a few days in there.
There's been lots of times through the history of this project where I've always felt that if we had more ability we could sell more gas.
And what'll happen is there'll be month-to-month where we'll get a higher demand if you will from them.
We probably have a little more than we normally would in our guidance because of that.
We usually try to go 250 gross where there's some downtime.
We'll probably up that to about 258 gross due to some word we got from them they want some higher volumes.
So I think it gives us a little bit of -- that's not much.
I mean you take 8 000 Mcf gross there that's for couple of months that's not a big deal for me.
But it gives me a lot of ability to make hay when the sun shines over there.
We have the subsurface ability there.
We have many platforms there.
And we -- when I say we delivered this capacity it's a big deal because I lowered my -- all my section pressure all my fields and I was able do it from a reservoir perspective.
All that behaved very well.
This is a giant compression package.
It's a 200 million 300 million a day unit so we have double redundancy there.
We actually even do more than 300 million one day possibly with them.
So it's something they wanted us to do.
They're expanding into other LNG trains.
We're very excited about it and it gives us a chance now and then to get more volume.
But it will not be something at this time that we will be guiding towards 300 million a day gross until -- unless we change the contract which we do not have in place with them today.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I guess can you also just comment on pricing? I mean I'm just kind of looking at historical pricing.
It looks like it's been ticking down over the last several quarters here.
What's kind of causing that and what should we expect it to do for the rest of the year? Well as you know we're in a PSC environment here.
And we do -- these are our received revenue over cost of fields.
They're by block certain platforms in some blocks certain in others.
We crossed one of those thresholds for Block 309 in the first quarter so our entitlement went down slightly.
We're talking 66% in the fourth quarter to 64% this quarter.
And when you do that you get into the supplemental payment and so we lost a little bit of room there on price because we made a lot of money there actually.
So it's been a slight pull-down in price and I think it'll be time now to recalibrate where we are as compared to JCC which is very very close to Brent pricing.
You can take that factor and then start making a new date.
Our supplemental payment in 309 was $1.10 an Mcf in the fourth quarter and it went to $2.21 this year so we've lost a little over $1 there $1 per Mcf because we produced a lot of Bcfs.
LLC Research Division</strong> All right.
I guess maybe you guys could give us a little bit more color on Block H.
I know you said that you're going to start feeding out some of the construction work in the first half of 2015.
Now that it's sanctioned do you have a better idea of when we could see first gas over there? Well it's sanctioned to be second quarter of 2018.
Leo I don't know if you know this people beat the hell out of me if I lower anything at all so I'm certainly not coming off a brand-new sanction after a month to tell you an early gas let some guy beat the hell out of me about it if I'm still alive in 2018.
So it's supposed to flow then.
It is very very good to have Petronas full onboard.
It's a very complicated sanction process because their gas part of their business owns the ship.
We have the upstream.
They have signed the contract and are starting the construction.
This would be their second vessel.
So I'm feeling pretty good about all of all that but it is leading new technology and they're the leader in it.
We're fortunate enough to be with them on it.
And just really -- I'm firm about that date of second quarter.
And we also have some pretty high downtime for some of this new technology in our forecast that was out late recently.
We only had guided through '19.
So this thing really flows most of its life past that.
It'll be a 10-year deal at 250 million a day type number.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I guess can you guys just speak a little bit more to Dalmatian? You mentioned kind of a liquids-rich gas well that's already on production an oil well coming on later I guess this quarter.
Just wanted to get a better sense of what the production split is there.
I guess the gas wells is there like a percentage NGL associated with that? And the oil well is that just all oil? Will there be some gas there too? Just any color you had around that would be helpful.
Yes the well's about -- we're an oil company in that -- Kevin and I were talking before the call we don't do Mcfe.
But this is a 50 -- today it made 52 million of Mcfe I suppose.
About 1 200 barrels of that equivalent would be NGL.
So that would be whatever 1 200 times 6 is and the rest would be the gas.
That's 42 million plus NGL kind of a number.
So that well's a -- just a pure straightforward deepwater Gulf of Mexico prolific gas pay zone that should produce fine and the oil well it's probably a 10 000 barrel a day type well.
And we're spooling pipe offshore to hook it back in to the facility.
The umbilical is laid and all the subsea equipment is laid.
Subsea tree is on the well.
The well's completed and we hope to flow that well later this quarter.
LLC Research Division</strong> All right.
And I guess just in terms of the Eagle Ford.
You guys said -- I think you said you had 8 operated rigs.
Can you give us the split by area between Tilden Karnes and Catarina? We usually run 1 to 2 in Karnes 4 in Tilden and 2 in Catarina something like that.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
I guess what's the timing of the Namibia spud? We just got -- we just getting seismic.
So it'd be an event '16 '17 type thing.
So we do not have a well commitment on the block but we have to go shoot the 3D and they already started doing that now.
So it'd be 1 year or more before we'd be ready to spud there.
Our next question comes from Paul Cheng with Barclays Research Division</strong> On Eagle Ford then Roger can you just remind us that -- what is your net acreage position now that is subject to the 40 acres? Barry do you have that number broken out? We have a slide that's got all our -- we have around 155 000 oil acres there Paul.
I'll look it up Paul.
But in Karnes we're just a little less than 15 000 acres in Karnes net.
So that's all being developed on 40s.
And then you go to the Main Tilden field and that's probably in the neighborhood of 50 but I'll look it up for you.
Research Division</strong> Okay yes.
You can just shoot me a quick email afterwards that would be great.
And theoretically I mean -- let's not talk about say whether you're going to sell down Malaysia or not.
In the event that after you say closed down the refinery in U.K.
and released the working capital and also that sale with the retail operation then in the event that you also are going to sell down in Malaysia so you receive the money how are we going to look at the priority of that cash? Well like I said we formed a business development team and we looked at many opportunities both in our portfolio and external.
We have been in data rooms in Permian.
As you noticed in my comments today we did a very small ground floor purchase of a subsea tie-back in the Gulf of Mexico.
Those things are very economic very prolific.
We're not going to do some giant M&amp;A thing but we would like to look at some $1 billion-type M&amp;A that's available that can help our company that can help -- can add return it can -- I'm not interested in a story I'm not interested in buying something to change one attribute of the company or that nature.
We are looking at deepwater Gulf.
We're looking at North American primarily.
And that's part of our ongoing thing and look at many many business development opportunities.
But that's what we're focusing on today.
Let me add one more thing to that Paul.
I forgot.
It's a big thing I forgot here.
Share repurchase is a big of part of where we're headed and we're very happy about how that's going.
Plus you look to the F&amp;D metric and you look at our cash flow multiple how we trade that would always be a part of any of those scenarios at some level.
Research Division</strong> Roger do you have a -- an internal target -- do you have somewhat of the onetime excess cash -- how's the split between return of cash to shareholder and powering it back into the business development? No I don't have any.
We're going to look at opportunities to coincide with all the list of what-ifs you mentioned.
And when all that adds up we'll look at them that day and compare all opportunities to share repurchase and look at it as we go forward.
No playbook of that nature developing now.
Research Division</strong> I see.
And that -- you reiterate your 2014 CapEx $3.8 billion.
Any kind of early look for 2015 '16 in CapEx in terms of production as well? We are not making any changes today as to what we've guided onto production from our Howard Weil deck which would be the most recent thing we put out.
And these issues we're having today are delays and startup of logged completed in the field hooked-up issues.
It's not anything to do with subsurface.
We anticipate by the end of the year we'll get all these things going again.
There will be in our portfolio an occasional miss but our portfolio is very very profitable.
Our portfolio delivers EBITDAX and EBITDA per BOE metrics that I'll put up against anyone.
Our net income per BOE I'll put up against anyone in our new peer group.
That's pure E&amp;P.
And when you're doing all that and you have these big high high margin offshore projects to me it's worth it on occasion.
And that's about -- that's the story about investing here.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Two final questions.
One at this point since you're going for the consultation is your discussion or sales process in U.K.
is still just focusing on selling it as a package or you already actually start the process looking at it as a different package? We're looking at all alternatives to put that money here Paul.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
A final one then on -- I think a couple -- several years ago that you guys put some position in the Bakken in -- up in Canada.
Is that essentially at this point that you have determined that it's really -- don't have a future in the portfolio or that you are still looking at it? We were in the Southern Alberta area.
We were never in the Bakken.
We were never that far east.
We were more western of what I consider core Bakken.
We had some experimental wells there did not go well for us and we're not in that business today.
That's taken care of financially and over with now.
We will proceed to Roger Read with Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> Taking a look at Milford Haven the reports in the press that you've quit crude purchases there I'm not really asking you to confirm that.
But if we think about working capital tied up in that unit if you do sell it or if you are halting purchases what's sort of the right amount of capital tied up in that from just an inventory standpoint? Roger this is Kevin.
Those numbers bounce around as we run off the crude turn it into product and distributing it out through the retail system.
Still the best way to look at that the number we've been using of cash that we would bring back to the U.S.
would be in the neighborhood of $600 million.
And that is still a decent number to use going forward as of now.
The only thing that's really changed is the timing.
It may come back in -- it's possible it could come back in pieces rather than all at one time depending on how the transaction progresses.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just as a question off the last presentation.
There's -- on the exploration side Slide 34 a Gulf of Mexico opportunity is highlighted in the second quarter.
Is there any more detail you can provide on that or is that date maybe sliding a little bit? It's kind of in very end of Q2 by the positioning of the star.
Probably need to put out -- look at the slides that we included as part of this presentation Roger.
It's on Slide 14 that went along with the website.
That would be the spud of Urca which we've entered into with Petrobras in which we're operator.
We have a rig signed up and the rig is supposed to be available in June.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And did you provide a potential reserve size on that? Yes.
It was in my comments.
It's 130 million barrels.
It's very near our Thunder Hawk area near Big Bend discovery by other operator in a very near Blind Faith very very good zip code area.
Our next question will come from Peter Kissel with Howard Weil.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to start with just on modeling really.
Operating costs or LOE as you mentioned in particular Roger came in at a very reasonable level in the first quarter.
And I was just wondering if you could comment on the direction for LOEs for the remainder of the year.
Is there any particular quarter we should be aware of where it may fluctuate or is it safe to assume it's relatively flat from here? Well I think overall it's not going to go down much more.
I think if you looked at Eagle Ford Shale it's going to be -- for this year we're planning on like a $10.27 for the whole year there.
That's one of our bigger businesses.
I think that it'll be comparable -- what was our budget number we have excluding Syncrude John? It's $11? We're still saying around $11.
But that's the thing you got to -- that's the thing that people have to understand about us.
We have occasionally an expensive workover in offshore.
It can cost $20 million or $30 million.
We can spike up one quarter $15 per BOE.
It can happen.
But at the end of the day we feel our $11-type OpEx is going to be good for the year.
But if you're -- you haven't been with us long Pete it's a bit of rollercoaster to get these kind of margins.
It's not that simple.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
I hear you Roger.
And then maybe just one follow-up question from an earlier question and more of a clarification than anything Roger.
But you mentioned 72-acre spacing in Catarina in the Eagle Ford at least in terms of the Middle Eagle Ford.
Is that the tightest you think you can go or is that just the tightest you've been so far in which case there may be some opportunity for downspacing? Again just out of the Middle Eagle Ford.
I think that we call it Lower and Upper.
We're not using the word Middle but there's always a new name invented in the Eagle Ford every day.
We don't want to overcapitalize this area because it's not one of our high EUR areas.
So we're very careful with the reservoir modeling around what will be the optimum thing.
So we have a couple of rigs in there.
We can't get to far -- I also think it's very difficult to drill the whole field one way and then come downspace it again later.
I think it would be quite problematic.
But when we look at this staggered approach that we're putting to upper with the lower then it will be downspaced to 40 if you will with one riding on top of the other.
I do believe we have some upside there that's not in here today.
It will take some reservoir analysis or some nearby competitor analysis for us to probably downspace in what we call Lower Eagle Ford in the Catarina area.
But right now our focus would be this Upper Eagle Ford where we've had the better well results which is shown our Slide 9 today in our deck.
And in that particular area it would probably be some of our better Eagle -- Upper Eagle Ford as compared to the main part of the field.
So a little step at a time here and look at some Upper Eagle Ford downspaced to true 40 with the Lower being -- when I say 72 we're doing in around 80.
It depends on the shape of the lease and lateral length et cetera.
But that's the plan for now Pete.
Our final question will come from Pavel Molchanov with Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Can I go back to Milford Haven? Are there any regulatory constraints that you would -- any hoops you have to jump through before you can make a decision on a shutdown? And I'm thinking either at the kind of local authority level or the national government level.
No they're not.
But there's a protocol and it would be very inappropriate to break the protocol and not looking to do so at this time.
So -- but the absolute answer to the question is no they're not.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And regardless of what happens with the refinery itself are you going to essentially get rid of the retail network as well? Is it a package deal or can you keep one versus the other? It is not my desire to be in any downstream business of any kind here or there or anywhere.
That concludes today's question-and-answer session.
At this time I would like to turn the conference over back to our speakers for any additional or closing remarks.
That's all we have today.
We appreciate everyone that followed along.
We had a new format today and I appreciate that and the good questions and we'll see you guys in early August.
Appreciate it.
Thank you.
This concludes today's conference.
We thank you for your participation.
Good afternoon ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Murphy Oil Corporation Second Quarter 2014 Earnings Call.
Today's call is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the call over to Mr.
Barry Jeffery Vice President Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Good afternoon everyone and thank you for joining us on our call today.
With me are Roger Jenkins President and Chief Executive Officer; Kevin Fitzgerald Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; and John Eckart Senior Vice President and Controller.
We've posted a few informational slides on the Investor Relations section of our website that you can follow along with as part of the webcast today.
Today's call will follow our usual format.
Kevin will begin by providing a review of second quarter 2014 results.
Roger will then follow with an operational update after which questions will be taken.
Please keep in mind that some of the comments made during this call will be considered forward-looking statements as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
As such no assurances can be given that these events will occur or that the projections will be attained.
A variety of factors exist that may cause actual results to differ.
For further discussion of risk factors see Murphy's 2013 Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the SEC.
Murphy takes no duty to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements.
I'll now turn the call over to Kevin.
Thanks Barry.
Net income for the second quarter of 2014 is $129.4 million or $0.72 per diluted share.
This compares to the net income in the second quarter of last year of $402.6 million or $2.12 per diluted share.
For the first 6 months of 2014 we had net income of $284.7 million or $1.57 per diluted share.
This compares to income -- net income for the first 6 months of last year of $763.2 million or $4 per diluted share.
This year's second quarter included a loss of discontinued operations of $13.3 million or $0.07 per diluted share compared to income of $142.8 million or $0.75 per diluted share for the same period last year.
For the 6-month period 2014 included a loss from discontinued operations of $27.3 million $0.15 per diluted share compared to income of $320.7 million or $1.69 per diluted share in 2013.
Our income from continuing operations in the second quarter of this year is $142.7 million or $0.79 per diluted share compared to income in the second quarter of last year of $259.9 million $1.37 per diluted share.
Income from continuing ops for the 6 months of 2014 is $312 million or $1.72 per diluted share compared to the 6 months of 2013 $442.6 million or $2.32 per diluted share.
Looking at income by segments.
On the E&amp;P segment for the second quarter of 2014 we had net income of $200.8 million compared to $290.2 million for the second quarter of last year.
Lower E&amp;P earnings for the 2014 quarter were mostly attributable to higher exploration expenses higher extraction cost in Malaysia lower realized sales prices for our production in Sarawak and unfavorable effects from commodity contracts.
Crude oil and gas liquids production for the current quarter was approximately 139 000 barrels per day as compared to approximately 136 000 barrels per day in the 2013 quarter with the increase mostly attributable to higher production in Eagle Ford Shale partially offset by reduced volumes in Canada.
Natural gas sales volumes averaged 425 million cubic feet per day in the second quarter of this year compared to 431 million cubic feet per day in the second quarter of 2013.
The decrease was attributable to lower volumes at the Tupper area in British Columbia and from fields also -- offshore Sarawak Malaysia partially offset by increased productions from the Eagle Ford and from the startup of the Dalmatian field in the Gulf of Mexico.
In the corporate for the second quarter of '14 we had net charges of $58.1 million compared to net charges of $30.3 million in the second quarter last year.
These increased costs primarily related to unfavorable effects from foreign exchange transactions and higher financing cost.
During the second quarter of this year we completed the accelerated share repurchase program we got in the first quarter and retired an additional 123 380 shares over that previously reported.
Additionally during the second quarter we initiated the new $125 million accelerated share repurchase program and received a little over 1 850 000 shares.
This current program should be completed in August.
As of June 30 2014 Murphy's long-term debt amounted to just under $3.8 billion or approximately 31.1% of total capital employed.
This long-term debt figure includes approximately $342 million associated with the capital lease production equipment for the Kikeh field offshore Malaysia.
And with that I'll turn it over to Roger.
Thanks a lot Kevin.
Looking at the highlights for the quarter we set a quarterly production record from continuing ops of over 210 000 barrels equivalent per day.
We produced an Eagle Ford Shale quarterly record of just over 52 800 barrel equivalent net up 6% from the first quarter of this year and 33% from second quarter a year ago.
We achieved first production at our Dalmatian project in the Gulf with both wells performing above expectation.
We reduced lease operating expenses per BOE for global oil and gas operations by 8% in the first half of '14 compared to the first half of 2013.
We added 100 million barrels of equivalent of proved reserves this year and remain on track for reserve replacement in excess of 150% for the fourth consecutive year.
As Kevin just mentioned we initiated $125 million share repurchase under our new board authorization in May.
We have now repurchased 9% of our company's stock since October of 2012.
In the U.K.
downstream business we've signed an agreement to sell the Milford Haven refinery and terminal assets to Klesch Refinery Limited pending regulatory approval and subject to other material conditions.
This transaction is scheduled to close no later than October 31 of this year.
And a separate transaction for the sale of the U.K.
retail business is at -- in a very advanced stage and we'll provide further updates on this in due course.
We anticipate repatriating to the U.S.
cash in the range of $550 million once these transactions are completed.
As you look at prices in the second quarter Malaysia realized prices for Block K and Sarawak averaged near $92 and $88 respectively due to higher supplemental payments under the PSCs.
Its overall capital spending was lower in the quarter especially in shallow water Malaysia post installation of 4 platforms and an associated pipeline for last year.
Based on latest spending estimates we forecast Block K and Sarawak realized oil prices in the third quarter to be near $90 and $84 respectively.
Our oil-indexed SK realized average price cost of $5.30 per MCF for the quarter and we anticipate pricing to continue in the same range for the second half of the year.
Moving to the United States.
Eagle Ford Shale oil prices are just under $96 for the quarter including the impact of WTI hedging.
Our realized oil prices in the Gulf averaged near $102 keeping pace with the movement in LLS and Brent.
Syncrude was close to $103 per barrel and Seal including our hedge position at a little over $61 per barrel showed strength in the second quarter.
Our portfolio continues to deliver solid cash flow metrics our oil weighting positioning us well in light of recent falling natural gas prices.
Looking at EBITDA for quarter 2 '14 we delivered near $40 per BOE which compares well to the full year 2013 metric of just over $41 per barrel.
EBITDAX in quarter 2 '14 was near $47 per barrel equivalent compared to just under $48 for the full year of 2013.
We also continue to show above-average results in these metrics and compared to our operational peers when using 2013 first quarter of '14 and second quarter of '14 data were available.
Our worldwide lease operating expenses or LOE for the second quarter '14 with global oil and gas operations remained steady at just under $12 per barrel equivalent relative to the prior quarter of this year and significantly lower than 2013 annual average of $14.54 per barrel.
Our second quarter production averaged just over 210 000 barrel oil equivalent per day below our guidance of 217 000 barrel equivalent per day.
This 3% shortfall is primarily attributed to the global offshore business in Malaysia with lower oil and gas volumes related to a well operation delay in Kikeh continued unplanned downtime at a third-party methanol plant that processes Kikeh-associated gas and the jack-up rig mobilization delay at the South Acis platform in Sarawak and various small downtime events at shallow and deepwater facilities.
Looking ahead to second half of the year we have our plant production increases supported by the completing of all of the Siakap North-Petai well work full start-up of Dalmatian the addition of 97 new Eagle Ford Shale wells through mid-year we've completed the Syncrude unplanned maintenance further progress in the start-up efforts of the nonoperated Kakap-Gumusut field and the addition of 7 wells through the first half of the year at Serendah which will be online for the remainder of the year.
Production increases will be further supported by continued well adds at Eagle Ford Montney and in SK oil for the rest of the year.
In exploration our global exploration program will remain very active in the Gulf of Mexico as drilling operations continue and the tightened prospect in DeSoto Canyon 178 as a small oil accumulation was encountered in the original wellbore in the planned objectives and costs have been suspended.
Based on this well result we're currently sidetracking the well to test 130 million barrel equivalent gross mean prospect in an adjacent fault block.
We expect to spud our 50% working interest in operated lower Miocene prospect at Urca and Mississippi Canyon 697 in the third quarter.
The predrill gross mean resource size of this well is 130 million barrel equivalent.
The 2 prospects of wide in Opal: Opal that originally scheduled for late this year has been moved to 2015 as we set rig schedules in line with the timing with our partners who are currently working on 2 international opportunities that could spud later this year.
In other exploration drilling the nonoperated Hon Khoai prospect in Vietnam and the operated Serai-1 well and associated sidetrack testing the Bawang Putih prospect in Indonesia were all plugged and abandoned as dry holes with $16.5 million expensed in the quarter.
The Indonesia drilling will lead to an expense of approximately $8 million in the third quarter.
To the first half of the year we completed our seismic programs in Equatorial Guinea Vietnam Namibia and then moving forward to process and analyzes data.
In the third quarter we will continue with the data processing and finalizing our plans to conduct the seismic program across Block EPP43 in the Ceduna basin offshore Southern Australia starting in the fourth quarter.
Looking ahead you'll see us participating in 2 wells in the Gulf along with the drilling in the Perth Basin offshore Australia starting in the first quarter of 2015.
We're also considering 3 wells in Malaysia in addition to some other international opportunities.
In our new offshore fields in both shallow and deepwater have demonstrated excellent delivery building at or above planned rates.
The subservice performance of these fields along with the Eagle Ford has greatly enhanced our ability to achieve continued production growth.
In Malaysia we've been hurt by the timely execution of our Kikeh field development plans by our previously announced rig fire earlier this year and a single well operational delay.
The operational challenges are now resolved and well work continues to plan we have our first well now in line since the rig returned to service and is performing well of near 4 000 barrels per day.
We expect to place 2 new wells online to the end of the year at Kikeh.
At Siakap North-Petai where we hope 30% working interest we've completed the final 2 production wells with the field achieving a deliverability target of approximately 35 barrel -- 35 000 barrels per day gross.
We just finished up the last water injection well so all well work is complete at Siakap North-Petai.
The Kakap-Gumusut main project where we have 14% working interest made significant progress this quarter in final commissioning and we now see this field starting up in the late third quarter.
The shallow water offshore Sarawak we added 7 new wells in our SK oil project at Serendah in the first half of the year following jack-up rig mobilization we've since drilled and brought on 3 new wells at South Acis above plan this month.
The rig will remain here for the rest of the year.
We expect to add 9 total wells at South Acis this year.
We have also completed the planned shut-in of the Perves fields and install the permanent topsides when the planned shut-in and time work complete.
In the Gulf of Mexico we started up both high rate Dalmatian wells this quarter with better-than-planned results.
The gas well started flowing on April 21 and the oil well started flowing on June 14.
These 2 wells where we hold a 70% working interest have the capability to deliver combined rate in excess of 20 000 barrel equivalent per day with approximately 50% liquids; well above the planned rates.
A third well is planned to be added to the project in Dalmatian South and DeSoto Canyon Block 134 in early 2016.
We're also planning a fourth development well for Dalmatian located in DC Block 4.
At Medusa in Mississippi Canyon Blocks 538 and 582 we're moving forward with an accelerated subsea development where we operate with 60% working interest.
The field requires additional wells and so we're still producing original completions much longer than planned.
We'll be drilling 2 wells later this year with a subsea tieback to the Medusa facility and first production in 2015.
To the Montney and the Tupper area in Western Canada we are moving forward with our plan to "drill to fill" of our existing plant capacity of 320 million [indiscernible] per day with 3 rigs in operations.
We expect to put approximately 20 wells online this year.
We've completed 7 new wells using our new completion and choke management strategies in the early stages of flowing back the first wells.
Initial results are positive with rates as high or higher than previous wells but at higher pressures with the most recent well hitting over 11 million cubic feet per day.
The larger 100-ton fracs is increasing the well productivity and along with the choke management will provide upside to EUR.
Depending on the results we see upside with up to 500 potential locations in the core area.
We're currently processing approximately 60 million in third-party gas through our facilities and up to 80 million of our plant capacity contracted.
We have 110 million cubic feet per day of gas hedged at near CAD 4 AECO for the remainder of '14 at 65 million of gas hedged at near CAD 4.10 AECO for 2015.
In the Eagle Ford Shale the second quarter production averaged 52 815 barrel oil equivalent per day net 90% liquids as we brought on 53 new wells.
We currently operate 8 drilling rigs and 4 completion spreads across the play and expect to bring on a total of 200 wells this year.
Downspacing across the play continues to deliver expected results and we're testing upside potential at the Upper Eagle Ford Shale zone.
We have tremendous running room in the Eagle Ford Shale with over 600 potential locations that are identified in the Upper Eagle Ford Shale and over 1 500 well locations to go in the Lower Eagle Ford Shale on the previous guided downspacing plans.
Proved reserves in the Eagle Ford Shale totaled just over 200 million barrels at the end of 2013.
We have a large resource in the Eagle Ford Shale and we will continue to migrate resources to prove in with continued drilling out of offset locations downspacing in targeting upside of Upper Eagle Ford Shale.
We see the total resource now at just over 700 million barrels net.
We're in the process of negotiating 2 separate pipeline agreements in Karnes and Tilden areas of Eagle Ford to transport up to 28 000 barrel per day net to market and expect to sign final agreements in the near future.
This will reduce our exposure to trucking and improve overall reliability while maintaining our price advantage through the segregation of our low API gravity premium quality crude oil in these dedicated systems.
We have hedged approximately 21 000 barrels of WTI for the second half of the year at just under $94 a barrel.
We continue to make good progress on operating expenses in the second quarter with total LOE in Eagle Ford of just under $10 per barrel.
In addition we continue to improve drilling and completion costs.
Based on current prices we see the Eagle Ford Shale beginning to generate free cash flow in the fourth quarter of this year as production continues to ramp up.
Our portfolio work continues and we closed on the sale of our upstream properties in South Louisiana and signed a letter of intent to sell our assets on the north slope of Alaska.
Third quarter production guidance is 225 000 barrel equivalent per day and our annual production guidance is now in the range of 220 000 to 225 000 barrel oil equivalent per day.
We're still on track to achieve record production growth this year with continued ramp-up at Eagle Ford and growth support from our new offshore fields.
The takeaways: we're making progress in the U.K.
downstream sales process with the signed agreement for Milford Haven refinery in place and advanced negotiations on the retail business.
On exploration I'm very satisfied with the focus and rigor that the teams is applying to our program.
Strategy is sound and we're building a strong properly-risked portfolio that will yield results long term.
And I believe a new focus back in the Gulf of Mexico will allow for improvement we need in exploration results.
In all of our new offshore fields we will see DD&amp;A unit rates improve with further reserve booking across all of these properties.
We remain pleased with all subsurface results and deliverability from our new fields.
Operationally I'm very pleased with the execution at Eagle Ford Shales.
We continue to improve our drilling and completion metrics and lowering operating costs.
Our new offshore fields along with the continued execution in Eagle Ford will support continued production growth as we're headed toward new record levels for the third consecutive year and 8% growth over last year.
We continue to have reserves at a strong pace and on track to achieve reserve replacement in excess of 150% for the fourth year in a row and our oil-weighted portfolio will continue to provide strong cash flow metrics especially with recent deterioration in North American natural gas prices.
We can now open it up for questions.
Before that I'd like to recognize Kevin today.
We think this is 75 calls in a row and I don't know when we'll see that again.
So we'll go from there.
[Operator Instructions] We'll go first to Guy Baber with Simmons.
Research Division</strong> A strategic one for me.
So the production difficulties this quarter obviously mainly attributable to the offshore and some of the unpredictability that comes with that business.
So the question is did a quarter like this change at all your view of the optimal portfolio mix between offshore and more predictable onshore operations? Does it maybe add a little more sense of urgency to M&amp;A on the margins? Just trying to get an understanding of your thoughts kind of M&amp;A on a leading-edge basis and portfolio optimization.
And then I have a follow-up.
Thanks Guy.
No we're probably in a long-range plan basis.
We're about 50-50 onshore and offshore.
Eagle Ford Shale is doing very very well.
But we made a lot of money in the offshore too and I'll look at great projects like Dalmatian it's -- has incredible deliverability above plan and we are seeing Siakap North-Petai and we execute a lot of subsea wells.
There's a lot of rate of return there.
I do think you're seeing people going back to the Gulf that were formally in the onshore and some announcements today.
I still believe that some onshore to try to balance some of these problems and we have had some problems with it we'll admit.
Over a long haul of about 9 quarters we're in pretty good shape here.
You just had a run of it as we execute there's a lot of things this year in the offshore.
But overall no I believe that an onshore business [ph] to help balance some of this.
Once we get our projects streamlined and all of the new things online I think it will still bode to better returns.
It gives us a competitive advantage too Guy because we're a -- we have a super major execution ability in deepwater and built a very very successful onshore effort.
So we have the ability to play in both.
I think it bodes best for our staffing our people our company's history and how we perform and so I like to be 50-50.
And I'm happy.
As to the M&amp;A I think if you were to portfolio yourself out offshore we probably would look for some more balance in the onshore.
I don't believe that going into something for sale by a super major which has been a source of a lot of our delay is somewhere where we really probably want to go.
Does that answer your question? Research Division</strong> Yes definitely.
That's helpful.
And then my follow-up was on the 2015 production outlook.
I was hoping you could just address that if even at a high level.
But I know you have some longer-term production slides that you put in presentations that would show a pretty high '15 production number.
So just wanted to kind of talk through if the 2014 guidance changes would impact 2015 at all do we need to be risking maybe the offshore piece in your graphs a little more heavily than what is shown? Just trying to put those slides in appropriate context as we start to think more seriously about the 2015 2016 production outlook in underlying drivers and assumptions.
Yes I mean we -- this is a difficult problem that we have and something I'm really focused on and trying to improve.
It's a more difficult than you think to fix it or we probably would've fixed it by now you would think.
If you look at our slides that are out there on page it's like $269 million going to $294 million in '16 $295 million in '17 things to that nature.
We are in the midst of preparing some risking.
It's real hard to pick what the problem is because it's -- while I need to risk it better and I need to do a better job of risking it we do have a lot of production going to: a nonoperated LNG plan in Malaysia; a nonoperated methanol plant for Kikeh gas in which we achieve little value; and then we have some third-party start-up at Kakap-Gumusut.
And we're now flowing Dalmatian which is probably successful to a super major field in the Gulf.
So I'm exposed to things out of my control.
It's hard to put the pin on what the factor may be if you ask me today what we're looking to do it's more than likely we're going to take an 8% off for these other years just from planning purposes.
And you're probably exactly right it'll probably come in the offshore.
It's hard to say exactly where but the onshore is fairly accurate.
And if I have an onshore business I probably would be doing pretty good.
So that's kind of the number I'm looking at.
But we really would like some time to work that to our budget and apply some risking factors to the right place.
But it would be inappropriate just to maintain that with the struggles that I've had through mid-year this year Guy to be fair.
And we'll go next to Leo Mariani with RBC.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just wanted to get a little bit more color around the Eagle Ford.
It looks like production this quarter was a little light versus your prior expectations.
You guys are expecting a pretty big ramp in the third quarter.
Can you just kind of walk us through what's going on there? Yes overall in our onshore North American business it's pretty tight because we have risked -- kind of over-risked Syncrude and it did a little better and out Montney is doing better and our Eagle Ford did have a bit of a miss.
We fill a lot of gas into DCP pipeline.
And that DCP pipeline went down causing us some back pressures and to shut in some wells and some recovery from some offset fracs and sometimes a in that game what we're running to in the Eagle Ford there's a little bit of an issue with other people frac-ing near us which caused us to have to shut in because there's some areas are condensed down there.
I consider it a one-off thing where we have a lot of production to add this quarter because we are putting 18 wells on together at Karnes and a big thing where we've kind of real concentration of wells an area that we control the frac-ing around us.
And we're also executing wells in this month so they're very early in the quarter.
We'll probably add 10 more wells operated this quarter than last and most of them are early in the quarter.
So we feel pretty good about the big build we have coming there.
We're doing very very well of late.
We're also capturing some more gas and add some more facilities.
And we do that we'd catch some BOEs there and catch some NGL as well.
And that issue is a pipeline issue and offset frac issue that was early in the quarter and I consider it isolated earlier.
LLC Research Division</strong> That's helpful color for sure.
I guess just jumping over to Seal.
Productions have kind of been shrinking for the last few quarters here.
I mean how should we think about what that looks like over the next couple of years? Well just when you start trying to make sure where cash and CapEx where we are as a company and do the right stewardship around rate of return we've kind of got out of the primary business at Seal.
For years and years we did some primary horizontal drilling and now we're all about EOR-type work at Seal.
Our Seal steam project at Kudat is doing very well.
I'd say 2 of the 4 wells are really well.
And so we are looking to just focus our efforts on capital on EOR and last on primary and that's why the pullback production.
And if you look into our long-range plans you're probably looking at some growth in -- significant growth in '16 '17 and we'll be hopefully sanctioning some steam and small fields so you're starting last part of this year.
We'll also look for that time when our global prices just saw improvement in WCS and some improvement in heavy and hopefully some help with Exshaw pipeline and things to that nature by that time that we'll meet our build.
Our long-range plan is to go all EOR no conventional and that's why there's a pullback in the barrels earlier [ph].
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
So I guess prior to 2016 should we expect kind of a slow decline? How should we think about it between now and then? I would say that'd be best yes.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I guess just looking at the Montney obviously it sounds like you guys have some wells flowing back it's early days it sounds like decent results there.
Any comment on what you guys are seeing in terms of well costs in the Montney.
We're drilling these wells cheaper than the Eagle Ford wells probably in the $5.5 million range.
These wells are a little more expensive because they're going to the slick water big tonnage per frac of course they're still half the sand of an Eagle Ford well.
But a lot of competition up there to drive costs after the pullback in gas over the last few years.
And we're pleased with the costs we're pleased with the result.
And you know as we struggle a little bit with production I'm not a big gas player I don’t have the heavy gas BOE and a lot of that will help in a lot of ways.
So we're really pleased with our early wells.
So I think one way to describe the Montney is of all the wells we have in Tupper West we have about 17 of them that we consider cream of the crop.
I mean they make -- they have EURs that's greater than 5 BCF and the type of the pressures they have.
Well 5 of the first 6 of these new completions meet our cream of the crop.
So we're really on to something with this.
I think there's some other in-fill out in the press from others nearby.
And we think we're on to something here and has some price hedging have some improvement in supply costs have people come across our facility.
Got this thing to net income here and have a nice little business so we can build on here.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I guess just shifting gears slightly you guys talked about recently selling South Louisiana.
Can you maybe just give us the proceeds in terms of what you all got there and give us an indication of when that closed? And I guess I wasn't aware you guys had properties in Alaska it sounds like you're looking to sell.
Can you give us any more color on that? Sure Leo.
They're just some very small -- just trying to clean some things up.
I mean in Alaska you're talking about 120 barrels a day forever up there.
I don't know the real history of it to be -- before my time there was -- Hill Court [ph] bought some properties there from BP we got in with them and sold at the same metric.
We're talking $6 million sales price with 250 000 barrels of reserves.
And South Louisiana not even 1 million barrel equivalent resolves and selling that thing for $3 million cash and probably had a small loss if you dig into this big document here Leo.
I'm sorry.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
And I guess just in terms of your LOE it looks like we're moving in the right direction.
In terms of what we're seeing at the Eagle Ford it's coming down nicely.
But looking at Canada that's kind of been going up recently and Malaysia has kind of been bouncing around.
Should we -- what should we expect out of those couple of areas? I'm assuming Eagle Ford keeps getting better as you guys grow.
But can you talk about LOE in Canada and Malaysia? Malaysia I think we're kind of there we are.
We start up these new fields and should be slightly better as we go out the rest of the year because we put 4 new fields on pipelines all the [indiscernible].
We start off with low rates and park a jack-up rig and you add wells so the OpEx will get better.
In Canada it's primarily related to Syncrude and primarily related to that big unplanned CoCo repair.
When you had all that at cost without any barrels that drove it up to the first half and I think it would improve a little bit in the second half but that's what got that out of kilter there.
And we'll take our next question from Roger Read with Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> I guess if we could get any more detail on the sale of the U.K.
refinery and retail assets.
Going back through the notes the thought process has typically been something in the range of $600 million you said $550 million after taxes are paid on the repatriation.
Is that a material change or that's -- I'm just kind of wondering what else is moving around here? No I think that we just have to pull back a little bit.
It just hasn’t gone maybe quite as well as we originally thought.
It's always been our thinking that the tax situation would equal itself out on the loss and the gain of the various parts and I'm going to have to Kevin comment on this.
But I think it's best to pull it back to where we are and we're just trying to describe this Roger just trying to exit this business trying to be a pure E&amp;P player has been a goal for a long time.
I think that's going to be the money that ends up coming back.
And I just sort describe it's what that is and that's what the focus is by me.
And I'll let Kevin add any other color you might need for help there.
Yes Roger.
I mean frankly one of the reasons that that number has drifted down is as we've held on to this refinery longer and longer if those periods we have -- actually runs cash flow negative so we've actually eaten into a little bit of what we've had over there.
The retail is a good business it's kept on going along.
But we're just eating a little bit into the cash so we dropped that number so.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then delving in a little bit more to the Eagle Ford Shale your comments about the Upper Eagle Ford being available more well sites and all that.
I was wondering we see -- we didn't see it necessarily from you all though we've heard from a lot of others where you see continued improvements in terms of lower well costs higher EURs advanced completion.
Just wonder if you could give us any more detail on those lines kind of frame up maybe how we should think about future growth at least out of the Eagle Ford even if your long-term kind of growth profile may be from a risk-adjusted standpoint needs to maybe been -- be bent down a little bit? No I mean I think from our perspective our EURs that we originally guided to are about the same.
700-plus in Karnes 450 in the Tilden area an enormous acreage in Tilden we found that wells to be very very economic.
I think when we downspaced from down to 40 acres and maybe going down to 20 we will see some -- in some areas maybe a 20% reduction in EUR.
In some places none; in some places no interference same with the Eagle Ford Shale Upper.
Now we have 11 wells on there all for various ports [ph] of time they appear to be in the 350 to 400.
I'd say they're -- to be honest they're a little insubordinate a little below the regular Eagle Ford.
But again in pad drilling and the lower drilling costs we have they're very very economic on a single-well basis.
So we're trying to identify more what our total resource is in the Eagle Ford which is very very large for a company of our size.
We're in on the ground floor we have added a lot of value there.
And that's kind of -- I'm not so sure we're into adding of the EUR but we're certainly maintaining.
And I think it could be an add of EUR by technology and they're certainly going to be longer laterals more stages and things to that nature.
We're starting to work a lot on -- as move to change things in certain parts of the field and longer laterals so I think we have a good bit of an upside to go there technically to change EUR.
But we're pat with what we have and we haven't changed EUR to the enormous resource we have here as shown today here Roger.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And well costs is that fairly static or are you still seeing some...
Certainly there's some slide in here today as you look into our slides that we provided about our call.
I mean we're doing -- we call the slide doing more with less for the same amount of money we're drilling a lot more wells.
So drilling continues to come down.
I see completions staying about the same and we're looking at $5 million or less in Tilden $6 million in Karnes and probably $4 million in Total.
We're drilling these wells in 7 8 9 days across the play now and that used to be 22 days.
So enormous improvements there and I'm happy with the whole thing really.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then my last question.
The comment in the press release the $100 million of BOE prove reserve additions how did that breakdown by geography? Let me just get to -- return to this here in my little thing and I'll tell you exactly.
Better than that I'll tell you off the top of my head and I won't look for it.
It's about 73 million barrels of the Block H Floating LNG sanction; 14 million barrels of Eagle Ford and that's the bulk of it; and the rest would be the smaller field adds as it just gets started in Malaysia but a long way to go there.
So it's a one-off event primarily on the sanction of the Block H and the signed gas agreement with the Petronas and the continued percolating of adds to lower DD&amp;A and Eagle Ford as we go throughout the year.
We'll go next to Paul Cheng with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Hope fully these several quick questions.
Kevin just want to confirm that the $530 million that's including the sale of both the refinery terminal and the retail or it's just the refinery and the terminal? No that's all in.
That's everything.
Research Division</strong> That's all in.
Right.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Secondly do you have a preliminary budget for 2015? No not this time.
I think this year was $3.8 billion and we're keeping that flat.
We have no changes in our recent outlook.
And I recall next year's to be slightly less $3.7 billion or so but where we're just getting started with that Paul.
But I don't see a big change in it.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So it should be pretty flat to this year level? Flat or slightly less is my guidance.
Research Division</strong> And Roger that -- with the cash coming from the U.K.
and there's also rumor out there talking about someone have put a bid on -- I don't know whether that is a percentage of the entire Malaysia or just the U.K.? Yet indeed that you're going to sell part of the Malaysia also.
What's the cash usage that we should assume? Well I mean we've been wanting to repatriate the U.K.
first for a long time.
I'm very very anxious to do so and we signed agreements to do so.
That would be coming into our revolver situation lowering debt here and be better positioned in the U.S.
Largely I would think Paul I mean there's a lot of squawking I think primarily by Reuters in that region about us selling 30% of our business.
We really haven't -- we did not start that rumor we don't comment on it.
I'm not a big believer in sharing all the portfolio work.
I believe it's a disappointment primarily on what ends up happening and the timing.
As we know these portfolio moves is never what you originally say.
And we just really aren't commenting on that I do have a team of people working our portfolio both in and out and probably a lot more rigor than we have in the past.
I don't want to be the guy to turn off all lights and all these things.
And I want to investigate possible mark-to-markets in our -- in all the things we own globally.
And we should do that as a good steward of what we have here and that's where we are and I really don't comment on all those articles.
Research Division</strong> Right.
Sure.
I understand.
But how about if I can ask that when you have excess cash what's the cash priority going to be? Is it going to be going back and moving it back into the business for other M&amp;A-buying assets and that type of new platform or they're just more of the priorities returning the cash to the shareholders? I think it'd be a mixture of all of the above.
I mean we have had a very strong history here of late of share repurchase.
We have not been a historic heavy M&amp;A player but I think that I'm very very happy with things near Eagle Ford area where we're working very well.
We built a very successful team there in only a 3-year period.
I think that we would look at mixture of all of the above if they were to be some cash there to brought over there.
No special dividend anything like that but share repurchase and possible M&amp;A into onshore wouldn't be something I wouldn't -- it'd be something I'd be interested in reviewing with our board.
Research Division</strong> And Roger maybe that in stuff say comment specifically to Malaysia but on an overall there when you're looking at your upstream asset to determine that whether you want to sell down the asset other than say in terms of the price is there any characteristic of the asset that you'll you say okay once I reach this day I will be more eager than I want to be a seller.
I have exactly that plan Paul but I'm not telling you today.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's fair.
In Malaysia Block K based on your production outlook when do you think we're going to reach the 50-50 profit split -- that the profit split it will go down to 50-50? 2018.
Research Division</strong> 2018? Yes.
Research Division</strong> And then in the press release you're talking about the SK oil price oil and gas price realization lower because of the PSC impact.
Is that a temporary because of the profit -- because of the cost barrel is getting smaller or that this is something more permanent? No it's -- I don't want to use the word complicated Paul but it takes a lot of modeling.
Of course we have it modeled.
This is absolutely positively not involved in the production miss or production issue.
All of our production matters are one-off operational period nothing to do with this.
But we have 2 blocks in SK: 309 311.
309 has the historic West Patricia in it.
So its costs current will be forever.
It has a high oil to sea level so there's no significant changes in entitlement in 309 until 2019 or more.
The other block 311 has some of the newer fields that we -- that we've been -- putting on production of late.
They will not have a significant entitlement change from a barrels basis until 2016.
And all of this will be in our plan.
At the prices in the third quarter we've guided that today.
And I would say that would improve in the fourth quarter by about $7 $8 a barrel and then stay consistent there through and on into '16.
Research Division</strong> So you're not that worried that your miss it's just a onetime-one-quarter issue in this particular case? Yes.
For -- we're going to have to be very careful and guide it.
And we're going to give you guidance on it.
And we did today quarter-by-quarter.
We're working a system to better guide that for you at your conference hopefully.
I think that what happened here -- what's happening here is it's very very sensitive to spend.
It's not necessarily the spend but it's very sensitive to the timing of the payment.
So we set you what we're doing last year installing all these pipelines platforms drilling and it's drilling in different blocks: 309 versus 311.
We have a very detailed model of it here.
We know what we're doing on it.
And so it ended with less cash and that would have pulled back in the quarter.
Then we should recover some in the next quarter and it would be in pretty good shape on a per barrel basis on price for a long time.
And then apart from these entitlement things that are involved in production many years to go there and we have all that built into the plan.
Research Division</strong> Perfect.
My one final one Seal are we still expecting by 2016 the growth trend will start to kick in? And what is the petrol peak rate you guys are currently assuming several year down the road? I don't have that in front of me today Paul to be honest with you on Seal -- Barry do you have the...
I mean in long-range plan Paul all through that we start to really pick it up in about 2018 and the plan there is to get that thing to 20 000 to 25 000 barrels a day.
Research Division</strong> So that have not been changed? No that's still where we're at now.
And we'll go next to Paul Sankey with Wolfe Research.
LLC</strong> Had a couple of follow-ups I think.
The first one was did you really say 75 straight calls to Kevin? That's correct man.
LLC</strong> Would that be 18 and 3 quarter years? It's hard to count.
That's in 1996 when I was made Director of Investor Relations.
Impressive Kevin.
You've only got 6 years to go and you'll be at 100.
It just means I'm old.
LLC</strong> Going to the follow-ups I had just...
Got to have something today.
LLC</strong> Yes I just really have follow-ups in the previous -- in fact directly from Paul's questions.
Were your about these Malaysian tax changes because you're saying now that you have a detailed model of what happens going forward.
Was it a surprise to you this past quarter? No.
Not so much.
Not on the spending side.
LLC</strong> Right.
So you kind of knew it was coming.
And on the volumes I guess what we're saying is the operational side was disappointing and therefore that's how the target got missed again.
Yes there's nothing there in entitlement.
And looking back I should have guided a price and we did it today.
LLC</strong> Right.
And then did you say in the Q&amp;A session just to confirm that you'll be lowering your long-term guidance now as a result of...
Well I'm not officially lowering it but I mean I have to look at it.
And I've done this before.
We had a really good run through '12 and '13 on production.
And I thought that with my Eagle Ford taking on a bigger position in which does pretty well.
Then I -- what I -- I don't have a problem on subsurface I've just had a lot of third-party issue.
And it really gets down to it.
I need the price on top of factor and one of the earlier calls was about primarily in the offshore and that's true.
Of course Syncrude has been problematic.
We're a very good execution company.
I'm very very proud of our ability to deliver subsea project execution Eagle Ford wells.
And I'm partnered with a lot of people.
We're one of the better players.
But we simply couldn't overcome this year of the third-party events.
We couldn't get perfect enough to overcome it.
And I have to get off this parade and it's going to take some type of factoring to do so.
And I rattled off an 8% factor.
That's what I'm working today.
But I haven't guided into all of that yet.
I got a big thing going and working on it.
Working on the budget and the long-range plan right now.
But clearly I need to do something a little bit different.
I'm working on it Paul.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And then the final one was just again somewhat of a follow-up.
But in the instance of a notional billions of dollars of potential additional cash I think what you've fairly clearly said is it would be something between share repurchase and maybe some Eagle Ford stuff.
I'm assuming you wouldn't accelerate your drilling program.
Probably not this time but I never said we had billions of cash coming back.
That's a lot.
People would put that word into my mouth there.
I mean there's a lot of yakking in the Internet these days.
But I -- if you ask me my favorite things those 2 would be it today.
Everything changes but that's it today.
And we'll go next to Ed Westlake with Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> A follow on to Paul's question I guess.
You've always been fairly clear about keeping the Eagle Ford upward that sort of I think 70 000 barrels of them and sort of having a plateau.
You're already at 53 000.
Any plans to sort of drive that a bit harder or just keep that in the back pocket as a source of longer-term cash flows? No I just think it's -- we need to something that's balanced and very predictable as we have these -- Dalmatian project Siakap North project and the shallow water Malaysia projects are very very economic.
Even with this pullback in price these things are enormously economic.
So I need something that's balanced and long term and flat and we're very happy about that.
We want to really do a full-on effort to get back to cash flow CapEx parity and not outspend our cash flow here.
And that's the way we're thinking about it it's flat over increase at this time.
Research Division</strong> And then on the Upper Eagle Ford you've got in Karnes some of the folks there have said "Look here's some Upper Eagle Ford wells co-development Austin Chalk." And you've had the same type of fumes as some of the productive wells underneath so that's awesome.
But maybe just some color on any of the tests you've got on the Upper Eagle Ford in the Tilden and Catarina areas because obviously those are the larger sort of areas for your footprint in the Eagle Ford.
In Tilden we're doing very well I described the EURs there they're very near the Lower.
We have wells for me they are a week to 11 months online.
We don't have a lot of wells but we're very happy about their performance.
We're happy about the lack of interference.
We're actually in the middle of doing some macro sizing interference testing between the Upper and the Lower now.
At the Catarina area this is a place where we've cut the drilling cost just enormously out there maybe 2/3 reduction.
So these are lower EURs as what we've previously guided but we're really not showing any decline.
And now we're in an area out there that has some Upper Eagle Ford in it and it's performing very well and very near our EURs there.
So we're really happy with those 2 areas and have a good big growth.
And we tried to -- it's quite a complicated slide you may have to call Barry and go over it but we're trying to guide as to the reserves that we have and the resources we have in these different intervals both from offsets and downspacing and Upper-type distinctions there.
If you take some time look through that and call Barry I think you'll get a better feel that we put a lot of rigor around this resource calculation.
Research Division</strong> And then just switching to Titan.
I mean obviously you're disappointed with the main objective and then you're sidetracking the well.
Did you see something in the well that gave you because -- but it seems like it's across the fault block.
I mean just give us some sense of the confidence interval in the sidetrack or what you saw to make you do that.
Well we saw a -- this is again why we do this business.
I mean this is why we have the strategy we have what we're doing.
And we stopped drilling in 700 feet of high-quality sands some of the best quality sand I've ever seen in my career.
So would've had -- this is 700-foot-plus type of a column here we could've had success.
And what we had risking here is we needed to have oil be formed here and oil be migrated here.
And when we needed a lateral seal again it's all for Titan to be very big.
And we didn't have that lateral seal.
And when you do the modeling it appears that the oil would accumulate just at the very most up crest and then possibly across the fault.
And we know that from Appomattox we have oil levels that are different across major fault features.
And we know that here we see that here and because we had oil and this is oil that we got from MDT in the sample.
This isn't fake oil this is oil you can pour out on the desk here.
We -- once we find that in a very small accumulation we have we're going to go through this across the fault adjacent well that we have because the modeling work shows that it should accumulate there.
And that's why we're doing it.
I'll consider the 25% 30% chance it would be anywhere else and a deepwater-portfolio-type of a risk here.
Research Division</strong> And the timing to finish that sidetrack is that going to be as long as a normal well or? No we kicked well off at 20 000 feet.
I think we're drilling a 27 000 or 28 000 be over in about 40 days something to that nature.
And we'll go next to Pavel Molchanov with Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Well I appreciate the fact that you're not going to comment on press rumors.
But conceptually what percentage of your production base reserve base whatever metric you choose would you like Malaysia to represent in an ideal scenario? Oh I don't know.
Well it depends on -- these fictitious things is hard to say.
I mean I guess -- it's just hard to say.
I mean there's different days different situations and I hate to say that.
At this time I would say that typically we do better when we operate when we're in charge of the fields bring a competitive advantage to that.
I'd just rather leave it at that.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay fair enough.
And then on the U.K.
monetization.
The press release indicated that concurrent with the sale of the refinery itself you're looking to monetize the downstream or the retail assets as well.
Any sense of what the level of proceeds could be from that part of the sale? We're just really at this time trying to say that we're going to bring all this money home as we said in the comments here today which is $550 million.
I think you would describe that business as an EBITDA-multiple-type sale that wouldn't be shocking and wouldn't be unbelievably high or unbelievably low but very fair and very known to benchmarks of industry.
And to me it's about exiting that business becoming focused on E&amp;P continuing with the execution of that which is our goal getting the money back into our revolver and have a very low revolver and flexibility here for Kevin and moving forward.
That's kind of what we're focused on.
Pavel $550 million relates to all of the downstream assets over there.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay understood.
And then just a quick one.
On Titan any sense of how long until the sidetrack reaches Kiti? Just said I think about 45 days from now.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> 45 days okay.
And we'll take our final question today from John Herrlin from Societe Generale.
Two quick ones.
You mentioned that OBO situations can sometimes be problematic.
Is Syncrude still strategic now that you have bigger North American production onshore? Well I mean it's strategic and it's a big part of our R/P and we got in on that at very very low ground floor prices.
And it still delivers $200 million or $300 million of cash to us in Canada.
I would say that if we could have some more success in exploration it might not be as strategic.
But we wanted that our R/P to the 10 level and on and it's in our plan to do that and it's a key part of that.
Are there other things that could tell us that goal to be made and allow it to be less strategic? Yes.
I would say today our early entry and the cash it provides and the R/P is the main and only strategic advantage that gives me today.
That's a very disappointing year and it just continues to struggle there.
And even though this maintenance is behind it to get back going again has been difficult.
So -- but that's how I view it.
It's more of an R/P very critical to us at this juncture but getting less all along.
Okay that's fine.
Last one for me is on the U.K.
Any charges associated with the sale that you'll be taking any future charges? We made a big write-off last year as to the assumed sale.
And we think we're okay there but you'll never know if it's over and we got to close out our books.
And I'd be very anxious even for this one to end this chapter I assure you.
Okay.
Yes that's why I was wondering whether there was something incremental.
And that does conclude the question-and-answer session.
At this time I'd like to turn the conference back to Mr.
Roger Jenkins for any additional or closing remarks.
I appreciate everyone calling in today.
We'll be back the same time and station in late October it will be cool.
Football season will be going and we'll try to have a better quarter and get well in here.
And we appreciate all the time and we thank you all.
Again that does conclude today's presentation.
We thank you for your participation.
Good afternoon ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Murphy Oil Corporation Third Quarter 2014 Earnings Call.
Today's conference is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the call over to Mr.
Barry Jeffery Vice President Investor Relations.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you.
Good afternoon everyone and thank you for joining us on our call today.
With me are Roger Jenkins President and Chief Executive Officer; Kevin Fitzgerald Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; and John Eckart Senior Vice President and Controller.
We've posted a few informational slides on the Investor Relations section of our website that you can follow along with as part of the webcast today.
Today's call will follow our usual format.
Kevin will begin by providing a review of third quarter 2014 results.
Roger will then follow with an operational update after which questions will be taken.
Please keep in mind that some of the comments made during this call will be considered forward-looking statements as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
As such no assurances can be given that these events will occur or that the projections will be attained.
A variety of factors exist that may cause actual results to differ.
For further discussion of risk factors see both Murphy's 2013 Annual Report on Form 10-K and Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended June 30 2014 both on file with the SEC.
Murphy takes no duty to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements.
I'll now turn the call over to Kevin.
Thanks Barry.
Net income for the third quarter of 2014 was $245.7 million or $1.37 per diluted share compared to net income in the third quarter of last year of $284.8 million or $1.51 per diluted share.
For the 9 months of 2014 we had net income of $530.4 million or $2.94 per diluted share compared to net income for first the 9 months of 2013 of $1.05 billion or $5.51 per diluted share.
This year's third quarter included a loss of discontinuing operations of $25.3 million or $0.14 per diluted share compared to net income of $19.8 million or $0.10 per diluted share for the same period last year.
For the 9-month period 2014 included a loss from discontinued operations of $52.6 million $0.29 per diluted share compared to income of $340.4 million $1.79 per diluted share in 2013.
From continuing operations we had income in the third quarter of 2014 of $271 million or $1.51 per diluted share compared to income and continuing operation in the third quarter of last year of $265 million $1.41 per diluted share.
For the continuing operations for the 9 months of 2014 we had net income of $583 million or $3.23 per diluted share compared to income from continuing ops for the 9 months of 2013 $707.6 million $3.72 per diluted share.
Looking at income by segments.
The E&amp;P segment for the third quarter of 2014 had income of $311.4 million compared to the income for the third quarter of 2013 of $264.2 million.
Higher E&amp;P earnings for the 2014 quarter were mostly attributable to higher oil and gas sales volumes lower cost for exploration activities and U.S.
tax benefits on foreign exploration activities partially offset by significantly lower oil sales prices at higher extraction cost.
Crude oil and gas liquids production for the current quarter was approximately 155 900 barrels per day compared to approximately 138 100 barrels per day in the corresponding 2013 quarter.
This increase was attributable to higher production at the Eagle Ford Shale the Gulf of Mexico and shallow water Malaysia partially offset by lower volumes from Block K in Malaysia.
Natural gas sales volumes averaged 443 million cubic feet per day in the third quarter of 2014 compared to 415 million cubic feet per day in the third quarter of last year.
This increase was attributable to higher volumes from the Eagle Ford Shale and the Gulf of Mexico partially offset by lower volumes at Tupper area in British Columbia.
In the corporate segment we had a net charge in the third quarter of '14 of $40.4 million compared to a net gain in the third quarter of '13 of $800 000.
This unfavorable variance is primarily related to lower asset tax gains from foreign currency transactions and higher net interest expense.
As of September 30 2014 Murphy's long-term debt amounted to just under $4 billion approximately 32.2% of total capital employed.
This long-term debt figure includes approximately $341 million associated with the capital lease of production equipment for the Kakap field in offshore Malaysia.
Excluding this lease long term debt to capital employed at September 30 will be approximately 30.3%.
Now with that I'll turn it over to Roger.
Thanks Kevin.
Highlights for us this month.
Looking at the highlights in the third quarter we announced the signing of the sale and purchase agreement for 30% of Murphy's Malaysia business for $2 billion.
We closed on the sale of the U.K.
retail gasoline business on September 30 with the sale of the Milford Haven refinery scheduled for tomorrow.
We approved a $500 million share repurchase program and increased our dividend by 12% to $1.40 per share at our August 6 2014 board meeting.
We achieved a record production level of 229 759 barrel equivalent per day.
We produced an Eagle Ford Shale quarterly record of just over 60 500 BOE per day up 15% from the second quarter of this year.
In recent years Murphy has been known as a company with leading production growth reserve replacement and cash flow for BOE metrics along with a consistent dividend policy.
Since 2012 Murphy has returned significant value back to our shareholders totaling near $4 billion through the spinoff of Murphy U.S.A.
valued at $1.75 billion in September of 2013 share repurchases of $1.125 billion which retired approximately 18 million shares or 9.3% of outstanding shares to date and as just mentioned $500 million authorization by our board in August of this year.
We paid a special dividend of $2.50 per share totaling $486 million.
And during this time from 2012 to '14 we paid regular cash dividends of $700 million.
Looking at the prices in the third quarter.
Realized oil prices in Block K and our 2 blocks in Sarawak averaged $89 and $80 respectively.
We forecast Block K and Sarawak realize oil prices in the fourth quarter to be near $77 and $75 respectively primarily related to the recent drop in benchmark prices.
Our index -- our oil index SK gas averaged close to $5.10 per MCF for the quarter and we anticipate realized prices in the fourth quarter to be near $5.70.
Moving to the United States.
In Eagle Ford Shale oil prices are just over $93 for the quarter including impact of our WTI hedging program.
We have 22 000 barrels oil per day hedged at WTI and our Eagle Ford business for the fourth quarter at an average price of just over $93.
Our realized oil price in the Gulf of Mexico averaged near $97 keeping pace with the movement in LLS.
Syncrude was closed to $93 per barrel.
And Seal including the hedge was a little under $58 per barrel.
Both were lower in the third quarter with drops in WTI.
Our oil-weighted portfolio continues to deliver solid cash flow metrics.
In the third quarter we saw the growth for the second quarter in both EBITDA and EBITDAX per BOE.
We do see a reduction in cash metrics to a year ago when major price indexes were some $9 to $12 above levels in the third quarter of this year.
We have for this quarter just under $44 per BOE of EBITDA and near $49 per BOE of EBITDAX.
We continue to demonstrate strong results compared to our operational peer group in this metric.
Our solid cash flows derive from strong supply cost position in our key oil and gas fields.
Our supply costs will continue to prove advantageous to us as we weather the storm of recent price pullbacks.
In our key oilfields we tend to be in the low-40 range in total supply which includes OpEx and DD&amp;A and averaged near $14 per BOE from a total operating expense perspective.
These metrics are further supported by our historic East Coast Canada production.
On the gas side supply costs are in the $20 per BOE range or just below $3 per MCF which generates income in SK Gas and keeps us in positive earnings territory in the Montney.
Both major gas areas generate strong cash flow where operating expenses at SK and Montney are near $1.20 and $0.80 per MCF respectively.
On our global lease operating expense or LOE our quarter 3 2014 excluding Syncrude is near $10.50 per BOE showing an improvement of $1.40 per barrel over the second quarter of this year led by reduced unit cost in the Gulf of Mexico on higher volumes.
Overall operating cost continue to trend significantly lower than the 2013 annual average of $14.61 per BOE as we continue to emphasize cost reductions.
Third quarter production averaged 229 759 barrel oil equivalent per day exceeding our quarter 3 guidance by 225 000 barrels equivalent per day.
This was primarily attributed to higher production from the Gulf and shallow water offshore Sarawak in Malaysia offset by lower volumes from Syncrude and Sabah Gas.
Looking ahead we're guiding to the fourth quarter production level of 250 000 barrel oil equivalent per day.
Hitting this target will provide 9% production growth for the year over 2013.
2014 has been a year with major subsea execution projects including Siakap North-Petai Dalmatian and first oil from the non-operated floating production system on Kakap-Gumusut.
We have the execution phase of these projects behind us now which should derisk production guidance.
In the fourth quarter the Eagle Ford Shale will add 40 new wells.
We'll also add new wells in the Montney and Syncrude has returned to full production following unplanned maintenance in the third quarter.
In exploration and our global offshore exploration program.
We released information stating the Titan Well in the Gulf of Mexico was dry in our August 6 press release.
Further in the Gulf of Mexico the rig is on location at our Urca prospect in Mississippi Canyon Block 697.
We currently hold a 50% working interest as operator.
We're in final negotiations to reduce our equity interest to 35%.
The Lower Miocene sub-salt structure has predrilled gross mean resource size of 130 million barrels.
We plan to start an 8 000 square kilometer 3D seismic program across Block EPP43 and the Ceduna Basin offshore Australia in November where we operate at 50%.
We're currently reviewing our budget and exploration program for next year but at this time in the first half of 2015 I see us participating in 2 wells in the Gulf of Mexico and 3 wells in the Perth Basin offshore Australia.
Looking at global offshore operations.
In Malaysia we recently announced the signing of a sale and purchase agreement to sell down 30% of our oil and gas assets for $2 billion subject to customary closing costs and adjustments.
The effective date of this transaction is January 1 2014 with closing expected to take place in 2 phases.
The first phase comprising 2/3 of the transaction is expected to close late this year and the second phase is expected to close in the first quarter of 2015.
Production offshore at Sabah was just over 20 -- just over 35 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day for the third quarter with 94% liquids.
At Kikeh we continue with planned fuel development work.
At Siakap North-Petai we're currently drilling additional producer for the field.
The Kakap-Gumusut main project declared first oil on October 8 2014.
The project's expected to ramp up in stages over the fourth quarter and into early next year.
The Floating LNG project for Block H continues to progress on schedule where we are working on bid documents for subsea hardware and pipelines.
The Floating LNG vessel keel-laying is scheduled for late this year.
In shallow water offshore Sarawak gas production for the third quarter was 175 million cubic feet per day with the quarter having strong nominations into the Petronas LNG facility.
SK liquids production was near 22 650 barrel oil per day for the quarter.
The new field developments continue to perform above plan.
Drilling continues at South Acis field where we delivered 4 wells during the third quarter and expect to complete an additional 4 in the fourth quarter.
In the Gulf of Mexico the Dalmatian wells where we hold a 70% working interest continue to exceed expectations.
Production for the quarter was just over 10 000 barrel equivalents per day with 53% liquids.
The production levels are above original plans but we're limited by maintenance work at the non-operated Petronius host platform.
In Medusa Mississippi Canyon where we operate with 6% working interest we started drilling the first of 2 subsea expansion wells and anticipate first production from the new wells in the middle of 2015.
Work at the non-operated Kodiak development where we hold a 29% working interest continues to plan with first oil expected in the first-half 2016.
Looking at North American onshore in Canada in the Montney and the Tupper area in Western Canada third quarter production was 146 million cubic feet per day.
We currently have 3 rigs drilling and one completion spread in operation to deliver 19 wells this year.
We're continuing to see positive results using our new completion and choke management strategies with production rates trending near the higher end of the range compared to offset.
But more importantly blowing pressure is holding up very strong which supports the expectation for higher EURs.
We have 110 million scuffs per day of gas hedged at near CAD 4 AECO for the remainder of '14 and 65 million scuffs per day of gas hedged at near CAD 4.10 AECO for 2015.
Now looking at Eagle Ford Shale third quarter which comprised 90% liquids averaged just over 60 500 barrel equivalents per day up from near 52 800 barrel of oil equivalents per day in the prior quarter as we brought on 64 new wells online.
We reduced the 7 drilling rigs and 3 completion spreads across the play and expect to bring on close to 40 new wells in the fourth quarter for a total of just over 200 wells this year both operated and non-operated.
We continue to see a tremendous running room of 10 years of inventory looking forward in Eagle Ford Shale.
We continue to see positive results with downspacing development and piloting to test staggered spacing with upper Eagle Ford Shale and Lower.
We have over 2 years of history in reducing the Upper Eagle Ford Shale zone and we're seeing these wells perform in line with an offsetting Lower Eagle Ford Shale well.
We are now testing staggered spacing with the Upper and Lower Eagle Ford Shale which is effectively testing a 20-acre spacing.
It is still early but initial production days shows these wells tracking typical lower Eagle Ford Shale wells.
While we do not see this potential across all of our acreage there's upside for some 600 locations.
At the end of 2013 we had just over 200 million barrels equivalent of proved reserves in the Eagle Ford.
We see tremendous resource potential with 2P in the range of 500 million barrel oil equivalent.
And our focus is to continue to migrate 2P resources into the proven reserve category here.
We're currently adding to our acreage position Eagle Ford Shale the bolt-on acquisition of approximately 5 800 net acres adjacent to our current North Tilden operations in Atascosa County.
This new acreage provides close to 35 well locations at a conservative 160-acre spacing with upside potential associated with downspacing.
I'm pleased with our execution in the Eagle Ford.
We have built a strong team and execution of building the onshore business.
We continue to ramp up production lower drilling and completion cost and focus on lease operating expenses and improve margin and returns.
Looking at the fourth quarter.
Production is forecast to be $250 000 barrel equivalents per day and our annual production guidance remains in the range of 220 000 to 225 000 barrel oil equivalent per day.
We remain on track to achieve record production this year up 9% over 2013 with continued ramp-up at Eagle Ford Shale and growth support of our new offshore fields.
Our major subsea development work is behind us which derisked production going forward.
We're currently in the middle of our 2015 budget process.
We're looking hard at the recent price pullback and potential impact on cash flow and capital spending in the budget.
In addition we will factor in the 30% sale-down in Malaysia and the timing to close that transaction as well as reviewing overall production levels and the appropriate risking for next year.
We will approve our final budget in December and expect to roll it out by our fourth quarter call early in the new year.
The takeaways today.
We're pleased with the progress of our portfolio work with the sales agreement signed for our Malaysia business and continued progress on the full exit of the U.K.
downstream.
We'll continue to reward our shareholders with another approved share repurchase authorization and continued predictable dividend growth.
After a solid third quarter production's on track to meet our prior released annual guidance.
The Eagle Ford Shale continues to perform for us with predictable long-term growth achieved.
In addition to Eagle Ford Shale much of our production growth this year has come from new subsea developments with the execution of these projects now behind us.
I'm hopeful that the current industry price indexes are near the low point in the latest cycle.
I believe Murphy is well-positioned with our oil-weighted portfolio our supply cost structure our overall liquidity and especially our low net debt to EBITDA multiple.
We will now open it up for your questions.
[Operator Instructions] And our first question comes from Leo Mariani with RBC.
LLC Research Division</strong> I was hoping you can talk a little about potential for M&amp;A out there.
Obviously you've got a couple nice checks coming over the next handful of months in Malaysia.
I think you guys have been vocal in the past about looking for potential acquisitions.
Can you just maybe kind of talk to what would be sort of most appealing to you all just from a high level in terms of what you might look at? Well first we have to get this thing closed and get all these proceeds Leo.
That's the first step in the game.
That's a little bit of way here.
We're all progressing that and feel good about that progress but yet to have those proceeds.
We like -- there's been no secret and no big deal about the North American onshore does have promise.
I think there are other opportunities also in the Gulf of Mexico as well but on such a 2-week downward slide of crude price and really when will that recalibration of the M&amp;A market take place? We know of some deals that have pulled because of that.
And further to that with the price pullback what will happen to the cost structure of the onshore? And I think it's just time for a recalibration of that and they are opportunities there.
And we're interested in reviewing them but I think this recent pullback has to cause that to recalibrate both on the expectation of the seller and the cost structure going forward as well.
LLC Research Division</strong> All right.
Can you talk a little bit more about the Eagle Ford in terms of your ability to pick up some acreage? You obviously -- it looks like you added 5 800 acres here.
Can you give us some more color around that? Was that just kind of grassroots leasing? Were there actually more of sort of a purchase involved there? And how much other acreage do you think is available around your existing positions? There's a lot -- we're reaching a cycle in the Eagle Ford where people are getting near some of these terms some 3 years ago.
And now there's pullback in price that people focus in on certain areas and some people focus in on others who want to sell some of their acreage.
And if we can pick that acreage up and have enough time to execute on it during the primary term we're interested in doing that.
We're seeing some of that these days.
Leo we don’t put everything we do in one of these slides.
We have some information certain parts of the Eagle Ford where we may want to pick up some acreage and probably not too interested in sharing much of the color around that because we have a small focus area there that we're working on right now.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
I guess in terms of your Block K production you had mentioned that it was a little bit weaker here in the third quarter.
I just want to see if there's any sort of rationale for that and maybe what the outlook is for Block K as we get into 4Q? Well any type of reduction in guidance this year would be due to this continued delay of this Kakap.
I mean it came on October 8.
It's probably posted to flow on September 15.
And this thing we make about -- we produce for the group about 25 000 gross.
And this thing has the ability to make 60 000 on top of that and you make that late a couple of weeks it can impact production.
I think our Kikeh production was as just what we thought.
Our Siakap North-Petai production is as per we thought.
And any type of miss there would be related to the delay at Kakap by Shell.
Now we did have some problems with our Kikeh gas which is a BOE production machine for us on occasion but occasionally breaks down on the other end but it's not a big part of our net income cash flow perspective Leo.
So I don't see anything major there in that miss.
LLC Research Division</strong> Got you okay.
Obviously you guys talked about finalizing the sale of the U.K.
retail.
Can you guys give us what the rough proceeds were on that? No we're trying not to split that up.
Kevin for a long time has talked around the $500 million range of the total bring home of that business.
And we'd prefer to leave it that way until we get the whole thing up buttoned up Leo to be frank with you.
Our next question comes from Guy Baber with Simmons.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to discuss the exploration strategy a bit.
But previously you highlighted some potential new venture opportunities maybe over the back half of '14 and then into early '15.
It appears that the new ventures piece is not in the 3Q slide deck.
So wondering if you could just address the geographic focus for high-impact exploration as we go through 2015 what you're thinking about new ventures? And does this signal perhaps a transition to a smaller more focused exploration in 2015 or am I reading too much into that? No we're looking in Malaysia quite frankly at a situation there and we do not have it solidified today and that's why I pulled it out.
But we're progressing it.
I'm pleased with the progress.
I would say that any new venture activity will not be in an area that we have not been actively working of late.
And if it's out today it's because it's in the real stage of getting done.
So there's a lot of opportunity there just like the prior call.
We need that to recalibrate as well what are rig rates doing what type of deepwater rig is on there what are those costs.
So no I think in general I want to see us continue to focus down more and we have made significant progress in focusing down and we're going to continue.
But today I wouldn't see any type of new venture activity outside of where we've announced working or anything of that nature.
I wouldn't read a whole lot to the absence of it today in the slide.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then you mentioned taking a closer look at the budget in light of commodity price weakness.
Fully understanding that the budget isn't finalized yet and there's a lot of moving parts can you just comment big picture on how you're thinking about 2015 spending levels and managing the business and where do you see flexibility in your outlook how important it is to balance cash flow and CapEx for you guys? And then relatedly you've always said that the balance sheet is a priority that your solid balance sheet as a priority.
Do you have targeted leverage ratios or maybe a maximum leverage ratio that you would be willing to go to relative to where you are? How do we think about that? Do we look at that on a debt-to-EBITDA basis? If you could just help us think about that that will be great.
Well that question is long like these political debate questions you hear on TV these days.
Wow.
First off I mean it is a significant pullback in price.
I mean we had a regional budget $94 we met October 6.
We lowered it to $88.
We've just been meeting lowering it to $82 and $87 Brent something like that.
So it's very difficult to get a hold of your budget with prices like that because as you know we have supplemental payments and issues to calculated and PSCs and royalties et cetera.
I have to run through all that.
In general I'd like to be a cash flow CapEx parity.
Who wouldn't? That is a I would say that's more of a prerogative for me than just incredible growth continuing on and on.
We have around a 30% debt-to-cap today.
And not counting our cash on a net debt business I feel very comfortable at that level and want all I can do to maintain it or very near it.
So that's how we're thinking about that.
It's just we're not going to get into budget today with the -- I believe and I hope that it's settled in in the low-80s which will be very helpful at forming the budget which is we're working on that today.
But that's about all I can say about it if that answers your question.
Our next question comes from Roger Read with Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> It was mentioned in this press release and it's been an issue in some prior quarters I'm sure will continue to going forward the third-party pipelines platforms and all that.
Can you help us understand as you look not just at Q4 but also to think about '15 how you're kind of risking the production profile for those sort of items or is it just simply we'll have to pay attention to seasonal issues and watch those other operators? Well we've said on prior calls some 8% kind of risking numbers we think in the offshore business gets their onshore businesses in pretty good shape.
We're putting more long-term pipe on in Eagle Ford.
And -- but Roger we're a leader in cash flow per barrel almost a $10 margin over average of a great set of peers.
And you can't have everything.
So we're not a company with the most beautiful production every quarter.
But in the big ticket items out there we're flowing Petronius into Chevron -- we're flowing Dalmatian into Petronius operated by Chevron.
They're the operator there.
And that put some issue there occasionally.
We got through that with outstanding well performance.
If you look at our big SK Gas machine which is a very nice piece of business we flow into one of the largest LNG facilities in the world.
We've been making around $300 million gross there.
We had probably one of our better quarters.
And on occasion they call on the red telephone and lower it to $240 million.
We have Kikeh gas which flows into a methanol facility which is not a big cash flow income per BOE provider for Murphy but can lead to some production.
There's a question on it earlier here today.
That flows into a facility that we do not operate.
So those are 3 of the bigger ones today that are out there.
You always have also Syncrude going into a very old and antiquated pipeline system that on occasion has curtailment because we haven't built XL pipeline and the like.
So those are the things we have here in our business.
But we have a diverse primarily Brent-weighted portfolio across a lot of places.
And we have a very high cash flow per barrel metric that I'm very proud of quite frankly.
LLC Research Division</strong> That kind of leads me into the next question.
If we are in a situation where 2015 CapEx has to come down versus '14 or versus prior expectations maybe is the way to think about it what do you focus on? Is it returns? Is there a balanced program here returns cash flow kind of NPV versus absolute returns? Can you help us understand maybe as you go through the process what falls to the cutting room floor and what goes forward? Well I've been through this many times in my career '08 and '99 '87.
You see these pullbacks.
Usually at this time of the year around budget time it's difficult.
We have a lot of irons in the fire there Roger.
I mean we're a big explorer.
Obviously you can cut exploration.
You have to be careful with that due to the size and the commitments today lead to wells in the future.
It is one of the things that you do go to pretty early.
We are -- we do have an NPV rate of return for everything we do in our portfolio.
Obviously heavy oil would probably be on the lower end of that spectrum in Montney.
And then after that with a very strong Gulf of Mexico production business things like Medusa you look at things like in Malaysia it's under a cost recovery scheme.
Those things worked very well and have high rates returns.
So if you're a 70-something percent reserves and 70-something percent production player everything's a pretty decent return.
So it gets tough.
And so we look to bring exploration down some.
And then we have to dance around with the U.S.
cash position and cash abroad and repatriation.
And working through all those issues starting off trying to be cash flow CapEx parity in the upstream at a minimum is where we try to work right now Roger.
But it's a lot of moving parts there.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just a sort of last question along those lines.
The Gulf of Mexico development projects that are out there so Medusa and Kodiak how would they fair -- I guess in a sense Medusa's already pretty well already committed to but how does Kodiak and Medusa fair in the current oil price environment? Very well in the absolute worst low-20% rate return situation.
Our next question comes from Paul Cheng with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Several quick questions.
Roger if you're looking at Eagle Ford after adjusting for the sales of Malaysia at 30% is now let's say more or less say 30% up in your portfolio production.
Is there from a portfolio management standpoint do you guys look from that standpoint say whether there's a percentage as a considered an optimum level you don't want to exceed in terms of the North American onshore shale oil or tight oil exposure? No I mean right now we're balanced at near 50%.
And I like where that is.
And when we have exploration success we'll probably get it a little below 50%.
And I'm probably -- I don't have a number in my mind with that Paul but balanced at near 50s where I'd like to be if I can I think that's a good situation.
Research Division</strong> When you say 50% you're just talking about U.S.
not talking about the overall company? No 50% of our total production.
Research Division</strong> 50% of your total production? Right now you're only about...
North America Paul.
Research Division</strong> Oh North America? Okay.
Yes we have Canada too in there Paul.
When I say onshore I think in North America not just U.S.
Research Division</strong> Okay so North America 50% is a comfortable level for you? Yes sir.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And in terms of the Malaysia the oil price guidance that you gave me in the fourth quarter is that based on the $80 -- $85 Brent based on today's Brent price? Barry could you tell him exactly what is the base now? Yes fourth quarter estimates Brent is a little under $86 in the high 85s Paul.
It will still go up from that right? Does that count that lift Barry? No that's just Brent as a benchmark at the time of estimate.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's fine.
So that means we're using a different price in our model.
We should just adjust it accordingly.
Yes that's what we're trying to guide to yes Paul.
Research Division</strong> Right that's perfect.
And I know that you guys are just looking at it.
Any rough wings you can provide? What is 2015 2016 production? Is that your best guess at this point or what are you meaning to do? No I just -- we're just not going to get into that today Paul.
It's just too drastic of a drop and I have all these things I've been rattling off here this morning I need to discuss and price and cost and just not doing that today.
Well I'll say this Paul production will be higher okay? Production will be higher than adjusted for the Malaysia sale of this year.
Research Division</strong> And that on the downspacing kind of project for the Eagle Ford looks like a great success.
From that standpoint should we assume that this is an extension of your petrol rate or your petrol rate is going to be adjust upward? We -- that again is a budget matter and a U.S.
cash situation matter and free cash flow in the Eagle Ford and net back in Eagle Ford.
We for the last year or so have had Eagle Ford at a consistent rig count and spend and flat for a long period of time.
We may reevaluate that now and are kind of in the middle of our long-range plan.
And you've got to keep in mind we have got to get this Malaysia sale closed and into our plans.
And what we might want to do with production in our -- we have a lot of leverage to pull there.
And really it will be probably a longer plateau Paul but we have the ability to increase it pretty easily.
And if we were to get a cost structure improvement here that would be a place to put capital because we're at a very high crude quality high realized price environment in our liquids NGL gas breakout in Eagle Ford Shale.
Research Division</strong> But why now for the first preliminary look that you expect you'll just keep the petrol there for a longer time? No we're going to grow into '16 for sure.
And it was originally planned to go into '17 and be flat to years after.
So we're just looking at a 2-year budget cycle now.
So definitely will increase next year.
Research Division</strong> Right.
I think previously you were looking at the petrol rate at 70 000 barrel per day.
I guess my question to that is that still a good number or should we assume higher? No at this time you should assume that Paul.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
A final one on Dalmatian.
How long that it can keep at the peak production before that we start seeing that to decline? Oh it will be another 1.5 years or so Paul there.
Our next question comes from Ryan Todd with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Great.
A couple -- I guess one follow-up on the previous one.
Is the -- and I know we've talked about this quite a bit in the past but the plateau rate -- the balance between plateau and growth in the Eagle Ford is that contingent at all on oil price right now and the pullback that we've seen? Or is it just still the general philosophy you prefer plateau over growth? I in the past have preferred plateau over growth.
But what we do every year is redo our budget and we redo our long-range plan and we have to look at what we've done with this sale down in Malaysia.
And I'm not saying I'm not going to revisit it I'm just waiting for the outcome of all that work.
And it's being worked in both methodologies at this time Ryan.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And the fourth quarter completions in the Eagle Ford's is at 40 versus -- and I know 3Q was generally higher than the run rate is.
Is the right rate going forward of the 7-rig program still kind of around 50 completions a quarter? Yes that would be but these things aren't -- we're now in these big blitz campaigns where we do uppers and lowers together downspace together and it can still get out of kilter there a little bit.
In general yes but I can't always guarantee.
We'll still have the 60 and the 40 in that way occasionally Ryan to be honest with you.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then maybe one follow-up on kind of use of cash and priorities.
There was -- I think you didn't do any buyback in the quarter.
Was that more a reflection of waiting for the proceeds of U.K.
and Malaysia to come in? Or I guess when you look forward at the balance between buyback capital spending potential acquisitions how does -- where does buyback fall in a priority there? Well when we set up buybacks we feel we can afford it or we wouldn't want to do them when we've had a consistent program by quarter in the past and we will react that same way going forward.
And we weren't in an open period and now that we released our earnings and can open up with the soak of these earnings things can change here Ryan.
But it will be at some consistent going forward way.
And it's our view at Murphy that when we make authorizations we feel we can forward it and go from there.
We move next to Paul Sankey with Wolfe Research.
LLC</strong> It's good to see you beating guidance there.
So the question for me now Roger is obviously you've got a kind of luxurious problem here and I know you've been answering questions all call around this subject but can you just go back over again now the relative attractiveness to your first of all of international deepwater exploration? And I guess in that I'd be wondering about rig rates and if that makes any difference to how you look at that opportunity set.
And then I was really wondering if this oil price environment makes you more attracted towards making an acquisition or less simple as that.
Is it likely that you want to be -- going to be -- want to be more conservative with the balance sheet and sort of protect your organic spending or do you see it as an opportunity? International exploration has been a big part of our business.
It's no secret I'm a favorite of the Gulf of Mexico.
And if you look at next year we're not through with our budget it's going to be heavily weighted toward the Gulf.
One thing about international exploration it is cheaper where the rig rate probably isn't as big a deal because the Malaysia deepwater exploration or Australia or a different place is usually much easier to drill much shallower wells.
So you do have cheaper wells abroad typically compared to the bigger wells in the Gulf.
Continuing to try to focus down into less areas there continuing to want to be in the 30% range of wells that are approaching 100 million or more we saw that in the comments today.
But back to the Gulf less international at this stage more focused into international being larger opportunities with the right kind of working interest is how I'm thinking about that.
As per the money I mean we don't have the money yet.
We need to get the money in.
It's -- get that done in our release I mean the uses of proceeds or share buyback.
You can increase rigs in Eagle Ford.
You can do M&amp;A or debt.
All of those things have advantages at different times.
I will say that I still view it as an opportunity.
I believe that our balance sheet is okay.
Our balance sheet is set up to weather this.
And I went over some of my comments of that earlier today.
I think I believe in trying to show these proceeds as they are and not use them to fund what we have.
I think it's important to make the right calls there among those 4 things that I mentioned.
Our shares are very cheap today of course and then there's M&amp;A activity that needs to calibrate to lower price and possibly some cost help there maybe onshore North America if that comes.
And setting there and waiting to react to that is a decent position and it is an opportunity and I would prefer at this time -- of course you never know what will happen.
But I prefer not to use it for proceeds in the business at this time Paul.
LLC</strong> Yes.
I mean you've had a history obviously of a higher risk higher growth-type approach.
Does that -- wouldn't that make you more oriented towards using the capital to expand the business? Or is it going to be the fact that your stock as you've highlighted to me many times is so cheap that it's very hard to find anything to buy I guess without being dilutive right other than the fact you're using cash obviously.
Well let me answer this in another way.
Stock is very cheap which makes repurchase there.
Putting rigs in Eagle Ford Shale people asked that in a different way earlier that's good.
You can't always pay down debt and be more conservative but I'm not interested in exploring with the money and trying to be able to explain where those proceeds go and I'm not interested in funding international exploration or Gulf.
[Operator Instructions] We move next to Edward Westlake with Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> A lot of questions have been asked but I just wanted to get an update in Australia.
I mean obviously the Perth Basin I think a little bit shallower.
What type of sort of I guess hydrocarbon indications have you got in that basin and sort of target size just as we think about you testing that? And then the other question would be whether you had any early seismic indications on the Ceduna Basin? First in Perth that's a very nice opportunity.
These are -- we get to participate with our partners and drill 3 wells there.
They're not large incredible opportunities.
The are 50 -- one well's around a 50 million-barrel mean the other 2 are near 100 million.
They are in only 60 meters of water.
We'll get a kick at this can at 3 wells for around $25 million our share.
It's on the Turtle Dove Ridge basin which is Triassic age.
There's 3 different types of faulting features there.
The one negative about the seismic didn't derisk it as much as we'd like.
We took 3D seismic there but the main structures are there.
There's nearby wells with great sand quality.
There was recent an onshore well there that gave some promise to that area.
So I'm excited about the kick at the can and the size of it without incredible nontax expense for us.
Ceduna Basin of course is a big hunk of acreage there.
We have the luxury of being able to watch people drill around us mainly the Chevron blocks and now the Statoil BP blocks.
We are just taking the first shot maybe not even taking it now.
So I won't have a look at that at this time but we still like that as a megatrend for us.
Murphy always was in the game with some dabbling and some really big company making wells and that this will be some of those.
We do not have a well commitment there.
And so wells will be on kind of a deeper lower tertiary Gulf of Mexico type cost or more.
So I'm glad about that.
So I get to watch other people drill look at the seismic and decide.
And I think that's a good position buttoned up against these cheaper nice very economic opportunities we have in Perth Basin.
Research Division</strong> And then in the Gulf of Mexico just the wells that you're planning for '15 are they up in the Norphlet? Or what sort of -- what are they targeting? As it stands today we have a very very nice program if we can continue with the prices we have and pay for this program which I believe we will.
The Urca well is a 130 million barrel.
It's more of a Miocene pinchout against salt play between Big Bend and Blind Faith which are 2 prolific fields in the Gulf.
We have a very nice well called Opal with our partner Anadarko to drill on the Cretaceous edge in the most eastern part of Gulf of Mexico a very large target there and a not very expensive well meaning it's less than $100 million which in the Gulf today is pretty good.
We have an amplitude Miocene play called Sea Eagle in the second quarter very very nice well similar to a Dalmatian type of opportunity.
And we have a very nice Norphlet opportunity toward the end of 2015 that would be an offset of the recently announced Shell Rydberg.
It's a very nice opportunity and it's a lot of data coming about where sand is and derisking of Norphlet.
And we're very glad.
So we have 4 nice wells not dependent on each other almost 4 different types and very nice very sizable very economic very accretive and helpful to the company and a real nice program.
Research Division</strong> Can you just I mean run through the working interest of those 4 wells? The Urca well would hopefully improve certainly going to 35% or 50% on the Opal opportunity with Anadarko or 50% today at Sea Eagle and may go down to 35%.
And we're currently 50% on the Desperado well in the Norphlet.
Our next question comes from Pavel Molchanov with Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> On the Malaysian monetization can you just explain how taxes will work on this particularly with the 2 closings in 2014 and 2015? I'll let Mr.
Fitzgerald handle that for you.
Pavel the only taxes related to the Malaysian sale will be when we repatriate the money.
There's no taxes in Malaysia on the sale itself.
Research Division</strong> Okay and understood.
So no accruals anything like that? No.
The only thing and if we repatriate the funds back to the U.S.
you'd have what we're estimating now and been telling people it's about a 8.5% leakage.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> 8.5%? Okay that's helpful.
And then for the Urca prospect I'm not sure if you guys have given out the predrill estimate but that'd be helpful.
130 million PME.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then for Whydah and Sea Eagle is it too early to ask about that? Sea Eagle's around 110 million and Whydah is not on the schedule today.
We move next to Wayne Cooperman with Cobalt Capital.
Hearing no response we'll move to John Herrlin with Societe Generale.
Just a strategic question.
You mentioned all the capital that you returned to shareholders and value you've created like spinning off the refinery or the marketing et cetera.
But if you look at your stock price and whether you go to 2012 2010 it's basically flat.
You've mentioned and I agree that your stock's undervalued.
Is it worthwhile to get more aggressive in fast cycle time projects which the market seems to be rewarding or be a whole lot more aggressive with the stock buyback? I missed your first part before the stock buyback.
I didn't quite catch that.
Again could you say that? What I said was you talked earlier about what's your return to shareholders since 2012.
Okay.
I got that part.
What are the 2 alternatives you mentioned? One getting more aggressive in fast cycle time activity like really ramping up Eagle Ford or other type endeavors or just making a big buyback and leveraging.
Well I can assure you that we are modeling both of those incredibly closely.
And in the middle of this oil price recap -- redrop here just in the last couple of weeks it's only flattened in the last few days and we're greatly calculating those 2 events.
It appears there are no further questions.
Mr.
Roger Jenkins at this time I'll turn the conference back to you for any additional or closing remarks.
No further comments.
I thank everyone for calling in and we'll see you in January.
I appreciate it.
This does conclude today's presentation.
We thank you for your participation.
Good afternoon ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Murphy Oil Corporation Fourth Quarter 2014 Earnings Call.
Today's conference is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the call over to Mr.
Barry Jeffery Vice President Investor Relations.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you.
Good afternoon everyone and thank you for joining us on our call today.
With me are Roger Jenkins President and Chief Executive Officer; Kevin Fitzgerald Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; and John Eckart Senior Vice President and Controller.
Please refer to the informational slides we have placed on the Investor Relations section of our website as you follow along with our webcast today.
Today's call will follow our usual format.
Kevin will begin by providing a review of fourth quarter 2014 results.
Roger will then follow with an operational update after which questions will be taken.
Please keep in mind that some of the comments made during this call will be considered forward-looking statements as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
As such no assurances can be given that these events will occur or that the projections will be attained.
A variety of factors exist that may cause actual results to differ.
For further discussion of risk factors see both Murphy's 2013 Annual Report on Form 10-K and Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended September 30 2014 on file with the SEC.
Murphy takes no duty to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements.
I'll now turn the call over to Kevin.
Thanks Barry.
For the fourth quarter 2014 we had income from continuing operations of $442 million or $2.48 per diluted share.
This compares to income from continuing ops in the fourth quarter of '13 of $180.5 million or $0.96 per diluted share.
For the entire year of 2014 income from continuing ops was $1 025 000 000 or $5.69 per diluted share compared to $88.1 million (sic) [ $888.1 million ] or $4.69 per diluted share for 2013.
The fourth quarter results from continuing operations for 2014 included a gain of $321.4 million on the sale of 20% interest in our Malaysian business and this is made up of 2 pieces.
We have $144.8 million of pretax profit which is included in the Malaysia operating revenues and $176.6 million of tax benefits included in income taxes.
We also had income tax benefits of $120.6 million related to foreign oil and gas investments $46.3 million of impairments related to the Tahoe field in the Gulf of Mexico and Canadian goodwill assets and $59.6 million related to the write-off of previously suspended exploration wells.
These and other items affecting comparability of earnings between periods are listed in the schedule of adjusted earnings included as part of our earnings release.
Unless stated otherwise all of these figures are on an after-tax basis.
Earnings in the 2014 quarter were negatively impacted by significantly lower realized sales prices for crude oil and natural gas liquids the effects of which were partially offset by higher production levels.
Crude oil and gas liquids production averaged approximately 173 000 barrels per day in the 2014 quarter compared to just under 140 000 barrels a day in 2013.
The increase is primarily a result of ongoing drilling in Eagle Ford Shale and the current year startup of the Dalmatian field in the Gulf of Mexico.
Natural gas volumes were 514 million cubic feet a day in the 2014 quarter compared to 399 million cubic feet a day in '13 with the increase primarily due to higher production from Dalmatian Eagle Ford Shale the Tupper area in Western Canada and at Kikeh in Malaysia.
In our corporate segment we had net charges of $25 million for the fourth quarter of 2014 compared to net charges of $62 million in the fourth quarter of last year.
Decreased costs in 2014 primarily relate to favorable results from transactions denominated in foreign currencies and lower administrative costs partially offset by higher net interest costs.
Capital expenditures from continuing operations for 2014 totaled $3.76 billion.
For 2015 our CapEx expected to total $2.3 billion.
Of that approximately $1.9 billion is for development projects and approximately $380 million is to be spent on exploration activities.
This assumes WTI pricing of $52.50 per barrel and Henry Hub pricing of $3 per Mcf.
At year-end 2014 Murphy's long-term debt amounted to approximately $2.54 billion and this included about $290 million related to the Kakap FPSO lease or 22.7% of total capital employed.
And with that I'll turn it over to Roger.
Hello everyone.
Before we get started today on our usual update I want to a moment to recognize Kevin.
As he announced previously he's retiring from the company in end of February after 32 years of service.
This is Kevin's 77th consecutive call at Murphy dating back to 1996.
A feat I do not think will be broken again.
Kevin I want to thank you for your long-term dedicated service to Murphy and wish you well in retirement.
I'm sure you'll miss the fun of working with me personally on call preparations especially when we have a great quarter and we go down 10%.
Absolutely.
I'm sure you'll continue to listen in but I will not be taking questions from you.
I appreciate the comments Roger.
Thank you.
As we get into highlights for this quarter and the year we continue to make progress in portfolio optimization.
We closed the sale of 30% of our Malaysia business for $2 billion in 2 phases: one announced from December 18 at 20%; and we just completed Phase 2 for 10% which was announced publicly this morning.
We completed the sale of the U.K.
retail gasoline business.
We initiated decommissioning of the Milford Haven Refinery process units with divestment of the terminal assets ongoing.
We divested our small non-operated interest in South Louisiana and Alaska for cash proceeds of approximately $6 million.
We built a balance sheet at the end of 2014 with a net debt to total cap ratio of 13.5% which includes $1.6 billion -- $1.65 billion of cash and invested cash located across our business.
We set a quarterly production record of 258 868 barrels of oil equivalent per day.
We set an annual production record of 225 973 barrel equivalents per day up 10% from 2013.
We recorded total proved reserve replacement of 180%.
We achieved First Oil at 3 new deepwater fields at Siakap North-Petai and Kakap-Gumusut in Malaysia and Dalmatian in the Gulf of Mexico.
We sanctioned the Block H Malaysia floating LNG project and increased production in the Eagle Ford Shale to a level near 57 000 barrel equivalent per day for the year with over 500 operating wells.
We repurchased 375 million of company common stock.
We authorized an additional $500 million share repurchase and increased the regular dividend by 12% to $1.40 per share.
When we look at prices a drop in benchmark prices from third quarter to fourth quarter was near $25 a barrel.
We saw our fourth quarter realized oil prices in our Malaysia business near $67 per barrel in great contrast to the third quarter prices of this year and fourth of last year.
Our oil-indexed SK Gas averaged near $5.50 per Mcf for the quarter.
Moving to United States.
The Eagle Ford Shale oil prices were over $78 for the quarter including the impact of our WTI hedging program which finished up at year-end.
Our realized oil prices in the Gulf of Mexico averaged near $73 per barrel.
In Canada Syncrude was close to $71 per barrel and Seal including a hedge and a narrowing heavy differential was near $46.50 per barrel.
Our global lease operating expense for 2014 excluding Syncrude is just over $11 per BOE showing an improvement of 24% over 2013.
We went into the current price decline with an advantage to our peers on cash flow metrics.
We expect to maintain this advantage but at a lower level due to continued decline in commodity prices.
Looking at production in the fourth quarter.
We set a new quarterly record averaging just over 259 000 barrel equivalent per day 4% above our guidance of 250 000 per day for the quarter.
The increase to guidance is primarily attributed to higher than planned gas production in the Montney and Sarawak areas and higher than planned oil production from the Gulf of Mexico and offshore Canada.
Production for the full year averaged just short of 226 000 10% higher than 2013 and ended up above our 220 000 to 225 000 barrel equivalent range given on July 30.
The year-on-year growth came from continued ramp-up at Eagle Ford Shale and new offshore projects coming online in the Gulf of Mexico and Malaysia.
In reserves in 2014 we expect to add reserves at a replacement rate of over 180%.
Year-end 2014 reserve volumes represented a Reserve Life Index or R over P of just over 9 years.
This is consistent with our 5-year reserve replacement rate of 180% and is our 9th consecutive year at over 100%.
And during this time we increased production since 2006 by 125%.
As we look at our price advantages here.
Our oil-weighted diverse portfolio has proven to have some benefits as we adjust to the lower price environment.
Our Gulf of Mexico Eagle Ford Shale and Malaysia oil prices compared well to many of the onshore shale regions in the United States.
In Eagle Ford Shale we're oil-weighted with very little condensate and our proximity to the Gulf of Mexico is beneficial compared to some of Mid-Continent crudes.
Looking at our global offshore operation in Malaysia following customary closing and adjustments we have realized cash proceeds of approximately $1.87 billion on the 30% sale of our Malaysia assets.
Production offshore Sabah near 46 500-barrel equivalent per day for the fourth quarter with 85% liquids.
The Kakap-Gumusut main project declared first oil in October 14.
The project has demonstrated excellent performance with production ramping up over the fourth quarter into this year with rates reaching 120 000 barrels per day gross.
In shallow water offshore Sarawak gas production in the fourth quarter was 177 million cubic feet per day with higher-than-expected nominations into the LNG facility.
Sarawak liquids production was just over 23 000 barrels per day for the quarter.
Drilling continues at the South Acis field where we've delivered 2 oil wells and drilled 4 water injectors during the fourth quarter.
In the Gulf of Mexico production for the quarter was near 32 400-barrel equivalent per day with 65% liquids.
We continue to progress our subsea 2-well expansion project at Medusa and Mississippi Canyon where we have a 60% working interest.
The first subsea well has been drilled to plan and we are continuing with drilling the second well and subsea tieback to the Medusa facility.
First production from the new wells is expected by mid-year.
At the non-operated Kodiak development where we hold a 29% working interest drilling continues on the initial development well with first oil targeted in the first half of 2016.
We're pleased with the pay results seen on the well so far.
In North American onshore business at the Montney at Tupper gas fields in Western Canada our fourth quarter production was 186 million cubic feet per day up from 146 million per day in the third quarter as we added 8 new wells.
We currently have 3 rigs and 1 completion spread in operation but we reduced the rig count to 0 by the middle of February as we reduced capital spending across the company and across lower rate of return projects.
We brought 8 new wells online in quarter 4 and expect to deliver 9 wells in 2015.
We have seen excellent results utilizing our new completion and choke management strategies which should lead to improved EUR on future wells.
We have approximately 65 million cubic feet per day of gas hedged at near CAD 4.10 AECO for 2015.
In the Eagle Ford Shale.
The fourth quarter production averaged near 64 300 barrel equivalents per day net at 90% liquids up from 60 500 barrel equivalent per day in the third quarter as we brought on 54 wells.
The full year average of production at Eagle Ford Shale was just under 57 000 barrel equivalent per day up from near 39 000 barrel equivalent per day in 2013.
We have reduced our rig count in the Eagle Ford Shale from a high of 8 in September to 5 today and we plan to be at 4 rigs by early March as we release rigs due to capital constraints and falling commodity prices.
We're now using 2 completion spreads down from 3 in December and expect to average 1.6 spreads this year.
Production in the fourth quarter of 2015 is estimated to average 62 000 barrel equivalents per day with 45 new wells coming online.
We're now estimating full year production near 57 000 barrel equivalent per day flat to the prior year based on bringing on 118 new wells down approximately 100 wells from 2014.
We continue to see positive results from our downspacing and staggered well testing across the play our current focus is on managing capital spending and operating expenses.
The long-term value of our Eagle Ford position is bolstered by our early entry into the play at an average lease cost of approximately $2 000 per acre.
We continue to execute well in Eagle Ford Shale.
We built a strong team in execution of building an onshore business at a growing production to the current levels from our entry in the play in 2009 by lowering our drilling and completion and lease operating expenses each year.
As we look at guidance.
First quarter guidance for 2015 is detailed in our earnings release and on the Slide #14 today.
We expect production to be near 221 000 barrels equivalents per day with sales targeted 230 000 barrel equivalents per day with the overlift coming primarily from Malaysia.
Exploration expense for the quarter is estimated at $108 million and includes $50 million of potential dry hole cost for Urca in the Gulf of Mexico and 3 Perth Basin wells in Australia and $24 million for G&amp;G expenses globally.
The full year production guidance range is 195 000 to 207 000 barrel equivalents per day and I will provide more detail on this shortly.
Looking at CapEx in 2015.
Our current budget for capital spending and production guidance is based on average oil prices for the year of $52 WTI $57 Brent and $3 Henry Hub.
Further declines in price may result in changes to our guidance.
We're forecasting our capital expenditures to be $2.3 billion down approximately 33% in the 2014 pro forma of $3.5 billion when calculating out the Malaysian sale.
The bulk of our spending will be in development drilling and field projects with 17% of our capital allocated to exploration program of which $266 million or near 75% is allocated to exploration drilling.
The projected development spend of approximately $1.9 billion is split between our global offshore business at 45% and North American onshore at 55%.
Most significantly we're cutting our Eagle Ford Shale CapEx by 46% compared to 2014 spending with the reduction in rigs from 8 in September to hopefully 4 mid-March.
In our exploration program in the Gulf of Mexico we're currently drilling the operated Urca prospect in Mississippi Canyon 697 where we farmed down from 50% to 35% working interest.
We expect to reach TD by mid-February.
This middle Miocene target is pre-drill gross mean resource size of 130 million barrels.
In Australia we spud the first of 3 wells in our Perth Basin program on January 22 where we operate with 40% working interest.
We are testing a total of 280 million barrels of gross mean resource across 3 wells.
The 3D seismic program in our Australian Block in the Ceduna basin is now over 50% complete and we expect to finish up in the near term.
Looking at the rest of our 2015 program.
We plan to drill up to 4 wells in the Gulf testing 620 million barrels equivalent of gross mean resource.
We will drill 5 wells in Southeast Asia in Malaysia and Brunei and test 350 million gross mean resource.
Overall the 2015 program will test a net risk mean resource of near 190 million-barrel equivalent worth $266 million in exploration drilling capital.
As we look at production in 2015.
We're guiding to a 2015 production range of 195 000 to 207 000 barrel equivalent per day in that year.
The midpoint of this range or 201 000 would place us with a slight growth over the 2014 pro forma with a 33% budget reduction in 2014 to '15 including a 46% reduction in Eagle Ford Shale capital year-on-year.
As we look in 2015 post of sell-down we have both near-quarter items and entire year items further impacting production.
As a starting point our fourth quarter average of near 259 000 equivalent would be lowered to 231 000.
And the 2014 annual production of near 226 000 barrel equivalent per day is adjusted to just under 200 000 both on a pro forma basis as sell-down in Malaysia.
Looking at the first quarter we see Sabah being higher with the ramp-up in the Kakap-Gumusut main project and new wells coming on at Kikeh.
In the Gulf of Mexico planned outages at non-operated Habanero and our Medusa field impact quarterly production rates.
The rest of the decrease is attributed to assumed lower gas nominations in Sarawak and rig cuts for capital reduction starting to impact our North American onshore business.
Typically the fourth quarter is a high production period with no planned turnarounds or outages scheduled.
Over the course of the full year we have planned outages for maintenance work typically scheduled during better weather in the middle of the year.
In addition we contained a risk reduction and nomination levels of both operated and the non-operated facilities that we do not control.
Moving to the full year.
Both Kakap-Gumusut and Siakap North-Petai will contribute for the entire year when compared to 2014.
Full year contribution from Dalmatian and the mid-year startup of Medusa expansion add to this year but is offset with the expected shut-in of the Mondo field along with planned outages and field declines.
Year-on-year we see a slight increase in Montney production despite a falloff from the quarter high in 2014 in fourth quarter.
We're seeing production decline in our heavy oil at Seal as we shut in uneconomic wells at this lower price level.
As to liquidity we're starting off 2015 in very good financial shape with our balance sheet and cash positions bolstered by the recent sell-down of our Malaysia business.
We are well positioned with flexibility and optionality to carry out our 2015 plans of intention to operate in capital cost reductions maintain the current dividend manage our U.S.
cash position take advantage of opportunities that may arise during this downturn and increased our activity level when prices recover.
As to takeaway as we look back on 2014 we impacted our shareholders positively with share buybacks as well as increasing our dividend.
We again increased and replaced production now for 9 years in a row.
Our reserve replacement history continues at over 180%.
I feel the current downturn in prices and associated capital reductions gives us a recalibration point to production.
And we plan to take advantage of this change with recent results showing improvement in meeting production guidance.
Our onshore North American business has become very significant representing near 45% of our 2014 production levels.
Our early entry at low cost in Eagle Ford Shale will now show the value of the play going forward.
Our plan is to maintain our Eagle Ford Shale 2014 production level flat in 2015 with a 46% reduction in capital spending year-on-year.
We've made many changes in senior personnel and process in our exploration business.
We are confident in our plans to test near 190 million barrels equivalent of this year's program as well as evaluate new opportunities that will become available in this downturn.
We went into the current price collapse with a cash flow per barrel advantage to our peers which should continue.
Late 2013 we set out to mark the value of our Malaysia business and removed some concentration risk as well as hopefully do further portfolio optimization work.
The timely closing positions us very well to maintain flexibility from a balance sheet perspective.
Our company has survived prior price drops with a conservative balance sheet diverse producing assets an exploration base growth strategy that stood the test of time.
I will now be glad to take your questions.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] And we will take our first question from Leo Mariani at RBC.
LLC Research Division</strong> I was hoping you could speak to uses of the cash in Malaysia.
Obviously you've gotten the proceeds at this point.
Can you talk about how you're thinking about using that and how you would prioritize the uses? Well right now we just -- it's been a very complicated long closing process as I have said in my comments and it takes a long time to sell these big assets for these big premiums.
It's quite a complicated set of assets.
Our team did an incredible job of closing and getting all this data together and all the approvals necessary.
So I'm very happy with that.
It's just getting in the last piece today Leo during a pretty big price collapse there.
So what we've been doing of late quite honestly is working real hard on our budget getting our budget to the lowest level we think we can go until we see this price recovery get better.
And we -- obviously we all know where the opportunities would be there would be M&amp;A opportunity or share repurchase.
We -- looking a lot -- at a lot of opportunities I think the opportunity set today has been reduced some by onshore players pulling many of those deals and we'll have to see a calibration in the thoughts behind the sale price there or at least in the cost aspect of it or some slowdown and stability in crude.
So our plan is to hunker down and monitor all that right now and not -- just not stating on what the plans are quite frankly.
LLC Research Division</strong> Alright.
In your prepared comments you spoke about your budget being based on I guess $52.50 $57 and $3.
Can you talk as to where you would pull back some of the capital to the extent that prices stay lower for longer? And then alternatively can you speak to an acceleration case if we do get a recovery at some point during '15 and where you would pull back and where you would add capital? And maybe just kind of talk through some scenarios.
Well I mean I thought $52 was a good number couple of weeks ago now it's probably $45 so that shows the problem today.
I think we're in pretty good shape to execute what we have.
I mean obviously I think you'll find that we'll have -- when all the earnings releases are done I think we'll end up with probably one of the better balance sheets due to this timely closing very fortunate there and feel real good about being able to do what we have even if it gets worse.
But if we choose to make it worse I mean obviously the Eagle Ford Shale is a very valuable barrel.
The barrel is on the ground there.
We can stop spending them there and it is a U.S.
spend U.S.
debt would be increased.
It is a place too that can be rapidly increased add rigs very quickly.
I look for cost calibration to go very quickly there.
We are seeing progress and got to 10% on cost reductions probably quicker than anticipated heading toward 15% to 20% now.
On top of the efficiencies that we have it allows us to keep some of the better rigs and make deals on the rigs that we had in the release.
So I feel real good about it the ability to cut there some and quickly add there and -- but I think we can handle what we have pretty good here even if things go down Leo.
LLC Research Division</strong> Alright I guess could you maybe just speak to type of oil price you would need to see to start ramping.
Eagle Ford even if it's just a rough range if we were at $65 or $70 would that be good enough? Can you maybe just speak to that? I don't really have that in my mind.
I'm hunkered down right now looking for opportunity quite frankly over increasing CapEx.
I see that as the best thing to do for us and don't really have a number in mind for things that we have to do further up -- further rigs to be dropped which is all the rage and all the discussion.
And that gets in the thousand level cost we'll calibrate.
I don't believe we're there yet.
And I just don't walk around with a number saying we're going to get back after them.
I'm in the hunkered down mode right now and looking for opportunity frankly.
LLC Research Division</strong> Alright that makes sense thanks.
And we'll take our next question from Guy Baber at Simmons.
Research Division</strong> Good afternoon everybody and Kevin congrats on your retirement and on your Cal Ripken-like streak of calls.
That is -- I'd say well put.
He's a little -- he's just not as quite in good shape as Cal Ripken.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to talk a little bit about the cash flow and CapEx relationship given the commodity price assumptions that you published and used to set the budget.
But just curious if you could share with us kind of your general expectation for where cash flow should shake out on those planning assumptions and how close you are to cash flow neutrality with the CapEx numbers on that you've cut pretty aggressively.
We don't usually get into all that kind of detail but I'll share with you a little cover -- color.
I guess on just an E&amp;P-only basis Guy we would be probably out of kilter there about $700 million.
I think you may have -- someone forecasted that last evening $700 million $800 million which I think will be accurate.
Then of course we have a dividend of $2.48 and some corporate expenses of $169 million.
And then that is -- and then we have the proceeds coming in from Malaysia.
So we will of course outspend at $52 million.
It won't take a lot of calculation to get there.
I think that would be a common theme this year.
We did go back as much as we could.
I think -- it's my view that's the way to handle this is to cut back as much as possible and wait and that's what we did.
And I feel good about where we are because we happen to have a lot of cash today.
Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
And then I had a couple production-related follow-ups.
I was hoping you could speak to the decision around shutting in production at Seal.
How many wells? How much production that impacted? And just if you could talk about that decision-making process because it's not something -- I don't believe we've seen much of across the oil sands at least not yet.
And then in the Eagle Ford appreciate all the disclosure and the trend that you provided.
If the spending levels remain at these constrained levels do you have an expectation for where 2016 production would shake out? If you could share that that will be great.
First on Seal I mean there's hundreds of wells at Seal and they're very -- and we have 2 businesses there.
We have an old conventional business that's been in place for a long time which we're really not investing in it anymore and a futuristic kind of steam business is going actually very well.
So we may have maybe 250 barrels shut in the day and we feel that at the worst case we could get 80 wells shut in for a couple of thousand barrels a day in the year.
That's probably be the worst case scenario because we need some level of -- what it is it's each well's economics to OpEx that we're looking at on an individual well basis.
And we're not going to probably shut in the whole field but that gives you a flavor for that.
And we have some of that in the guidance that we provided today along with some risking of production I discussed.
So the next question was about 2016? Research Division</strong> That's right for -- just give us a handle on kind of the Eagle Ford progression as you go into 2016 if CapEx was expected to stay at these low levels.
No Guy honestly been down a lot the last couple of days.
There's a couple of folks out on their call we're pretty early out in the game.
I'm going to wait for some other guys to talk about 2016 before I do.
I'm in 2016 mode right now.
Redone the budget 4 times and it's not even February.
So I'm not giving 2016 guidance.
Research Division</strong> Yes that's fair enough.
Thank-you.
And we'll take our next question from Brian Singer at Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to see if you could provide some color on how you see the cost structure in the offshore evolving if you see a material reduction in the exploration cost to drill deepwater Gulf of Mexico wells to develop future discoveries.
And where are the services in E&amp;C companies you speak with coming out particularly for a company like Murphy that's committed to the offshore? I've been around that business a long time Brian I've seen -- I've had the lowest rates I've had the highest.
We kind of got a mix of it today with a couple of pretty high rates in our business today as to commitments but today this Kodiak project in the Gulf of Mexico I think is one of the cheaper rigs in the world a little over 300 000 a day.
So I have one of the higher and one of the lower in my business.
And that's the way it goes if you're in the business for a long time.
I think there are still a lot of high rate contracted rigs out there in the 550 range.
There's many of them.
Almost all of the new builds have contracts at high rates.
They are stacked.
Let's say one bad technology rig that can do the job that you can get for 300s.
I don't think -- with the big pullback in CapEx this year I think those would be one-off opportunities for the drillers in my view I don't see it as to be a big impact.
I think it will be a big impact on development.
I think you'll see people that hit on exploration wells unable to sanction.
We'll have lower drilling cost maybe $150 000 a day per rig.
So it will be very significant.
I don't see it being that significant for me over the next couple of years but it will be very significant for development.
I think that -- it's my personal opinion on this but this cost going down issue is more onshore-focused at present massive numbers of rigs.
I think that will be the first shoe to drop as to big lowering of expenses.
The offshore is controlled by in my view larger service providers more high-tech Christmas trees completions gravel packs.
I believe it's controlled by less people too.
Two of those people have recently merged as we know.
I don't see the big pullback in that because they won't have the mom-and-pop competition that you would have to the super major service onshore.
But a lot of these boats along with the rigs it may take a couple years for that to work.
But that's -- it's just not as significant as I think you may be thinking Brian in my opinion.
Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
And then you seem to say earlier that you're most focused on new opportunities which seems to imply -- the correct me please provide more color if that ideally you like acquisitions over repurchase and repurchase over drilling.
And when you think about acquisitions between the -- among the deepwater conventional onshore shale where do you see the best opportunity to augment the portfolio? Well I think we're a company that can operate in both.
We're a significant deepwater operator.
We have super major deepwater ability.
We've proven that time and time again.
We're running 3 big deepwater rigs today and operate a lot of deepwater facilities.
We're a big onshore player and Eagle Ford has done very well there too.
So we actually can play in both.
I would say today that there's less deal flow in the onshore due to this view there'd be a rapid recovery in price which may or may not happen.
And I would say that we're looking at both heavily and I really do not have a favorite.
I'm trying to improve my company's ROCE improve ROP and make our company into a better company and compare that always to share repurchase.
So those 3 are on the tables for us and I see the onshore as a little bit slow in deal flow today.
And we'll take our next question from Paul Cheng of Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Hey Guys good afternoon.
Hi first and foremost Kevin congratulations and thank you for all the years.
I won't count how long that we've known each other so -- but anyways thank you very much.
Been longer than the 77 calls.
Research Division</strong> (Laughter).
But since I say thank you to you that maybe either you or that you could you have someone on the special item in the quarters.
Can you have someone send to us or maybe to other people I suppose they also want the pretax number? And also that what region that they are hitting at? That would be really helpful.
Yes we can get that to you.
Research Division</strong> Yes that really appreciate.
On -- Roger on the M&amp;A you guys have been in a good shape because you have a perfect timing in selling your Malaysian asset.
So with that in mind historically Murphy always is countercyclical in acquisition.
And if the opportunity come will you guys be willing to make a really big acquisition now in the several billion dollar using your balance sheet? Or that you would still stick with historically that you want to go with several hundred million piecemeal kind of deal? How should we look at that? I just loathe not to say.
I don't see a need to pick one of those 2 horses right now.
We're in a severe price collapse.
This is my fifth one in my career.
This one's pretty bad because costs are pretty high and a lot of things can happen.
And I'm in a very fortunate position with the balance sheet obviously could increase production all I want to if I wanted to spend the money.
But I believe time is time to sit back and watch this a bit Paul on the sidelines.
And I'm not going to preclude anything really to be honest with you this time.
But historically we haven't been a big giant M&amp;A company and that would probably be safe to say in the future also.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And that maybe this is for Kevin.
That out of the $1.6 billion how much of them you can bring it back to the U.S.
without any tax penalty? Actually we could bring back quite a bit of it without a cash tax penalty right now.
But then you start to run into some other accounting tax things.
And without getting into a whole lot of detail with this kind of price drop and with the IDC deductions and like I mean we're going to run a taxable loss in the U.S.
and it's not tax efficient to bring money back when you show a taxable loss because you can't take your benefit from your NOL and you have a bunch of unused foreign tax credits running around.
It gets very challenging to do it but you can do it.
So the cash taxes right now would be very minimal.
But there are other implications that we have to consider.
Now of course anything we bring back from Canada has an automatic 5% withhold and then that's Canadian withhold.
And so there's nothing you can -- you will have that leakage automatically.
Research Division</strong> How much of the...
We did bring back the first tranche without tax.
Yes we brought back $1.7 billion from Malaysia at the end of last year most of which -- some was money they already had most of it was a closing on the first 20%.
And there was no tax associated with that because we helped like we had talked about several times a lot of unused foreign tax credits from our U.K.
operation that we used.
Research Division</strong> Oh let me ask that I mean on your cash balance how much of them is now sitting in U.S.? In the U.S.
it's probably about $400 million in the neighborhood of $400 million.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And Roger I mean...
And the revolver is 0 Paul.
Yes our revolver is currently 0.
The only debt we have other than that lease is our long-term bond.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Roger will you be able to give us a rough estimate? What is the percent of your supply cost? They are currently under contracts that are longer than 2 years or still have more than 2 years to go? You mean in rigs or...
Research Division</strong> Everything that is under your supply -- if I look along your supply chain and I'm trying to understand that how quickly is the opportunity if we do see a service cost deflation how quickly that you can -- come to see that? What is plan? In my Eagle Ford business I want to leave the business today and get rid of all the fracking and the 4 rigs I have.
I have 5 today it will be about $50 million.
So I have a series of rigs that come off-term.
I have one coming off in February 4 one on March 11 one in October one in December one in September one in June.
These are rates in the 25 000 to 27 000 range pretty normal in the play.
And we have some frac spread commitments.
But we have standing wells today and our drilling is very efficient.
I don't see ever getting to a price we wouldn't probably frac some wells because we're out drilling that.
So the onshore is big and I have some very large commitment in the deepwater Paul.
Been in the deepwater business my whole career.
So if you have to have rigs and boats and equipment and we have hundreds of millions of dollars of rigs contracted out into 2016 and one rig in 275 days this year and some rigs out in Southeast Asia which are part of long-term ongoing developments.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
A final one Roger.
I mean some other company that has started talking about headcount reductions and other more significant measurement in trying to get their cost reduction.
Anything that from your standpoint that you feel pretty comfortable with your organization as it is and just going to ride it out or that you're also going to be looking along those lines? Well we're like any company during these times.
You have to look at each thing.
We have to look at organizational efficiency and where we have places for improvement.
The entire cost of all our G&amp;As is probably a $300 million number of everything we have including all comp all people all things.
So it's not the end-all of our $1.5 billion type cash flow number.
One thing that's different on this cost this price pullback Paul to all the others in our career we've been on these calls with Kevin a long time you've seen this before the shale revolution requires a lot more people accounts payable procurement royalties production allocation et cetera.
It's a little bit more complicated.
And if you think there could be a recovery and you make those calls it's hard to crank back up.
So I think that will be at play this time.
It is -- my first focus is to try to finally get through with the budget which we've done.
And me like any manager in times like this we'll have to look at organizational efficiency.
But I'm not prepared at this time for any drastic measure of any kind at this time Paul.
And we'll take our next question from Roger Read at Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> Exploration program.
So you sold down part of Urca either at the beginning or during the drilling process.
And on Slide 16 $266 million net cost for I guess all of the '15 exploration program which -- what's the potential for selling down some of that in other words kind of lowering your exposure if need be from a CapEx standpoint or even from just an overall portfolio approach? Well I'm not against doing that.
I've been very fortunate this year to have the sale in Malaysia at the same time sell down to a partner from -- that we work with internationally coming into that well.
I would -- I don't -- when wells get over $100 million I'd like to be 35%.
I don't mind drilling some a little bit less than that at 50%.
Sea Eagle is currently a 50-50 opportunity Dalmatian South is 70-30 Murphy got a pretty inexpensive well.
We're 50-50 on Desperado and 50-50 on Opal.
I'm not against taking a couple of those to 35% and I would.
But it's not that easy to sell that today.
Not everyone has the balance sheet I have Roger and so that would be the goal there.
The Perth Basin we are already properly partnered there at 40% and these are pretty inexpensive wells testing a pretty big program for 27 million barrels net.
We now have a new partner of course on the wells in Malaysia as I read on Slide 16.
We're partnered appropriately at deepwater Sarawak which is a place that we drilled many many wells and have a good idea on the costs.
So obviously at Block H we partnered with our new partner Pertamina as well as Brunei.
So my Gulf of Mexico wells would be an opportunity to take those $100 million type wells down by 15% would be the type of CapEx savings there Roger.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
So take kind of a I don't know $35 million $40 million off the $266 million might be the right way to think about it? I'm not against doing that but I'm a long way from -- we're just having a couple of meetings on a couple of them now.
So I don't have it at all put to bed Roger in these times.
LLC Research Division</strong> Sure sure.
Yes I'm just sort of looking at the -- I mean a couple of the larger wells in the back half of the year and even Sarawak late Q2.
I think our balance sheet ability here I think there could be some opportunity to come for us to go in instead of maybe so much going out.
So if I were to go out I may want to go in somewhere else.
LLC Research Division</strong> You just stole my second question there Roger which was in an environment like this...
[indiscernible] everybody I could get off the call.
LLC Research Division</strong> And like you said you went through several of these downturns before they're all different.
Operating cost and rig cost offshore are going to come down at least as significantly it appears as anything we'll see onshore it just takes a little longer.
So as you think about where the returns are and where the let's call it the pain and suffering of your competitors where do you think you were going to see opportunities too early maybe? Or it seems like shale guys are generally speaking fairly healthy and able to get their costs in line.
So I'm thinking it's more of an offshore for the opportunity here.
I'm not sure I'm not sure about that.
I think there's going to be a lot of opportunity in shale and in the offshore.
And I think both are going to be equally available in my view.
And we'll take our next question from Ed Westlake at Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Hey good afternoon and congrats on a record earnings -- sorry record production.
Obviously oil prices will do what it does but good execution.
Just on the Gulf of Mexico.
Just remind me what is? Is Opal the Miocene or is that up in north of the play? No this is a Miocene pinch-out play kind of a look-alike of the old Petronius field a pretty unique structure unlike the Cretaceous edge at the Gulf of Mexico toward severe Eastern Gulf.
So it would be nothing to do with the Northwood area.
Research Division</strong> Right.
Okay.
And then where do you reckon the Gulf of Mexico will break even as these cost shake out if you would? You mentioned that rigs are a decent chunk of the development spend.
I don’t know if you've done any sort of preliminary screening.
All of the projects we're doing like the Medusa are fine and at the 50 range.
We have facilities that are tied-back facilities can work in the 50s.
When you get some of these exploration at the cost we have today you're really going to need it to be around 70.
It's not 100 or 80 or 90.
I think and I believe oil can recover to the 70s into next year personally.
So that would be some of the places that are a little more remote or may require facility in the 70 range.
But the tiebacks are very near to where you're working like Medusa Dalmatian and Sea Eagle which is near Thunder Hawk and it can work pretty good Ed.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
That ties them into some of the work we've done.
Deepwater Sarawak just remind me what type of structure and hydrocarbon that's chasing.
This is a new play.
We're very familiar with both Vietnam and Malaysia.
We've been in Malaysia since '99.
This is a new gas opportunity area.
There was a discovery by newfield there it was sold to another party.
This is a net block.
We've done a lot of technical work and really like exploring back in this region again because we've maintained an exploration presence in that region for a long time.
These are 1 Tcf gas with 80 million barrels of liquid heavy liquid and we would have an advantage where we could take this gas production into our long-term Sarawak gas facilities and have a route to LNG and recover the condensate offshore.
This is a new opening play for us and we're very excited about that area and working hard on that be drilling that well mid-year.
Research Division</strong> And deepwater but I guess I don't know what the conditions are like.
I mean is that going to be a sort of a lower breakeven you think than the Gulf? Oh yes.
These are wells not even 60 million.
We probably drilled 50 or 60 of them just like it.
Research Division</strong> Right.
Just on a question on the Eagle Ford chart that you presented very helpful in terms of the managing the balance sheet and cutting the wells borderline dramatically into the fourth quarter and obviously that will impact production.
But would you be able to maintain that low rates say oil prices were low in '16 and maybe not lose any of the acreage in terms of commitments? I'm trying to think about how much flexibility you have versus lease commitments in terms of the Eagle Ford.
We like to keep 4 rigs to keep the acreage.
We've not done a detailed review of it.
And quite frankly if oil stays at $44 until 2016 you may want to let some of it go and go buy back.
So -- and Ed I appreciate your tricky way to ask me a 2016 guidance but I'm not -- I appreciate that effort.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then one final question and this is more financials.
In the fourth quarter and I appreciate there's lots moving around with the sales I'm looking at the cash flow statement.
You ended up with a deferred income tax charge.
Obviously there was another large movement in the other area to get to the $700 million.
And I guess you have sort of helped us with 2015 numbers and I'm -- similar to the numbers that were quoted but what are those 2 main items related to just so I can understand.
I'll have John answer that for me Ed.
Ed those items deal primarily with our sale in Malaysia.
There was a lot of noncash moving parts in that transaction.
And we -- when you referred to the deferred tax charge it was really a benefit in that our purchaser acquired the obligation to pay some of those future taxes in Malaysia so that brings down the deferred tax liabilities on our books.
But some of the -- a lot of the gain was noncash-related and had some impacts on the other categories that are referred to here.
It's all related.
And we'll take our next question from Ryan Todd at Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Question -- I guess a couple of follow-ups one on exit rates and the trends in production.
You were kind enough to provide kind of a quarter-by-quarter outlook in the Eagle Ford.
But given the high starting point from a high fourth quarter production level and the full year number can you help us understand a little bit the trajectory and where you might be looking on the broader portfolio in terms of 4Q exit rates? Well one thing this is a bit of a complication.
We did do a home run ball in the sale but it messes up all your production to explain in a form such as this.
So we had a very high quarter.
We pro forma-ed that down to 231.
But we got to get our hands around or heads around here and everyone on this call.
Murphy is a complicated company.
We're in East Coast Canada Syncrude Gulf of Mexico Malaysia we're not an onshore player.
And in the fourth quarter the weather is pretty bad all over the world.
It's monsoon season in Malaysia it's very cold in Canada it's very bad weather in the Gulf usually.
We don't work on or shut down or do things.
So it was a very good quarter and we were -- exceeded guidance because there was really downtime very little trouble.
We also cut CapEx a lot.
So if you're 231 going to 201 which I guess is your situation right Ryan? Research Division</strong> Yes.
So 13 000 of it almost is CapEx and Seal shut-ins that related to oil price -- or related to my desire to really protect the balance sheet going forward.
We could drill -- we could absolutely afford to add 13 000 equivalent production if we wanted to I just chose not to.
So that's the first step.
We have probably 4 000 barrels of shut-ins around the world turnarounds of various kinds across 10 different places: Kikeh twice this year; Sarawak gas onshore shutting down for some regulatory things; and all those things.
So if I give you a breakdown here further I mean at 12 500 of CapEx 7 500 of Malaysia assumed.
Another thing is we had a very good quarter in the assumption of these gas nominations are probably close to 280 million gross we have 240 million in our budget with some shutdowns coming.
So 12 500 CapEx 7 500 on nominations and downtime including the risking I've spoken to many times and have North America offshore we have Medusa coming on and offset by outages at Habanero Medusa.
Mondo is a place that makes about 2 000 barrel equivalent for a very long time.
Now the field is supposed to go off-line from the sub-service perspective and it just never dies.
We have no DD&amp;A there.
It's been one of the greatest gas fields of all times but it's going to die this year at some point I don't know exactly when.
So that's 8 000 and have a 1 000 on Syncrude risking because they have maintenance and things they didn't have in the fourth quarter.
So just not a fourth quarter to a year company this is not the way we roll here.
If you look back at the history of Murphy I would bet you that the fourth quarter is high every single time because the weather is too bad to work on anything.
Research Division</strong> That was really helpful.
At Tupper where you effectively have a full year number that's more or less flat with 1Q despite drop in the rigs in February.
Is that kind of timing of the completions issue? Or what would you expect the decline rate to eventually settle out at Tupper going forward? I don't have that off the top of my head.
We are going to be declining because we're not adding.
We just added a bunch of wells in the fourth quarter.
We have some we're just about to put on production now and we'll be finished up.
We can give the beginning and end rate.
Barry do you have that number? Yes.
So I mean we're going to average in the neighborhood of 170 in the Montney for the year but it starts off the year pretty strong with these new completions.
We ended up the back half of last year bringing on these new completions with this new completion technology flowing higher rate wells and so those really kicked in in the fourth quarter and those carry on.
And we have the benefit of those in the first part of the year but once the rigs go in February it's just more of a decline now through the end of the year.
So you end up averaging a pretty good number for the year but it drops from the start to the end.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then maybe one last one.
On the - how much -- I know you said in one of the slides in here that you're targeting 10% to 20% cost reductions in the Eagle Ford.
How much -- is that what you assume in the $2.3 billion budget? Or I guess how much cost deflation do you assume and how much upside might there be I guess from that point of view or downside to cost I guess? In the Eagle Ford Shale we've assumed a 10% cost in reduction of drilling the services to drill the well.
And further efficiencies puts us probably about 15% because we do have efficiency work there a long time and we've assumed no cost reductions elsewhere in our business.
And we'll go next to James Sullivan at Alembic Global Advisors.
Just to piggyback on that the last question that got asked there about the cost reduction assumptions.
It sounds like you're saying 15% total from cost of drilling and efficiency in the Eagle Ford which you had baked in.
There are people talking about larger numbers.
And if you guys -- if that did materialize could you just speak to what your thoughts are today in terms of what you would do to redeploy or if you would just try to save any capital savings on -- from further service cost deflation? I don't like forecasting unless I have my hands on it.
We have our hands on the 10%.
15% will come from efficiency learning curve type thing.
If we get our hands on it we'll look to change.
But right now I'm trying to get a budget we can execute on and get a full rig strategy into the Eagle Ford.
I'm pretty much in the saving mode and opportunity-searching mode over jumping to add a rig back in the Eagle Ford right now.
Okay sounds great.
The other thing was just I wanted to get a little clarity on the exploration budget.
I think you guys have in your slide about 380 million.
And the Slide 16 gives you nice delineation of the wells that you guys have been drilling across the geographies.
That was really helpful.
And that.
Do you have $266 million over there? What's the delta there is it? I know you guys are doing seismic in Ceduna but is there other things in there that we should -- that go into that? With the cost of all of our exploration offices and people around the world and seismic and studies and a very small lease or lease act and the Gulf of Mexico budget I wish I could have more but it would be those type of matters non-drilling.
But primarily a pretty good year of drilling and a pretty decent program.
I'm quite happy with the program.
Just not happy with the amount of money I can spend today on new opportunity.
But that's -- I've decided to cut as much as I can and have a tight balance sheet it's where I'm going with this thing.
Okay that makes sense.
Okay.
And then just last thing maybe at a more of a macro level or just pulling back a little bit from the specifics of the budget.
How constrained did you feel in terms of -- as you were working through this it sounds like it was a long and difficult and iterative process.
But how constrained did you feel in terms of where -- places where you're not operators and didn't have complete freedom to choose to cut the budget? And would you say that that drove your decision? I mean obviously if you can't cut the budget you can't cut the budget.
But to what extent would you say that the depths of the cuts in some places might have been driven by lack of optionality elsewhere in the portfolio? Well the big rig commitments we have drove a lot of the exploration we probably would have less.
And no we're a heavy operator.
We're a non-op at East Coast Canada like in the 5% to 7% range and a 5% at Syncrude.
Those people work with us and told us their CapEx.
They too in these collapses want to lower CapEx.
We're really not controlled by the non-op too much.
Most of the non-ops is quite older requiring some capital to maintain.
But most of the CapEx is in our control and allows us I think this balance sheet advantages kind of our strategy to control a lot of what we do.
And gentlemen we are at the top of the hour.
I believe we have no more time for questions.
Okay I want to thank everyone and again congratulations Kevin.
Thank you.
And appreciate everyone calling in and we'll talk to you next time.
And we appreciate it.
And that does conclude today's conference.
We thank you for your participation.
Good afternoon ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Murphy Oil Corporation First Quarter 2015 Earnings Call.
Today's call is being recorded.
At this time I would like to turn the call over to Mr.
Barry Jeffery Vice President Investor Relations.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Operator.
Good afternoon everyone and thank you for joining us on our call today.
With me are John Eckart Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; Gene Coleman Executive Vice President of Global Offshore; and Mike McFadyen Executive Vice President North American Onshore.
Please refer to the informational slides we have placed on the Investor Relations section of our website as you follow along with our webcast today.
On today's call John will provide a review of first quarter 2015 financial results and then follow up with an operational update after which questions will be taken.
Please keep in mind that some of the comments made during this call will be considered forward-looking statements as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
As such no assurances can be given that these events will occur or that the projections will be attained.
A variety of factors exist that may cause actual results to differ.
For further discussion of risk factors see Murphy's 2014 annual report on Form 10-K on file with the SEC.
Murphy takes no duty to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements.
I'll now turn the call over to John.
Thank you Barry.
Good afternoon.
As previously announced our Chief Executive Officer Roger Jenkins could not be with us today due to a medical procedure performed on Tuesday.
We wish Roger a continued quick recovery and look forward to having him return next week.
Murphy's consolidated results in the first quarter of 2015 were a loss of $14.4 million $0.08 per diluted share compared to a profit of $155.3 million or $0.85 per share a year ago.
Excluding discontinued operations in the U.K.
our income from continuing operations amounted to $3.5 million in the first quarter of 2015 $0.02 per diluted share again compared to the first quarter of 2014 of $169.3 million profit or $0.93 per diluted share.
The first quarter results from continuing operations for 2015 included a gain of $199.5 million on the sale of an additional interest in our Malaysian business.
It also included a $32.5 million of estimated after-tax cost to remediate a condensate pipeline leak or leaks in Alberta Canada.
These and other items affecting comparability of earnings between periods are listed in the schedule of adjusted earnings included as part of our earnings release.
All of these figures in this schedule are on an after-tax basis.
Earnings in the 2015 first quarter were negatively impacted by significantly lower realized sales prices for crude oil natural gas liquids and North American natural gas the effects of which were partially offset by higher production and sales levels.
The company's average realized crude oil sales price fell more than $49 per barrel which equates to 51% reduction while U.S.
natural gas liquid prices were almost $22 per barrel lower which was 63% reduction.
Natural gas prices also softened in the first quarter of '15 compared to the prior year's quarter.
It dropped by $1.69 per Mcf in North America for a decline of 41%.
Crude oil and gas liquids production in the 2015 quarter was 9% above 2014 levels primarily due to drilling activities in the Eagle Ford Shale and despite the combined 30% sale of interest in Malaysia between late 2014 and 2015.
Crude oil and gas liquids production averaged approximately 150 800 barrels per day in the '15 quarter compared to approximately 137 800 barrels per day in the prior year first quarter.
Natural gas volumes for the company were 424 million cubic feet per day in the '15 quarter compared to 400 million cubic feet per day in '15 (sic) ['14] with the 6% increase primarily due to higher production from the Dalmatian Field in the Gulf of Mexico the Eagle Ford Shale area in Texas and the Tupper West --I'm sorry and the Tupper area in Western Canada.
Natural gas production in Malaysia fell in 2015 primarily due to a lower net entitlement following the sale of our 30% interest.
The lower post-sale net entitlement percentage reduced 2015 quarter 1 production by approximately 25 500 BOEs per day.
Our corporate segment reflected a loss of $15.2 million in the first quarter of '15 as compared to a net cost of $41.3 million in the fourth quarter of -- in the first quarter of '14.
Decreased net corporate costs in '15 primarily relate to favorable results from transactions denominated in foreign currencies particularly associated with a weaker Malaysian ringgit.
Capital expenditures for continuing operations for 2015 in the first quarter totaled $613 million a 31% decline from the same period in '14.
For 2015 we continue to project our capital expenditure spend at $2.3 billion.
And as of March 31 2015 Murphy's long-term debt amounted to approximately $2.6 billion or 24% of capital employed.
Moving into the operating comments.
This is the first reporting period under the recent severely reduced oil price environment.
We are of course seeing major impacts on our business.
Murphy is able to withstand this price pullback better than many in our industry due to our low net debt our solid balance sheet a diverse oil portfolio and previously announced capital reductions.
We paid our normal quarterly dividend in March and we have maintained our dividend with board approval for the next dividend payment on the 1st of June.
Based on current prices our dividend is approaching a 3% yield.
We were also pleased to complete the timely sell-down in Malaysia with a January close on sale of a 10% interest as the second phase of our overall sell-down of 30%.
With our balance sheet flexibility we're focused on opportunities both onshore and offshore that may be available following the collapse of crude oil prices.
In the U.K.
it appears that we are finally coming to an end with an agreement in place to sell the remaining portion of our downstream assets.
We continue to add our offshore -- to our offshore exploration portfolio in an effort to build more optionality into our program.
We added a new block in the Vulcan Sub-Basin offshore Australia plus another new block in deepwater offshore Sarawak Malaysia.
In addition we participated in the March Gulf of Mexico Central lease sale and submitted the high bid on 5 new blocks.
We have no well commitments on the Australia and Gulf of Mexico acreage.
We are progressing our low risk deepwater Gulf of Mexico projects at Medusa and Kodiak.
Our Eagle Ford Shale business was able to maintain production in the first quarter even as we pulled back rigs under our capital reduction plan.
We delivered 45 producing wells in the Eagle Ford in the first quarter and are down to 4 rigs operating at this time.
Our oil-weighted diverse portfolio of assets is a benefit to our company and is highlighted by the recent widening spread between Brent and WTI as nearly 60% of our first quarter production was weighted to Brent and LLS.
While that widening differential is helpful our realized first quarter 2015 oil prices were 50% below prices a year earlier.
First quarter realized oil prices in our Malaysia business averaged near $55 per barrel for Block K and $49 per barrel for Sarawak with oil indexed SK Gas averaging $4.50 per Mcf.
Moving to the U.S Eagle Ford Shale oil prices were near $44 a barrel in Q1 some $34 per barrel below the fourth quarter of '14.
Our realized oil prices in the Gulf of Mexico averaged near $46 per barrel keeping pace with the drop in LLS.
In Canada Syncrude was close to $45 per barrel and Seal was just under $20 per barrel as heavy oil was particularly impacted by the oil price pullback in the first quarter.
Our global lease operating expenses for Q1 2015 excluding Syncrude is near $9.70 per barrel of oil equivalent showing an improvement of 18% from the first quarter of 2014 and 5% below the fourth quarter of 2014.
We are pleased with the overall effort the company is making on cost reduction but this effort has just started to take hold.
We expect to start seeing the results of our cost reductions in the remaining quarters.
The Eagle Ford Shale carried some delayed cost from 2014 in the first quarter but based on both vendor price concessions and improved operating efficiencies we are working hard to reduce these costs going forward.
And we expect to see lease operating expenses driven down toward the $10 per barrel range in Eagle Ford as the year progresses.
Cash flow per barrel metrics have been greatly reduced with the collapse in oil prices.
However we went into the collapse with an above average cash flow per barrel metric versus our peer group and we perceive this as a continuing advantage for us going forward.
We are approaching our cost reduction efforts in 2 phases.
The first phase was direct negotiation with our vendors and suppliers to reduce their cost to supply goods and services.
We have seen good initial results with overall operating costs in the Eagle Ford Shale coming down in the 20% range.
In terms of capital cost we are seeing approximately 15% cost reductions to drill and complete an Eagle Ford well.
But we feel there's more room to improve here with efficiencies and further cost reductions.
The pace of cost reductions for drilling and completions is certainly faster in the onshore business such as Eagle Ford compared to the onshore -- offshore.
We are entering the second phase of our efforts with plans to rebid vendor contracts in key spending sectors to further reduce costs.
This effort will be ongoing through the second and third quarter of this year.
First quarter production averaged 221 550 barrels of oil equivalent per day slightly exceeding our guidance of 221 000 even barrels of oil equivalent per day despite unplanned downtimes relating to an advancement of a turnaround at Syncrude as well as downtime associated with our lower value Block K associated gas.
We also saw some unplanned downtime in the Gulf of Mexico.
We had higher-than-planned production levels in the Eagle Ford Shale in Montney as well as in our new Sarawak projects which are performing very nicely to date.
Looking ahead to the second quarter production guidance remains on target at 197 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day.
The decrease in the first quarter is attributed to various planned shut-ins for maintenance work across our offshore operations and Syncrude.
Major shut-ins for planned maintenance are common for us in the middle part of the year.
These second quarter planned outages account for approximately 14 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day in the quarter and some of these outages are expected to carry into quarter 3.
In addition Eagle Ford Shale production is expected to start to decline in response to the 46% capital spending reduction this year.
We have de-risked some of the downtime in the second quarter as our Sarawak operations were recently down for 11 days and the work has been completed on time in April.
We have also completed some planned annual downtime at the non-operated Habanero Field in the Gulf of Mexico.
Our full year guidance remains unchanged at a range of 195 000 to 207 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day.
In Malaysia the timely phase sell-down of an overall 30% of our oil and gas assets was completed in the first quarter.
We had previously sold 20% of our interest in the fourth quarter of 2014.
The second phase was completed in January by selling an additional 10% of our interest and we booked an after-tax gain of $199.5 million from the sale in the first quarter of 2015.
Production offshore Sabah averaged near 34 400 barrels of oil equivalent per day for the first quarter with 88% of that liquids.
The Kakap-Gumusut main project where we hold an 8.6% working interest in First Oil was achieved in October 2014 has demonstrated excellent performance with production ramping up into the first quarter.
Gross production averaged near 150 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day in March with peak gross rates near 160 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day.
In shallow waters offshore Sarawak gas production for the first quarter was 112 million cubic feet per day and liquids production was near 18 500 barrels of oil per day.
We completed the first phase of development drilling in the South Acis field comprised of 14 producing wells.
The post-drill results are showing volumes 70% higher than the sanctioned volume.
We just completed a 5-well drilling program targeting gas at Belum.
Well costs were approximately 30% below estimate and the initial well costs there look positive with net pay 35% higher than prognosis.
These new Sarawak developments are robust in this low-priced environment as we benefit from our existing infrastructure in the region.
Moving to the global offshore business.
Gulf of Mexico productions for the quarter was over 24 400 barrels of oil equivalent per day with 61% liquids.
We continue to progress our 2-well subsea expansion project at the Medusa field where we operate at a 60% working interest.
Both wells have been drilled to plan and subsea flow lines topsides facilities and installation of final jumpers are complete.
One well is scheduled to flow first oil in early May one month ahead of our original expectation.
The non-operated Kodiak development where we hold a 29% working interest is a 2-well tieback to the third-party operated Devil's Tower.
First well has been drilled to plan and completion work is ongoing.
Topsides facility work is scheduled to begin in May with subsea installation work to begin in the third quarter.
We anticipate first oil in the first quarter of 2016.
Both projects are solid investments in this low price environment with an anticipated point forward rate of return of 10% at prices near $30 per barrel.
In Western Canada our natural gas production from the Montney in the first quarter of 2015 was 187 million cubic feet per day relatively flat with the fourth quarter of 2014.
We completed 8 new wells in the recent quarter and as planned released all of our rigs in February.
We see strong well performance from our new completion techniques.
Results to date indicate higher cumulative production in wellhead pressures pointing to higher estimated ultimate recovery from the wells.
At the Seal field as previously mentioned the company reported an after-tax expense of $32.5 million in the first quarter related to estimated costs associated with a condensate distribution line failure or failures in a remote area of Northern Alberta.
The source of the leak or leaks is isolated the area of impact is contained and remediation activities are ongoing.
The company is cooperating with the regulator on remediation and incident investigations.
In the Eagle Ford Shale first quarter 2015 net production which was comprised of 90% liquids averaged 64 200 barrels of oil equivalent per day relatively flat to the fourth quarter of 2014.
Production levels held up in the first quarter as we brought 45 new wells online.
As planned we reduced our rig count to 4 in the quarter and expect to remain at that level for the remainder of the year.
We are currently using 2 completion spreads with plans to drop to 1 spread in the second quarter.
We are on target to bring on approximately 118 wells this year as the pace of wells coming online decreases over the remainder of the year as planned.
Production in the second quarter of 2015 is estimated to average 59 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day with the '15 production outlook flat year-on-year to 2014 even with a 40% reduction in capital spending this year.
We are currently focused on allocating capital within our field development plans as well as reducing operating expenses.
The long-term value of our Eagle Ford Shale position is bolstered by our early entry into the play at an average lease cost of approximately $2 000 per acre as well as our high oil percentage located near the Gulf of Mexico.
We have over 2 000 potential well locations remaining and now estimate the total recoverable resource at near 750 million BOEs up from 690 million BOE at the end of 2013.
In the last 5 years we have placed over 550 wells online in the Eagle Ford Shale.
We continue to see positive results with our well completion and choke management strategies.
The slide represented here is an example in our largest acreage area of Tilden and our other operated areas of Karnes and Catarina look very similar.
We are among the leaders in both management of decline rates and productivity per completed lateral foot.
We see positive results with our downspacing and staggered well spacing pilots across all the play.
We currently have 254 wells producing at 40-acre spacing and 23 wells in the Upper Eagle Ford.
We are incorporating staggered well pad design into future development areas.
Move on to our exploration.
Murphy is an exploration company with a strong ability to execute projects in both the offshore and onshore.
While our exploration results have been disappointing we are very focused on righting this ship.
We have made significant changes to the team and organization to improve our skill sets and processes.
Building a high-grade exploration portfolio is a key goal.
We have sharpened our global focus regions to strengthen our expertise in key basins of interest.
In the Gulf of Mexico we added 5 blocks at the March Central Lease Sale and are now evaluating opportunities in the Wilcox play in Mexico bid rounds.
In Southeast Asia and Australia we recently added a new block in the Vulcan Sub-Basin offshore Northern Australia and a new deepwater block at Sarawak.
We believe we're on the right path forward here to deliver success in our exploration program.
As to our remaining exploration drilling program for 2015 in the Gulf of Mexico we have 4 to 5 wells scheduled for the rest of this year.
Our next exploration well is an amplitude supported prospect at Sea Eagle with an estimated gross mean resource of 100 million BOE.
The well is expected to spud in mid-May.
This will be followed by 2 lower risk wells at Dalmatian and Thunderbird.
Both wells are near infrastructure with Dalmatian being a subsea tieback to our existing Dalmatian operation and Thunderbird a tieback to Thunder Hawk.
In Malaysia we have 4 exploration wells on the schedule for the second half of the year.
2 of these wells aim to provide additional resources to our very successful shallow water Sarawak development activities.
We have 1 well in Block H Malaysia where we are participating in a Floating LNG project.
And the fourth well is an exploration well to be drilled on our recently acquired SK 2C Block.
We are excited about this area as Malaysia exploration is back in view for Murphy.
The new focus area between Malaysia and Vietnam is prone for high-yield gas and Murphy's advantaged with our robust gas infrastructure system.
We then plan to finish off our year with a non-operated appraisal well to our gas discoveries in Brunei.
At the end of February we entered Block 2C in deep water Sarawak as operator with a 50% working interest where we plan to spud the Paus East well in the third quarter.
This 300 million barrel of oil equivalent estimated gross mean resource opportunity is targeting oil condensate and gas and offsets the existing Paus discovery.
We have identified Merapuh P10 and Yu Central as the first 2 wells to be drilled in Block SK 314A testing Miocene stack sands targeting oil downdip from our existing fields.
If successful these near field low-risk prospects carry high value by feeding into our existing infrastructure in the shallow water Sarawak area.
The Permai prospect with an estimated gross mean resource of 170 Bcf is targeting additional gas resources for our Block H Floating LNG development.
This prospect is similar to the previous 9 discoveries in the play.
As to guidance our second quarter production is set at 197 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day.
Our full year production and capital guidance is unchanged at 195 000 to 207 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day per production and $2.3 billion capital spend.
In wrapping up I'll comment on a few takeaways.
In exploration we're making progress with significant changes in the team and adding our technical expertise.
We are sharpening our focus down into fewer areas and we're moving to lower risk opportunities that are value-added while we build our prospect portfolio with our new team.
Our solid financial position bolstered by the timely sell-down in Malaysia has Murphy well-positioned to carry out our exploration and development plans and provides optionality to explore business development opportunities.
Our low risk deepwater Gulf of Mexico subsea development projects are on time and budget from an execution standpoint and their returns can withstand the current price level.
Our value-added Sarawak oil and gas projects continue to deliver for us with recent drilling successes at both South Acis and Belum.
Similar to our peers we are focused on cost reductions and we'll see the results of our efforts over the course of the year.
Thank you for your attention and we will now take your questions.
[Operator Instructions] We'll go first to Leo Mariani from RBC.
LLC Research Division</strong> Want to talk a little bit about Malaysia.
I know you guys are kind of continuing some development work there.
It certainly looks like your volumes are down a little bit in the second quarter versus first quarter.
I realize part of that is due to the sale.
Just trying to get a sense of kind of second half of 2015.
Should we expect Malaysia oil volumes to start growing again versus your second quarter '15 Malaysian oil guidance? Okay Leo this is Barry talking here.
So let's just talk through sort of from first quarter moving into our second quarter as a starting point.
You're right we have had the sell-down in Malaysia so that's going to impact us by 3 500 barrels a day just starting there.
And of course with our turnarounds scheduled here and shut-in plans we've got about 3 a day in our shallow water area and about 2 a day in our deepwater area that impacts us here going into the second quarter.
Some of this turnaround work still continues on into the third quarter.
We've got some deepwater shut-in activity at Kikeh going into the third quarter as well.
So it's going to be impacting here through the summer season.
Maintenance work is common for us through this middle part of the year.
And so you'll see Malaysia probably not getting back to I would say more regular rates until probably into the fourth quarter.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
I guess you guys kind of referred to some business development opportunities on the conference call.
Could you guys elaborate a little bit more on sort of what you guys are thinking at this point? Leo this is John Eckart.
And obviously first we believe that Murphy has the ability to execute projects in different areas both offshore and North American onshore.
And our business development group and our planning group are busy looking at evaluating several areas.
At this time it's early days with that.
We are not -- we also say though that we're not going to do any deal just to do a deal.
I mean what we are interested in is opportunities that advance our position in various ways.
So in North American onshore our most likely interest would be in some bolt-on opportunity around the Eagle Ford or of course good acreage in nearby areas such as the Permian would also be attractive.
We're seeing Leo a lot of ground floor opportunities available in the offshore business as well.
Capital constraints among industry members are causing though many people to look for partners where they can't fully fund their operations.
And we believe we're kind of a sought-after company to -- which means opportunities come up because of our balance sheet and our execution ability which we believe is proven.
So really I can't comment on too many specifics but the takeaway is that we are looking at numerous places and we believe we are well-positioned to take advantage of opportunities that arise in either offshore globally or onshore in North America.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
And I guess with respect to Eagle Ford you guys said that you're definitely not planning on bringing back activity here in 2015 to raise the rig count.
Obviously oil prices have been recovering for the past I guess 1.5 months or so here.
Trying to get a sense if there is an oil price environment that we could get to where you guys would say all right it makes sense to start adding rigs again in the Eagle Ford.
Can you comment on that? Okay Leo.
This is John again.
And so we don't have any magic number or price that we're looking at.
Obviously the better the price the more it gives you an itch to do something.
But right now we are wanting to see where prices go in the long term.
We're going to look -- our budget process is a couple of months away for 2016.
We're obviously going to study it very closely at that point in time.
I think unless prices really shot up significantly we would probably just wait and evaluate what to do in the Eagle Ford with the number of rigs and the count there toward as we move into the budget season for '16.
I think we probably would look at a price that got into the 60s as just helping us for 2015 without really making any future commitments at this point until we get through that budget process for '16.
And so the good news is we can go back and get rigs quickly.
They're out there to get.
We are not in any particular hurry at this point in time based on where prices are to make a call on it.
We're going to sit back and wait.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
I guess with respect to your Gulf of Mexico volumes you guys mentioned some maintenance that kind of hurt first quarter volumes a little bit.
Looking at your second quarter guidance in the Gulf it's just kind of flattish with the first quarter.
Are you guys also seeing I guess some maintenance in the second quarter and when that clears up should your volumes go up later on this year in the Gulf? Leo it's Barry again.
So second quarter you're right we do have some shut-in planned maintenance in the second quarter as well.
We've also got a flow line that we're working to unplug and that's hindered us a little bit here.
Going into the rest of the year we're going to see production starting to ramp back up.
The biggest impact there is going to be starting up our new expansion project at Medusa.
So we'll have some new volumes coming on and that sort of tempers some of the downtime.
One other thing that we'll have happening is we're forecasting our Mondo gas field to go offline this year permanently.
It's been one that we've been predicting to go off for some time and it looks like it's coming there.
LLC Research Division</strong> All right.
What would you guys add from Medusa roughly in terms of those new wells? Well I mean peak production on our share is going to be in the neighborhood of 5 a day.
We'll move on.
Brian Singer from Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> You highlighted your commitment to exploration as a core focus of the company.
Beyond the personnel shifts and the lower risk preference what has changed in the process by which you're selecting your exploration wells? And perhaps you can use some of Sea Eagle on some of your second half wells as examples.
Brian I'm going to pass to Gene Coleman our EVP of Global Offshore to address your question.
Exploration remains a key commitment -- component of our strategy as you mentioned.
And we have to start delivering results and we understand that.
As you mentioned we have made significant changes to the organization the staff the leadership.
And really there's 3 key areas and it's broken out into people processes and portfolio.
People it's almost a complete changeout of the exploration team with over 1/2 of our technical geoscientists which is in the number greater than 50 with the company less than 2 years.
So we've made -- it's not just the people.
It's certain skill sets that these -- the technical staff that we brought on board have some specific basin modelers.
We've got regional stratigraphers.
A lot of key gaps that we filled with the technical staff.
But moving on to your question of the processes it's the technical rigor and risking process that we're using.
And it's a global process where we're using the same yardstick across the entire globe of all the prospects.
We also have a separate technical assurance section within our exploration group now that looks critically at risking.
And as I mentioned we have the additional technical staff.
On the portfolio as you saw on the slides and in John's comments we've tightened our focus significantly.
So we're -- we have more people with the technical expertise looking at a smaller number of basins.
So we are providing better scrutiny over a smaller area.
And we think those 3 things really tighten that up.
On Sea Eagle mentioning technology there's a lot of new technology.
In fact it's first of a kind to check the risking of our Seal which is the highest risk on this Miocene amplitude.
We have a group in our KL office that has worked globally on our new block it's Sarawak SK 2C where we think we've de-risked this.
And we're pretty excited about both of those prospects which are kind of needle-moving size.
The other part of our strategy is moving to some lower risk opportunities beyond those 2 wells in the Gulf of Mexico.
That includes Thunderbird where we're sidetracking existing discovery up-dip a low-risk prospect which can deliver production in 2016.
And we also have the Dalmatian area which are low-risk Upper Miocene amplitudes.
So while we're doing those and those are drill and complete operations gives us time to further work our portfolio further high-grade and make decisions on where we go forward there.
Hopefully that helps.
Research Division</strong> It does great.
And then shifting onshore you highlighted both the operating and the capital costs deflation in the Eagle Ford Shale 20% and 15% with the expectation that could be more.
When it's time for you and others to bring activity or some level of activity back again and I know it's hard to say on your end when that would be do you see those costs going back to where they've come from? And if not how far down do you think would represent more secular type deflation from an F&amp;D cost perspective? Brian it's Barry again here.
I'm going to let Mike McFadyen who looks after the onshore business step in.
Good afternoon.
We see additional opportunity to I guess to start out to reduce the capital costs further on the drilling and completion side with nearing 25% towards the end of the year and doing that through both working on the service and material side and re-tendering those services along with continued improvement in efficiencies operational efficiencies in the field.
So we continue to improve reducing the days required to drill the wells.
We're down now to our pacesetter wells in for example the Catarina area are 7 days.
So those savings are going to continue on in the future.
And we expect through technology to continue to drive costs down through efficiency.
For the service and material side that's a hard question to answer.
Depends on what level of activity returns.
We are renegotiating contracts on our rigs and our frac services for extended periods of time.
So taking the savings now and adding additional time to our contracts.
And for some of our units we're going to wait until the contracts expire and then renegotiate.
So we expect the costs will not approach what they did in the previous development stages of the Eagle Ford unless we see oil go back to 100 plus dollars.
And we'll take Pavel Molchanov with Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> After 3 straight dry holes in the Perth Basin are you kind of giving up on that play? Or do you still see some opportunity to maybe come back to it? Those 3 wells which were clearly disappointing fulfill our commitment for drilling on that block.
We took 3 tests at a potential needle moving with the size of the acreage position there.
We saw a lot of running room and it was potentially impactful.
The results of these 3 wells clearly increase our risk and we're going to take some time to look at any remaining potential.
But I would say the upside there has been greatly reduced by the results of these 3 wells.
Our focus now on Australia is really on the Sub Vulcan Basin where we just picked up a new block in Northern Australia as well as the Ceduna Basin down to the south of Australia which we see as frontier with a tremendous potential.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then kind of switching gears what's your current stance on share buyback in the current landscape? Okay.
As you know the board authorized a $500 million stock buyback in October and it runs for one year.
Of course we were -- as you also know we were in a different price environment at that time.
And so the board has been looking at this and so far to date has determined it's better to concentrate on a proper capital allocation and protect our cash position and debt standing rather than buy back shares.
The view is that the price decline could lead to opportunities in the acquisition market and we want to be ready.
We want to have ourself in shape to do that which we think we have with our balance sheet.
So to date the board has chosen not to pull the trigger on a buyback but the board will continue to evaluate this process as we move forward and again depending on what prices do could impact the decision.
But the board will take that up and discusses that from time to time and it will be their call.
But thus far within this buyback program under this pricing environment hasn't seemed like the appropriate thing to do.
[Operator Instructions] We'll take Edward Westlake from Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> This is Zach Deschaine for Ed.
There's been a lot of noise in the cash flow statement so far from what we've seen kind of across E&amp;Ps this quarter.
You guys have flagged a $200 million decrease in working capital and Other.
Can you walk us through kind of how much is working capital how much is Other and then how we should think about those components going forward through the year? Well our working capital reduction is primarily in our accounts receivable because we -- the prices are down and the timing of our sales liftings and such in different locations impacts that.
So the working capital is really related to our timing of our accounts receivable and the price that we get for our oil.
So it's -- I don't see it having any -- at these price environments it's probably fairly similar to what it's going to be going forward.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So the $200 million is mainly working capital? There's no substantial kind of Other floating around in there to flag? No no.
Correct.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Just a real quick one on deferred taxes posting a loss.
It's sort of funny.
And again this is across the sector.
Is there anything out there in particular to be aware of over the course of the year in terms of timing of tax payments? Well in the U.S.
our tax benefits that we recorded are deferred tax benefits and so that would continue to be expected if the losses continue in the U.S.
And of course with prices improving it should be somewhat better.
But we don't have the ability to carry back U.S.
losses into prior years and recover cash at this point.
So the benefits that we are booking on a tax basis are deferred and carry forward.
We expect that to continue for the time being at this price environment.
And we'll take our next question from Guy Baber with Simmons.
Research Division</strong> I Wanted to discuss the financial framework a bit especially in the context of pursuing an acquisition that could be meaningful.
Obviously the balance sheet is very strong right now and you guys have a nice cash position.
Was just hoping you could talk a little bit about perhaps your targeted leverage framework how comfortable or how high you might be willing to take that level or leverage levels if you did find an attractive acquisition target.
And perhaps also how willing you may or may not be to use equity if necessary to fund an acquisition that you found was really attractive and additive in the right ways.
Okay.
I'll try to address that as best I can.
We have a history -- within our history we've been up in the 40s on a debt-to-cap ratio before.
And so the board is not absolutely uncomfortable or the company is not absolutely uncomfortable with that kind of position.
But it depends on each individual situation.
We -- potentially there are opportunities out there in the marketplace as previously mentioned.
Some of those opportunities could very well favor equity type currency instead of cash.
And so we have had discussions about that.
And best I would say and all I could say right now is that we would not be dead set against an equity using equity for such an acquisition but it would be evaluated in each individual situation.
And so you have to manage both the debt and equity side to be -- have an appropriate relationship and so that's part of all the consideration in each review and opportunity that comes up.
Research Division</strong> And then one more from me.
I'm just curious as to what the timeline looks like with respect to when you guys might be comfortable with releasing or talking about 2016 production and 2016 capital spending.
Is that something where you just have to get more confidence in the commodity price framework? Or is there anything additional that you're looking to see before you do that? I think it's depending on what price it would be of course.
But I think I have previously mentioned and I think I'd say again is that really when it's -- when we do our budget process for 2016 that decisions will have to be made about what we will do with capital spend how much debt we'd be comfortable with having.
And we would evaluate that probably most thoroughly at that time and likely not say a lot about it before late third-quarter early fourth quarter or such a time as that.
Our board typically doesn't deal with the budget until quite late in the year.
So we never ever want to get out ahead of those guys those folks.
And our next question comes from Evan Calio with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Maybe a follow-up on the new ventures comments.
How do you compare the capital allocation between onshore and offshore developments when reviewing opportunities? Is it return threshold? Is there any premium that you're putting for the onshore given the capital flexibility and strategic balancing of your portfolio? How do you kind of compare and contrast those 2 opportunity sets? Well that's a difficult question to answer only from the standpoint of every opportunity we look at is different.
And so the opportunities are evaluated based on each individual situation.
And so I don't know that I can really answer the question other than to say that it's all considered and we look at our opportunities and weigh each one typically fairly consistently depending on what it adds to the mix and what it adds to the portfolio.
And we have certain criteria we look at and look for in an acquisition type environment.
And same thing with what kinds of returns we're looking for from the assets that we already have in our portfolio.
So it's just an individual review.
Research Division</strong> Yes I know it's a tough question I just didn't know if there was maybe a strategic preference for the objective.
Evan this is Barry here.
And just to follow up a little more too is that when you've got a balanced offshore and onshore business some of the projects that are ongoing in the offshore you're just not going to stop them.
And so you've got to finish those up.
And the ones we're doing today like a Medusa subsea expansion or a Kodiak or things like that in the Gulf of Mexico are very robust.
We've got like 10% return in the $30 range.
So even -- obviously with prices higher than that those are robust and moving forward with the infrastructure.
Similarly in the offshore shallow water of Sarawak and things like that.
So you're not going to stop an offshore product.
And so then it comes down to balancing cash flow and CapEx for the year and you trim exploration where you can you trim onshore rigs to balance out where you want to be on a cash flow basis as well.
So it's value-based and it's also situational-based.
Research Division</strong> Great.
I was thinking on the acquisition side.
My second question in exploration and I appreciate the revamp of that business and you can kind of hear the frustration from the results but I mean is there a timeline that you need to see results before you reallocate more capital away from that segment? I think as I mentioned before the kind of shifting to some lower risk almost appraisal-type opportunities gives us a little pause to restock in high-grade remaining portfolio.
This new team that we have in place the reality of it is most of the wells recent wells that we've drilled are not their wells not as a result of the processes that we put in place.
But we are starting to see them and Sea Eagle is one of those.
So I think we've got to give this some time.
It's not something you fix overnight.
And I think clearly going into 2016 we've got a lot of prospects and what we're trying to do is drill the best of a bigger portfolio and that's what we're in the process of building.
So clearly we have a rig schedule that has some good opportunities through 2016.
But as you mentioned it's something that we continually have to be -- evaluate and look at.
But clearly through 2016 we think we have a good program.
We have no further questions in the queue.
At this time I'll turn it back to you for any closing remarks.
Okay.
Well thank you Operator and thank you all for your attention today.
And we'll speak to you again 3 months from now.
Thank you.
Have a good day.
That concludes our call for today.
Thank you for your participation.
Good afternoon ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Murphy Oil Corporation's second-quarter 2015 earnings call.
Today's conference is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the call over to Mr.
Barry Jeffery Vice President.
Good afternoon everyone and thank you for joining us on our call today.
With me are Roger Jenkins President and Chief Executive Officer; John Eckart Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; and Kelly Whitley who has recently joined us as Vice President of Investor Relations and Communications.
Please refer to the informational slides we have placed on the Investor Relations section of our website as you follow along with our webcast today.
Today's call will follow our usual format.
John will begin by providing a review of second-quarter 2015 financial results.
Roger will then follow with an operational update after which questions will be taken.
Please keep in mind that some of the comments made during this call will be considered forward-looking statements as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
As such no assurances can be given that these events will occur or that the projections will be attained.
A variety of factors exist that may cause actual results to differ.
For further discussion of risk factors see Murphy's 2014 annual report on Form 10-K on file with the SEC.
Murphy takes no duty to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements.
I will now turn the call over to John.
Thank you Barry and good afternoon everyone.
The consolidated results of Murphy Oil Corporation in the second quarter of 2015 were a loss of $73.8 million which equates to $0.42 per diluted share; and that compares to a profit of $129.4 million or a profit of $0.72 per diluted share a year ago.
Excluding discontinued operations in the United Kingdom continuing operations had a loss of $89 million or $0.51 per diluted share in the second quarter of 2015 again compared to the second quarter of 2014 of a profit of $142.7 million or $0.79 per diluted share.
The second-quarter current year results from continuing operations included a $23.8 million charge for a recent 2% tax rate increase in Alberta.
This change will increase future tax rates for operations in that Canadian province to a total of 12% tax beginning in 2016.
Additionally we had after-tax severance and other charges of $7.5 million in the quarter.
Since the beginning of 2015 we have had overall staffing reductions of about 7% associated with the Company reorganization plan.
The savings from these staffing reductions will benefit us going forward.
The quarter also included a benefit of $19.3 million from post-closing settlements associated with our earlier combined sale of 30% of our interest in Malaysia.
That sale occurred in late 2014 and early 2015.
These and other items affecting comparability of earnings between periods are listed in our schedule of adjusted earnings which is included as part of our earnings release.
Amounts in this schedule are reported on an after-tax basis.
Earnings in the 2015 second quarter were negatively impacted by significantly lower realized sales prices for crude oil natural gas liquids and natural gas compared to the same quarter in 2014.
The Company's average realized price for all of its crude oil production fell more than $37 per barrel amounting to a 40% drop.
Natural gas prices also were weaker in the second-quarter 2015 compared to the prior year's quarter with average North American gas price realizations dropping $1.61 per MCF or a decline of 40%.
Net natural gas prices offshore Sarawak fell similarly.
Our oil-weighted diverse portfolio of assets benefits our Company as 52% of our second-quarter production was sold off of Brent and LLS benchmarks which continue to bring stronger prices compared to West Texas Intermediate based volumes.
Sales prices have further softened in July and therefore revenues continue to be under pressure as 2015 prices remain significantly below prices from a year ago.
Crude oil and gas liquids production in the 2015 second quarter was lower than 2014 levels primarily due to the 30% sale of interest in Malaysia.
Taking the Malaysia sale into account our liquids production in the 2015 second quarter actually increased 6% compared to a pro forma total for the prior year.
Total oil and gas liquids production in the second quarter of 2015 was just over 131 000 barrels per day.
Natural gas volumes were 425 million cubic feet per day in the 2015 quarter flat to 2014.
However again factoring in the pro forma effects of the 30% sale in Malaysia gas production actually increased 17% in the second-quarter 2015 primarily due to higher production from the Montney area in Western Canada.
Capital expenditures for continuing operations for the first six months of 2015 totaled $1.15 billion which was a 34% decline from the comparable 2014 period.
We continue to project our total 2015 capital expenditures at $2.3 billion.
At June 30 2015 end of the second quarter Murphy's long-term debt amounted to approximately $3.3 billion 29% of total capital employed while net debt amounted to just over 20% at the end of the second quarter.
In July we moved $150 million of funds from the UK following the sale of the UK downstream assets back to the United States and these funds have been used to repay a portion of our outstanding debt early in the third quarter.
That concludes my comments and I will turn it now over to Roger.
Thank you John.
Before we get started in our operational review today I want to welcome Kelly to Murphy in her new role overseeing IR and Communications.
Kelly brings many years of experience to the position and we look forward to working with her.
Barry has done a great job for us over the past five years in Investor Relations.
He will be moving to a new role and will lead three combined corporate functions as Vice President of Insurance Security and Risk.
The combination of the three corporate functions was developed post the recent organizational efficiency study that John just mentioned.
As part of our reorganization we have split exploration into two regional groups each reporting to Gene Coleman current EVP of our offshore business.
We have restructured exploration to reduce focus areas improve capital allocation lower costs.
Looking back at a pretty solid quarter for us we have the following highlights.
Our Company remains in favorable financial position with balance sheet flexibility to take advantage of opportunities and carry out capital and corporate programs.
We initiated a $250 million stock repurchase in May and completed in July this past quarter with just under 6 million shares retired or 3% of the Company.
This represents buying our own proved reserves at near $12 per BOE in this tranche.
Since 2012 we repurchased a total of $1.375 billion of company stock or 12.4%.
We continue to make progress on the portfolio completing the sale of the UK downstream business.
The Malaysia selldown was timely hedged to falling oil prices and we still have many levers remaining to reposition the Company going forward.
We are currently reviewing the value of our midstream assets in Canada Montney Eagle Ford Shale and in the Gulf of Mexico.
Operationally we made a nice gas discovery in Permai well in Block H Malaysia.
This 200-plus BCF resource will fit nicely with our floating LNG development plans going forward.
In the Gulf of Mexico we achieved first production from the two-well Medusa subsea expansion ahead of schedule and on budget.
And in Kodiak we completed the first of two subsea wells ahead of schedule with drilling results to plan significantly de-risking the project returns.
In shallow water Sarawak Malaysia we completed a five-well drilling campaign at the Belum gas field to plan and are now drilling at the Permas oilfield.
In our onshore business the Eagle Ford Shale continued to perform well.
We delivered 36 new wells online in the second quarter and our recently completed wells in the Montney continue to deliver above-plan results.
As we look at our operating metrics our global lease operating expense for quarter two 2015 excluding Syncrude is $10.90 per BOE showing an improving of 9% from quarter two 2014 and 30% down from 2013.
We are pleased with the overall effort the Company is making in cost reductions and this effort will continue throughout the year.
The Eagle Ford Shale had a second-quarter operating expense near $10 per BOE and we expect to see further improvements in the second half of the year.
We entered the price collapse last year and are currently in a good position relative to cash flow per barrel metrics.
While the price drop has hurt this metric we have not had any significant impairments which has impacted many in the peer group.
We recently finished drilling our first well with the sixth-generation rig Ocean Black Rhino in the Gulf of Mexico.
We had strong operational execution on this well at 20% below budget.
The punch line for me here is improved returns are ahead in deepwater especially in the drilling and completion of delineation wells we have planned and in major deepwater developments in the future.
In Eagle Ford Shale we'll continue to lower costs and drive forward efficiency gains.
Our average well cost is now down by 21% from last year and we're focused on getting that down to 25% overall by year-end.
Second-quarter production averaged 201 952 barrel equivalents per day exceeding our guidance of 197 000.
The near 5 000 barrel equivalence a day variance was primarily attributed to new well performance in the Eagle Ford Shale rich startup of the Medusa subsea expansion project and higher than forecasted heavy oil production from Seal.
Looking ahead to third quarter production guidance is estimated 200 000 barrel equivalents per day.
The decrease from second quarter is primarily attributed to lower Malaysia production with the planned maintenance at the Kakap-Gumusut Main facility risking of Sarawak and Kikeh gas volumes and lower Canadian onshore production due to normal well decline partially offset by higher Syncrude and Medusa subsea volumes for the quarter.
We've increased our full-year production guidance to a range of 200 000 to 208 000 barrel equivalents per day.
As we reach the midpoint of the year we remain on track with our capital spend budget some 34% below last year's level.
With that significant reduction in capital we're targeting production growth this year of around 2%.
The year-on-year growth is led by new well performance in the Eagle Ford Shale and Montney.
In Western Canada our natural gas production from the Montney in second quarter was 192 million cubic feet per day.
Our new completion designs continue to deliver strong well performance with EURs now in the 8 to 10 BCF range well ahead of the original Montney sanctions that called for 4 BCF per well.
We have a refrac pilot underway on some of the older wells at Tupper.
We have an inventory of nine previously drilled wells and are currently completing five of them to maintain production rates and keep unit operating expenses low.
At Seal we continue to progress our long-term commercial steam project.
Regulatory applications for central thermal project were submitted in quarter one this year and we recently sanctioned FEED work for the project.
We are seeing some positive results from primary production from multilateral horizontal wells and have running room in that area.
In the Eagle Ford Shale second-quarter 2015 production was comprised of 90% liquids averaging near 60 800 barrels equivalent per day.
As planned we continue to operate four rigs and two completions spreads and the current plan is to stay at that level activity for the rest of the year.
We brought 36 new wells online in the second quarter and have brought on near 60% of our total estimated wells for the year in the first half.
We are planning on delivering 36 wells in quarter three 25 wells in quarter four with the program being front-end-loaded as per guidance and plans.
Production in the third quarter of 2015 is estimated to be near 60 000 equivalents per day with the 2015 full-year outlook not expected to exceed 59 000 some 2 000 barrel equivalents a day ahead of our annual production for 2014.
We continue to optimize our frac designs and are seeing strong results from recent superslick completions in the Karnes and Tilden areas.
We have now begun a new trial of high-intensity completions with larger sand volumes and tighter stage spacing.
Like any major oilfield we are always searching for additional productive zones.
We are assessing the potential of the Austin Chalk Play in our Eagle Ford Shale acreage.
We have begun a three-well appraisal plan in the play with the first well coming online in October.
Our current assessment shows a minimum of 70 Austin Chalk locations in the Karnes area with potential for additional locations depending on the results of this appraisal.
Murphy is well positioned in the Eagle Ford Shale with our oil-weighted production mix compared to many peers.
Our limited exposure to lower NGL and natural gas prices gives us leverage in an oil price recovery.
Murphy's well ramp-up strategy focuses on maximizing value by balancing early production rates with ultimate recovery.
This strategy has led Murphy to have one of the highest levels of two-year recovery per well across the play.
The Eagle Ford Shale is a valuable asset within our portfolio.
The value of Eagle Ford to Murphy is enhanced by our early ground-floor entry in the play.
We have over 2 000 potential well locations remaining and now estimate the total resource at near 750 million barrels equivalent which is very similar to the entire reserve base of Murphy today.
Needless to say the field is going very very well for us.
In Malaysia in the second quarter we completed a five-well drilling program for natural gas at the Belum Field in shallow water offshore Sarawak.
The Belum Field has low nitrogen content that will blend into our current gas production allow us to derisk our 250 million per day contractual volume on demand going forward.
We are currently drilling oil wells in the Permas shallow water development and this operation is going well with cost trending 20% under budget.
Sarawak gas production for the second quarter was 111 million cubic feet per day net supported by strong gas nominations and liquid production at near 14 700 barrels of oil per day.
We successfully completed the planned outage in early second quarter at our Sarawak facilities to complete required inspections and major maintenance.
Production in offshore Sabah averaged nearly 30 900 barrel equivalents per day for the second quarter with 85% liquids.
Planned maintenance activities at the Kakap-Gumusut main facility to install gas handling and injection system commenced on June 9 and have recently been completed.
Early this month we had a gas discovery at Permai exploration well on Block H where we operate the well with 42% working interest -- our eighth consecutive success in the area around that field.
This 200-plus BCF discovery will allow optimization of the floating LNG project and lower our development costs.
In the Gulf of Mexico production for the quarter was over 22 900 barrels equivalents per day with 61% liquids.
The Medusa two-well expansion achieved first oil in the second quarter with the wells starting up late April and mid-June respectively.
We exceeded our projected daily volumes and beat our scheduled targets.
Field development work at the non-operated Kodiak project continues where the first two wells have been drilled and completed to plan and modification of topside facilities and subsea executions underway.
The Sea Eagle prospect in Mississippi Canyon Block 692 failed to encounter commercial quantities of hydrocarbon and will be expensed as a dry hole.
The well which we operated with a 35% working interest was not included in our second-quarter guidance as it was expected to reach total depth in the third quarter.
Our drilling operations team completed the well 30 days ahead of schedule and $25 million gross under budget.
We have expanded into a new area in the Gulf of Mexico with our entry into the Wilcox play through a 20% working interest ground-floor farm-in into the non-operated Solomon prospect in Walker Ridge Block 225.
The well has a gross pre-drill estimate of over 300 million barrels.
Looking at our drilling program for the rest of 2015 in the Gulf of Mexico the Solomon well which is currently projected to reach total depth sometime near the end of the third quarter or early fourth quarter has been included in our dry hole exposure for the third quarter.
Black Rhino is moving to drill a lower-risk prospect at Dalmatian South Number 2.
The Transocean Discoverer Deep Seas is expected to complete required inspections by the middle of August and is slated to sidetrack to Thunder Bird discovery which will be a subsea tieback to our nearby Thunder Hawk facility.
Recognizing our lack of expiration success we plan to focus rig commitments on our lower-risk appraisal wells in blocks where we have had prior exploration success.
We will allocate capital to higher-return opportunities near existing infrastructure and not invest further in higher-risk higher-cost wells at this time.
In Malaysia we will focus on our gas discovery at Permai in Deepwater Block H with two shallow water oil prospects Merapuh 5 and Marakas in Block SK-314A adjacent to our very successful Sarawak oil and gas developments.
Later in the quarter we will drill the Paus East in Block SK 2C offshore Sarawak.
This well is near a prior discovery on the block and is located in our new focus areas.
We plan to finish off the year with a non-operated appraisal of our gas discoveries in Brunei.
Our firm well commitments through 2016 are primarily in Malaysia Brunei and Vietnam which is one of our focus areas with lower-cost exploration.
Post-2016 we have only one required well commitment in the entire Company at an estimated net cost of only $4 million.
We will have capital allocation options for exploration in 2016 and beyond as we have worked off commitments made in prior years.
We like all deepwater operators have deepwater rig commitments.
The end of our rig commitments with the Black Rhino and Discoverer Deep Seas are expiring in February and November 2016 respectively.
Production for the third quarter is estimated to be 200 000 equivalents per day.
We've increased our full-year production guidance with a range of 200 000 to 208 000 barrel equivalents per day.
Capital expenditures remain unchanged from our previous guidance and are currently forecasted to be $2.3 billion in 2015.
Murphy Oil has returned significant value to its shareholders over the last six years through regular dividends a special dividend the spinoff of Murphy USA and share repurchases.
Our strong balance sheet supports the current regular dividend and allows the Company to carry out its capital programs and review opportunities.
At current prices our dividend yield is near 4% above industry peer average.
Share repurchases since 2012 have acquired our own proved reserves below our F&amp;D costs and competitive to other acquisitions.
While many companies are issuing equity or taking major impairments on their assets Murphy through its conservative nature has been able to avoid significant write-downs in the business.
The takeaways today are our strong operational performance this year has allowed us to increase our production guidance for the year while staying within our capital spending budget.
Our oil-weighted price advantaged portfolio provides us with cash flow per BOE benefit over many of our peers.
We're driving costs lower in our business through the cost reductions and efficiency improvements in both our offshore and onshore segments.
Our conservative balance sheet is a positive for us during the second price collapse in nine months and allows Murphy to maintain a continued focus on our shareholders carry out capital programs and look for opportunities to improve our Company going forward.
We will now take your questions.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] And our first question comes from Leo Mariani with RBC.
Just a longer-term question here on exploration.
Obviously you guys are winding down some of the activity.
It sounds like you will have some activity next year as well and then minimal commitments.
Are you guys considering replacing that exploration component of the budget longer-term as we get out into 2017-2018 with acquisitions or onshore leasing? Or how should we think about the strategy shift here? I think the results Leo as you know are not where we want to be.
We got back into the Gulf here and had three unsuccessful wells in [indiscernible] leading us to take a pause there.
We're not stopping exploration around the world.
We've taken a pause in the drilling till we can replenish that portfolio and make sure of these investments make sure of the partners we're in and what type of wells.
Where will costs go? I think drilling rig costs will come down and a pause here is warranted.
It also though as you brought up does allow us many capital allocation advantages whether we would consider M&amp;A in lieu of exploration.
Would we consider a component of production and exploration from that company? I like to think of it as another price collapse coming another budget year coming.
Not the success I needed less commitments very significantly low commitments in 2017 practically none.
And I think it just gives an advantage to regroup and allows us capital allocation across the spectrum there.
Okay.
Could you elaborate a little bit more on acquisitions? Are you guys to looking at offshore Gulf of Mexico and onshore oily stuff? Yes that would be fair.
That would be fair.
Probably not North of Oklahoma and Gulf of Mexico is still a place.
Our unique strategy of offshore and onshore allows us to look at both.
We have the ability to operate in both and we look at many opportunities.
But we like to have a bit of return and strip pricing Leo.
We are not interested in doing it for store.
Okay.
I guess with respect to your comment about moving some of the deepwater drilling to lower-risk opportunities you guys had talked about sidetrack offset at Dalmatian and also some work at Thunder Bird.
Are those just -- are those one-off well opportunities there? Is there more inventory behind that in the next few years? There's about three opportunities near Dalmatian that are like an F&amp;D around $15 and have $40 to $50 breakeven full lifecycle 10% rate of return.
I consider those very good.
It allows us to take a pause in the real expensive deep exploration wells for a while until those costs come down further; allows the regrouping of our partnering and our data and our total review of that business.
I like these opportunities a lot.
They are very accretive economically to us.
But we have seen a lot of success here with the Medusa subsea expansion.
We're going to have a nice success at Kodiak from an entry we made into that project and Dalmatian has been successful.
So these have been around and we have allocated capital to some exploration.
Now we are reviewing that and putting our capital into these projects that fit in well with a low price environment in my view.
Okay.
I guess you outlined your exploration commitment in 2016; we have got some obligation wells and your deepwater rigs are going to roll off I guess in February and November.
You threw out the dollar number in 2017 $4 million.
Is there a dollar number for 2016 on exploration? It's on our slide in our deck today.
I think it's a little over $100 million today for the wells that we need to drill with national oil companies.
Some of these are very nice wells to drill in shallow water Sarawak Malaysia.
There are some further commitment wells in Block H where we've been very very successful.
There are some commitment wells further in Brunei where we have had success.
So I don't consider it a very high-risk program at this time.
It gives us a lot of flexibility in our CapEx 2016 and enormous flexibility in 2017.
And our next question comes from Guy Baber with Simmons &amp; Company.
Thanks for taking my question and good afternoon everybody.
Roger you made an interesting comment that you see improved returns ahead in the deepwater.
I believe you'd mentioned before that you hadn't been seeing a lot of deflation offshore so I was just hoping for an update on the deflation side and then some more detail behind your comments calling for better returns.
How much of that is due to self-help and Murphy getting more efficient? How much is due to what you are seeing on the macro side from a deflationary perspective? And then does that change the way you plan to allocate capital at all? Like I was saying from a capital allocation exploration perspective we have these wells that were just asked about by Leo here about some lower breakeven price wells that we can take a pause in exploration which I think is nice especially when rig rates are high.
I am a deepwater person.
I've been in deepwater my whole career.
I understand the business fairly well.
It's really a day’s business more than a vendor cost-reduction business where the onshore there's a lot about vendor time and efficiency.
But offshore is a day business.
I wasn't a big believer in these big sixth-generation rigs.
I thought they were too complex too big too much going on.
I visited the one we had.
It's one of the best wells I've ever seen in my career.
And if we get that kind of performance to reduce these days with all the subsea handling and the off-line work that these rigs can do and you put that with lower day rates for these rigs I'm absolutely certain that's going to lead to better returns.
That's going to fit in better with our pause in exploration and the kind of wells we can get into out in the 2017-2018 time frame after we have the appropriate recalibration of our work in that effort.
Okay great.
Very helpful.
Then I had a couple CapEx questions.
But you all have done a great job in keeping the CapEx down obviously and then with the lower pace of completions in the Eagle Ford over the back half of the year I am just wanting to understand if there is perhaps downside to the existing capital spending guidance for this year or if we're missing something and perhaps there are increases internationally or elsewhere that we are not fully appreciating.
Then as you think about 2016 understanding that it's early and that the macro environment is fluid can you help us just understand the framework as we try to gauge our expectations for 2016 CapEx? Perhaps what the moving parts are if there's anything going on internationally moving one way or the other and how you are thinking about Eagle Ford and the four-rig program going into 2016.
Guy that's a lot of stuff there.
I wondered how long it would take someone to get to 2016.
We've only been 10 minutes.
First on your first question our CapEx is pretty firm where we are.
Could be down slightly but I can tell you I'd be doing everything not to increase it at all especially with the latest price.
The Eagle Ford Shale is doing very very well for us.
We are probably going to end the year with a little bigger inventory that we normally carry at Murphy and we will probably be looking at the typical front-end loading again next year.
And we would have optionality there if the Eagle Ford continues to be efficient as it has been.
Do we want to use some of that to maintain our CapEx? But that will be harder to do with prices low like this.
But we feel comfortable with our guidance and our CapEx.
I would say it's slightly downward but I'm not anticipating that to be that big.
From a 2016 perspective of course that's very difficult to answer today.
We were dealing a couple months ago with a $65 $66 WTI in our business.
We were at that time forecasting CapEx to be lower than we have this year slightly lower.
Now looking at $50 case a lower case if you will I think it's a misnomer that our CapEx would be very high in that case.
As I look at it today I don't have the breakout around the world I'm looking at a total cash flow CapEx perspective.
And the way I look at this and the reductions that that type of $50 case would cause is that our debt levels as to our revolver -- we have $2.25 billion of bonds and we have a $2 billion revolver -- but we would stay inside our revolver levels without repatriation of cash abroad.
Which we have cash of course in Canada Malaysia: complex and timely oriented to repatriate that money but gives us optionality.
We are allowed to maintain our dividend lower CapEx below this year and survive at a $50 world without changing really almost the debt levels that Murphy has today.
So happy about that and I'm really not offering a lot more color than that at this time.
And our next question comes from Ed Westlake with Credit Suisse.
CapEx is a key issue for everyone as you go into next year but I will wait for your update and we will see what prices do.
You mentioned midstream assets EBITDA for those and how you would monetize it.
I don't have it -- I have it but I'm not talking about the EBITDA right now with you Ed.
I mean it would be a similar multiple that you would see; but I've seen nice multiples in that business.
And when you see nice multiples and things happening Murphy -- if you see other people doing things with multiples we have it too here.
We have a very nice gas plant situation in Montney and great infrastructure there.
It's a very high uptime incredible asset.
We also have many more facilities in the Eagle Ford Shale and we are contacted from time to time for our spars and pipelines that we own in the Gulf of Mexico.
So those typical multiples you would see across other things would be similar to us.
And we are intrigued by this and are reviewing it.
Yes.
I mean I think it makes sense to get cash in the door in these types of environments because you would certainly be able to do something with it.
Just you mentioned the gas plant up in the Montney and good reliability obviously along with that is: where do you reckon your acreage in the Montney now compete in terms of gas price? Breakevens.
It's still a tough business for us.
It's an incredible operated facility and managed facility.
We've doubled our sanctioned BCFs there per well.
It's gone very well for us from that perspective very disciplined.
I guess AECO today is CAD2.40 CAD2.50 Canadian.
That's that at our breakeven 10% return.
You get caught in a situation where if you do not drill some level of wells you're allowed the production goes down and down impacts in OpEx.
We do have some of our production sold for lack of a better word to others that use our facility.
That's the kind of economics we are in and that's why this sale of a midstream would add return on capital employed to a situation of that where you'd swap DD&amp;A for OpEx commitment if you will and bring that EBITDA forward.
Also though on a macro basis we do still have LNG around the United States and exporting.
What will that do to the big gas picture? What will happen to the LN [indiscernible] off the West Coast there on both Canadian and U.S.
sides? Then from a long-term macro perspective when I first went to Malaysia in 1999 I was told we would never sell gas in the gas system to Petronas.
And I think we sold them 304 million a day today there.
So this is a big LNG machine there that's being built.
They don't have everything organized on it; but will that be an optionality for us one day? You never know Ed.
Okay.
Then a small question around the Eagle Ford.
Obviously running four rigs you can see from your charts that you would build a bit of inventory towards year-end.
But what sort of -- if you ran level through next year what kind of production do you think you would get from the Eagle Ford? We're just not ready to say.
We originally thought we'd have to go to six rigs to maintain it.
It's probably a little less than that now.
Probably with the prices that they are we won't be able to do that.
Some would say we should cut back some of our rigs now and protect CapEx there.
But I feel that a four-rig two-spread deal is really really working well for us and there's some level of size to be in the game to continue with the incredible efficiency.
So that's where we are now and see how many of these inventory wells we drill see what our options are.
I'm a little early in the game to say production Eagle Ford in August Ed.
We’ll go next to Evan Calio with Morgan Stanley.
My first question you guys decided to retain the second frac crew in the Eagle Ford.
Is that a function of a higher number of wells drilled due to drilling efficiencies and a desire not to build DUCs? Is that what drove that retention? No our CapEx there has been a little over $800 million all year.
Our efficiencies are growing very well.
Just got off the phone here with Ed; we're just building up a little higher inventory than we normally keep and that's even with the two frac spreads.
So the drilling is growing really well for us there.
We have different parts of the play.
Some drill faster than others all of which are coming down below $5 million for D&amp;C cost normalized across the field.
Just maintaining our CapEx and having slightly higher production for the year I think that's a good story.
I think I have some worry about dropping things and losing the efficiency gains that I had.
And as I've said far back earlier in the questions here today I think the offshore business is a day’s business but they've been enormous savings from vendors in the onshore business.
So the cost for that equipment is cheaper of course than it was last year and the year before and I just feel real comfortable with our team makeup and size and efficiency and the machine we've got rolling down there right now.
Great that makes sense.
In the Eagle Ford do you have any kind of breakdown on the economics on your 2 000 locations? Are they -- would you consider them economic on the strip? Or any kind of breakdown as you think about that? Going forward economics you've got no trouble in today's prices in Eagle Ford Shale on anything we have because we're an oil player not an NGL player at all not a gas player or a condensate player there.
So that's not the issue.
I think to get full on in income across all your G&amp;A and your amortization of leases etc.
etc.
it's in the above $55 level.
We're not far away from there but the costs are getting better.
We're starting to have some very high rates come out of some wells with these larger completions even with our choking techniques that we have which should lead to some higher EUR in some of the layers and lowering DD&amp;A.
And we have this Austin Chalk opportunity.
So just kind of a macro thing looking pretty good.
The main point is if you think everybody else is looking good mine is looking good too.
That's right.
That was just a question across all locations if that was the case.
I'm not worried so much about that today.
Sounds good.
Just one other question if I could.
You guys completed the accelerated buyback in the quarter for $250 million; you've got more authorized; ample balance sheet.
Can you just talk about your decision-making process there for further buybacks as you look at the different opportunities you have as well as your funding? Well we do have another $250 million available to us.
It is sometimes nice in my mind to take some off the table at these low prices especially when it gets down below some recent announced M&amp;A; and we all know what those M&amp;A deals are in onshore especially which are heavy P2-related and we're a heavy oil BOE outfit.
It is a nice thing to do occasionally and it's one of the things we are considering as we maintain our CapEx this year and get into next year.
Do we want to do that? And we do have an ample balance sheet to do it you're absolutely correct and it is something that is constantly reviewed with our Board here at Murphy and my executive team.
Yes.
Maybe I could slip one more if I could.
I know you guys recently had bid in the shallow round for Mexico with partner.
Any color on how that process and opportunity played out? Are there any read-throughs as you think about an eventual deepwater round? Or is that related to your reduction comments on offshore before? I will leave it at that.
We are like I said taking a pause from the real deep subsalt Miocene expensive wells in the Gulf post what we have committed to right now.
Of course this Solomon well we committed to took many many months to negotiate with our partner there which we are pleased with that outcome.
We were looking at shallow water Mexico and thought of it like a shallow water Malaysia play.
It's very underexplored.
Nice place to work.
We're trying to focus back into Houston with lower G&amp;A and less West Africa less international farm.
That of course is international being run out of Houston.
We participated.
It was a situation there where you did various work programs and economic parts of the bid.
As part of that the government then didn't release their minimum government take after the bids are submitted and we were slightly below what they requested.
So therefore our bid didn't work out and it didn't work out.
There are many bid rounds ahead there.
There's deepwater coming.
I think it's a very underexplored nice place to work.
If you are concentrating people and costs into the Gulf of Mexico it would something out in time for well commitments for us where we have virtually zero.
So it wouldn't be a big issue to capital if oil prices were to stay down lower longer.
So I liked the timing of it liked the underexplored nature of it but it didn't work out that time.
And we're going to review it going forward like we do other low-cost drilling opportunities internationally.
Understood guys.
Thanks for your comments.
And we’ll go next to Roger Read with Wells Fargo.
I guess I would like to ask you a little more on the acquisition front.
Back about this time last year when the sale of the Malaysian assets was announced expectation was a redeployment.
And I recognize quite a lot of things have changed since this time last year.
You mentioned South of Oklahoma but maybe you could talk a little bit about just how things are moving from a bid-ask spread standpoint with this double-dip move here in crude prices.
Well I mean you're right.
We have looked at a lot of opportunities here and we look at three or four all the time in both offshore and onshore all the time here.
So we have a big team working on this.
We are very interested in it.
We monitor it very closely.
And the way to think about Murphy in that world is we have a strip price rate of return minimum we would like and we have a full price recovery rate of return we would like.
If we can't get that strip price rate of return we like then we are going to be unsuccessful.
I think that early on just a timing issue.
We had a very nice hedging of oil for our shareholders at Murphy with the selldown in Malaysia then we come into a collapse in prices accumulating last Thanksgiving.
And then we never saw the bid-ask spread organized for us to participate at that time.
And here we are again with another collapse again or a lot of volatility a lot of noise around mid-40s and things of that nature.
Will that bid-ask spread be worked closer this time around? I would say yes I hope so.
But we're not interested in taking on this selldown in Malaysia and also our balance sheet which is very strong.
We have a lot of ample room there to all of our peers.
We're not interested in doing those unless we get the return we need Roger and that is where that is right now.
But we are very active in the plays.
Thanks.
I guess as a follow-up on that and Evan's question about the share repurchases granted a large enough transaction you are probably willing to use equity as well as cash and debt.
But should we think about anything you do as putting more of the balance sheet in play and not putting equity to work at this point? I would hate to fence myself in on one way or another.
We pride ourselves on being a Company that hasn't offered equity since our initial public offering in 1956.
So not a big believer in that.
I'd prefer not to do it that way.
I think it matters a lot on who you are working with and on the other side of the transaction.
Are they private equity-backed and would like cash? Are they a shareholder of some type of merger; they maybe would like shares? What has happened to that as to debt or certain situations there in that onshore and both the offshore businesses.
And I think each deal is different.
We'd hate to say you would never use it but I would prefer not to Roger.
And our next question comes from Brian Singer with Goldman Sachs.
Going back to the exploration just to summarize do you view the exploration prospects as not where you want to be the exploration strategy is not where you want to be or both? I.e.
is it just a matter of replenishing the prospect inventory or is it bigger than that? We have to take a pause and replenish our portfolio into wells that are moving up.
We have a detailed capital allocation process here where we rank every opportunity in the breakeven oil pricing NPV-over-I etc.
risk NPV and net gain.
We need to take another look at all the technical work that we have done and all the prospects that we have and farm-in opportunities our data sets and take a pause in the Gulf of Mexico.
Because today with the rigs that we have the wells are very expensive and we haven't done well like we need to do.
And we have to take a break in that business.
We at Murphy though have a very diverse portfolio and business.
We have some very low-cost wells.
This discovery in Block H Malaysia probably cost $15 million gross or something like that.
You can drill $40 million deepwater wells in Malaysia where we've been very successful.
But the wells in the Gulf of Mexico are very expensive and we are not having the results I would like.
I think it's a replenishment total relook at staff processes and data and where we are more than just where our prospects are Brian.
Okay thanks.
Then on the Eagle Ford as a percent of the total you have some of the most oilier Eagle Ford out there.
One thing we have noticed is that the percent oil from a very very high base has been coming down slightly.
Just wondered particularly as the rig count falls if you have any projections or what you are thinking about the oiliness and if it goes back to the 80% 82% range or if it keeps coming down.
Well it's only because we are gathering and capturing more gas.
We had a lot of gas flaring when we started as per emission standards in the State of Texas.
We now have hardly any gas flaring across all that play with hundreds and hundreds of wells.
It's so oily Brian that even you are going to have to start liking it.
That's great.
One of the questions certainly is does the gas rate in the mix start to go up over time? But your point is that you're not seeing it and you're not expecting it.
No and Brian we've got a long way to go to get some of your favorites.
Yes.
Great thank you.
And we’ll go next to Ryan Todd with Deutsche Bank.
Maybe a high-level one on strategy.
You mentioned in the presentation that there are remaining levers or levers that remain on the portfolio adjustment.
If you take a high look at your current portfolio you have done a great job executing on the current assets.
But when you look at the portfolio in a moderate crude world is that portfolio what it needs to be or what you want it to be? What levers outside of a potential acquisition is there? Or is there a larger restructuring or something that needs to take place to be competitive in a low to moderate crude price environment? Well we're a Company that is doing okay in that environment.
Our balance sheet and our oily nature our cash flow per BOE is very good.
A real misnomer about Murphy is our R-over-P collapses without exploration.
That's not true.
It's flat for a long long time.
It's never going to be the leader but it's very very highly acceptable from a cash flow BOE basis.
As you look at our onshore business for example you would find things that would be an outlier primarily in Canada; and indeed we want to look at some of those assets.
I've talked about some of that before publicly.
But when you have another price collapse and two in a few months it's difficult.
The bid-ask spread for selling is as difficult as the bid-ask spread for buying.
So I think that we have to continue to execute and look at what we have and take on the opportunities when opportunities come with our balance sheet.
And we need to then do things post that to get the portfolio in a more concentrated pure-play basis I think would be best.
But again not interested in just doing that for the sake of doing it at this time and probably won't.
So I guess that answers your question Ryan.
Okay that's helpful.
Then maybe one more on the Eagle Ford.
You guys have had great performance up to this point.
You've been beating numbers.
Is the outperformance that we've seen up to this point is it largely a function of additional completions? Is it better well performance some combination of both? Maybe could you talk a little bit more in terms of potential for what you see in unimproved well performance and some of the potential for additional resource and stacked plays and stuff? Well we're hitting on all cylinders there.
We are very pleased with -- our EUR per wells is probably looking to increase in certain areas if we just get data on these new completions.
Higher sand concentration completions are basically what they are no matter what the fancy name is.
More sand concentrate is allowing us to open the well a little more aggressive than we have in the past and we have a methodology around doing that with our folks there in Houston.
And to maintain the same type of reservoir performance with the larger sand concentration is allowing us to have for the first time some really name brand type of rate without having the well in massive decline as you can see from some of our peers.
That's supported by this two-year production data advantage that Murphy carries forward.
So we are pleased with that.
I think that is something that -- our new data on our new fracs are just coming in.
We are obviously doing very well in the upper Eagle Ford situation there.
We like all players in that massive field have data that shows upper wells going along with lower wells.
We have all those slides.
We have that too.
It's going well for us.
Our Catarina areas are flatter longer than we originally thought; very cheap drilling out in that part.
Very -- from a capital allocation just up there with Karnes.
Totally different type of EUR shape but very economic.
So doing really well there upper Eagle Ford lower Eagle Ford stacked on top of each other.
New completion design.
Another new completion design coming.
Really doing well down there Ryan.
That's great.
Are you guys testing spacing at all? Or do you feel like you have down-spaced about as far as you potentially can at this point? No.
When you are across a big play like us you're an oil player like us and you have various things to invest there we haven't gotten below the 40s.
We consider 40 pretty standard and I think there's a lot of data around 40s.
We are in that type of development mode and I guess you would say it's 20s if you have 40s on top of each other and we have some of that going on; not a lot.
But when we do the wells produce as you anticipate and we are pleased with those results.
We don't have a negative pulldown of any kind going on in the Eagle Ford.
Our next question comes from Paul Cheng with Barclays.
Several quick questions.
Sounds to me in your exploration program you are just taking a pause and you still believe the Company at the core is an international explorer.
Is that a fair characterization of the Company? That's fair Paul.
But I believe today that we will be continuing to focus now more in the Gulf of Mexico East Coast Canada where we would have tax benefits from international exploration; a very big focus area between Sarawak and Sabah Malaysia all the way to Vietnam.
Have a big office in KL and have advantage on G&amp;A and cost of exploration.
I think you will consider a major pause in the real expensive wells in the Gulf as we recalibrate going forward and a continuing focus down knowing more about less areas.
And in the past I felt that we knew less about more areas and we're getting totally away from that concept.
So what you say yes but in a different way.
Okay.
Secondly I think a lot of your peers started asking the same question: what is the right split on the capital allocation between the short-cycle and the long-cycle projects or assets? Roger where do you stand on that? What are you thinking is the proper split for Murphy? Well this year we have been about $2.3 billion CapEx or $800 million close to $900 million in Eagle Ford.
And we had about $300 million for exploration I suppose.
The rest has to do with timing of various offshore projects in Malaysia and offshore Gulf.
I would say it would be a step down from that with less exploration next year.
And if we get in a $50 price where we have very limited exploration next year because like I said we are taking a pause in that in some of the higher-cost areas.
So I would say that split's about the same.
We are a 50-50 onshore/offshore player.
We do have continued development work in Malaysia in shallow water where we have been very successful.
Our Eagle Ford is doing really well.
I think it's a good story to have $800-million-plus CapEx there and maintain production there.
So I don't have some big significant split out and things changing there Paul.
In Eagle Ford just curious Roger.
You clearly have tremendous success in the efficiency gains and everything and they're showing in the data.
Do you think that Murphy is alone or that it's way ahead of the industry trend? Or that you are seeing your peers also have that kind of success? Because it certainly makes a big difference in terms of what the resiliency of the US oil production may look like.
That is true.
Sometimes I feel like we are part of the problem we are so successful.
I do see a flattening in US onshore production the last couple of months which I think is positive for the long-term situation there.
I know that when we cut back our completed wells we do see a decline.
It is strictly from that.
It's not to do with our well performance.
So if the oil price continues here and people do have that I see how it impacts Murphy.
And we are very very proud of our acreage very happy with the results.
It will cause less production even though there has been efficiency.
I think that we are a top-quartile player in onshore.
I think it shows that we have built this team from scratch and can deliver.
We are a very operationally focused Company and very proud of that.
I am an operation-focused person.
We have been successful in that play and I think we are as good as anyone in that play.
I think the misnomer because we are not just an onshore player that we are not a very good executor in the onshore Paul.
Okay final question.
Based on the comments -- two final questions.
One can you share with us how much is the capital you invest in the infrastructure in Eagle Ford? I don't have that number off the top of my head right now Paul to be honest with you.
Is that something that you would be willing to share or maybe have Kelli to give me a -- send me an email? I know you are not ready to talk about EBITDA that kind of things but want to see if [multiple speakers].
No I'm not against getting that number for you and you can get it from her this afternoon.
Okay.
Second one is that for 2016 I know it's too early for you to coming up with a CapEx number and production.
But [multiple speakers].
Why do you ask Paul? No no just trying to understand the concept that based on what you say is that you're trying to keep it to the 2016 this cash hold neutrality whatever is the oil price is that the overall concept? I'm not going to get too much further than 2016.
I will tell you and just be straightforward with you it’s difficult for us to be cash flow/CapEx parity in a $50 world.
That level of shortfall is probably not as significant as you think.
We would make enormous cuts to our budget do so and I've already said we are taking a pause in an expensive part of the world.
So as I said earlier we today from a macro high level haven't been -- it certainly hasn't been agreed with our Board -- we can keep our debt levels about within our revolver and have flexibility as to repatriation of a lot of cash we have abroad Paul.
I think that is a pretty good situation if this thing goes $50 for the rest of the year and all of next year.
Okay perfect.
Thank you.
In the interest of time this concludes our Q&amp;A session.
I would now like to turn the call over to Roger Jenkins for closing remarks Thanks everyone for calling in today and participating on our call.
We look forward to talking to you in the fall when it's a little bit cooler.
I thank everyone and Kelli will be taking calls going forward.
Again I want to thank Barry personally for all he has done for me.
It's not easy working with me on this so I appreciate it and thank everyone and will speak to you next time.
This concludes today's call.
Have a wonderful day.
Good afternoon ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Murphy Oil Corporation Third Quarter 2015 Earnings Call.
This call is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the call over to Kelly Whitley Vice President Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Lisa.
Good afternoon everyone and thank you for joining us on our call today.
With me are Roger Jenkins President and Chief Executive Officer; and John Eckart Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Please refer to the informational slides we have placed on the Investor Relations section of our website as you follow along with our webcast today.
Today's call will follow our usual format.
John will begin by providing a view of third quarter 2015 financial results and then Roger will follow with an operational update after which questions will be taken.
Please keep in mind that some of the comments made during this call will be considered forward-looking statements as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
As such no assurances can be given that these events will occur or that the projections will be attained.
A variety of factors exist that may cause actual results to differ.
For further discussions of risk factors see Murphy's 2014 Annual Report on Form K (sic) [Form 10-K] (1:23) on file with the SEC.
Murphy takes no duty to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements.
I will now turn the call over to John for his comments.
Thank you Kelly and good afternoon to everyone.
Murphy Oil's consolidated results in the third quarter of 2015 were a loss of $1.6 billion which equates to $9.26 per diluted share that's compared to a profit of $246 million or $1.37 per diluted share a year ago.
The third quarter 2015 results included non-cash property impairments of $2.3 billion which after tax has amounted to $1.54 billion charge.
These impairments were attributable to significant declines in future periods oil prices which fell by as much as $15 per barrel at quarter end compared to three months earlier.
The impairments were not related to reductions in the company's reported reserves.
Adjusted earnings which adjust our GAAP numbers for various items that affect comparability of earnings between periods was a loss of $124 million in the third quarter of 2015 down from a profit of $205 million a year ago.
This decline in adjusted earnings was primarily attributable to lower oil and natural gas sales prices in the current year.
Our schedule of adjusted earnings is included as part of our earnings release and the amounts in this schedule are reported on an after-tax basis.
Company's average realized price for its crude oil production fell more than $43 per barrel in the third quarter compared to the prior year.
This amounted to a 48% drop between periods in oil prices.
Natural gas prices also were weaker in the third quarter 2015 compared to the prior year with average North American gas price realizations dropping $1.21 per Mcf or a decline of 33%.
Realized natural gas prices offshore Sarawak also fell by 27%.
Sales prices continued to be soft in October and therefore revenues continued to be under pressure as quarter four 2015 prices remained significantly below prices a year ago.
The company continues to address its cost structure by aggressively reducing both operating and administrative cost.
By year-end 2015 we anticipate a 23% reduction in staffing levels compared to a year earlier.
At September 30 2015 Murphy's long-term debt amounted to approximately $3.3 billion 35.6% of total capital employed while net debt amounted to just over 25% at the end of the third quarter.
At this time I'll turn the call over to Roger for his comments.
Thank you John.
Looking back a solid operational third quarter following highlights stand out.
Our company remains in a favorable financial position with a healthy balance sheet it's flexible take advantage of opportunities that arise both in onshore and offshore.
With major pullback in oil prices we've been able to maintain our net-debt-to-EBITDA ratio at less than 1.5.
Subsequent to the third quarter we hedge for 2016 and currently have 20 000 barrels per day in WTI contracts at an average price of $52 per barrel.
On the cost side we continue to make significant improvements in reducing both operating and G&amp;A expenses on a year-to-year basis.
We continue to review our portfolio as we still have many levers remain to reposition the company going forward.
We're currently reviewing the value of various midstream assets in North America.
We're enthusiastic about the new area that we recently formed into offshore Vietnam.
We expanded our Vietnam footprint with the new block and a highly prospective oil prone; Cuu Long Basin.
Our partnership group was successful in testing our first well and we are working to increase acreage in this prolific area.
In the Gulf of Mexico we drilled the Dalmatian South #2.
We like what we see here as it has commercial hydrocarbons in two separate zones.
Currently the well is being completed with first production expected early next year.
In Malaysia we achieved record average daily gross production for Sarawak gas at 291 million per day.
In addition we drilled the Merapuh 5 and Marakas wells with positive results and process of evaluating both.
In our onshore business the Eagle Ford Shale continues to outperform expectations where we delivered 33 new wells online in the third quarter plus the Montney production continues to be above plan.
Our third quarter production is just over 207 500 barrels equivalents per day.
We're increasing our 2015 annual production guidance to a range of 205 000 barrel equivalents per day to 209 000 barrel equivalents per day.
Over the course of the year we've increased the midpoint of our production guidance from 201 000 barrels equivalents to-date (6:43) to 207 000 barrels equivalents per day almost 3% increase.
In operations we're pleased with the ongoing efforts we're making on cost reductions.
Our lease operating expenses for the third quarter 2015 excluding Syncrude is $8.09 per boe showing a reduction of 23% from the third quarter of 2014.
More importantly we are posting a 45% reduction from full year 2013 on LOE.
In Eagle Ford Shale our third quarter operating expenses are just over $8 per boe.
This represents over $2 reduction from the second quarter of this year.
On a cash margin basis we are just over $19 per barrel equivalent in third quarter and are $20.28 per boe for nine months ended.
This compares very favorably to our peers and has been a staple for Murphy for a long time due to our oil-weighted diverse portfolio.
In production the positive production in Brent (7:40) to 7 500 barrel equivalents a day for the quarter is attributed to Sarawak oil and natural gas sales performing better above planned performance on base decline the Eagle Ford Shale new well volumes exceeding plan due to EUR increases and completion performance and higher natural gas production from Montney.
Looking ahead to the fourth quarter production guidance is estimated to be 199 000 barrel equivalents per day.
Our third quarter actual production is higher than our fourth quarter guidance due to higher risk SK natural gas nominations and planned downtime natural well decline in the Gulf of Mexico and significant reduction in the number of completed wells in Eagle Ford Shale.
More importantly we are maintaining our 2015 CapEx of $2.3 billion some 32% below last year's level when taking into account the sell-down in Malaysia.
In Western Canada our natural gas production in the Montney in the third quarter 2015 was over 194 million per day.
We've been successful in implementing fracture techniques from our Eagle Ford Shale work to the Montney and our new completion design with increased sand (8:47) concentrations continue to confirm our 8-11 BCF EURs.
Also we continue to have positive results on our refract pilot (8:56) that is under way in some older tougher wells.
In Eagle Ford Shale we're especially pleased with our results for the third quarter for production average over 63 000 barrels equivalent per day.
We brought 33 new wells online in the third quarter and we're planning to deliver 20 wells in the fourth quarter for a total of 136 wells this year.
A program has been frontloaded as prior disclosed.
Production for 2015 full year outlook is now expected to exceed 61 000 barrel equivalents a day which is 8% above 2014 production.
We continue adding to our total remaining resource into play by downspacing wells drilling longer laterals and optimizing completions to name a few.
We now estimate that our total remaining resource has grown to over 800 million barrels and this growth even takes into account the total review (9:51) of our resources from a price perspective.
We successfully drilled our first Austin Chalk well in Collins County and we're hopeful.
Hopefully we'll be moving this play concept westward to our Catarina area.
This would add a third horizon to our upper and lower Eagle Ford Shale locations.
We drilled the first of three well appraisal pilot and are currently analyzing core and logs to better understand the reservoir properties.
Our Karnes Austin Chalk appraisal well has a very successful flow rate of 1 500 barrel oil equivalent per day.
We look forward to continuing to test the Austin Chalk play in 2016.
In Malaysia we achieved record average daily gas production in Sarawak of 291 MMcf a day.
We successfully drilled too shallow water Sarawak oil prospects the Merapuh 5 and Marakas wells had positive results where we're evaluating development options.
These wells are in the Block SK314A area adjacent to our successful Sarawak oil and gas developments.
The Murphy operated Paus-Kelasa well failed to encounter commercial quantities of hydrocarbon and was expensed as dry hole in the quarter.
Offshore Vietnam we signed the farm-in agreement in the shallow-water 15-105 Block and the prolific oil prone Vietnam Cuu Long Basin.
Two discoveries have been made in the block.
Murphy participated in the drilling and testing of the LDV-4X well which successfully tested two prospective zones.
We're also working with PetroVietnam to advance our footprint in the Cuu Long.
This new block entry was made possible by our long-term relationship with our partner and our significant position and successful operator in both deepwater and shallow water Malaysia (11:36).
In the Gulf of Mexico production for the quarter was over 27 200 barrel equivalents per day at 71% liquids.
We spud the Dalmatian South #2 well during the quarter.
We're now completing the wells we found commercial hydrocarbons with over 98 feet of (11:52) zones and we expect first production early next year.
Field development work on the non-operated Kodiak project continues where the first of two wells have been drilled and completed to plan and modification of topside facilities and subsea execution is under way.
We're currently progressing the sidetrack of our Thunder Bird well to plan and all of our current Gulf of Mexico projects can withstand lower for longer prices.
Looking at the drilling program for the fourth quarter 2015 in the Gulf the non-operated Solomon well which is currently projected to reach total depth sometime in the fourth quarter has been included in our dry hole exposure for the fourth quarter.
We planned to finish off the year with an oil exploration well Senyum located in Block H Malaysia.
That's a non-operated well to appraise our oil linked gas discoveries in Brunei.
At this time we have two deepwater rigs under contract at Murphy.
These contracts expire in 2016 one in February and the other in November.
With continued low commodity prices we're experiencing an expected reduction in our 2016 CapEx program and uncertainty about whether working interest partners will agree to participate in drilling programs we're considering all options.
Our current contractual commitments to the end of the term for both rigs equals $277 million.
In financials Murphy has been able to maintain our investment grade BBB bond rating maintained our dividend policy through the year with current yield of 5%.
We have $1 billion available under our current revolver.
We have over $1.2 billion of cash abroad with marketable securities.
And we achieved a net-debt-to-EBITDA of less than 1.5.
Production for the fourth quarter is estimated to be 199 000 barrel equivalents a day.
Again we've increased our full-year production guidance at the range of 205 000 to 209 000 equivalent per day.
Capital expenditures remain unchanged from previous guidance and are currently forecast to be $2.3 billion.
To close in my comments today I would like to leave with a few points.
Murphy continues to have financial flexibility and strength.
We've greatly lowered operating and G&amp;A expenses over the course of the year and cost reductions remain a priority.
Our entry into the Eagle Ford Shale has been extremely successful addition to Murphy over the past few years and we've built an excellent high-performing team now producing around 30% of our total volumes in just over four years.
We like most peers continue to see efficiencies in cost reductions in drilling and completion activities across all of our operating areas.
Our Gulf of Mexico projects generate sound economics at current prices.
And over the quarter we have participated in many positive well results from the Gulf of Mexico to shallow water Malaysia and to Vietnam and a very high rate well test in the Austin Chalk area of Eagle Ford Shale.
We continue to execute on all cylinders in a tough commodity environment.
And like to now open it up the phone for your questions.
So thank you.
Thank you.
And we'll take our first question from Leo Mariani with RBC Capital Markets.
Hello Leo.
Hey guys (15:17).
How are you doing here? Just a question for you.
Philosophically I know earlier in the year you guys talked about moving away from some of the exploration activity.
I guess you guys announcing that you're farming in to a block in Vietnam here is sort of a new area.
I guess is this not really seen as sort of exploration? It sounds like there's some existing discoveries or do you guys just see this as lower risk exploration? I think we see it as a little bit of both Leo.
We have had a pause in our exploration.
When I say that it's primarily related to the big $100 million-plus big wells in the Gulf of Mexico; they're very expensive at very high day rates.
But we're not opposed to entry into lower risk opportunities.
It was clear to us that the block did have prior discovery zone.
I mean we entered into the block and participated in delineation of all the (16:08) discoveries.
That delineation is going very very well.
We're very excited about it.
We're talking about when we have – you have two types of wells in the world; the big Gulf of Mexico West Africa new entry type wells and you have lower risk opportunities in a place like Vietnam where you can drill a well for $15 million and have a 50 million barrel to 100 million barrel type prospect.
So on an F basis of an F&amp;D perspective that's a very positive thing.
And this is about our strategy.
This is about our company.
We do work internationally.
We are a big major player in Malaysia.
We have a strong relationship and a very strong reputation in Southeast Asia.
Our expertise in shallow water development there and across other acreage in Vietnam is the reason we were able to get into this block.
And it's very favorable but I do not consider it to be (17:01) place somewhere it's very similar geology what we're used to very similar areas of operation very similar cost very similar well design and a place where we work nearby and something we're focused on in that area.
But I consider it not a new big wild entry into far off place yet (17:18).
Okay.
Can you give us a little more color about this exploration well you're drilling in Malaysia towards the end of the year? And you also mentioned another well in Brunei which I guess is non-op can you give us a little more color around those? Yeah we have commitment wells in our business.
We do not have commitments usually in the Gulf as you would anticipate.
So we've had these in.
These are again lower cost wells.
The well in Block H has moved up in our schedule from what we thought prior.
It's a big world out there on rig contracts and this is an opportunity for us to be subsidized and drill a very low-cost well in that part of the world.
So if you're in the game for a long time you're on both sides of the rig equation.
I've been in – at that business a long time and we have an opportunity to drill the well cheaper due to that and it's a very nice well to drill.
It's probably a 60 million barrel mean type project near the Conoco-operated Kebabangan area of Block H.
It would be different from the Block H wells we drilled in the past from an exploration basis and totally different from our shallow flat spot gas amplitudes in which we've had enormous success.
So we're going to drill that well.
It's probably be 18 million to 20 million (18:26) net to Murphy.
It's disclosed in our costs here in Kereta (18:33) where we've been a non-operated smaller partner off Brunei.
We've had several successes there in a row.
This is a continuation towards that commerciality of flowing LNG into Brunei.
We do have the right type of partners there meaning people that are across the value chain of LNG and I consider it also to be a lower risk lower cost opportunity which is what we're looking for not the big rank expensive wells at this particular time.
Okay that's helpful and I guess you guys also mentioned that you had two recent successes at Sarawak on the oil side.
Yeah.
I don't know if I can pronounce the two names of these wells.
They both begin with an M.
Could you give us a little bit more just color around there? I guess it sounds like you're still appraising them.
Would these be wells that potential could come online in the near future like 2016.
What else can you tell us about those? Well it's called Merapuh and Marakas.
If you live over there five years or six years you can say it really easily Leo like me.
So they're both nearby structures near two very nice fields.
Merapuh is a major part of our gas project in SK Gas; and the Marakas well is a western feature to the west of our south axis platform; that does it very very well.
Marakas is a deeper section.
I mean higher pressure deeper section that was successful and we have to take those pressures and see how we're going to delineate that with the platform.
It is not a 2016 event.
This would be out in 2017-2018 time and it will depend on capital allocation next year as we go through – what you can imagine a difficult budget cycle.
The Merapuh well found extensions of some prior gas that we produced today in Merapuh and another structure – so we proved downdip gas there and some updip oil opportunities; both of them were 10 million barrel type thing.
We probably drilled both wells for less than 20-something million dollars.
It's going to fit in well with our nearby development.
Some are working on it and they're successful.
Okay that's helpful.
I guess you sort of went through the math in terms of saying that your fourth quarter production was going to be a little bit lower than 3Q.
Yeah.
I know you had some maintenance in the third quarter.
Just to be clear – expecting some incremental maintenance in fourth quarter or is this more of just sort of risking and the fact that you're saying your nominations for your SK Gas are likely to be lower.
Could you just maybe explain that a little better? Well SK Gas is a place (21:08) so much we've had a very very good year.
It's a place where we planned on being 250 million (21:14) a day and we got up close to 300 million (21:17) a day this quarter.
It's a record quarter for us.
It is a situation with many many fields fiddling into a very large (21:27) incredible LNG facility.
So there's ups and downs of nomination.
We're known as a swing producer there and a very reliable swing producer with very high uptime (21:36).
Again it facilitates our strong relationship with Petronas.
But things come and go there as to impurities of other fuel such as nitrogen H2S and the management that makes (21:47) hard to predict the guidance for that field.
It's one of the issues around our company.
We have very high cash flow per barrel metrics but with that becomes just not as simple as an onshore situation Leo.
So we have to risk what our nominations will be there.
We do have some downtime at that facility operated by Petronas that we've been notified of in November December.
Also the same situation with our gas associated gas that comes off TK (22:15) and we have some downtime in the Gulf at Front Runner and then we have to repair some things and we have some decline in some of our wells in the Gulf because we're not really adding any wells there until early in 2016 and this year – and this quarter was a very good quarter for us and all those combined into that.
We'll take our next question from Peter Kissel with Howard Weil.
Hi.
Good afternoon guys and thanks for taking my questions.
Maybe just going back to Vietnam here to start with.
Roger can you give us a projected spend rate over the next couple of years for that asset? There is an extension involved with the block and we're just on the tail end.
This well happened in September Pete and we're working with them on that.
It's possible we could have an exploration well there.
This is a pretty complex commerciality field development plan process at PetroVietnam.
We're used to that working with Petronas in Malaysia.
We're talking about probably spend on that in the 2017 2018 range and not next year very aggressive (23:22) there in my view but we're very excited about this field here.
Got you.
Okay.
And then Roger I know you've been pretty actively looking at a lot of different M&amp;A potential this year.
Does the decision to go into Vietnam a bit more aggressively change your stats a little bit or are you still pretty actively looking for other assets elsewhere? Oh no it has nothing to do with that.
I'm not at liberty today to talk about the cost but it's a $2 type finding cost number and F&amp;D number on this project of about 14 to 15 (23:55) that's pretty good.
It's not incredible CapEx for us.
We have a lot of cash if you will in Malaysia through our subsidiary arrangements of moving money in that situation.
This has nothing to do with our incredible focus on both offshore and onshore opportunities today but we want to have value.
We want to have return for our shareholders and we're constantly working three or four of them with a full team of people and we'll continue to do so.
Got you.
Okay.
Thanks Roger.
Maybe one quick question for John too.
With regards to cost you've had a very successful year of lowering your costs.
And just wondering how much more is there to go from here both on the OpEx side and the CapEx side? Is it in the 5% to 10% range that's still likely or something a bit bigger or less than that maybe? It's Roger I was preparing for that one Pete.
I thought (24:46) with somebody else but glad you called in today.
You know you have to look at – first off you can't look at Murphy quarterly on LOE.
We've made big change from year-to-year because we have offshore operations and subsea maintenance.
We don't have just one singular place where we work.
And I think the real thing as you know we're looking at $9.65 this year without Syncrude and probably getting out into very close to $9.
I don't believe we can keep the trajectory of taking it to $7 right now.
But our big growth in Eagle Ford is going to be looking at a $8.50 continue trending down and for all of next year that's a big move from the last two years three years.
Now with that said I'm very proud of getting to these levels.
We have an organization incredibly focused on lowering these costs but we can't go on forever to $7 (25:38) Pete here in our business with an offshore business and an onshore business.
We're very happy about where it's headed and on a year-to-year basis I think it's quite possible (25:47).
Okay.
Great.
Thanks Roger and congrats on a good quarter.
Well thank you Pete.
We'll take our next question from Roger Read with Wells Fargo.
Hi good afternoon.
Hi Roger.
How are you doing? I'm well.
I hope you are doing the same.
Hopefully that Blackberry is not causing you the trouble this year it did last year Roger? Roger you've got to get off that story.
I always thought it was a good one because I know exactly how it feels.
I moved on to an iPhone.
I'm going crazy with technology.
All right all right.
Well it's a different tone anyway.
Hey kind of following up on the M&amp;A question before.
I know you don't want to get into the specifics of the property but what are you seeing in terms of cost bid-ask spreads? Has there been an increase in the properties that are available to look at in terms of data rooms that sort of thing? There's just everything of the above there.
You have some public situations.
You have private equity situations.
You probably have a vision of more of return of their multiple than probably be able (26:49) to offer the returns we would like.
The Midland area is very very frothy.
Delaware getting a little better I'd say.
Offshore opportunities in the Gulf are the key ones for value adds.
And we're expanding a little bit across North America to make sure we've touched every place for value and not necessarily focused – I think we're not quite as singularly focused as we were before.
And like I said to Pete here I mean we have a certain criteria we're looking for and we execute on that and keeps on going.
And when we decide we can't make a return we have a process of looking at the NAV or the rate of return of investment Roger on strip.
And a price recovery deck that we have.
We have four price decks here at Murphy.
And when we feel we can't get to the strip or some level of return I would like (27:45) then we move to another and we will continue that process and (27:52).
Sure.
And in terms of the return you would be looking for on one of these acquisitions to the extent you can share with us what would be the hurdle rate for something like a meaningful transaction? I'm really not going to probably say that Roger.
You anticipate some level of return on a price recovery deck that would have to be far in excess of cost of capital.
And the reason you can't just say exactly what it is because it's more complicated and that depends on the reserves that would be – what are those price for those barrels do they have flow in (28:28) production that you could have some level of CapEx without earning your capitalization of the company and just a list of issues that would have different types of terms (28:40) for different types of things.
Okay.
And then just my last question.
In terms of the cash that's overseas that you could repatriate can you remind us what the potential tax leakage on that would be? Okay.
The tax leakage on that is not that great.
We have foreign (28:57) tax credits that would offset almost all of it.
If we bring money home from Canada if we do that there's obviously a 5% withholding tax associated with that you can't get out of.
It is a creditable tax against the U.S.
taxes owed.
But you'd likely be out that 5% at a minimum and really there's not that much leakage otherwise at the present time.
Okay great.
Thank you.
Thank you Roger.
We'll take our next question from Edward Westlake with Credit Suisse.
Hi Ed.
Good afternoon.
So congrats on the operational performance.
I mean I guess the key focus is the cash flow outspend.
I mean you've got a balance sheet but obviously prices are low.
People will worry about it.
So you've got a CapEx for this year of $2.3 billion.
You've talked about potentially dropping rigs.
Maybe walk through what are the big deltas that you see from this year to next year I appreciate you may not want to give a specific number but what should we be thinking about? Yeah.
Ed I'm probably not going to be the leader in that and I had a bet around (30:00) different ways people would ask that question.
Obviously we at Murphy kind of – when you're looking at $45 WTI deck and of course you've got to take that across all your netbacks and natural gas deck appropriate that (30:15) et cetera.
We're looking at cutting CapEx significantly.
I don't think that will be a surprise.
Then we have to look at that CapEx as to what will happen with production.
We have been working through a lot of that issue recently a long range plan determining where we wanted to allocate capital.
Then we get through our quarter issue here to close out you guys and it's our next focus and we as usual approve our budget in December.
But it'd be significantly reduced.
And when we do do that we'll look at it and do it.
We have several factors there dividend policy we'd like to maintain what will happen to production and we can.
I do feel that we are in a – we're not saying flexible (31:05) in these highlights et cetera.
We do have flexibility.
We have liquidity and ability to handle $40 world in 2016 and $45 in 2017 and make our commitments and our dividend.
And that includes projections we might (31:23) would have on production that we probably aren't sharing here today.
So I feel our liquidity situations and the levers we have there are adequate to handle this and we're taking that to a real high level of review at this time.
Okay.
And so then coming to the rig comment you made in the opening remarks you said one rolls off I think in spring and one in November and considering all options how much are you spending if you say drop both those rigs what would the impact be of that? The way it works in an offshore (32:01) environment today it's just around $1 million a day to run a rig and if you have – the day rate of the rig is 550 to 590 (32:09) and you stop paying the other half and you have about the same level of CapEx.
That is a very poor return and one I'm not happy with but I do not want to take this as an opportunity to drill 100% rank (32:23) wells and add more CapEx probably I'm not interested in situations where our carry (32:30) partners and help them and loan money to them I'm not interested in that.
The deepwater world is one that doesn't go well at 100% and we take all that to account you just (32:43) start looking at the options and there are many and we have different types of people who want to take non-working interest in some of our partners.
We have people that offer us some level of a wildcat exposure at an appropriate level of risk for us because the rate of return of paying it off is not good Ed as you would know.
So we are looking at all those things but when I mention the liquidity in the $40 and $45 world and our dividend and where – what happens with our net debt and our debt to cap all these factors take into account the worst case scenario in that situation and I'm not concerned about liquidity on that front.
Okay.
And then final question again you may not be able to answer.
Midstream monetization in Canada and other infrastructure any sort of rough ballparks I guess in terms of how much cap do you think you could raise? No but I consider it significant and we continue to work that.
We're not a company that throws around MLPs and that does all this wild stuff all the time.
So we're taking a measured approach at that.
We're very pleased with how that's going and it would be a termination of the terms and conditions and how that's going to go.
And it too would be another liquidity situation that I have not factored in in the discussion I just had with you a few minutes ago.
Do you have the book value of what you've invested overall in infrastructure? Really just going to – the way we're going to do BD on this Ed is when we have it we're going to announce it and setting up these visions of what would be a good EBITDA multiple's really not where I'm headed today.
Okay.
Thanks so much (34:26) seeing in summer.
Appreciate it.
We'll take our next question from Paul Cheng with Barclays.
Hi Paul.
Inc.</span></strong> Hey guys.
Good afternoon.
Roger I know that you're not going to talk about the budget yet but can...
Why are you asking Paul? Inc.</span></strong> No I'm actually not asking the budget I'm asking that what is the CapEx that you need today based on the current market condition? If you want to hold the production flat and have the same similar asset mix? What the CapEx look like? Asset mix isn't going to change overnight.
It's pretty similar sales very good everything is going well.
I don't have that number exactly calculated because we're in the middle of our budget Paul.
I would anticipate like $1.3 billion (35:11) or so.
Inc.</span></strong> $1.3 billion (35:13)? Yeah.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
And that's I presume that is including some form of exploration expense or that exploration will be on top? We're trying to have exploration limited in the $45 world with (35:27) certainty Paul.
As I mentioned earlier there are commitments that you have when you're in this business international oil and gas business you do have some level of commitment.
And we're working to be on a committed basis only and it would be much less spend than in 2014 and we're working on that right now.
Inc.</span></strong> And on the Midstream monetization or strategic review from a timeline standpoint at this point is it going to be driven primarily by the market condition or that is based on that how quickly that you guys will go through all the analysis? Oh it's complicated.
We have to have the appropriate person that we want to do business with.
They have to be happy with us.
We have to get those terms and conditions.
We then have to have it approved by our board and really I'm not in a real bond to do it.
I don't have to do it and I'm not probably at liberty to discuss a timeline because I'm not in a hard spot.
Inc.</span></strong> I see.
Final one in Eagle Ford if we're looking at your best sweet spot based on your current drilling program how long the prospect inventory can last? Till I'm well and gone Paul probably at 100 wells a year for 10 year to 12 years or more – no – more than that 20 years.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Thank you.
All right.
Thanks Paul.
Our next question comes from Guy Baber with Simmons.
Guy how you're doing? I'm good.
Good afternoon everybody.
Roger I wanted to talk a little bit more about the performance which was impressive and apologies if I missed this.
But do you have an estimate of the split between the cost gains and efficiencies you have achieved which you might be classified as – or which you might classify as more cyclical versus what is more structural and the result of what Murphy specifically is doing differently? Any G&amp;A here is not continuing event.
So Guy it's significant though 23% of staffing by the end of the year is very significant – that would be both employees and contractors and all types of changes around the company.
And we would not want to see that continue for another 23% next year but we have not got the full estimate of that in this – this type of actions are recent to Murphy very recent over the last few days and we need to put that into our budget process but we are looking at – we do know that last year we spent $365 million on G&amp;A and this year we're in our internal work around $300 million and then we will have – and we do know that the staffing thing is in the mid-$20 million per year and we'll have a full help to that to our side and we are very much significantly down from a couple of years back.
On the operating expenses I mean we – like I said earlier in the call we made incredible improvements there.
It's driven by a lot of great performance in Eagle Ford Shale a lot of work in the offshore as well a lot of sharing of helicopter sharing – when things go difficult many people work together to lower the cost and I'm very pleased with how my staff has performed in that.
It's incredible job for us.
We're incredibly focused on it because we're trying to get to cash flow CapEx parity at $45 and every penny counts and that's how we're working it.
And when you work on things with the good people I have you start seeing the results.
That's helpful.
Thanks Roger.
And then focusing in on the Eagle Ford you're now running three rigs there which is down from four last quarter and the production was better than we had expected this quarter.
In a $45 to $50 world can you just talk about the priorities which will govern the way you think about managing activity levels there over the next year? Is it about the returns of that specific play or is it more about the portfolio and cash flow CapEx parity and you having flexibility there? So just your high level thoughts there would be appreciated? And then if you could help us out with what the implicit effect might be on the production profile that would help as well? Well we have a lot of flexibility around production.
Like I said earlier I don't have that finalized and I'm probably not going to be the leader in that pack with the year we've had here.
We have some really good wells to drill in Eagle Ford Shale.
A $45 based pricing we have – a lot of wells are 30% rate of return and I think that's pretty decent.
And if oil prices are $50 we have many wells to drill at 45% rate of return incremental going forward.
I don't like to do – work that way but this does help when you're allocating capital.
So we're going to be allocating capital on the best areas that deliver the best return on that incrementally.
We also do not need a lot of rigs to protect our acreage that's different than it was in times past and we'll have to do some big capital allocation study and we're in the middle of doing so about protecting acreage versus protecting efficiency.
The reason we have such efficient operations we've been running same numbers of rigs for a while now with the same teams.
So if you go forward to zero to two to three to four to zero it's hard to do that.
So it's almost a situation of allocating capital to remain some level of efficiency.
And we're really trying to get to preparing for lower prices here from a cash flow CapEx parity over other things because we cannot continue to outspend our CapEx and wake up one day and be – with the credit of other people we have very good credit situation today debt to cap and we don't want to wake up with it like to norm (41:26) and not have done something or looked or attempted to do something to add value to our shareholders.
So we're in the middle of all that and obviously the Eagle Ford Shale will be a key part of capital allocation I think today $2.3 billion CapEx of 14 (41:46) our CapEx in Eagle Ford Shale is $855 million and we're going to be at that percent or more as we could (41:53) CapEx because this is a very valuable asset for us.
It's going extremely well on everything you can imagine that's known in shale business.
We at Murphy have that ability as well and we're proud about it and it too has incredible flexibility because if things were to get worse you can reduce it you can add to it.
You won't have the efficiency when you're jumping at (42:15) but it's a very nice thing to have a company of our size and I think very very material.
Thanks Roger.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Ryan Todd with Deutsche Bank.
Hey Ryan how you're doing man? Inc.</span></strong> Great thanks.
How you're doing Roger? All right.
Inc.</span></strong> Maybe one quick follow-up on I mean the Eagle Ford performance was impressive on the quarter with – actually growing sequentially with fewer completions can you talk a little bit about what I mean you referenced better productivity of the wells high EURs some enhanced completions can you talk a little bit about some of the things that you're seeing in the wells how (42:58) sustainable you think that is and what sort of confidence that gives you I guess in terms of maintaining better production levels in 2016? Well we've recently done a big study and Eagle Ford Shale started over with all of our PUDs all of our proven locations and our reserves.
We're doing very very well in reserve (43:18).
I'm very pleased at that trajectory where I think this year will end.
We had some gas acreage in Eagle Ford Shale that we've taken off the table of course and we've made some big changes in EUR.
As I walk through a couple of the fields I think (43:35) significant Karnes where – is a prolific area there as you know Ryan.
We used to think that an 80-acre spacing well would have about a 660 000 EUR.
And now we pull (43:49) that 660 000 to 600 000 but we're at 40-acre spacing.
So that's an enormous change in resource both in upper and lower Eagle Ford Shale.
Tilden would be the same way.
We're doing a lot of work with longer laterals there bigger sand.
Today from back to 2012 we're talking about the same situation where EURs continue to improve there probably not as much as Karnes but the big improvement for us is Catarina which is our most western area which is a very organized – we went ground floor here (44:23) so we don't have the perfect giant sections of land but Catarina is very very organized from that perspective.
And we have improved the EURs there.
We have three big ranches there.
One area from 210 000 a day – 210 000 equivalent EUR to over 400 000 with less spacing.
And then another area from 210 000 to over 550 000 again with less spacing.
And another area from 210 000 to 600 000.
So this is enormous change in an area that we drill wells for only four-point-something million dollars.
This is a big deal and that we may not have it all modeled in yet but our trajectory and where we're headed there it's very very positive in my view.
Inc.</span></strong> Thanks.
That was very helpful.
And then maybe if I could – one more I guess from a little bit of a strategy point of view I mean I think one of the concerns that people have had with Murphy has been maybe depth of resource and what would drive in an oil price recovery what are going to be the assets or the resource that's going to drive when the growth again when you return the planned offense as opposed to defense? And I guess as you think about that and you think about the resource that you have in your portfolio what would you see? The Eagle Ford is clearly going to be one but what would you see as kind of resource that will be the kind of the driver to the next leg of growth for the company? And I guess in that context – and how does M&amp;A fit in terms of either complementing or competing with that resource for kind of the next cycle of Murphy? Well I mean clearly when we do M&amp;A we look at how it affects our long range plans and how it increase our income our cash flow per share and every type of metric including R-over-P (46:23) I think when you're speaking in a nice way about the R-over-P (46:26) it's very frustrating to me the R-over-P (46:29) here has been eight for a long time.
It's going to be eight for a long time but from an oil-weighted perspective we're probably fifth place out of 16 peers.
If you take the R-over-P (46:39) that's really through the oil.
We're very limited.
We'll probably be the lowest NGL R-over-P (46:44) player and very very low on natural gas.
That's quite frustrating to me because this view (46:50) that we don't have any locations.
If this year in Eagle Ford Shale we're going to drill operate about 136 wells down there bring online 136 wells then we probably have 3 000 locations to go so this idea that Eagle Ford Shale is not material for a company that has 756 million barrels approved and now a resource size remaining of 800 million barrels it's mind-boggling to me and it's very well-known how this project models.
But outside of that I mean places like Vietnam we have focus areas that are very tied around where we want to work.
We want to bring that focus tighter projects like Kodiak Kodiak Vietnam and things from Gulf are available to us that are not large M&amp;A change your entire capital structure type deals but they're very helpful on adding barrels.
We do have the floating LNG coming online Malaysia is going very well.
I didn't mention but we took a core there in a well this quarter to continue to confirm our outstanding resource available and we're partnered with a leading LNG player in the world in Petronas which is a big deal.
So small things like Kodiak big ones like Vietnam M&amp;A on top of all that but we do not have a collapsing R-over-P (48:06) in this company.
If you take a look at the long range plan of the company we do not significantly drop ever our R-over-P (48:13).
We just don't have the 12 because they don't have a lot of gas to make it 12 (48:17).
So I think it's a misnomer a bid about the resources we have and we probably need to do a better job of outlining those resources that's hard to do that.
In two years when the oil price collapsed twice.
That's not the time to go out set expectations when you lower CapEx you had the wrong expectation it doesn't work well that way.
So it's hard to get into that vision that you're asking in these incredible volatile oil price times.
If you want to maintain balance sheet to do transformational things in the company you can easily outspend and grow production and end up not having a transformational change that's very easy I can just pick up the phone and do that.
So decided not to do it that way at this time.
Inc.</span></strong> That's great.
I appreciate your thoughts.
And maybe I mean I guess it's – I mean it's safe to say to you that there's probably more resources (49:18) than the market gives you credit for.
But maybe one last one on that.
Is the Gulf of Mexico and there is a lot of – you've had some recent successful wells there.
And as you think over the next couple of years as is the play that I think it's probably a little bit harder for us to model out.
How do you think about production in the Gulf of Mexico over the next couple of years? Have you tie in these wells? Will this effectively hold production flat? Will it drive moderate growth or moderate declines? How should we think about that? If we could get partners to participate in our wells that had ability and income do so and cash flow we could grow production there and that's hard to deal with at this particular time.
We have some really nice low risk opportunities there like Medusa where we placed two wells on line and doing very very well.
So we have some additional locations there.
It will be a matter of an oil price recovery.
However tiebacks like Dalmatian South #2 and various other things the tiebacks from the Gulf of Mexico are right up there with returns you have in Eagle Ford if you take full cycle into account meaning the drilling of the well the pipeline et cetera.
These things are very economic.
We need a higher oil price Ryan to get into facility building big exploration successful things or where we can enter into a well or enter into the things going forward during this unique pull-back because we have the balance sheet to be able to do so.
Those need oil to be a little higher so if you have a higher vision of oil you can participate into the Gulf and many many favorable projects today.
So our ability to operate there work there and long history of being there and have our business – so that way it's very advantageous for us right now.
So we have great Eagle Ford Shale business going and we are executing incredibly well on.
You've got to keep in mind we built this team for years.
It's incredible.
And we are then able to look at those opportunities.
We have a long-standing deepwater team where we're not exploring today but factor is how do we get comfortable in changing staffing to do that again another day when oil prices recover if we choose to do so.
But there's a lot of opportunities in both and we're very advantaged to able to look at both of them and I don't know if many people have that.
Inc.</span></strong> Great.
Thanks Roger.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Pavel Molchanov with Raymond James.
Hey Pavel.
Inc.</span></strong> Hey guys.
You talked about your entry into Vietnam as an exploration opportunity are there any components of your exploration portfolio that you are considering not staying in or either divesting or simply exiting in 2016? Yes.
That's all I'm saying.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Fair enough.
Let me try it this way given the diverse scope of your kind of geographic footprint and the different host country relationships or have you noticed more willingness on the part of governments and NOCs to improve the fiscal terms for you guys specifically or if you want to talk about the industry in general? I found that in Southeast Asia Petronas is such a leader there that the physical terms are very similar.
We've been very successful.
We directly (52:47) understand it.
That's going fine.
I think that will come.
It takes a while for a – I have a lot of experience with NOCs.
It takes a long time for them to have – through their government to change these situations.
I think it will greatly improve into next year probably.
So I believe that's coming and we at Murphy are really trying to focus down on less (53:09) places.
And we're doing so and that's why we will have exits that we will talk about when they're exited.
And so I think we're doing all the things that you're suggesting by your question that we probably should look at and we are and I believe that the NOC help will come but it's not exactly documented today.
But clearly everyone in the industry has to make a change around everything they're doing when oil prices used to be $100.
Today they're $45.
Inc.</span></strong> But specifically in Vietnam were you able to get better terms than you think you would have gotten let's say 6 months or 12 months ago? No I doubt so.
Like I say we're sought after there by them we have incredible relationship with (53:57) relationship.
We found the terms to be very similar to shallow water Malaysia.
We're very familiar with how they work.
I consider them fair.
They've been incredibly changed of late.
It takes a long time to do a deal like this.
So it takes longer to do it than oil price recovery takes.
So we're very happy about it.
It's a block that had success on it.
This is not some new entry ranked wildcatting (54:27) block in the middle of nowhere.
This is totally – the op to this one the bigger oilfields anywhere in onshore it's discovered in the 1970s by Mobil.
This is a $4 billion to $5 billion type resource.
They may come to 300 000 barrels a day in area of Vietnam.
This is the key crown jewel of Vietnam and we're very fortunate to be invited to be in it.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Appreciate it guys.
All right.
Our next question comes from Brian Singer with Goldman Sachs.
Thanks.
Good afternoon.
Hey Brian.
Your op costs have seen some wild quarter-to-quarter swings but as was highlighted here there was a consistency of strong cost performance here in the third quarter.
When we look at the Eagle Ford production cost at $8 the rest of the U.S.
at $8 Canada ex-Syncrude sub-$6 is this the new ceiling and base case where costs come down from here? And if your production declines in places like the Eagle Ford or elsewhere how would that have an impact on the unit op costs? Well I think in the onshore we're doing very very well in that regard I mean looking back at 2014 I'm talking about just LOE Brian not the taxes and all that.
There's different aspect of this as you know.
Last year around $11.
This year in Eagle Ford Shale looking at $10.20 or so for the year – all year-end because we had some higher costs pull over into the first quarter.
And next year we're probably looking at $8 and change; that's really good.
I think in Canada we make incredible OpEx improvements at both Montney and Seal.
Seal of course very challenged from a price perspective.
And so the onshore areas I think are good.
The ups and downs are in an offshore business you have to model it Brian a little bit to get that value.
And so we've had a good year in offshore especially in the Gulf and that it will come.
You have subsea inspections intelligent piggings of pipelines and it makes the quarter a little bit jumpy in that regard.
But overall as a company I think that we're like I said earlier in the call we're looking at $9.65 it probably is a record here of LOE and we're looking at right around $9 for all of here of (56:45) all of our business.
We've probably done a lot of that heavy lifting and that would account for – if there are levels of production dropping of whatever due to capital which will be the range over the next few months that can handle that in my opinion.
That's great.
And shifting to the Eagle Ford just another follow-up on one of the earlier questions.
You have this push versus pull of budget versus deficiencies is there a minimum level of completion cadence that you see as needed per quarter in the Eagle Ford to retain a minimum level of efficiencies and should we expect that production to decline? Well I mean obviously if you go – to answer your question I say you need to keep two rigs running and if you have two drill wells and that probably lead to one frac spread and you can always pick up other ones as needed.
We're not a company with a lot of drilled uncompleted wells.
I think we only have 30.
I'm not a guy to build up hundreds of those things.
I don't believe that's appropriate thing to do with capital.
And so with that said obviously we'd have production decline Brian if you go from 8 to 6 to 4 to 2 there would have to be a decline which is as your firm speaks about often which should lead to – which I guess your firm doesn't believe – but it would lead to an oil price recovery I would hope.
Great.
Thank you.
Thanks.
And our final question comes from Paul Sankey with Wolfe Research.
Hi Paul.
Hi Roger.
Can you hear me? Yes.
Sure haven't heard from you in a while.
Yeah I hope you're well.
Roger just had a couple of – you've been through several permutations of the options and you've talked about transformational deeper resource inventory than you get credit for et cetera et cetera I just had two questions for you.
One was to be considered a merger of equals with someone else is a transformational deal; and the second is would there be the potential for you just to take Murphy private? Thanks.
Well those are unusual complex questions Paul.
That the complete board of directors of Murphy in which I am one.
We have not in my view if you look at my desk today piled with papers.
I do not have a merger document there nor a going private document.
So my focus is to – it's real hard with these big price collapses.
We had a very difficult budget last year coming from a tough one again this year make him stand about trying to get to cash flow CapEx parity and going from there is my focus today over mergers in that effect that will always be available to any publicly traded company of course but it's not the focus I have today to be honest.
I understand.
And so the clear frustration you've got is that the share price is low and the multiple is so low.
How do we change that? What would change that? By continuing to – when you're in – when you get back to cash flow-CapEx parity and do that first and continuing to focus on cost you can only go so far with that but we're going keep working on those two matters and we do have singles and doubles here that we've been hitting.
Yeah.
(1:00:09) I think we're back doing that again.
It's pretty big gross type resource we're touching this quarter Dalmatian 10 million (1:00:17) each for shallow water well significant well in Vietnam.
And so we've got some things going our way there.
Sure.
And we feel like we're pretty well-positioned.
But in my view today we have to maintain balance sheet that we have.
And at some point I suppose there will be a time when we try to do M&amp;A and have return for our shareholders and we feel we're unable to do that anymore and we could look at other things.
So I feel a lot good about where we are in a pretty poor price environment and we're working on that is the answer Paul.
Yeah.
Appreciate it Roger.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
And good to hear from you.
And that concludes the question-and-answer session.
I'd like to turn the conference back over to Roger Jenkins for any additional or closing remarks.
We appreciate everyone calling in today with some active questions today.
I loved been participating with you and I think we did have a good quarter.
And we'll be back with you again after the holidays and we'll go from there and I appreciate it.
Thank you.
And that does conclude today's presentation.
Thank you for your participation.
Please stand by.
Good afternoon ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Murphy Oil Corporation Fourth Quarter 2015 Earnings Call.
Today's conference is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Kelly Whitley Vice President Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Good afternoon everyone and thank you for joining us on our call today.
With me are Roger Jenkins President and Chief Executive Officer; John Eckart Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; Gene Coleman Executive Vice President Offshore; and Mike McFadyen Executive Vice President Onshore.
Please refer to the informational slides that we have placed on the Investor Relations section of our website as you follow along with your webcast today.
Today's prepared comments will be a little bit longer than usual so that we can give you more color on our recently announced joint venture.
John will begin by providing a review of the fourth quarter financial results and key year-end balance sheet position.
Roger will then follow with an operational update as well as more details regarding the Montney midstream monetization and Duvernay-Montney joint venture opportunity we just announced.
We will end the call with a question-and-answer period.
Please keep in mind that some of the comments made during this call will be considered forward-looking statements as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
As such no assurances can be given that these events will occur or that the projections will be attained.
A variety of factors exist that may cause actual results to differ.
For further discussions of risk factors see Murphy's 2014 Annual Report on the Form 10-K on file with the SEC.
Murphy makes no duty to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements.
I will now turn the call over to John for his comments.
Thank you Kelly and good afternoon to everyone.
Consolidated results in the fourth quarter of 2015 were a loss of $587 million.
That's $3.41 per diluted share and that compares to a profit of $375 million or $2.11 per diluted share a year ago.
Excluding discontinued operations continuing operations had a loss of $583 million in the fourth quarter of 2015 $3.39 per diluted share.
And that compares to the fourth quarter 2014 of $442 million profit $2.48 per diluted share a year ago.
The fourth quarter results for 2015 from continuing operations included non-cash property impairments of $192.2 million which after taxes amounted to $123.5 million charge.
These impairments were attributable to a decline in future periods' oil prices and primarily were related to an oil and gas property in the deep-water Gulf of Mexico.
The just completed quarter also included an after tax expense of $183.3 million to reflect the cost to exit two deep-water drilling rig contracts in the Gulf of Mexico.
We chose to stack these rigs as low oil prices led to significant reductions in our capital expenditure program in the Gulf of Mexico.
And the company was no longer able to obtain partner support for U.S.
deep-water drilling as these partners are experiencing significant capital constraints.
Murphy also recorded a U.S.
income tax charge of $188.5 million in the fourth quarter due to U.S.
taxable income generated by a foreign dividend declared in December.
The company had previously recorded U.S.
income tax benefits earlier in 2015 associated with an anticipated U.S.
operating loss carry forward prior to our decision to make this foreign distribution to the parent.
The foreign distribution was made through a combination of $800 million in cash and the remainder in the form of a 10-year note.
This distribution effectively was cash tax neutral in 2015 due to operating losses and availability of foreign tax credits.
This U.S.
tax charge was recorded in the company's corporate reporting area which led to a higher corporate net cost overall in the 2015 quarter compared to the prior year.
Let me speak about adjusted earnings.
These adjusted earnings adjust our GAAP numbers for various items that affect comparability of earnings between periods.
And this adjusted earnings was a loss of $130.5 million in the fourth quarter of 2015 down from a profit of $69 million a year ago.
This decline in adjusted earnings was primarily attributable to the lower oil and natural gas sales prices in the current period.
Our schedule of adjusted earning is included as part of our earnings release.
And the amounts in this schedule are reported on an after-tax basis.
The company's average realized price for its crude oil production fell more than $28 per barrel in the fourth quarter compared to the prior year which amounted to a 40% drop between periods.
Natural gas prices also were weaker in the fourth quarter compared to the prior year quarter.
Realized oil index natural gas prices offshore Sarawak fell 31% to an average of $3.81 per Mcf following the decline in global crude oil prices.
Sales prices continued to be soft in January.
And therefore revenues continued to be under pressure as quarter one 2016 prices remain significantly below prices a year ago.
As a reminder however the company has oil price hedges for – excuse me for 20 000 barrels per day at a WTI price of $52.01 for the remainder of 2016.
At December 31 2015 Murphy's long-term debt amounted to slightly more than $3 billion which represented 36.4% of total capital employed while net debt amounted to 32.8% As of yearend we had $600 million borrowed under our $2 billion revolver.
Plus we had a total of cash and invested cash of about $450 million worldwide.
Murphy's sole debt covenant is a total debt to total capital ratio of 60% which obviously we're well below.
I believe we have adequate liquidity to weather the lower for longer oil price environment currently being experienced.
That concludes my comments.
And I'll pass it now to Roger.
Thank you John.
Good afternoon everybody and thanks for listening to our call today.
Our company remains focused on balance sheet metrics as the entire industry experiences further commodity price drops.
With this focus comes an extensive drop in capital spending.
However Murphy intends to be in the business for the long haul.
And as evidenced with news of our two purchase and sales agreements we released yesterday when closed will allow Murphy to sell the natural gas midstream business and use a portion of the proceeds to purchase a long-term asset that'll deliver value to shareholders especially in a price recovery.
Looking back at operations over the course of the year the following highlights stand out.
We spent $2.2 billion in capital which is 42% down from the prior year while still growing production with the prior year when factoring in the 30% sell down in Malaysia.
On the call side we made significant improvements in reducing both operating and G&amp;A expenses.
We lowered our operating cost excluding Syncrude by $1.82 per boe to $9.21 per boe or 17% over the course of 2015.
And lowered our G&amp;A expenses by over $57 million or 16% compared to 2014 levels.
In our onshore business the Eagle Ford Shale continues to outperform expectations where we averaged just over 57 000 barrel equivalents per day for the year delivering a frontloaded schedule of 136 new wells of which 27 were in the fourth quarter.
We drilled our first Austin Chalk well in Karnes County achieving a very successful IP30 flow rate of 1 500 barrels equivalent per day.
We're planning on drilling our second Austin Chalk well in the first quarter of 2016.
In Canada we recently completed – our recently completed wells in the Montney continue to produce above plan where we averaged 194 million cubic feet per day for the year.
In the Gulf of Mexico the Dalmatian South #2 well which was drilled in the third quarter achieved first production ahead of plan late in 2015.
The well is currently flowing back to the Petronius facility.
Development work continues at the non-operating Kodiak project where the first two wells will flow in the coming days.
In Malaysia fourth quarter Sarawak natural gas production was over 134 million per day net and oil production was over 14 000 barrels a day.
Full year production from Malaysia was over 65 200 barrel equivalents per day.
We're seeing continued drilling success at our South Acis field in Sarawak where we now see sanctioned volumes doubling.
In addition we drilled the Keratau well offshore Brunei finding commercial natural gas that were in line with pre-drill estimates adding to our resources in the Kelidang field.
On the fourth quarter production was just over 200 700 barrel equivalents per day.
And our full year – for the year we produced close to 208 000 barrel equivalents per day.
We're pleased with the ongoing efforts we're making on cost reductions.
Our LOE for quarter four 2015 excluding Syncrude is $8.25 per boe showing a reduction of 19% from the fourth quarter of 2014.
This is in line with the 17% reduction for full year 2014 on LOE.
And Eagle Ford Shale had a fourth quarter operating expense of just under $8.50 per BOE.
And we expect this to be a reasonable run rate going forward.
In 2015 we produced over 207 (sic) [207 000] (10:11) barrel of oil equivalent per day.
Our strong production variance over the course of the year is attributable to Sarawak oil and natural gas fields performing better the Eagle Ford Shale new well volumes exceeding plan due to EUR increases and completion performance and higher natural gas production from the Montney.
More importantly we spent $2.19 billion as compared to our original CapEx plan of $2.3 billion.
Even with the significant reduction in capital for 2015 we grew annual production by 3%.
In 2015 based on preliminary data we expect to add reserves at a replacement rate of 123% with a finding and development cost of $18.70 per boe.
Year-end 2015 reserve volumes represent a reserve life index of 10.2 years an increase from 9.2 years from a year ago.
This is consistent with our five-year average reserve replacement rate greater than 180% and is our 10th consecutive year over 100%.
During this same timeframe we have more than doubled our production including a sell down of our Malaysia assets.
The capital program for 2016 is currently $825 million which is approximately 62% lower than the $2.19 billion we invested in 2015.
We expect production for the full year to be 180 000 to 185 000 barrel equivalents per day which is lower than 2015 due to significant CapEx cuts.
That's common in our industry.
The capital program still remains under review for further reductions should commodity prices persist.
Moving onto subsequent yearend's events as you have read in our news release from last night we signed two purchase and sale agreements announcing the monetization of our midstream in Montney and a joint venture in the Kaybob Duvernay and liquids rich Montney area.
We signed a definitive agreement with Enbridge to divest our natural gas processing sales pipeline assets that support our Montney natural gas fields in Tupper and Tupper West.
The cash consideration is expected to be C$538 million and is expected to close early in the second quarter.
In a separate but related transaction we signed a definitive agreement for a joint venture with Athabasca Oil Corporation to acquire 70% operated working interest in Athabasca's acreage infrastructure and facilities in the Kaybob Duvernay lands and a 30% non-operated working interest in the liquids rich Montney.
The total consideration is C$475 million of which C$250 million was in cash at closing and the remaining C$225 million was a carry for a period up to five years.
In the Kaybob Duvernay there were 230 000 gross acres 200 000 currently prospective that are currently producing 6 900 barrel equivalent gross per day of production of which 58% is liquids.
This area also includes 247 000 gross acres with overlapping rights in the conventional Montney.
In the liquids rich Montney area there are 60 000 gross acres 21 000 currently viewed as prospective that are currently producing 900 barrel equivalent a day gross at 44% liquids.
We're very excited to enter into the Kaybob Duvernay and liquid rich Montney as it complements our current onshore North American resources fits well with our in-house expertise and be our third significant North American unconventional position.
The C$225 million carry and long lease terms associated with the Kaybob Duvernay is flexible over five years which is key in this period of low commodity prices that we were able to control the pace of spend.
We're allocating partial proceeds from our Montney midstream monetization into this project and I see it as efficient use of capital that has a positive impact to cash on hand for our balance sheet this year as well as use of Canadian funds in Canada in a tax efficient manner and enter a project expected to be self-funding within Canada over the life of the carry.
The primary marketable product here as realized will be produced condensate which is used as diluent for oil sands bitumen production and transport.
The Western Canadian Oil Sands projects have long demonstrated a record of production resiliency that will continue to generate demand well in excess of regional supply resulting in relative price stability for the foreseeable future.
Our joint venture has oil battery capacity of 30 000 barrels per day of oil and a gas pipeline with over 100 million scufs per day of capacity.
The Kaybob Duvernay is an emerging play and has three same segments seen in the Eagle Ford Shale natural gas gas condensate and light oil.
The gas condensate area has included several prolific wells of late.
And the light oil area that we now have a significant position in is in the early stages of development.
We're seeing all signs of a shale play success with increasing EURs improving completion techniques as well as lowering drilling and completion costs.
We feel that with three to four wells per section we will have over 500 gross locations in the play.
And this number could greatly increase should down spacing opportunities exist here as seen in other successful North American plays.
We have seen many successful wells across the play now approaching 30 test intervals of over 2 000 barrel equivalent per day with yields ranging from 200-barrel to 950-barrel per million and a clear indicator of the oil rich nature of this basin.
The Duvernay areas have been heavily drilled through other types of plays through the years in the basin which leads to thousands of penetrations and knowledge of the shale characteristics.
Additionally we have a black oil area in the play again matching success seen in the Eagle Ford Shale area.
Our new joint venture partner Athabasca has been successful in the play with the results in the condensate region and most importantly in the light oil area of the play.
Athabasca has recently released information about a key well in the gas condensate light oil area that has flowed 1 300 (sic) [1 380] (16:23) barrel equivalents per day with 62% liquids.
This appears to be a very good well by any measure.
As in any shale play the optimization of the fracture treatments are key to the learning curve.
Of late higher proppant concentrations have been used in the region.
This slide highlights the increase in EUR seen with data up to two years in duration illustrating recent higher treatments lead to consistent EUR levels.
Some wells are now seeing above the 1 000 – 1 million rather barrel type curve.
These wells shown here in the condensate window are now partnered in the 33 000 acres with a 70% working interest.
We see the same well performance with higher stimulation treatments in the Duvernay light oil area as wells – as where we are working – at 70% working interest with our partner in 67 000 acres.
We believe there is significant upside in the black oil area where our partnership has 110 000 gross acres.
Current data is showing high proppant content at the 670 000 barrel equivalent EUR level.
Our joint venture also includes the liquids rich Montney which is among the top active plays in Canada.
We participate here at the non-op 30% working interest.
The region has a minimum of 30% of the flow stream containing liquids similar to the condensate in light oil areas.
The results in the liquid rich area are also showing increasing EURs due to completion enhancements and the lowering of costs with 750 000 barrel equivalent EURs seen in the dataset.
This area has significant running room in the range of 100 to 200 locations with down spacing.
We see a tightly leased up area around our new acreage with many known North American shale players.
Rates here are also prolific in the range of 800 barrel equivalents with high liquid yields.
Like all major shale plays in North America the key economic driver is the lowering of drilling and completion costs while simultaneously improving the completion techniques for each area.
We are seeing the early stages of a major improvement in costs for the region.
And our expertise in two other plays where we are a top quartile drilling and completion company will enhance our ability to quickly move up the learning curve here.
Our partner Athabasca is active in the cost reduction business.
And we will be able to quickly adapt to the area where they have recently seen incredible improvements as we see great upside in lowering costs from the current $C9.4 million per well down to C$6.5 million per well.
Athabasca has recently seen wells being drilled for as low as C$3.25 million which is an outstanding performance.
As we close our call today here are few takeaways.
We're focusing on our balance sheet at Murphy.
The purchase and the sale agreement to monetize our natural gas midstream and use a portion of the proceeds to enter into new onshore conventional shale play that allows for balance sheet neutrality with a five year carry and further liquidity this year for our cash positions.
We see this venture as an investment for the long term with total spend flexibility over a five-year period as we anticipate a price recovery.
Cost reductions will continue to be our focus.
Our Eagle Ford Shale continues to perform very well for us.
Budget reductions will lead to a very limited exploration spend this year.
We continue to illustrate the execution advantages we have in the offshore.
We had an excellent year operation in our company with reserve additions significant capital reductions and lowering costs leading the way.
I would now like to open the phone lines up for any questions.
And thank you.
Thank you.
And we'll take our first question from Roger Read Wells Fargo.
Hey there Roger.
How are you doing? I am good Roger.
How are you? All right.
Good.
Can we talk about the acquisition? I mean I know the sell down in Malaysia a little over a year ago – I think that's right.
Yeah.
The – or at least the announcement.
Right.
Then the talk of a transformative acquisition.
Is this one of those transformative acquisitions? Or should we still consider something in the lower 48 as the more likely and still desirable opportunity? No.
I think of it as transformative for us.
I mean it's got all the things we're looking for today.
It's very rare to get into M&amp;A in North America and have flexibility on the first year of capital spend.
And have no continuous drilling clauses be able to drag out the carry over a very long period of time and a very low oil price.
I've said for a long time that I would like a 10% cost to capital type return at a strip price.
And with the drilling costs we're seeing here we're able to do that here.
Even on a strip that we used on January 19 which was probably $4 behind where we are today.
So I see this as transformative for us Roger honestly because it has a 200 million to 300 million barrel ability for us.
It's a pretty low cost entry.
It's different from buying from a company that's flipping acres because we have a partner that's working there and has drilled there and has infrastructure there.
And we're able to work with them and take over as the operator.
They were able to operate a piece where they've been very successful.
It's in Canada.
We'll have Canadian proceeds.
There's a little forex right now for this transaction where the USD equivalent of that would not get you what it used to get you here in the United States.
And all those factors led to this decision.
Okay.
That's great.
And then as you think about lower 48 are there still opportunities? Are we still too far apart on a bid/ask spread? Just curious any update you would have on what you're seeing there? No.
I mean we look at many opportunities.
I do the same thing whether it's off shore or in the Permian or in the Eagle Ford or wherever.
We look at the rate of return we get at strip prices.
And with cost and how it affects our balance sheet and how – will we have to drill so much capital and hurt our balance sheet further? And that's come up as a new factor in the M&amp;A analysis that we had from a year ago.
And that just as important now in the balance sheet of how one of these projects would impact you as anything for me now.
So we saw the returns here very similar to a project we were working in the lower 48.
But we ended up – with a project in the lower 48 totally down spaced every zone working to have this same rate of return as one in Canada where we have no down spacing at all a built in partner a five-year lease program five-year carry period.
And it just offered every advantage to me in $30 oil that I don't have down here right now.
Okay great.
And last question I'll ask on the acquisition front.
You've always talked about wanting to use cash or debt.
Obviously now debt is a little more questionable as an opportunity for a whole host of reasons.
Would you at all consider issuing equity? I know that's not something the company has historically done.
But as you think about that cost of capital does that factor in? Or not so much? Well Roger we've been working pretty hard on these two transactions.
And I don't have another one in my pocket today.
I'm pretty tired.
And it has taken us a lot of work to do these two.
And we didn't have to use debt and we didn't have to use equity.
And I'm very pleased.
And not looking for a deal today to issue equity at this price in my company.
Great.
Thank you Roger.
Thank you.
Moving on we'll take our next question from Kyle Rhodes RBC.
Hello.
How you doing? Hey guys.
Is there any more light you can shed on the new midstream agreements with Enbridge? Just maybe in terms of minimum volume commitments? And what that means for future drilling obligations there? And then maybe run rate gathering and processing expense we should be modeling in going forward? We have a very nice transaction there.
We're very pleased with it.
We're not disclosing the tariff arrangement there.
You would have to look at cost of capital those top players residual value and you can work through that.
I think the way to think about this business is if you have a $1.90 to $2 ACO (25:10) run through that business every year we're able to drill our wells and have cash flow neutrality and not hurt our balance sheet in any way.
Lot of optionality around how many wells we drill.
We're doing very very well there on an EUR per well basis.
We're able to get the money at a – from these guys at a favorable rate to us as to how this works.
And we're able to use these proceeds of selling steel and getting into 200 million to 300 million barrel reserves type P2 number.
And I like the sound of it.
I like the transaction.
And we're not concerned about the level of drilling that we'll need to do or allocate capital here because of the incredible reduction in our operating expenses our improved fracturing techniques our lower drilling costs and all the positives attributes of shale we have in the Montney too.
And we have a very good partner there one of the dominating players in North America in this space.
And we're very very happy about it.
Okay.
Great.
And then maybe just kind of circling back to the Duvernay.
Realize the ink's still not even dry yet on this deal.
But how are you guys kind of just high-level thinking about development over the next couple years? Is kind of the light oil window going to be the near term area of focus? Or just how should we be thinking about in terms of de-risking that new position there? Well I mean we have – we just got the ink dry on the thing.
These deals are complex.
And today in the price collapse and doing a deal like this with our partner very happy about all the areas.
And I would say that we concentrate in a mixture of both the condensate which is very very successful by many successful shale players.
Pretty big light oil window that we're creeping northward if you look through the slides today.
And we have a limited capital in 2016 because of severe drop in price.
Now most of that capital will be allocated toward completing wells that are owned by the partner today if we – when we close the transaction.
And got about a six- or nine-month period to plan out where we want to execute on that.
But very pleased with all the areas.
And be happy to drill wells in any of it to be honest with you.
That's helpful.
And one last one for me.
Roger.
Just what's your kind of current comfort level with the dividend? Well we've had a dividend policy here for a very long time.
And the oil prices just collapse for a short time.
But like any company today if these price levels persist then the dividend discussion will be on the table here in our company.
And we will have that and review that as necessary.
And I would say it would be on the table in these prices more than before.
And that's really all I have to say in that matter.
Got it.
I appreciate it Roger.
Oh thank you.
Moving on we'll take our next question from Guy Baber from Simmons &amp; Company.
Good morning Guy.
Good morning.
Congrats on the transaction.
Thank you.
On the JV transaction I wanted to follow up on a comment that you made earlier Roger about the returns.
But can you just help frame for us and maybe discuss the economics that are underlying the deal? On the last call you talked about running four price decks I think to screen deals.
And wanting to get a return at the strip.
And we aren't as familiar with these assets.
So any return framework or how you think these assets compete for capital in the current environment or a rising oil price environment I think would help us better understand this.
Well we were in a very big collapse in price here recently of course.
And when we say strip we were using a January 19 strip.
And it was around $32.76 2016 $37 for 2017 and up to $44 in 2020.
Of course today these numbers are about $4 better than that.
And when we run through this entire thing as we've always said and always desired and have a requirement here is we'd be above 10% when we look at current drilling and completion costs which are very critical.
And that's without any down spacing at all.
And then when we have another price deck here we call the low – our low planning price from January it's a very low price for 2016 around $29 $41 in 2017 and going up to $60 in 2020.
And this project looks very good as good as any M&amp;A we've seen in the above 15% range.
And then when you get a big cost – big price recovery deck here we get into the 20% range.
So we're very happy about it.
It stacks up well with all the opportunities we reviewed across the spectrum.
And we've looked at a lot.
And very very happy about it.
Okay.
That's very helpful.
Thank you.
And then can you talk a little bit more about the flexibility that you have the minimum level of activity you all have to progress there with the JV in terms of holding acreage or the minimum commitments that you have when it comes to allocating capital? Because it sounds as if that was an attractive element to this deal.
So if you could just talk about that a little bit more? Yeah it's very attractive element.
Because as at the whole time we looked at it we've had another level of price collapse.
And looking in the $130 million $140 million U.S.
capital through the first three years on our low basis.
And going into the $200s million in 2020 to get this carry behind us and kind of smooth $200 million a year doesn't lead to incredible growth for us.
We're talking about a 30 000 barrel a day type number in 2023 or so.
Of course that can be greatly enhanced with – we feel we have conservative EURs in this analysis.
And start drilling some wells and proving and try not to build up the big overspend here.
And the key thing for us is in our – if you look at our Mocal (31:21) cash position day of $240 million $250 million whatever it is.
Take this money in from midstream.
Have a big Western Canada business Syncrude East Coast Canada and our Montney business and our new midstream business and we're able to run through this business here.
And it's EBITDA accretive to us.
It's income a slight income accretion to us with very very low prices.
And we're able to run through that and keep all of our Mocal (31:52) cash balances intact.
And it's some $300-something million the whole time.
And that's very attractive for us because we have to get on the balance sheet here.
Have to get back to free cash flow.
Have to get this debt worked down over time.
And that's about the only project we had that had the returns I wanted and had the ability to do that for me right now.
Okay great.
And then final one from me.
On the capital budget for 2016 you made a comment that the budget would be under review for further reductions.
So just trying to understand that comment.
Is that if the current strip persists? Is that if we see another leg down in price? Help us understand that comment.
And then it seems as if you've hit the CapEx budget pretty hard obviously.
Where do you have incremental flexibility to flex lower if you choose to do that? Well we have a lot of flexibility in the Eagle Ford.
And we can go down $100 million there if we want to.
And that's the beauty of these plays is you can slow it down.
More difficult in offshore.
And that would be where that would come from.
And while price is on a rampage the last four days it's still not too exciting to me.
I can tell you that.
So we have got to keep this balance sheet intact.
We cannot be lulled into believing this is back here headed in the $40s.
And just not headed that way.
I'm not scared to cut the CapEx.
And I will.
And we're going to getting on balance sheet instead of production because I've grown production as much as anybody through the years.
And so we're going to stay in business for a long time.
We're going to keep our balance sheet in the right ZIP code here.
Okay great.
Thanks for all the comments Roger.
Thank you.
Moving on we'll take our next question from Ryan Todd Deutsche Bank.
Ryan how you doing? Inc.</span></strong> Great thanks.
How you doing Roger? All right.
Inc.</span></strong> Maybe following up on capital allocation a little bit.
I mean can you talk a little bit about relative competition to capital between the Eagle Ford and the Athabasca JV going forward? I mean what are the relative rates of return? Or – yeah.
What is the relative rate of return right now between the two plays? And if we were to see incremental upward pressure on the commodity where would we see capital go first? I think that our Eagle Ford because of its oily nature and not the U.S.
ACO (34:25) nature it will always be slightly ahead of our wells up there.
But then you have this balance sheet issue of U.S.
costs and repatriation and tax efficiency and working in the Mocal (34:39) area.
But if we were to move it around pretty good they compete very well.
A condensate well and an oil window well up in Canada competes very well with a lower Eagle Ford Shale in Karnes.
And that's what's so interesting Ryan about this deal and about these shale plays is that four years ago the Catarina area where we have an enormous acreage position in the Western Eagle Ford Shale was one of our lowest rate of return areas in the company – in the Eagle Ford I mean.
So over this time the EURs have doubled the drilling costs have halved and it went from the bottom to the best.
So it's the best individual well economics around 25% on that January 19 strip day where we normalized all our costs.
And this project up there is competing with there.
But the point is as things change some areas become better than others.
Places not so good last time are better this time.
The costs in this northern light oil area are very very good and getting much better.
And when we put those costs in here this project going to compete with the Eagle Ford very well for us.
And then it'll be a matter of our capital what we do about repatriation and how we want to work in our Mocal (35:55) cash balance.
But on the overall allocation capital it will work well and it'll be some hard decisions there.
Inc.</span></strong> Great thanks.
And then maybe one – maybe another one on CapEx.
In the Eagle Ford – the level of spend in the Eagle Ford seems fairly high for running 1.25 rigs.
I mean is there a timing issue related to there? How much of that's infrastructure related? Or is there – as we look forward over the next year or two is there some of that CapEx that we should expect to see roll-off going forward? North American Onshore Operations Murphy Oil Co.
Ltd.</span></strong> Go ahead.
I'll have Mike answer that for you.
North American Onshore Operations Murphy Oil Co.
Ltd.</span></strong> Hi it's Mike McFadyen here.
The – I guess the – could you repeat the question again please? Inc.</span></strong> I mean I think the question is I think – it looks like you're spending about $340 million in the Eagle Ford running 1.25 rigs roughly for the year which I mean the absolute level of spend seems a little high.
Is that – can you – how much of that the additional capital in the Eagle Ford is infrastructure related? Or – and should we expect to see any of that roll-off over the – or is it a timing issue over the next period of months or years? North American Onshore Operations Murphy Oil Co.
Ltd.</span></strong> It's primarily drilling and completions.
We're going drill 45 wells.
And we're going to complete between 55 wells and 60 wells.
So we have some well inventory that we'll complete with that capital as well.
So it's a fairly significant amount.
There's a little bit of electrification work that'll help lower our operating costs probably about $30 million $40 million of that.
But as Roger mentioned that capital could be considered to be cut as well.
And we could consider going down to less than one rig in the Eagle Ford and putting back $100 million to the corporation.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Thanks.
That's great.
I appreciate that and I'll leave it there.
North American Onshore Operations Murphy Oil Co.
Ltd.</span></strong> All right.
Thank you.
Moving on we'll take our next question from Paul Cheng Barclays.
Inc.</span></strong> Hey guys.
Good afternoon.
Paul how you doing? Inc.</span></strong> Very good.
Look like you said very good transactions.
Wanted to – just curious the $825 million CapEx that you put out.
I presume that's not including the JV spending.
Right? That's correct Paul.
We're going to have a year of explaining this.
The $825 million is Murphy as is.
We go into this transaction.
We of course have to pay the down payment.
And I'm speaking to you now.
And it's another confusing thing Paul we have to keep in mind is I'm speaking now in USD.
So this CapEx would go up by $223 million.
But most of it is the purchase a down payment.
And then we will have very limited capital at $30 million to $40 million this year is the current plan.
And we have to get with our partner get with what's going on with their production reserves et cetera and allocate capital there efficiently.
But we had planned – keep in mind that this deal was structured between November 30 and January 20.
And it was an exciting time for oil prices Paul.
And so we have very limited capital there planned in 2016 kind of get our feet on the ground get in there with a partner.
And it has been working.
It has been working well.
And able to pick up and move forward and get it on into 2017.
But very little this year Paul but that is correct.
The guidance here for production and the capital in these remarks today do not include the transaction we did with our joint venture partner Athabasca.
Inc.</span></strong> Wonder on the first couple years when you start spending money in this joint venture are those sort of the sands project? Or that it's going to be really already in the manufacturing side? Oh no I don't see that.
There's loads of wells here.
There's incredible amount of information being released by nearby shale players like Encana very successful here.
And Canada is a little different than Texas it's incredible accurate data released publicly.
A lot of what all the proppants are what are the length of the wells are the orientation of the well.
Canada does a very good job in that regard.
And I see us getting into pads and drilling four well pads much earlier than we did in the Eagle Ford.
And I think that it's critical to understand that Murphy had zero shale presence in our company four years ago 900 wells today.
And know what we're doing.
And we're going to get in there and get going hopefully in pad drilling here pretty quick Paul.
Inc.</span></strong> Yeah.
Can you give us some idea that in 2017 what kind of range of oil price and what kind of the JV spending going to look like? In 2017 we'll probably...
Inc.</span></strong> So you said that the oil price would be at $35.
Then what will be – and if you're at $60 what kind of spending we may be talking about? I only have the low case in front of me Paul.
When we get back to $60 we'll be glad to speak with you about that.
I'm seeing capital in the $130 million U.S.
range for 2017 and 2018 right now in front of me as I look at this Paul.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
And wondering if you're going to stay at $825 million on your base operation? Yes.
Inc.</span></strong> And if you stay here for 2017 what's going to be 2017 decline rate look like? Is it going to be the rate that's similar...
Paul we've been doing very well in production here.
Now Eagle Ford has been resilient.
We have it declining in here this year.
And we've gone through two or three budgets here have a board meeting next week in that regard.
And really not getting off into 2017.
We've had a pretty big collapse in price.
We're trying to focus on our balance sheet above all.
And not leading the way on the 2017 guidance parade there Paul.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Two final questions.
One can you give us some idea that how is the Eagle Ford production trend by quarter look like? Or that I mean we start out from what – and end the year at roughly what run rate? And then finally it looked like you guys didn't have any research write-down or markdown on the full time research like maybe some of your peers.
So I just wanted to make sure that's the case? Yes true Paul.
Mike McFadyen is going to look up the caps – the production for you.
And I'll speak about the reserves.
We're had a very good year in reserves in this company.
And we've done a good job on it for a long time.
And we added some PUD locations in the Eagle Ford.
We've had some very small negative revisions in our performance as a company.
We've had some type curve enhancements in Eagle Ford Shale.
We had some operating expense help into the long cycle.
Actually Paul with our company in Malaysia you're able to get some adding in barrels with price and as our entitlement goes up.
So it's an advantage then of not just being in one spot.
It's not significant.
But it helped us there.
And of course we sold down 20 million barrels in Malaysia and produced 76 million.
So to replace we've hacked the budget.
And we're a company that's very proud of our EURs and our costs.
And very happy about the lack of a write-down in our calculations Paul.
And now Mike is going to talk to you about the production in the Eagle Ford which is – have a lot less CapEx this year.
North American Onshore Operations Murphy Oil Co.
Ltd.</span></strong> Sure thanks.
On the production side so we finished the – quarter four of 2015 at about 57 000 barrels of oil equivalent.
Forecast forward for the first quarter is about 54 000 second quarter is 48 000 third quarter is 47 000 and then the fourth is about 44 000 for a 2016 average of 48 400.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
And final one.
John do you have a rough estimate of the 2016 DD&amp;A for the company given all the reserve markdown and everything? Wait Paul we didn't have reserve write-downs.
We had impairments.
Inc.</span></strong> You had – sorry that......
No reserves Paul.
Inc.</span></strong> (44:07) All right.
Yeah.
Thanks for that correction Roger that's correct.
We are looking Paul at DD&amp;A rates in the $16 range companywide for 2016.
So down significantly from where we were due to the impairment expenses that we're taking in 2015.
Inc.</span></strong> Thank you.
Okay Paul thanks man.
Moving on we'll take our next question from Ed Westlake from Credit Suisse.
Yes.
Hey Ed how you doing? Good very well.
And congrats on getting this deal done.
Oh thank you.
So I just wanted to get a little extra detail if I may.
I mean obviously C$9 million (sic) [C$9.4 million] (44:54) getting down to C$6.4 million (sic) [C$6.5 million] (44:55) in terms of the well costs 11 000 feet of total vertical depth.
I mean maybe just get – walk us through what the biggest things are that will get you to get that cost down? And then I'll follow up on the EURs.
Mike McFadyen our Head of our Onshore business is going to comment on that for me Ed.
Thanks.
North American Onshore Operations Murphy Oil Co.
Ltd.</span></strong> Yeah.
I'll speak to that.
So the light oil window which represents the lion's share of the acreage we value 67 000 acres of that is – can be drilled without intermediate casing.
And Athabasca just drilled two pacesetter wells there in 2015 one at 13 days and one at 16 days.
So it's that kind of drilling performance at – and in the C$3 million to C$3.5 million is what they spent including lease construction cost is what's going to get us there.
It's similar to the Northern part of our Eagle Ford where we've started in the basin with drill times of 25 plus days and are now down to seven days in the Catarina area.
It's also similar to our Montney operated area where we're continuing to improve drill times and costs there where we've driven – we're down now in the C$6 million – sub C$6 million drill and complete cost in our Tupper Tupper West area where we're targeting anywhere from 12 days to 14 days a well this year.
Okay.
And then on the recoverable resource of 200 million to 350 million [boe] I'm just looking at the bubble map you've got on slide 12 I mean as with the some of these other combo plays you've had the better results in the gas condensate light oil.
I don't know how many wells have actually been drilled in the black oil area.
Maybe talk a little bit about that there's a decent chunk of acreage up there.
Maybe talk a little bit about what was included in that resource number? And then what economics would be needed to get the black oil window to work? We didn't count any of – above the black oil line on page 12 right now.
And we used only the light oil and the condensate and then the liquids Montney that shows up in some other slides.
And this acreage is quite de-risk and the gas condensate area is successful wells all around it.
Yeah.
And we used a no down spacing there and used no down spacing anywhere to arrive at that number Ed.
And we then took a – over in the Western part of this thing called light oil on page 12 some very successful wells.
And we took a higher EUR curve there.
You can see some of the EUR results in the back here as to the concentration of proppant Ed.
And moving to the east we took a more conservative one.
These wells have rate of return in the 14% 15% range at a $30 oil type strip.
I think in the black oil area it's a matter of there would be some experimentation there to figure out how to make that work.
That's the issue now with capital allocation.
But the advantage here is that a lot of long life leases like leasing in the Gulf of Mexico if you will it's a government Crown lease and no continuous drilling clauses a lot of flexibility a lot of information to come to us.
There's constantly wells being released for information in this region.
And we're going to be monitoring that and real excited about just a portion of it working is incredibly valuable to us Ed.
The final question from me is on the Alberta royalty review.
I mean obviously a part of the reason why Canada does better than the U.S.
is because you have more attractive fiscal terms.
So maybe any color in terms of what you think is going to happen there? And how that might impact the economics? Well we have about a 5% starting off royalty there probably going to 15% over the life.
There are some discussions about that royalty they've been – I view the Alberta government in general being helpful on some of these things as the price collapse has gone down probably unlike our administration here.
And we're happy.
We think that could impact like a – less than a digit type of rate of return and not significant from the Alberta group that's coming up.
And real happy with the comment that you made and agree.
And happy about the royalty situation up here.
Okay.
Thanks so much Roger.
Good luck.
Oh thank you.
Moving on we'll take our next question from James Sullivan Alembic Global Advisors.
Hey good afternoon guys.
Yeah James.
Congrats on the deal first off.
And I just wanted to quickly ask on infrastructure up there.
Athabasca has obviously talked about they own some of the infrastructure processing and so on.
So they have some kind of graphics on what they've got up there.
But is that – is there anything in there that would be an impediment to the pace of development? I know you guys are obviously sounding like you're going to move pretty slowly.
But just wanted to see whether there are any roadblocks there? Whether you'd be dependent on third-party build-outs? No not at all.
I mean today they have 30 000 of oil batteries and ability on oil over 100 million of gas.
There's a lot of MLP type activity and people reactivating gas plants.
This has been a historic producing basin kind of similar to the Eagle Ford Shale in many ways.
A lot of gas pipes headed to Edmonton lot of transport of condensate.
There's two exits for gas coming out of here which are very helpful.
And we now have a part of that infrastructure as to our working interest with our partner there and glad to have it.
It's valuable as well.
It's up and going.
They're adding to it used to adding to it know how to add to it.
Pleased to not have to start over in the infrastructure business at $34 oil.
Yeah makes good sense.
Thanks for that.
Last one – the last two from me are just quick kind of modeling ones.
Where did you guys take the accrual for the rig termination on the balance sheet? I was trying to – obviously you didn't mean to be...
John Eckart will answer that for me if you don't mind.
Yes.
That – James that expense was taken in the U.S.
E&amp;P business.
So you will find it on our oil and gas operating results as an expense in the U.S.
business.
Oh great.
Great.
And then the on the balance sheet where did you guys take the – where is the credit for that? Because I understand the cash is going to be paid in Q1.
Is that right? Yeah.
It's a current liability James.
Perfect.
And so in the balance sheet information we gave it would be in the other current liabilities section.
Perfect.
Great.
Thanks.
And then last quick one here.
With the Montney midstream sale can you guys give any – I know you don't want to comment on the terms obviously there.
But can you guys characterize in any way the impact on costs or realizations or – well first off maybe just where the costs live? Whether it's in the gas realizations? Or whether it's in LOE per boe? Or – and then what kind of order of magnitude would be there? Okay.
James we expect at this point and have modeled it as there would be a LOE type expense on our books that we report in Canada.
Perfect.
Conventional business.
And that's just a nice way of asking James and I appreciate it.
But I can't disclose it.
All right great.
Thanks guys.
Appreciate it.
Thank you.
Moving on we'll now take our next question from Paul Sankey Wolfe Research.
Hi Roger.
So Paul how you doing? Fine thank you.
Happy New Year.
Roger firstly just very specifically on the Montney what are the sort of if you like operational costs of that deal? I mean what are the impacts on your business from not having the midstream any longer if any? Well we have a very good partner that operates a lot of midstream in North America and a lot of midstream in Canada.
This is a competitive process.
Very very glad with the winner there if you will.
And they – if they lower our operating expenses at the plant level we were able to share in some of that with them.
They should be able to do that as they do that for a living there.
And we operate just those two plants.
I think we're a very good operator.
But I think they could help and we could share in that.
And we got our operating expenses probably down in the $0.30 range per Mcf.
It's an incredible job by Mike and his team.
And so that's where that stands.
And I'm real pleased to move that midstream into an upstream and not impact my balance sheet Paul.
Yeah so the idea is obviously they're going to bring down the costs for you and you benefit from that.
If they do we get to benefit.
Yes.
Got it.
And then if I could go from micro to macro.
When we met in December you – I think kind of rounding the numbers you were talking about $1 billion of CapEx.
And then it was sort of implied to be more like $900 million.
I seem to remember that you were saying that you could go down as low as $800 million but it would be very painful to go any lower than that.
And this being a kind of $100 million number throwing around for less activity in the Eagle Ford.
Yes.
Are those numbers about right? And can I just clarify it? I wasn't sure exactly what you were saying or implying that – were you saying that the dividend would or would not be part of a potential change in spending? I couldn't understand whether you – kind of saying (54:43)...
We're going to take a – I would – first on that matter what I said is that if these prices persist – and I'm not greatly enthused by the run-up today.
I still believe we're going to be in a low $30s world.
But I'm very happy if it's up to – a little bit I suppose.
As we have that persist we will have to take a closer look at our dividend than we have before.
And it'll be done as go through the year.
And on your prior questions I mean yeah I said the $800 million would be very painful.
And it is because our production levels are down.
But we got to get control of our free cash flow goal.
And then when we get this rig issue behind us this year which requires a lot more capital had we kept it we will work toward not running up our debt at all.
And look to lowering debt best we can.
So that's – things have changed.
Since I saw you we probably lost $10 a barrel crude Paul.
Yeah.
Yeah.
So it is a lot more.
So if I said it was painful it is.
So and we have to realize it get on it focus on cost.
We've done a great job on costs.
And we are seeing very competitive prices from service companies as to fracking services in North America.
And these continue to compete well with each other and help us as through this collapse.
And we're going to continue to stay on it.
And that's what we're going to do.
Okay Roger.
Thanks.
Good luck.
Oh thank you Paul.
And we'll take our final question from Pavel Molchanov from Raymond James.
Inc.</span></strong> Hey guys.
Just two kind of housekeeping items.
On the Canadian – dual Canadian deals is there a tax efficiency to keeping your proceeds from the midstream deal in Canada rather than repatriating? Well I mean obviously if you – if we were to consider repatriating and declaring some type of dividend Pavel then we'd have to pay a toll for doing that because there is withholding tax of 5%.
And there is quite frankly a – and always has been – a differential in the tax rate in Canada being at 25% 26% 27% range as opposed to a 35% tax rate in the U.S.
So we've always been declared indefinitely reinvested in Canada.
You keep it that way up until you couldn't do it anymore.
And because you don't really want to pay that toll if you don't have to.
But there is cash up there.
So it's an evaluation of how you have to look at it on an overall basis and what's best for the corporation in total.
So yes keeping it up there saves cash taxes is the short answer.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
And on your oil sands the legacy oil sands asset have you calculated what the $20 a ton carbon tax is going to amount to in extra LOE next year? I believe it's only around 10%.
We don't see it to be astronomical there.
There was a – Suncor is partner in that and heavily involved in that.
Was a part of that negotiation if you will with the government entities there.
And we do not see that to be a major impact on that project.
And Suncor must not because they invested in more of it I suppose.
Inc.</span></strong> Is it couple bucks in LOE? Or a couple bucks a barrel? What's the...
Oh it'd be less than that.
I mean the OpEx in this thing is quite changing.
And you got to watch the USD forex on that.
But if it's in the C$30-something it'd be a couple bucks the way I see it.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Appreciate it.
Oh thank you.
Okay.
That's all we have today.
I appreciate everyone for calling in.
And we will be back next quarter and continue to focus on costs here at Murphy.
And are excited about our new deal that we had today both of them in fact.
And we'll be back to it.
And thank everyone for calling in.
I appreciate it.
Thank you.
Thank you.
That will conclude today's conference.
We thank you all for your participation.