Good morning and welcome everyone to the Navistar International Corporation First Quarter Earnings Release Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] And for opening remarks and introductions I would now like to turn the program over to the Vice President of Investor Relations and Financial Communications Heather Kos.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
Thanks for participating in our first quarter earnings call.
Before we begin I'd like to cover a few items.
A copy of this morning's press release and the presentation slides that we'll be using today have been posted on our Investor Relations website for your reference.
The financial results presented here are on a GAAP basis and in some cases on a non-GAAP basis.
The non-GAAP financial measures discussed in this call are reconciled to the U.S.
GAAP equivalent as part of the appendix in the slide deck.
Finally today's presentation includes some forward-looking statements about our expectations for future performance.
Actual results could differ materially from those suggested by our comments made here.
For additional information concerning factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected in today's presentation please refer to our most recent report on Form 10-K and 10-Q and our other SEC filings.
We would also refer you to the forward-looking statements and other cautionary note disclaimers presented in today's material for more information on this subject.
And now I'll turn over to Dan Ustian.
Thanks Heather.
Maybe at a high level if you could follow us through the slides here but we'll start with the overall statement and that is we came in January and outlined the map for 2011 and beyond and we said that we should expect to see somewhere between $5 and $6 per share in 2011 depending on how things shaped up in the overall markets and clearly they are strong.
North America you've all seen how the economy is getting better.
We said $2.40 to $2.60 was the industry level that we anticipated and that seems to be now on the high side of that.
On our global business side that's taking shape and again we should be strong on the global business side going out of this year and into 2012.
On the diesel engine side we said we were going to make $100 million for this year and we have a path to do that.
On the parts business we've had 10% growth in that business sector for several years now and we see 2011 that continues.
On the military side we said we would be $1.5 billion to $2 billion business this year again and we see a line of sight to achieve on the high side of that as well.
One of the challenges that the industry faces you see it all over the industry is on the commodity side and we're going to talk about how we're containing that.
So the end results is that we expect to be on the high side of the $5 to $6 per share results for the year.
A couple of slides Page 5 is just information.
The trucking industry while it's strong in the back half of the year you could still see it's 52 000 units as an industry in the first quarter data on this chart you can follow.
I would like to point out that typically for us the first quarter is one of the lowest quarters and part of that is because of the operating days are lower than any other quarter in the year and partly because of the holiday schedule of Thanksgiving and Christmas.
So if you look at Page 6 nothing earth shaking here.
The volumes are about what we expected.
You can see trucks sales are basically the same as last year engine if you take out the Ford business it's about the same and so is revenue and military business was $333 million with the revenue in the quarter.
But if you turn to Page 7 there's a lot on Page 7 that I think shows where we think 2011 is shaping up.
And let's start with the industry.
We believe that total year is 260 000 units.
So let's read the chart here.
The first quarter and the total year and then what it will take in the next three quarters to get to the total year.
So we're not saying this is going to be even.
We're saying this is what is going to take to reach those industry levels.
So you can see we expect the North American industry to recover quite dramatically and the first quarter of this year was 52 000 units.
To get to the 260 000 which we feel good about it's going to take 70 000 units in the next three quarters on an average basis.
That's how you read the chart.
In our Class 8 market share we were 19%.
We're a little more than 19% in the quarter.
We expect to be at 25%.
That means we'll need to average 27% in the last three quarters.
We've launched our 15 liter now so that will help us achieve that objective.
And the OEM Diesel Engine business we expect that to be strong 160 000 units a year.
We only shipped 28 000 in the first quarter.
So 44 000 on an average basis for the rest of the year.
We do believe this equates to the $100 million-plus that we have in profit for the Engine business.
So you saw a segment profit in the first quarter of negative $8 million.
I'll go through some of the reasons for that later but we're confident in the $100 million plus for the year on the engine segment profits.
On the military revenue $333 million in the first quarter.
To get to the $2 billion we'll need to average $550 million and we're confident that we can achieve that.
The impact of the UAW agreement and let's remind you that we just completed that agreement in the first part of November and so the impacts of that really are back-end loaded for this year.
So we did not run Springfield until mid-December of this year and we're still ramping that up.
So there was a cost rather than a benefit in the first quarter.
We'll pick that up as production increases for the rest of the year in Springfield.
Product development.
We launched a number of products in the first quarter many of those are in the global sector.
We spent $129 million.
We expect that to go down a little bit in the rest of the year and we expect the total year to be a little bit higher than last year as we transitioned to our new building.
So in 2012 that number will come down.
This year it will be a little bit higher as we have a duplicate effort going on between the Fort Wayne operations and the Chicago operations.
So it will be a little bit higher this year and we'll get the benefits in 2012.
If you remember on analyst day we said that our joint venture we've had investments in the past on our joint venture.
And in the first quarter we did that again.
That's $15 million of expense going to the bottom line.
We expect that to be break even or slightly profitable for the year.
So that means we'll be profitable in the back half of this year as well.
So we're going from a loss to a profit in the rest of this year.
And if you look at the global units you can see how it's going to happen.
In the first quarter we shipped 4 000 units into that sector.
The rest of the year it will average 9 000 units and about 30 000 units for the year.
So as you can see from this chart there's a lot of strength in every market that we're playing in and the last three quarters will illustrate that.
On Slide 8 in some of the products that we launched in the quarter let's start with the global sector and those branded Navistar in India.
And then there were some in our NC2 business in the Class 8 sector that were in Australia South Africa and South America.
So these are all being launched in the first quarter and the benefits are shortcoming.
In North America of course we launched the TerraStar in October November of last year and we're starting to sell those into the marketplace.
So in 2011 and '12 we'll get the benefits of those.
We launched the 15-liter engine in the first quarter.
And we also certified 0.2 of our MaxxForce 13.
I'll get into that a little bit more in a minute here.
On the military side we launched the Wrecker and these are getting into the marketplace today.
We also showed to a few people in the military a new armored light truck.
And my favorite truck has always been the Husky the one we sell to the U.K.
and they distribute and they'd put that into Afghanistan and it's a fantastic truck.
It's smaller than an MRAP it has the same survivability to it but I think it's going to take second place to this new armored light truck that we have.
And I'll talk about that in a little bit.
That's for the future by the way.
When you look at our market share our market share is where we expect it to be.
We would expect this to grow in really every segment as the products get out there and our customers see we're living to what we promised in terms of performance in fuel economy and durability.
And so the back half of the year we'll have higher share in every one of these sectors.
On Slide 10 just to remind us here in 2009 the 15 liter was about 2/3 of the market for us.
It's about 2/3 of our sales so it was the 15 liter.
And we said that we would convert many of those to the 13 liter.
Well here's what we think of it now.
Today we think that it will convert about 90%.
So 90% of our Class 8 will be that 13 liter and it supports our strategy.
That's really the dominant engine we're going to have.
We're sending it in the marketplace today we've had good results with it.
We just need more time to get it into the customers' hands and we believe 90% is the right number split between 13 liter and 15 liter.
Let me point out another thing.
One of the things I have mentioned earlier was that the engine business had an $8 million loss as they were investing in new products and they're launching the 15 liter in the first quarter.
While we ran big bore engines at a rate of about 100 engines a day in the first quarter.
Today we're running about 150 a day and that grows by the middle of the year say in June -- June and July middle of the calendar year we'll be at 250.
And so the cost structure obviously at 100 a day is much different than 250 a day so our cost structure gets better and not just from ourselves but it gets better from our supply base and we'll get the benefit of that.
So that's part of the reason why we can make more money in the back half of this year because we'll have the scale related to the big-bore engines.
It's not the only factor but it's clearly one of those factors.
On Slide 11 interesting slide I think because you'll see the industry orders are at a rate that would say annualized it's 350 000 a year.
The orders for November December January and February were at a rate of 350 000 a year.
And if you look at the first quarter retail was 52 000 a year.
So while these are good news of course we believe that part of these really are going into 2012.
Our orders are for only 2011.
We don't know how others record their orders.
But clearly it's not going to be 350 000 rate for this year.
So we do believe that 260 000 is about the right number give or take for our fiscal 2011.
So here's what we've done.
We have increased our rates accordingly.
So if you take the 260 000 units and you take the market share that we have indicated as our targets for this year we have increased our line rates and our production facilities by up to 40%.
And they're different depending on the model that we have out there but about 40% increase.
That should get us to the market share and the volumes that we would anticipate needing for 2011.
And our order board supports this kind of rate increase as well.
So 40% increase over where we are today.
We think the industry is somewhat on that same path that we are on for the rest of the year.
Then let's talk about a couple of challenges here.
First of course is the bus industry is strapped with not having any money.
Government spending in this area of course is tightened and we think 2011 industry might be 18 000 units.
In preparation for that we knew we needed to get into other markets.
First of all in the school bus market itself on a smaller size.
So the product the TerraStar that we've launched for the Class 4 and 5 market is the same platform that we used for this Class 8 school bus and that's being launched this year.
We also have the commercial bus industry product that we have launched a few out there.
It's going to grow this year and grow into the future.
So here's where that stands out if you will look at the 18 000 units that we expect the bus industry to be this year and we get 60% that's 11 000 units for the year.
In addition to that this other industry the Class 8 market and the commercial business sector will have another 4 000 units.
So somewhat significant to our success and the bus industry is the additional markets that we're going to play in.
And those will grow so this year's 4 000 next year it will be a much bigger number as we go forward.
Now let's talk about Navistar Defense on Slide 13.
We said we believe we have a sustainable $1.5 billion to $2 billion business.
And of course the last three years we have exceeded $2 billion and in this year we have a line of sight for $2 billion again.
Now we've delivered some of the vehicles into the marketplace like the Wrecker and the Dashes.
Most of those will be in the second quarter.
We do have a clear line of sight on $2 billion.
At the same time I mentioned we need to prepare for getting into other segments of the market and that's what we showed you at this curtain.
That behind that curtain is a vehicle that will enable us to participate in some of the opportunities listed on the bottom of this page.
So we claim another part of it here.
We have not been in 26 countries in the Defense business and we anticipate that 2012 '13 about 40% of our revenue will come from outside the U.S.
about 40% of that.
So it's not just the U.S.
defense budget it's throughout the globe.
Slide 15 shows a picture of the Wreckers that are being fielded today.
The initial reaction to this is very strong.
In fact they're using it for other applications and just picking up vehicles.
I know we've seen some photos of it being used as a crane and some other applications.
So it's doing its job and hopefully will continue to grow in this business sector as well.
On the global trucks side keep in mind now we're in India Latin America South Africa Australia and Brazil.
We're everywhere now and every one of these countries with good products we would say competitive to superior products in every one of these countries.
So if you look at Slide 17 it illustrates we've now established a presence there in distribution either through the international the NC2 Caterpillar Navistar or Mahindra.
We have 410 branded outlets from each of those end.
And remember this year in 2011 they will deliver 30 000 units from those 410 outlets and they'll keep growing during the year.
On Page 18 it's just a picture of one of the outlets that we have and this is how we look in India.
This is an example of the distribution that's out there.
They're strong.
And we expect this business to grow during the year and into 2012.
On Slide 19 let's talk a little bit about our cost structure.
And if you remember we have a strategy to move from focused facilities on making trucks to flexible manufacturing facilities.
And with the agreement with UAW now all of our plants will be converted by the middle of the year to making all different products.
The benefit of that of course is significant.
We said it's about $60 million-plus for 2011 and it will be somewhat back-end loaded as we make this conversion to Springfield.
On product development you'll notice in the first quarter we were a little up versus last year as we brought some of these global products to the marketplace.
We expect that to flatten out.
We also said that as we go to our new building and that will start later on this year and probably by the first quarter of next year we should have much of that in place.
We'll start to get the benefits of that and this cost will come down.
But it will be 2012 before it comes down.
Slide 20.
I think when you look at commodities there's some significant changes in commodities and these are the prices on Slide 20 that we see in the marketplace today.
You can see from 2009 they're somewhat significant and here's the good news on our side.
We have this contained.
We got out in front of this last year with some hedging on it.
We also have pricing actions on where we didn't get the hedging fully completed and we believe that our margins are in place and we've got this commodity impact in place for 2011.
Now if it goes crazy from here we'll have to come back with you on that.
But based on the market as we see it today the market prices as we see it today in commodities we're okay in 2011.
On Slide 21 you hear often about is there enough capacity in the marketplace? And here's our view of it.
On trucks we can make all kinds of trucks in any volume that's needed.
But that isn't the issue.
But it is in our supply base.
And one of the key areas that we had anticipated for a long time was there's going to be a shortage on casting especially blocks and silver heads.
And so we tried to keep our foundry open in Indianapolis to make blocks and heads for us.
And it didn't work until last November.
And in November we got an agreement with the UAW to have a factory that makes blocks and heads compacted graphite blocks and heads that we can be profitable with.
More importantly it controls our own destiny because now we can make the blocks and heads that we need to support our engine business and of course our trucks.
So there aren't very many out there we've got this one contained.
This is being launched today.
It will take a couple more months before we get up to the production levels we need.
But this is one area I think we'll have control over.
Now I'll talk about Slide 22 and it's 0.2 emissions for 2010 and beyond.
And we have two solutions and both solutions are close looped.
And by that I mean the manufacturer is accountable for meeting those emissions.
And let me start with EGNR because this is an after-treatment solution.
It's simple it's cost effective.
And we bought it from a car dealer a truck dealer here in Chicago and we just took it and took SCR off of it.
We just took it off put in EGNR on it and it reduced it from 0.2 to 0.1.
I think the key also to that is of course it's more efficient it's friendly to the customer.
It works all the time.
So it doesn't matter what the temperature is.
Too hot too cold doesn't matter.
It doesn't matter.
The life of it it never deteriorates.
So we believe this is a great solution.
We have a partner now with us is Faurecia a company that's $17 billion automotive company out of Europe and they're a public company but predominantly owned by Peugeot.
And we're working together with them to take us to market for trucks perhaps even cars and we have several programs going on with them in bringing that particular answer for emissions to the marketplace both here in the United States and in the rest of the world.
Now let's talk about in cylinder 0.2.
One of our challenges and perhaps as difficult a challenge as the technology itself was the marketing side of our solution which is in cylinder.
Since we were the only ones out there there's a lot coming at us with "Oh this can't work." And of course now we're out in the marketplace and that's over.
That argument's over.
We're out there in the marketplace.
We're exceeding what we had committed to in terms of performance and fuel economy and all that.
So that's over.
But we want to get in front of the 0.2 now because we can anticipate here's the next one coming out that 0.2 can't be done.
So what we did is we submitted to the EPA a certification of 0.2 to take that argument away.
We don't plan on using this for a while but we're going to have it out there on the shelf that says that can be done and we can meet the standards and get all the performance features as well.
So that's what we've done.
When you hear about that it's not that it's coming into production tomorrow.
It's just to get it out there and take all that argument away.
Perhaps you also heard in this quarter we're looking longer term and what's the next level of technologies that might be out there in terms of engines? So we've been working with a company called EcoMotors.
EcoMotors is a company that Bill Gates has been sponsoring for quite sometime now.
We've been working with them for two or three years now and next level breakthrough technology.
This is a picture of an engine that can deliver two to three times power density.
So simply put you can get just about half the size for twice the power.
Half the size for twice the power.
And in fact we have one of the engines running that's 1 horsepower per pound.
Think about that.
So a 300-pound engine 300-horsepower.
Incredible performance and of course you can imagine the fuel economy you can get from that and it's clean.
So we're still two or three years away from having this going to the marketplace but we're thinking out in front and trying to get off in front of the next level that we have to get to get an advantage in the marketplace.
So with that A.J.
why don't you...
Thanks Dan.
I'm going to pick up on Page 25 and start with manufacturing cash.
Outlined for you on Page 25 is our normal seasonal activity for Q1 as it relates to our cash flow.
There is one thing I'd like to point out.
We did end the quarter with approximately 400 additional units in our finished goods inventory.
Those trucks were shipped in February and subsequently build out but we did end the quarter with a little higher use in working capital than we originally expected.
When we look at capital spending our first quarter capital spending is higher than typical but it's consistent with our full year plan to spend $250 million to $300 million in capital spending.
So overall we're comfortable with where we are in cash for the quarter and our guidance for full year cash is unchanged.
On Page 26 we've highlighted some of the characteristics of Navistar Financial.
Navistar Financial continues to do very well.
Portfolio quality is improving.
Their profitability is strong and they've managed their portfolio leverage very well.
From a liquidity perspective they're positioned well to support the growth in dealer activity throughout 2011.
And Navistar Capital our alliance with GE Capital is performing well and helping us with the retail sale of trucks.
On Page 27 is a page we used in December.
And this is a page that highlighted the key drivers of our profitability for 2011.
And as Dan talked about earlier as the first quarter has evolved some of these assumptions have gained clarity and most notably the North American industry.
The order activity that we've seen in the first quarter supports our assumption that the second half will be stronger and we've moved our guidance to the higher end of our volume.
On our core business performance our manufacturing cost continued to flow through to the bottom line and we've proactively managed the issues around the commodity issues that have come out at us during the quarter.
And then finally the military revenue.
As Dan talked about our visibility on military revenue has improved throughout the quarter and we now have clean line of sight towards our goal of $2 billion.
So when we look at Page 28 how does this flow for the remainder of 2011? What we try to show here is just the impacts on things as we flow through Q1 and what that looks like for the full year.
We've talked about the industry volume that in Q1 we ran at low volume.
Dan talked that we've raised our production schedules and we've outlined for you our expected charge-offs for the remaining three quarters.
On market share first quarter was in line with what we expected.
And with the launch of the 15-liter engine we're confident that we can move towards our goal of 25% market share throughout the remainder of the year.
Military revenue we've covered.
We've got a path to $2 billion.
On the cost structure as Dan outlined the low volume effects of the first quarter have some impact on us due to scale and we had some carryover effect of the UAW contract.
But as volume expands throughout the year the benefits of scale will flow through particularly in our engine business.
Global business.
We've launched our products both in NC2 and in Mahindra but the volumes there today are low.
Volume will expand throughout the year and the benefits of that volume will flow throughout the year to profitability by the end of the year.
The same story is true for our OEM engine business.
We're doing very well in South America and our business will expand in North America and those volumes flow in the second half of the year.
And finally our parts business.
We have an aggressive plan for our parts business.
They continue to perform very well.
They had a strong first quarter and we expect those results to continue throughout the remainder of 2011.
So on Page 29 as Dan started our presentation we are reaffirming our guidance.
Our volume is trending towards the high end of our original assumptions and we expect to perform at the high end of our guidance.
I do want to take a moment to point out a few things that are not included in our guidance.
We talked about our strategy to integrate our engineering facilities here in the Chicago and Dan talked about how that's performing as expected and those benefits will flow through later.
We also talked about the efforts that we're taking on our manufacturing footprint and the efforts we are to rationalize some facilities there.
We do need to make some final decisions on that as the year flows out and that's mostly around our Chatham facility.
And then finally is the valuation allowance.
We talked about this at our Analyst Day.
We expect this to be approximately $1.5 billion of benefit.
Our analytics on this issue continue and we expect to finalize those in the upcoming quarters.
But overall the first quarter results are consistent with our full year guidance and we're confident that we can perform at the high end of this range.
With that Heather I think we're ready for questions.
Operator we're ready for questions.
[Operator Instructions] And first we'll go to Henry Kirn with UBS.
It's actually Eric on for Henry this morning.
I was wondering if you could talk a bit about the Parts business and what you saw in the first quarter and what the puts and takes were on the margin side there? Yes good question.
First on the commercial side of the business it continued to grow actually at a little higher rate than the 10% I mentioned.
But the Military side there was a correction in inventory and the basis on their supply.
They had too much inventory and they made a correction to it.
And so they took some orders and they pushed them out in the rest of the year.
So what's going to happen with that -- and so that made it go down from year-to-year and a smaller amount of orders in the quarter.
We expect that to return middle of this quarter middle of the second quarter to the rate that would say it's $400 million to $500 million for the year.
We're probably in the $400 million side of that for the year rather than the $500 million side of that for the year because of this inventory adjustment that they made.
So that delta on segment profit is all because of the military parts.
I think Dan also when we look at our commercial side we're seeing more volume on our all mix versus our proprietary parts as well.
So there's a little bit of a mix here.
Yes good point.
And then on the engine side was wondering you said you expect about 44 000 a quarter.
I was wondering what the cadence is there for the rest of the year would be.
What you're looking at there? Well we have about 12 new customers in the diesel OEM side that are being launched throughout the year.
They're in niche markets.
We can make some money on them because they're niche markets.
They're all volume.
But the key really is in South America.
So in South America you might remember us say our capacity there was about 140 000 units and we ran up against that a couple of years back and last year we started to get at that rate.
Well this year we could be as high as 160 000 units for them alone in terms of the production.
That's what we're trying to get to for South America so there's strength in that market.
And as the rest of these 12 new customers come in to play in the rest of the year that business starts to grow and we are comfortable with $100 million-plus total profit in the engine business as those start to materialize.
And next we'll go to Jerry Revich with Goldman Sachs.
It's Jerry Revich.
Archie can you talk about whether the delay in the budget approval process may impact shipment timing this year and also can you talk about what proportion of your 2011 sales targets are already booked? Yes the budget is pretty much firm right now with what we have in the business model for this year.
There's budgeted money in the buckets that they need to fulfill.
So we're very comfortable with that.
As far as the orders go there's some things out there that we continue to get which is field service contracts and things like that.
They really don't show up on the radar screen but that helps us towards our $2 billion revenue target.
And then there's future orders out there right now that we're working through that you'll see in the horizon here over the next month or two.
I can't really talk too much about them but we are very very confident that the order board is solid for the remainder of this year.
And the unknown right now that's going to push us into the first quarter of next year is the schedules the delivery schedules that we're working through right now on those orders.
We believe some of that is going to carry over into 2012.
So to answer the question budget wise we're okay.
We don't see a glitch there.
And I think we have a solid path as Dan indicated with Wrecker and some other vehicles that we're in conversation with the military today.
And Archie have you seen a change in the U.S.
foreign military sales approval process following the recent events or any changes in that cadence or the timing of potential orders as a result? No.
I mean the budget is obviously our concern.
But the FMS contracts that we currently have are still solid.
There's more that we could talk about here in the next month or two.
And as Dan indicated with what we're doing in the Middle East and in Asia right now are strong.
I mean that's where the growth is going to be in the next couple of years beyond U.S.
because the U.S.
will get their budgets trimmed a bit and we know that.
But the war in Afghanistan is not coming to a close tomorrow and I think they will be going for the next three to four years strong unfortunately.
But a lot of interest right now in the Middle East and in Asia.
And that's we're well suited.
We have good teams of people and products on the ground in numbers of countries beyond the 26 that Dan indicated.
Thank you Archie.
And Dan your combined Class 8 order share was only 15% this past quarter.
When do you expect that number to rise above 25%? And did you get there in February or are there any issues with apples-to-apples comparisons within the order numbers that we saw for the first quarter? I don't know the 15% but I think the way people count their orders is different and I think we try to point that out here.
If you look at the rate that's within the order board we're going to ship 350 000 units for the year and that's not going to happen.
So I don't know how they count the orders themselves but clearly our order board supports the 25% that we have at an industry level of about 260 so I'll have to do some more work on that order board.
But we don't know how everyone reports orders.
Do they take an order that goes into next year and put it in that order? It seems like that some of that's going on because we can't sustain that 350 000 unit in the industry for this year.
I think everyone would agree to that.
So I take it with a grain of salt some of that information and I have to adjust it a little bit in our minds to what it means but we're comfortable.
We're on the right path here to get in the range of 25% for the year.
And next we will go to Chris Edwards with Jefferies &amp; Company.
We were hoping that we could talk a little bit about what the earnings ramp looks like through the rest of the year.
Obviously it's going to be pretty back-end weighted but I didn't know if you could provide any color on 2Q versus maybe in the second half or just total first half versus the second half.
Either one would be helpful.
Well I think when you take a look at our full year number and what we said today around our confidence in the full year number and then match that up with the growth and volume that we see in the second quarter I think that's a good illustration of what we expect profitability to flow through the year.
It will flow with the volume and you can see that the charge outs in the second quarter are going to go up significantly.
And then I guess I wanted to touch a little bit on 15-liter orders and see how those are going now that the order board's open.
And then also related to that I was wondering you guys gave us some 13-liter-kind-of-anchor-order announcements and can we expect something similar on the 15? Of course the simple answer to that is what we've tried to do is contain the orders in the first part of this year to the ones that really needed for that application.
For instance in construction these customers in some applications need the 15 liter.
When you go in to Canada these customers -- some of the customers up there when their long haul and they've had a 15 liter they're not comfortable with the 13-liter going across the mountains and carrying 100 000 pounds.
So we've kind of tried to target those to get them comfortable with that product.
And then we have a launch coming in March 25 there's something like that at the Mid-America Show.
We want to have a marketing chick going at that.
So at that time that's when we're going to really turn loose the order board.
We've constrained the order board in the short end until we can get this marketing kind of plan out there at Mid-America.
So I would expect May June before we really get the full impact on that for 2011.
So there is still low -- as we migrated us to that launch in March 25 I think is what the marketing program is at Mid-America.
So in fact anyone who's coming out there you'll be able to see the products and the trucks and we'll talk more about it with you of course and mostly our customers.
And the following question comes from David Leiker with Robert W.
Baird.
A couple of things.
First Dan on the 13-liter certification you applied to can you talk a little bit about what you did to the end to get in compliance at that level? Was there any after treatment in there or any other tweaks in the engines you can share? It's the same thing.
It's in the fuel air controls cooling.
So you're telling me there is no after treatment? No after treatment no.
Eventually we'll put something on EGNR I don't think there's any question about its capability to meet those emissions.
We will submit that as well at some point in time.
But there was really no reason to have that brought to the EPA right now.
So we'll do that eventually as well.
Great.
And then on the EGNR time frame is it a quarter or two or is that further out on the horizon do you think? I don't know we'll have development programs with customers for sure that will take some time.
So that's out in the future.
And we'll pick perhaps some of our own products to put it on depending on the application but I think the bigger volume will be when we sell this to other customers.
We believe.
.
.
How far out do you think you're hedged on costs and how big of a move would there need to be before this starts to become an issue? Well clearly we're hedged through this year and into some part of next year.
If it gets wild again even further than this then we'll have to come back to.
But it's still this year for sure and a little bit of next year.
We're working on our strategy now for hedging for 2012.
But of course you don't want to do it at its peak right now.
So we're going to wait a little while.
But pricing recovery we think that the market all of us are going to have to increase prices in commodities because the commodities going forward on vehicles.
We're seeing that happening in the marketplace today.
Not just with us but our competition as well.
So we will have to see how it shakes out but right now we're comfortable for the year maybe into a little bit of next year.
But more work to do after that.
And then some of the other truck companies have talked about difficulty on the pricing side casting on their costs.
Where do you stand in that regard? And that's in terms of your 2010 emission costs? We're probably a little bit ahead of -- we knew there was something that was going to go on and there's still a couple of guys out there one in particular that's not pricing.
And of course that affects how many units you can sell when they do that but obviously we have to make money on products that we do sell.
So we're watching that closely and there's one at least that's out there under us on that regard.
But so far we're a little bit ahead of plan on our pricing total pricing that was going out there.
We're moving on to Walt Liptak with Barrington Research.
Inc.</strong> I hate asking this question but I was out at NTEA the medium-duty truck expo yesterday and the sales pitch by your competitors continues to be the same about the fuel economy being lower.
I wonder if you could just address that again what kind of fuel economy are you getting on the 11 liter 13 liter 15 liter at the lower NOx levels? Well I mean it's all they can do is talk about it.
So when you get out into the marketplace we're exhibiting that fuel economy is strong.
I saw something from Hino and that was a new one to me.
So I have to look at that.
I can't respond about that other than I know it's not accurate.
But we've seen others out there that we have taken a look at and we know we're better.
I'll give you the test that we have.
For instance on the V8 our V8 engine we have improved it by 9% in pickup and delivery.
So the real -- how you drive it not long haul.
Not when you go on 60 miles an hour they don't go 60 miles an hour.
They pick up and they deliver.
And so our V8 from year-to-year is 9% better.
Our in-line sector is about 2% to 3% better.
So we're meeting the commitments that we made to our customers and we'll continue to monitor this but we're in good shape on the fuel economy.
Inc.</strong> And I want to ask about the price increases that you put through.
Can you give us a number in percent how much you raised prices for 2011? No.
Partly because it's different for different customers.
So I'd rather not get into that.
But obviously it tries to cover the commodities price increases that are out there now.
Keeping in mind now the real cost of those commodities is a lot higher than what we're seeing in our cost structure.
So our strategy is to try to collect for the full amount that's out there and we can't.
We know that part.
But can we collect for at least as much as our cost is so that going out of this year whatever the commodity prices are going into 2012 we're in a position to collect that.
And that's kind of where we've tried to position ourselves in the pricing model.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
And this kind of goes back to the last question that was asked.
You're saying that in terms of the competitive situation you're only seeing one competitor that's not raising prices or is price discounting? Is that right? In general that's true.
I'm sure there are isolated cases where someone wants an account so they do what they can to keep an account.
I mean that goes on and everything.
But in a general statement there's one that stands out yes.
And next we'll go to Seth Weber with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC</strong> Dan maybe you could give us some color on what your customers are telling you about how they're reacting how they're thinking about some of the new proposal the hours of service and the CSA and how that's affecting their order thinking? Well it's a pain.
As you know I mean there are so many regulations for our customers to deal with and that's just another one.
And with the ATA's help I think the industry is trying to make some sense out of this.
But it's a difficult challenge.
It just adds more and more complexity to their business and more and more rigor to what they have to do keep track of things.
And in fact in this area that's exactly why we want the EGR.
They don't need another thing.
They don't need to keep track of emissions now.
And so the industry has this challenge on how they keep track of all the information that they need.
And I hope we can make some sense of this because it is a big challenge for our customers to deal within.
Actually at the Mid-America Truck Show I'm going to be talking about it to the audience about what we can do together to try to bring this into control because it's a problem.
LLC</strong> So you don't get the impression that it's affecting order decisions at this point? Not yet no.
I would say probably not.
LLC</strong> A.J.
do you expect the engine business to be profitable in the second quarter? Yes.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And then lastly maybe Dan can you comment on the bus market share tick down 51% in the quarter? I mean is there somebody out there that's pricing aggressively there? You sound like you expect it to go back to normal levels but what do you see in there? Well the simple answer to that is yes.
We usually run into the first quarter where it's the closing quarter for some of our competitors.
They got November and December so they're trying to finish out the year and they have their incentives out there for that.
So we typically have that challenge in the first quarter.
It was a low quarter.
You saw the industry was only 4 000 units.
So a small number of units impacts that order share.
So we're comfortable that for the year -- and the other factor was some of our customers that we get all of their business they didn't buy in the quarter.
So we're comfortable with the 60% share.
Frankly I think we should be higher than that.
I'm disappointed that our share shouldn't be 70% or 80% given the simplicity of our answer for 2010 emissions.
So we're going to be going for more than the 60% but we're comfortable that we can get to 60%.
LLC</strong> Okay.
Thank you.
And is there anything to read into this severe service order year-over-year decline as well? Well it's a market that -- some of that market needs a 15 liter and we haven't had that product to give to some of those customers.
So if you -- keep in mind of this too some of those customers that are devoted to us they haven't bought.
But now they're going to buy as we have that product available to them.
I also want to point out that Caterpillar's launching a 13 liter in the construction application coming this month.
It's going to be at Time expo in a couple of weeks here and of course that will be our truck branded Caterpillar.
And they're excited about it we're excited about it.
It's just another avenue for us in distribution into that market sector.
And a little niche part of that market but one that both Caterpillar and us believe we can be successful in.
But those are going to be 13 liters.
And we'll now go to Tim Denoyer with Wolfe Trahan.
Dan can you give an update on -- a little bit more color on Chatham and when you decide to make a decision there? And can you meet peak production without it? Let me answer that two ways.
First we really have tried to keep Chatham open but they needed to fit within our flexible manufacturing where it was more regional and they make all trucks and we couldn't get that done.
And so as you know now we have Springfield who's able to do all of our other facilities are able to do.
The question is then do we need another manufacturing facility? And we all know the answer to that.
But likely no.
At least in the short term likely no.
And we can always make trucks.
We're not capacity limited on making trucks.
We can add another shift.
We can do some over time.
We're not worried about our ability to make trucks especially now that we have Springfield in line with our strategy.
So we have to go through that and we'll probably go through it in the second quarter I believe and see whether Chatham fits with us or not.
But either way I don't think we're worried about being able to make enough trucks to satisfy the market especially for 2011.
And then just a clarification question for A.J.
on Slide 28 the charge outs it looks like it's a little bit over 20 000 it's about near 21 000 for the first quarter.
But then in the appendix we're at 19 500.
Can you explain the difference there and what is that? There is the addition of the global units on that.
I think we need to look at the chart and make sure that the chart is absolutely correct on the total.
But it's the combination of the North American units and the expansionary units the differentiation between the blue and the green maybe needs to be checked.
Okay.
Great.
And then just one more little one.
I think at the beginning of the call it sounds like you said the MaxxForce 13 was certified at 0.2 but it looks like you -- you were just saying it was submitted for certification? Have you actually received certification? No we just submitted it to the EPA.
It takes a period of time I don't know two to three months before I will hear back from them likely.
But we're not in a hurry.
We just want to have it out there so we can take the argument away that it can't be done.
And Ann Duignan with J.P.
Morgan has the next question.
A couple of things since we're on Slide 28.
This slide says that for a full year you will ramp up through 2011 towards 25% market share.
Are you reiterating full year 25% market share or are you saying now that you will ramp up towards 25%? I think it's a bit confusing.
Well our full-year goal is 25% market share Ann.
It's semantics but what it says is we're at 19% and we won't jump to 25% on average until the end of the year.
So it's more like you will be up 25% by year end? Is that what you're trying to say in there? The full year average 25%.
Okay.
And then on your 15-liter engine it's conspicuous there hasn't been a press release that that has been certified.
I know you verbally you told us that you've gotten verbal approval by the EPA at your analyst meeting.
But it hasn't been approved on the CARB website either.
Can you tell us have you got an official in writing approval for the 15 liter? Yes from the EPA.
The answer is yes.
And we didn't get a press release? And verbal approval from CARB right.
But there hasn't been a press release or anything that you have...
I didn't think it was significant enough to put a press release out but it's...
You did it with the 13-liter? Okay we'll put a press release out then.
Well I just think it's interesting because CARB usually posts them right away.
Well CARB was only verbal.
The EPA has approved and the CARB is verbal at this point.
And we'll put something out as soon as they give us official approval on that for California.
And then on EGNR can you talk a little bit Dan about why such a big splash on EGNR today? Can you define exactly what EGNR is? It's after treatment it's out of cylinder it's SCR really? Why talk about it so much? Are you saying that eventually some of the vehicles will have to go EGNR for performance? I'm just a little confused why we're doing two technologies now? I think we've always had this in our strategy that we had EGNR in our strategy.
What happened in the quarter is that we signed an agreement with the partner and that's Faurecia that happened in the quarter to go to market with us together to manufacture go to market with this product together.
That's the significance for that slide is it happened in the second quarter and you're going to hear us more and more talk about the business aspect of EGNR and not just for ourselves but more importantly for other applications.
We do believe it's a better answer than SCR and hopefully we'll convince some others to buy that and we believe we'll do that and it'll be just another part of our Engine business.
But aren't you saying that it's better than EGR in some applications also and then if it's going to have any market? Well here is where -- it's a simpler way if you need to do something quickly and I mentioned when we had that slide.
All we did was take a pickup truck that we bought off the lot and we put EGNR on it now it has controls to doing all that.
But we just took it and slapped it on it and  we improved that from 0.2 to 0.1 by the way.
From 0.2 to 0.1 and the bigger thing of it is that it works all the time.
It doesn't just work when it gets to temperature.
It doesn't just work when it's the right temperature outside.
It works all the time and our customers don't need to worry about emissions.
That's the significance of EGNR.
And we believe it has some applications perhaps in size but more importantly adds an OEM sector for our Engine business.
It's something that we're going to market and make some money off of and we think it's a better answer than SCR.
But also a better offer than EGR in some applications? No I didn't say that at all.
The simpler you get it's always better than cylinder.
It's always going to be that way.
For instance let me just give you an example we go to South America and the fuel quality isn't there.
We want to put something that's ours on it that we take care of.
So instead of putting SCR on it at the right time we'll put EGNR on it because the fuel quality wouldn't allow us to put an in cylinder answer in a global application.
So that's what I'm talking about here.
That's what EGNR provides us inside the company.
And what exactly is EGNR? I mean exhaust gas and? NOx reduction.
We had a little bit talk about it at the Analyst Day and we'll be glad to spend some more time with you on it Ann to get you an understanding of what it is.
But it's a very simple answer and it works all the time.
So if you want...
And I appreciate the technology.
I know you have talked about it before I just thought it was interesting at the Caterpillar page today and that's also some benefit for Fauracia joint venture or alliance.
And then just real finally I know it's end of call but your electric truck partner Modec filed for bankruptcy yesterday or the last couple of days.
What does that do to your electric truck strategy? It doesn't affect it.
We have -- we were mindful of that and we have all the technology we need for the markets that we're going to play in and that's under control.
We have no further questions at this time.
Thank you much.
Thank you for participating and we look forward to any of your follow-up calls.
And once again this does conclude today's conference.
We do thank you all for joining us.
Good morning and welcome everyone to the Navistar International Corporation Second Quarter Earnings Call.
Today's call is being recorded.
And for opening remarks and introductions I would like to turn the program over to the Vice President of Investor Relations and Financial Communications Heather Kos.
Please go ahead ma'am.
Welcome and thank you for joining us today.
Before we begin I'd like to cover a few items.
A copy of this morning's press release and the presentation slides that we'll be using today have been posted on our Investor Relations website for your reference.
The financial results presented here are on a GAAP basis and in some cases a non-GAAP basis.
The non-GAAP financial measures discussed in this call are reconciled to the U.S.
GAAP equivalent as part of the appendix in the slide deck.
Finally today's presentation includes some forward-looking statements about our expectations for future performance.
Actual results could differ materially from those suggested by our comments made here.
For additional information concerning factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected in today's presentation please refer to our most recent report on Form 10-K and 10-Q and our other SEC filings.
We'd also refer you to the forward-looking statements and other cautionary note disclaimers presented in today's material for more information on this subject.
And with that I'll turn the call over to Dan Ustian.
Yes thanks Heather.
AJ and I will go through the Q2 and the full year.
We have the business leaders here with us in case there's some Q&amp;A that you'd like to ask of them.
If you look at the right side of Page 4 though these are the things we keep in front of us that we have talked to all of our investors about the highlight film of which is gaining good profits in the downtime and growing the company with our increasing share and increasing presence in all markets.
On Page 5 product is certainly one of the leading things that we work on constantly.
And of course emissions and fuel economy is at the forefront of all that.
And in the quarter you can see we were able to improve fuel economy while lowering our NOx.
So we're now -- from 0.5 we went to 0.45 and then we went to 0.39.
We also launched a 15-liter that we have certification on.
That happened in the second quarter.
On the right side of this these are the kind of programs that we have been working on and by the end of the year will all be launched into the marketplace.
On Slide 6 then are the numerics for the quarter.
And as you can see in every area the market is better.
Our revenue is better.
Profits commensurate with that are better and we had $1.02 earnings per share.
Included in that was an increase in our reserve for warranty related to early products either late '04 or '07 products.
And you might consider some of these at least being goodwill but we saw the trend there.
We thought we needed to increase our reserve and we've committed to finding a way to overcome that in the balance of the year.
So we stay on the high side of the guidance that we provided earlier on in the year.
AJ will talk some more about that.
Slide 7 is a chart that shows the charge-offs we have in truck and engine and you can see everything is increased.
We shipped about $3.4 billion worth of revenue.
We also had included in that about $850 million worth of revenue.
This is for the first 6 months $850 million worth of revenue as related to the military.
Slide 8 is market share.
Basically what we expected and we expect the year to come out as we expected it and I just want to highlight a couple of things here.
On the school-bus side as you can see we're at 48% for the first half of the year.
That's -- we expect that to grow substantially up to maybe 55% to 60%.
Our goal is 60% and with one adjustment to this we have decided not to play in the natural-gas sector of this market.
And that's going to be about 10% of the volume.
And the reason is this: the investment it would take for us cannot really be paid back.
Today these are being sold at a cost of about $40 000 and the only viable answer to that is because of the government incentives.
So we've decided at this point there's not a commercially viable long-term answer for that natural-gas application in school bus and we're going to pass on those volumes this year.
We do believe that those are short-term -- that natural gas at this point is short term in school bus industry.
That's not to say that it won't be affected and we will have products in medium and the Class 8 market.
We will have gas products -- natural gas products in those markets because they can be supported by a business case.
So now let's turn over to Slide 9 and let's talk about Class 8 and try to make it clear on what our strategy is and how it's working.
So we'd like to step back first and our strategy was to convert U.S.
and Canada Class 8 products to a proprietary engine and it's 2-fold.
Obviously it gives us some differentiation but it also helps our Parts business.
And AJ will talk some more about the successes we've had in the Parts business in terms of growth as a result of that.
We also said that we would transition the engine from what was 70% 15-liter to 13-liter.
So our flagship Class 8 engine is our 13-liter.
So we're going to convert that from being 70% 15-liter to what we said was going to be 80% 13-liter.
And there are some advantages to that.
We also said that within the conversion it was important for us to get our customers with experience on it as we're changing not just from 15 to 13 but from an OEM supplier to our own internal engine.
And that would take a few months to do that.
So that is the transition that's going on.
What we have seen in the market is the attributes that we said we would get to have been surpassed.
Fuel economy is a little better.
We said we would be competitive on fuel economy.
We believe we're in the leadership on fuel economy.
Durability of our products.
We have increased durability from 1-million engine to 1.2-million-mile engine.
Weight a significant factor.
We're probably 1 000 pounds in some cases a little bit more than that versus what is out there in the 15-liter competitive product.
And of course another factor for the decision-makers is how does the vehicle feel and the driver decides some of that.
So all of those attributes are now in place and we feel strong that our customers have got enough experience on it to buy our product going forward and get us to the 20% share.
So now let's talk about the product itself.
If you remember right we started with the regional Class 8 in severe service in 2008.
So our 13-liter was in severe service in 2008.
We then launched in 2010 into the ProStar the MaxxForce 13 and we put into the WorkStar another severe service truck in 2010 as well.
This year we launched the 15-liter in the ProStar.
So now stepping back from it there are still more products to be launched that we need to cover that market.
One of them is the Sloped Nose WorkStar severe service vehicle.
Look over to the right the PayStar with the 15-liter and the 9900 with the 15-liter.
Those are basically severe service applications.
So we've done well and we're going to do even better as those products get to market.
We have a LoneStar coming out at the end of the year with a 500-horsepower 13-liter in it.
Remember we have not had LoneStar coverage for the last year.
And we also have announced with Caterpillar that we're going to have a 13-liter CAT CT660 that has been announced and will be launched actually right now.
So hope you can see from that there's a clear path to increasing both the severe service and the heavy truck to get us to the 25% total.
And now let's look at the year on Slide 10.
And at the bottom of the page you can see the guidance that we have said for the industry is 240 000 to 260 000 and the order rate has been at a lot higher rate than that.
But as I think everyone in the industry has said there are some constraints in capacity.
And so while the order rate has been over 300 000 we believe that our 240 000 to 260 000 is the right range for 2011.
Let's look at the top now.
The first half of the year the industry was at 75 000 units.
We expect the second half of the year to be north of 100 000 probably a little less than the 109 000 range that we have in here probably somewhere in the middle of the 96 000 to 109 000.
So the total year we believe is south of 180 000.
We've said that we are constrained in our own production of that based on engines axles and tires.
So our range will be 42 000 to 44 000.
That's what we expect this year to be in.
And we've also said if the industry is higher than that that's all we can make and that gets us to the around-25% share.
I would also like to point out that for this year we're going to be about 95%.
So remember we were 70% 15-liter.
We're going to be 95% 13-liter.
Now next year will probably be a little less than that and the 15-liter will be stronger as we launch all of our 15-liters into the severe service and the on-highway applications.
But the point is still we're going to be very high on 13-liter as its benefits have proven to be even greater than originally thought.
Now we also have the global business which is growing.
Now these products use similar if not the same parts that's in our North American business.
And we recently launched ProStar into Mexico ProStar into Peru ProStar into Colombia and Australia and we have a Class 8 vehicle that we launched into Brazil.
So again these are using the same components tires axles as we have in the North American market.
So there's a stress on the entire business here.
You can see the growth of this global business to be quite substantial.
And we expect Mexico to grow from 5 000 to 6 000 units in this year but our presence in Latin America Australia and South America is very substantial and we expect to sell and 10 000 units in 2011 in those markets versus 3 000 last year.
And I think actually we could sell more if we had the components.
So you can see the back end of this year we believe is going to be about a 60% growth factor from the first half of this year.
And we're going to have to balance out the capacity constraints and they're all in our suppliers.
We really -- they're not internal.
They're at our supply base to balance out the North American and the global units to the maximum for our customers and for our dealers.
And as you have to keep in mind now many of these dealers in the global are brand new.
And so we want to make sure that they get supported by product going forward.
They have made an investment and we need to support them.
Turning to Page 12 on the Defense [Navistar Defense] business we've said we have a $1.5 billion to $2 billion business and this will be our fourth year that we've been able to achieve that.
We're saying now it's about $1.9 billion.
It looks like there's an inventory correction in the service part of this.
So our service parts revenue might be about $400 million which takes our total revenue to $1.9 billion in the military.
As you look at Slide 13 I know you've seen in this quarter many orders came through to support our belief that we'll be at $1.9 billion.
We'll probably have one or 2 more that you'll see soon that will ultimately get to the $1.9 billion and it'll be very clear we'll have all of the orders in hand to do that.
So we're very confident that this will happen in 2011 as we had anticipated.
Now let's look at our cost structure and I think the cost structure ties into product strategy.
Remember in manufacturing we've said that we're going to move from focused facilities to flexible manufacturing facilities so each facility can make more than one product.
In fact they can make all our products.
But that has to start with having a common chassis and one cab so they can all make the same kind of products.
Their variable are the hoods and the interior which all plants can do.
So with that what that has resulted in in 2011 is we're going to be able to save about $80 million in manufacturing.
Remember we had some in '10 related to this but the '11 part of that is $80 million.
And more importantly it gives us the ability to change when things we can't predict happen.
For instance in the quarter we had a couple of things happen.
Mexico has some political unrest that we're all concerned about.
And we have the ability to move product there not overnight but in the short period of time we can move products to other locations.
We also had some weather problems both a tornado in Huntsville tornado and hurricanes in Texas operations.
So we were able to shift product around to satisfy our customer needs and that's also a very important factor in our manufacturing strategy.
On the right side of this page we have said in the past that we're going to bring all of our engineering into Chicago.
And this year is the transition year as we move away from Ft.
Wayne and the other satellite operations we have and do engineering and we're bringing it here into Chicago.
We're also going to have our headquarters into that same complex.
And eventually we would save $60 million to $80 million from that.
And we complete that next year.
By midyear next year that will be complete.
We'll start generating those savings of $60 million to $80 million.
So if you look at the bottom of the page product development was $266 million.
We're expecting to spend a little less than that in the second half of the year so it will be greater than $5 million (sic) [$500 million].
At the same level of product that would be $60 million to $80 million less than that as we get this completed sometime in the next year.
Now let's look at Slide 15 and the whole year.
The first half of the year was a $6 billion revenue number.
In the second half of the year we expect to be around $8 billion.
We've talked to -- and the commensurate EPS from that of $5.50 to $6 a share.
I've mentioned to you earlier what we think the industry is and what our market share will be as we grow in the second half of the year.
Some other points I'd like to point out in here.
When we did our analyst presentation in January we said that Engine would have -- the first half of the year would be about a breakeven and the second half of the year $100 million profitability and we're on track to that.
The military revenues $850 million in the first half and $1 billion in the second half on track to that.
The manufacturing efficiencies we're on track to all of those.
The Parts segment continues to grow.
AJ's going to talk some more about that.
On the global side we have in the first half of the year investments still as we bring forward NC2 and MNAL.
That's India.
So those -- that first line is related to NC2 investments and MNAL.
The second half of the year as we get these products into production and our dealers selling into these products that gets reduced substantially.
You can see the results will be we sold 9 000 of those units in the first half.
We're going to sell 20 000 in the second half.
The global profitability from that now let's try to understand this.
This is the investment in NC2 and MNAL.
That's $40 million to $50 million.
We're also making profits on the rest of our global businesses the ones I spoke about.
This is Latin America this is South America this is South Africa and this is Australia.
So the net of that $40 million to $50 million will be offset by profitability in those other sectors.
So in this global business for trucks we will be profitable as we said in 2011.
So with that AJ talk about the cash and other financials.
Thanks Dan.
Let's start on Page 17.
As you can see for the quarter manufacturing cash has increased by $317 million driven primarily by improved earnings and an improvement in our working capital position.
Remember that as our production expands we're able to factor our receivables to Navistar Financial within a day or 2 and this allows us to expend cash in an expanding working cap -- in an expanding production market.
For the full year similar to our outlook on guidance and earnings we're biased towards the high end of our cash forecast.
And as we work through our product launches in the second half of the year I believe there's opportunities for us to further improve our working capital utilization and improve our cash position.
Turning to Navistar Financial our Financial Services group continues to have very good performance through the first half of the year.
This has been driven by good portfolio management which has allowed us to reduce the reserves that we have for losses against our receivables and improve our results.
In addition to that our financing strategies have allowed us to take advantage of lower borrowing costs through the first half of the year.
This has resulted in good liquidity and positions Navistar Financial well to support the continued growth of receivables in the second half of the year.
As Dan highlighted earlier through the first 6 months we've achieved the results that we've expected from our product acceptance to our earnings including our cash and liquidity.
So let's spend a little time looking at the assumptions that drive the second half of the year.
As you can see on Page 19 the second half of the year has more operating days than the first half.
Operating days alone allow for a 15% increase in production versus the first half.
Add to this expanded production levels particularly on heavy-duty vehicles and we have the ability to ship 20 000 additional units in the second half of the year versus the first half.
When we look at our engine sales by extending the volume of the second quarter to the second half of the year OEM engine volume will increase by 13 000 units for the year -- or second half versus first half.
In addition to the significantly higher volumes I think it's worth noting the performance of our Parts group.
Going back to our January analyst day we highlighted the strategic objectives of Parts.
And in particular the growth potential of this business.
When we take a closer look at Q2 you can see the improvements that this business is creating.
The keys to these results come down to 3 areas.
First Class 8 market share.
Driven by the success of the ProStar there are more vehicles on the road and more opportunities for parts and service.
Second is the expanded product depth.
Adding our big-bore engines to our product lineup creates new opportunities for Parts revenue.
Finally it's customer reach and dealer engagement.
We continue to see better execution of our strategy both from our sales team and our dealers.
Leveraging all of these will result in a sustainable growth business for our Parts business.
Turning to Page 21 we're all aware of the increases we've seen in commodity costs.
I believe we got out ahead of this issue early in the year and through good purchasing and hedging strategies were able to contain this.
In April we took additional actions and raised prices to recover some of these issues in the marketplace.
Recently you've seen stabilization in some areas and we remain confident that we can contain commodity costs inside of our plans for 2011.
I'd like to spend a minute on warranty.
Dan talked about the charge that we took in Q2.
This is related to some of our older products and some of the opportunities that we have to overcome this.
But I think it's worth taking a look at the data that supports our conclusion that our 2010 launch was one of our best.
Recall last year we talked about a strategy that we referred to as "build and hold." This allowed us to contain the launch issues within our inventories and to limit the number of factors that our customers experienced.
The data at the top of Page 22 shows that the quality of our launch in 2010 was certainly one of the best that we've executed.
From there the improvement in our products has continued and the products we're building today are better than the products we had last year.
Some of you have noted that our warranty expense continues to go up.
On the bottom of this page we're trying to highlight why this is happening.
With the expansion of big-bore engines into our product lineup we are now absorbing the warranty expense associated with these products but this is also built in to our outlook for the full year.
So let's turn to Page 23 and recap some of the things we've heard here today.
Dan talked about the outlook for the industry.
Full year volume is taking shape.
We're confident with the range that we put in place and it's important to see the run rate of the second half of the year.
The first half annualized rate was 226 000 units.
We see the potential for an annualized rate of 300 000 in the second half.
Not only will this drive revenue and margin but it allows us to leverage the scale benefits of our manufacturing strategies and sets us up well for 2012.
Market share has held up well in the first half.
Dan outlined some of the launches that we have in the second half which further strengthens our ability to achieve our second half objectives.
Our engine business will benefit from larger volumes in the second half of the year as well as some of the elimination of costs that they incurred in the first half.
Dan highlighted the expectations for our military revenue and the plans that we have in place to achieve our results in that business.
We do have some challenges to overcome.
We've contained the commodity costs but we continue to see larger investments in both product and market development.
In order to deliver results while we invest we see opportunities to capture better volumes in our global business particularly in our export markets.
Turning to Page 24 what all this means is that we've increased the low end of our guidance from $5 to $5.50 and we expect to achieve results towards the high end of our guidance before engineering-integration costs as well as other unique charges.
We're also optimistic about our cash balance.
We see opportunities to achieve the high end of this balance with strategies in the second half that could allow us to exceed that.
Please reference -- note that when I reference unique items I'm specifically referring not only to the engineering-integration costs but to the reversal of our valuation allowance that we've talked about previously as well as some impacts of our manufacturing strategy.
Our Chatham facility remains an unresolved issue.
This facility has now been idled for close to 2 years and we need to finalize the resolution of this issue before the end of the year.
So all of that is incorporated into our guidance.
And with that Heather I believe we're ready for questions.
Operator we're ready for questions.
[Operator Instructions] We'll take our first question from Henry Kirn with UBS.
I wondered if you could chat a little bit and I know it's not the primary engine but maybe the 15-liter and your expectations for the impact on the share as we get into the fourth quarter and into next year? Henry I think what we were trying to show from the charts that we talked about today is we will be impacted by 3 things in the share in the second half.
First of all it's the experience that our customers get from to them a new engine the 13-liter especially in heavy trucks.
That's number one and that's probably the biggest factor is the experience of that 13-liter in our heavy trucks and that is going along great.
The second part is getting the 15-liter into Canada really is more important probably even than North America in the long haul and that has now transpired.
The third one is we still have some products that we have a gap in and that -- this was always in the plan.
We have a gap in that we'll conclude that gap in the second half of this year like the LoneStar.
We've gone over a year without a LoneStar product.
Again it's a niche but it's a product that's been successful for us in the past and we expect that to be in the future.
I do not expect the 15-liter to be a dramatic change for us.
And we've said it's going to be about 5% -- 4% to 5% of our total volume for this year.
Now next year maybe it'll be 10%.
But the bigger factor in my mind to getting the share is just our customers getting the experience with a different engine than what they've used in the past.
Henry one of the things we've had in the past EGR and this is all gone.
I mean this -- we haven't heard any signs of any even discussion on it other than the benefits that we get from EGR is lower weight and not having to deal with Urea.
But as far as any discussion on Urea -- SCR versus EGR I mean those things are past a long time ago.
I'm sure you're sick of talking about it anyway.
Well that's for sure Henry.
As the industry's closer to being sold out now for the year could you talk a little bit about the pricing power or ability that you have at this point? Well there is some of that.
Now you have to keep in mind in here though that us and everybody else of course -- many of those orders were taken earlier.
And so there's not much you can do and we would want to do.
I don't know what others are doing but we're not going back and changing on orders we already have.
So our opportunity is orders we get going forward that will complete this year out and get into '12.
So we have announced that we are increasing both on Class 8s and Class 6/7 as a result of that.
And so we expect to recover at least the commodity increases that are out there and hopefully a little more margin on top of that.
But I would not expect that to be a big margin opportunity just because demand is greater.
Our next question will go to Andy Casey with Wells Fargo Securities.
LLC</strong> Quite a few questions one on the quarter and then some on guidance.
In the quarter the chargeout actual was about $25 600 for your slides.
If I go back to the Q1 earnings call it was expected to be about $30 000.
It looks like you shifted most of the quarterly shortfall to Q4 but can you clarify what caused the Q diff -- Q2 difference versus what you gave in early March? Yes we'll have to reconcile it.
The only thing -- I'm not sure I can remember that much difference but we do have -- we ended the quarter with some inventory that we just couldn't either get through the border or we had parts shortages or whatever.
Probably about 1 500 units I believe are still in our inventory that we had planned to get out during the quarter that are hung up somewhere in the process.
So I think the positive to that if I may is we ended up with cash of a over $1 billion and we still had some inventory out there.
As you know we had some turmoil with weather in the second quarter as well that affected us and we tried to keep away from spending any more money just to get a chargeout out there in the second quarter.
So that's another reason why we're probably sitting on more inventory than we like and finished goods.
I think one other thing Dan is that first quarter chargeouts were a little bit better than our original forecast and our expansionary chargeouts particularly in MNAL were a little behind in the quarter and we expect those to improve as the year goes on.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And then can we talk about the line items that changed in the outlook? The warranty charge in the quarter it's not clear whether you anticipated that or not in the initial outlook yet the tax benefit decreased to the low double-digit range.
And then it appears as if you reduced the JV income although I'm not quite clear on exactly how much that if at all was reduced.
Can you -- first are there any other changes from the initial view presented in Q1? And then second can you clarify what that total equity income should be? Because you made the comment about...
Yes I think that's a good question Andy.
As far as the warranty I'd say most of that was an increase over of what we had earlier.
And as I mentioned that was -- our experience was we should do -- err on the conservative side of going to our customers.
These were -- many of these were in areas that were right on the edge of whether they should be covered or not and we erred on the conservative side to take care of that customer.
And so what happens with that is the reserve goes up.
It's not just what you fix it's the reserve goes up related to that.
So that one is an increase.
In terms of the global business what we said was the global business would be profitable in 2011.
What goes on that line item is not the global business.
It's just 2 joint ventures.
So the rest of the global business is in our regular business sector.
And what we said when we did the call and our plans for this year are we would offset that investment with profits from the rest of the global business.
And that's kind of where we're at now and I hope we have opportunities to beat that as we're making some headway into the global business sector.
But as I mentioned we're kind of stressed out here on our ability to make as many vehicles as we can sell.
I think touching on the tax rates Dan the lowering of the effective tax rate is really the results of some good actions from our tax group as they've worked to resolve some open audit issues and shifting of income towards the U.S.
away from other higher-tax-rate entities.
So it's really the execution of our tax strategies have allowed us to reduce our effective tax rate throughout the year.
LLC</strong> Okay and then if I could follow-up...
Andy let me add one more.
You asked anything else? I think I'd say we're a little bit higher on product development and it's a couple areas.
The biggest one is in our discussions on whether we keep Chatham open we had some offsets to cost in there because we were getting some incentives from the Canadian government.
And those -- we're not going to get those and those were $7 million to $10 million.
So product development's probably a little higher as a result of that and we're stepping back from that and making sure that we're spending that money prudently.
I mentioned we did not invest in a natural-gas product for a bus and we just couldn't see the investment in product development and for our customers that was going to make sense of it once these incentives go away.
So those are the kinds of things that we have to look at as a result of our increased P&amp;D from the loss of these incentives of about $7 million to $10 million.
LLC</strong> Okay I'll follow up off-line.
Next we'll go to Steve Volkmann with Jefferies.
Inc.</strong> Just a couple of quick follow-ups.
Can you just -- maybe this is impossible but on this warranty catch-up is there a specific sort of type of component or something that is sort of leading to this? Or is this just kind of general stuff? It's kind of general -- it's stuff that's on the edge of whether it should be covered or not but we feel that we should have given the life to the customers that they expect.
And so we ended up spending the money on that to make the customers happy as a long-term incentive on that.
So it's split.
It's midrange engines.
It was an injector problem we had back in '04 that carried into the launch of '07 about half of that and the other one is miscellaneous truck items that go back to '07 -- early '07 year.
I can't say it's one specific item but if there was any it would be an injector on early '07 engines.
Inc.</strong> And is that a product that injector that you make? Or is that a supplier product? It's a mixture of some components that we do and supplier does.
And I know your next question is can we recover this? And accounting doesn't allow us to account for that but of course we'll be looking at trying to do some of those.
But when you get out there those 2-year-old products it's tougher to do it.
Inc.</strong> Okay fair enough.
And then just so that I'm clear on the joint venture.
On Slide 7 from your slide deck last quarter you talked about joint venture profit and loss and you talked about it being profitable for the next 3 quarters which would obviously be this one and the following 2.
And then you talked about it being breakeven for the full year.
So I'm just trying to understand.
Has there been a change? Are you doing a little more investment than you thought in the joint ventures? Or maybe was that slide slightly mislabeled or something? I'm just trying to figure out if there's been a change in what's going on in the joint ventures or not.
No there isn't any change.
I think that we probably created that confusion and that is the global business rather than joint venture profits.
So I think we did create that Steve that communication problem.
But we were talking about the global business being profitable.
It has not been profitable until this year and this is what we've committed to being profitable in '11 and then significant profits going forward.
But there's nothing changed other than our communication of that I believe.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
And then as we think about those JVs I guess on just the JV basis rather than the total global product basis would you expect that to be profitable in 2012? I think you've said that before but I just want to make sure I'm kind of understanding that.
Yes that's correct.
That's correct.
I think if you think about what's going on we're adding dealers we're adding product.
These are launch years for MNAL in product.
And by the end of this year we said we would be at a rate that should start being profitable for us.
And the same thing applies on our NC2 business.
Inc.</strong> Okay good.
And then obviously we're going to have something in the 28% I guess if I read your numbers right in terms of market share in the second half of the year.
Do you think that sort of holds at that rate into 2012? Or does the thing go back down again a little in 2012? Yes I think hopefully it will hold at that.
But we haven't really resolved ourselves that we can do that yet.
So I'll hold off on answering that question for a little while until we get some more experience Steve.
Inc.</strong> I guess the flip side is is there anything sort of unusual in that second half market share that we might expect to go away? Well remember what we said.
We said that some of our customers we've asked them to give us a chance to get some experience with our products.
So buy a small amount of product that until they got comfortable with us and then buy it in the second half.
So next year you wouldn't see that.
So it would be more balanced throughout the year.
I'd be reluctant to say we can be at 28% yet but if you look at severe service given that we still have some voids in product there and we're at 31% maybe there's an opportunity there.
On the Class 8 I think we have more work to do to prove that out on the heavy side.
Inc.</strong> Fair enough.
And my last one is -- I'm just trying to kind of get comfortable.
You guys had like a 40% increase in engine revenue year-over-year and the EBIT was kind of flat.
Obviously we're planning on a big ramp in the second half.
I think AJ you mentioned in your presentation that there were some early costs ramp up and so forth.
But obviously the engine profitability has to really ramp up very aggressively in the second half.
And I guess I'm just trying to get comfortable with -- maybe you could talk a little about the costs that were in the first half that maybe don't continue or something like that? Because it's obviously sort of a...
Stephen here's how it works.
We have launch costs certainly.
We have growth in the OEM business in the second half.
But perhaps most importantly is those engines that we made in the first half they're at low volumes not just for us and our manufacturing -- we've had extra costs in our own manufacturing as a result of that -- but our supply base too.
So take the 15-liter.
When you're making 10 20 a day 5 a day I mean the cost for us is going to be very substantial.
As we double the volume on the 13-liter our costs and our supplier's costs go down dramatically as well in terms of maybe even thousands of dollars.
And that's how we can support going from breakeven basically to make $100 million in the second half.
Inc.</strong> Okay great.
That's helpful.
Our next question comes from David Leiker with Robert W.
Baird.
I want to start as it relates -- to just kind of follow-up on the comment you just made Dan on the pricing.
You have a cost advantage on the EGR -- advanced EGR versus the FCR.
What share of that advantage do you think you're using on price to drive share versus the drive margin? I'm not sure we look at it at this point that way at all.
I think we're just trying to be competitive on price and not driving for share on price.
We just want to be competitive with others and let that advantage fall out in margins as we go forward.
Do you anticipate that strategy changing at any point? No.
I think what that does for us the change and I think puts a burden on the whole product image.
If you're out there with the lowest price the product image which we want the build to be the highest quality the highest performance product -- I think when you're out there as the lowest price you damage that.
So at this point I don't see us doing that.
We have the ability to do that but I don't see us doing it.
I don't know Jack have you got a thought on it? I think we're trying to price for the value of the products that we bring to the market and with the service that were associated with it.
Okay great.
And then as we see in this back end of the year that the volumes ramp up with the share guidance you're giving what kind of contribution margin do you think you end up driving through on the Truck side of the business? Not -- it's a little different than the past because that engine's now integrated in that number.
What should we be looking at? We haven't talked about that.
Let us gather up here and see if there's some guidance we can get to you but we haven't talked about that.
And Heather maybe we can take that aside and see if there's anything we can do to help.
And then the 2011 guidance what are you implying in there? I missed part of the call; you may have said it.
But what are you putting in there in terms of taxes for 2011? 10% to 11%.
And then lastly on Slide 24 when you look at the 2 slopes of the line there if you're at 310 000 trucks for 2012 that pushes a number at $8 to $10 call it.
What would be the tailwinds and the headwinds you'd be facing that would cause you to be one way or the other in terms of that line? I think David the only thing would be as we fully implement our global strategy and as we get the transition of engineering those would be a couple of drags on that.
But basically we're saying that's our plan and the strategy we're trying to achieve after we get everything in place.
So it shouldn't be -- we haven't put our forecasts on that but that's a direction that we have said we would be.
Shouldn't you be next year where you're leveraging those investments from this year? Or are you implying there are incremental investments that you would think come in? I don't know that there are incremental investments.
I think it's getting -- for instance like we talked about the MNAL get that fully implemented get the NC2 fully implemented get the benefits of the engineering center across the street from us here fully implemented.
So it's not a matter of extra spending.
It's a matter of capturing the full benefits of the actions we've put in place.
So that sounds like that might be more of a 2013 opportunity for leveraging the margin from that.
I hope not.
I think it is falling into 2012 for the most part.
Okay perfect.
Next we'll hear from Kristine Kubacki with Avondale Partners.
LLC</strong> I just wanted to ask a question a different way a little bit on the market share on the over-the-road.
It looks like -- on Slide #8 it looks like it went down quarter-to-quarter to 16% from 17%.
I guess I wanted to understand if this was expected.
I guess and was it supply constraints? Or was it that the industry produced more than you thought? I guess from a supply constraint was it internal or external? Well the real answer is I don't know if we can be that precise.
That's really the answer.
We also had as I mentioned some vehicles didn't get out.
So I would say Kristine it was right where we expected it to be.
LLC</strong> Okay and then I guess maybe further explaining it I guess if you could talk about how you expect the engine plant to ramp.
I know you guys had talked in the past a little bit about kind of what your current production per day is.
And kind of how do you see that going over the next few months into the summer months? How do you expect -- how much ramp are we expecting? Eric Tech? Yes we're right now going to be ramping up the big-bore plant in being able to add a second shift in order to meet the Truck needs going forward.
Our main driver right now is as Dan mentioned we do have suppliers that we're trying to bring up.
And as we bring those suppliers up later in the summer July time frame we'll be able to meet the Truck demand with all the capacity -- the assembly capacity that Jack will need I've been trying to say.
LLC</strong> How many engines per day are you producing currently? In the -- On the big bore? LLC</strong> Right.
We're -- it's right around 650 a week.
LLC</strong> And then what do you expect when you add this by the end of the summer? We'll be able to get up to about 1 000 a week.
LLC</strong> Okay perfect.
Next we'll go to JPMorgan's Ann Duignan.
Could we take a step back? If I look at your change in tax rate from 16% to 17% to 10% to 11% that adds close to $0.50 to your earnings outlook.
And you didn't take up the high end of your guidance.
So something -- some of the other businesses must not be performing to your expectations.
Can you talk about that a little bit and tell us which businesses specifically may be running behind expectations? Ann let's take a look.
I think the business segment profitability has not changed.
So if we start with the guidance our range of manufacturing segment profit hasn't changed.
When we look at our Financial Services we think Financial Services is doing better than expected and we are seeing some higher corporate costs associated with some incentives that we expected to get that did not pull through.
And what specifically were those higher corporate expenses? I'm sorry? What specifically changed in the corporate expense? We're seeing some higher corporate costs related to stock option expenses.
Okay.
And then second question.
On your warranties how are you accruing for warranties going forward? And how has that changed versus prior cycles now that you're building your own -- much more of your own engines? Nothing's changed in the way we accrue for warranties.
We always forecast the total life expense of the warranty and we accrue that when we ship the product.
The adjustments that we made in Q2 were related to some older products where costs were coming in higher...
I think the question is we didn't have warranty on big bore engines before now.
That's the...
Right.
So big bore warranties will increase total warranty expense where previously you would've seen that cost flow through in material cost as we purchase the engine from the outside.
Yes I appreciate that but what specifically -- from a forecasting standpoint if we want to increase our forecast accuracy how should we think about your accruals? Are they going to be higher as a percent of sales? From a modeling standpoint how do we look at it? Well it all flows through in cost of goods sold so our strategy to build our own engines we believe generates better profitability than buying those engines from the outside.
So you're just separating that cost from material cost to warranty cost.
But material costs should be lower as we produce the engine and warranty should be higher.
And will they net offset one another? We expect them to be better.
Okay that's helpful.
And then you noted supplier constraints and holding back shipments but you noted that engines were one of the constraints.
Is it suppliers to your engine facility that are the constraints? And if so could you just expand on that a little bit? Ann we had a few that we have overcome.
The one that's probably the overwhelming right now that is tougher is machining of castings.
We've overcome -- I believe we've overcome the casting of those by doing it ourselves.
But the machining of those takes time for investments to be put in place.
And that's a strain on our engine capacity as of today.
Eric is that -- I mean at a high level that's a couple of things down.
So that's the big one.
Yes primarily crank case both casting and machining are the big constraints.
And as Dan said we're going to be able to bring some casting capacity up and the machining capability will come after that a little bit later in the fiscal year.
So we'll be to get through that constraint in order to meet the numbers that we are anticipating by the end of the year.
And then you also mentioned axles.
Is that temporary? Or are axles on allocation at -- it sounds like a strange component to be short of already.
Yes I asked the same question Ann.
As you get into it you'll find out that with the stresses that went on in the economy we were forced -- our suppliers were forced to find ways to lower their costs.
And so they re-sourced and they re-sourced the second and third tier places that they're not at the capacity maybe that they had established.
And so they're going through that right now trying to increase the capacity to a prudent level which they think they -- we all as an industry can support over a long period of time.
So they are axles they are tires they're the same areas that the industry has talked about.
And we believe that stress will end by the end of the year.
But for the next several months it's going to be there.
And to complicate it a little further I hope I was clear on this is here we are and our global business is doing quite well and we can sell 10 000 units maybe even more.
But these are the same components in that that's stressing those same suppliers to grow our global business.
And so that's what we're facing here.
We have overcome -- as I mentioned we've overcome many.
We're down to 2 or 3 now that we don't have all the answers for until another few months.
Okay that's helpful.
And then just finally on military.
Should we think about the aftermarket parts military parts 400 as a run rate as opposed to 500 as a run rate going forward? Is that the change in the 2011-plus outlook? Well we've -- as you know the government's had its own stresses on spending.
And they found that this is an area they can save money on because there's been enough inventory out there they think to support the vehicles that are in the field and the vehicles that are out there without adding any more.
So they're looking at that as a way to cut back in the short term.
We expect it to come back going forward.
So Arch anything to add to that? Well I think it's still ongoing into a correction right now to get their inventories righted.
We're working with them to help do that.
But their -- the site Ann I think -- I don't think you're far from your numbers on where we think we'll be.
Okay that's helpful.
I'll leave it there.
I know I've asked a lot of questions.
Next we'll go to Patrick Nolan with Deutsche Bank.
Most of my questions have been updated.
Just a couple of quick ones.
Can you just -- just to go back and just confirm on the warranty charge.
So the charge that was in the quarter for the previous warranties now I know you assumed that you would have higher accruals going forward but for the previous-period warranty charges was that in the original $5 to $6 guidance? No it was not.
Okay.
And on the axle-component side am I correct? Didn't you recently switch axle suppliers within the past 2 years? Is there a problem with that new supplier? Or is it -- do you think this an industry-wide thing? Go ahead [indiscernible].
We didn't switch suppliers per se.
We moved more to Meritor axles from Dana.
So we're more Meritor today than we were a couple of years ago.
And we have a great relationship with Meritor and they're working very diligently to get us all the axles we need.
So we see an improving outlook here in the next 2 weeks.
And when I look at the graph you show on Page 19 it's helpful to see how the chargeouts how you see them coming together for the balance of the year.
When I look at the 33 in the third quarter and the 45 in the fourth can you give us an idea of how many slots you actually have opened left to be filled in those numbers? Yes I'd say most of that we've got covered.
So basically if a customer came in today they wouldn't probably get -- be able to get a slot? Well it depends who they are I think is part of it.
But what I wanted to try to reflect to you is that no longer is it just competing in the U.S.
for U.S.
Now it's because we have a common chassis common components common vehicles that for the short-term here we're going to compete on a global basis for those same supply base and components.
And so that's the stress that's on us in growing.
We're very successful in growing this global business and now we have to live up to it by supplying them products very similar to what's going on in the United States.
So for a few months here we're going to be watching that closely and working with our suppliers to try to address the opportunity we have on the global side.
Got it.
And then just lastly on the military business were most of the MRAP wreckers and I think you had an MRAP ambulance order were most of those delivered in the second quarter? Or would they be in the third? In the second primarily.
Here's how I would look at that.
And Archie correct me but I think what we're looking at for the -- we had $850 million in the first 6 months.
It will be fourth quarter predominant for the $1 billion and it will be more heavily weighted in the fourth quarter on revenue for the military.
It's just the way the orders have fallen in.
So fair enough Archie? Yes that's correct.
That's helpful.
Next we'll go to Joel Tiss with Buckingham Research Group.
Inc.</strong> Almost everything's been answered.
Just one clarification.
AJ when you were talking about Slide 17 you said the free cash flow is $200 million roughly year-to-date.
And if you look through the free cash flow statement that was in the press release it's just the operating cash minus the CapEx minus the dividends is basically 0.
So I just wondered what the discrepancy was.
No what I said was the cash flow for the quarter was $317 million.
You are correct.
From October through April cash from the year-end balance which is always a little bit higher than it is histor [ph] -- seasonally cash flow has been flat.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
And then the profitability just in terms of looking at mix of the truck sales in Australia and South America is that as good as the rest of the business? Or is that going to hurt the mix a little bit? Well if you think about pricing let's look at it that way pricing is better on some of the rest of the world than it is here in the United States.
So even Mexico it's interesting.
You can -- we can get a better price on vehicles sold in Mexico than you can in the United States.
And that same thing holds true in most of the other places in the world except China or India.
But most of the other places where we sell -- Latin America that's the story.
Australia that's the story.
South Africa that's the story.
So obviously our margins are probably going to be better in the export business than it is in the North American.
We do have time for one last question.
That question will come from Adam Uhlman with Cleveland Research.
Just a couple of clarifications.
I guess first of all the medium-duty business.
I guess the guidance looks like the industry is going to be flat in the second half versus the first half.
And Navistar's bills on a per day basis are going to be flat.
Can you just kind of flush that out on what you're seeing in your order trends for your medium-duty business? I'll have to look at that.
I thought we've said that it's going up in the second half.
Certainly our schedule has gone up in the second half.
Where are you picking up that it's flat? You have 15% more days and your builds are going up 15%.
Okay so I think the second half on medium is going up commensurate like heavy is.
Maybe not as much but it's certainly going up I'm going to say 30% Jack? 20% to 30%.
20% to 30% over the first half of the year in medium trucks as well.
Heavy was a little more than that.
Maybe we've missed something here.
Okay we can discuss that off-line I guess.
And then I may have missed it but of the $1 billion in military revenue that's expected through the second half of this year how much do you have in backlog currently? Here's what we said on that is that we have line of sight for the whole $1 billion.
We can't announce all the things we expect in that but shortly it'll become very clear.
We believe it will become very clear that the $1 billion in the second half is within our reach and we'll have the orders for it.
But our business is a little different than some of the other defense businesses.
And so often we get orders within the year and this is the case again this year.
But I believe in the next short bit of time here Archie we'll be able to show you a clear sight for that $1 billion in the second half and we'll be able to make it public as to what that looks like and where it's coming from.
Okay got it.
And then could you talk about what you're seeing in the MWM engine business in Brazil? Well as you've seen our global Engine business has grown and certainly that is the case in South America.
And I think Eric we're going to have total for 2011 about 150 000 engines which will be a record for us coming out of that business we own in South America.
Yes correct.
You'll see a very strong finish for Brazil in the second half after...
I think we had at a rate of somewhat less than that in the first half and the second half will be even stronger.
Yes.
Got it.
Great.
Once again that does conclude today's portion of the question-and-answer.
I would now like to turn the call back over to Heather Kos.
Thank you all for your participation today and we'll be around to answer any of your questions.
Thanks again.
Once again that does conclude today's call.
Thank you again for your participation.
Good morning and welcome everyone to the Navistar International Corporation Third Quarter Earnings Release.
Today's call is being recorded.
And for opening remarks and introductions I would like to turn the program over to the Vice President of Investor Relations and Financial Communications Heather Kos.
Please go ahead ma'am.
Thank you for joining us today.
Before we begin I'd like to cover a few items.
A copy of this morning's press release and the presentation slides that we'll be using today have been posted on our Investor Relations website for your reference.
The financial results presented here are on a GAAP basis and in some cases on a non-GAAP basis.
The non-GAAP financial measures discussed in this call are reconciled to the U.S.
GAAP equivalent as part of the appendix in the slide deck.
Finally today's presentation includes some forward-looking statements about our expectations for future performance.
Actual results could differ materially from those suggested by our comments made here.
For additional information concerning factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected in today's presentation please refer to our most recent reports on Form 10-K and 10-Q and our other SEC filings.
We would also refer you to the forward-looking statements and the other cautionary note disclaimers presented in today's material for more information on this subject.
And now I'm going to turn it over to Dan Ustian.
Thanks Heather.
Now the agenda for today if you would try to follow me through the slides Slide 4 has -- we'll talk a little bit about the current truck environment then we'll get specific on our third quarter results the balance of this year.
We'll talk about some items that would affect the future and then A.J.
will talk about return on capital.
So if you look at Slide 5 you can see that the trend in the industry has been for the last 3 years very difficult and encouraging going into 2011.
The other 2 charts on here from the experts FTR organization and ACT show that that trend for improvement should stay with us for quite some time now.
That is the forecast.
I think if you talk to others in the industry they would give you some similar feelings to that.
At the bottom of the page bottom right retail sales.
Our estimate was at the beginning of the year industry demand would be 240 000 to 260 000 industry demand.
And then today we're saying the same thing 240 000 to 260 000.
A little change in mix a little bit more on the medium side a little bit less on the Class 8 side and much of that is really related to some supply constraints that we'll talk about in a little while.
We put on Slide 6 just some recent articles that were in Transport Topics that show that production rates are still strong.
Freight is good.
Freight rates are good.
Again all positive things that the industry will continue to grow.
Another factor in it is used truck.
That's probably another indicator.
There aren't very many used trucks out there and the price of the ones that are out there have escalated quite substantially over the last year.
And you can see it's close to $35 000 for a 5-year-old sleeper today about $10 000 to $15 000 higher than it was only a couple of years back.
So used truck market is strong as well.
On Slide 8 for those of you that have followed the industry know we've had some supply constraints.
And we would say it's really not a matter of capacity.
It's a matter of the rate of change.
So if you look at where the industry was through the industry data at the beginning of this year we were about 200 000 annualized rate and the last 3 quarters are 264 000 so about a 30% increase in rate.
If you look at the beginning to the end it's more like 40% or 50% rate increase and the supply chain has not been able to adapt that quickly.
On our side it's even more acute.
At the bottom of the page these are other markets that are growth markets that are coming into play in 2011.
We'll talk more about it.
But Latin America shipments of trucks in 2010 were 3 000.
This year they're going to be 11 000 and it's back-end loaded.
And of course the Mexico industry is stronger and we are entering South America.
Our products are the same basically the same and the components and the suppliers are basically the same in each one of these markets.
So it's stressing our supply base.
If you look at Slide 9 commodity cost for the industry.
We began charting these in 2009 and you can see from this that they're significantly higher than they were back then.
I think you could also see that they've leveled off.
And one particular note is steel but you can look at all of these and they have flattened out.
I also believe that these are priced now in the vehicles appropriately to capture the increase in commodity costs.
So in summary the industry environment is what we expected and I think it's what we're going to expect in 2012 as well should be a little bit stronger.
It should be at a rate similar to the rate that's going on right now.
We're seeing a little change in mix.
There's more fleet buy less dealer buy which means this little stress in pricing.
And for us we certainly anticipate it on the heavy side.
I think the medium and severe are stressed probably a little bit more than what we had thought at the beginning of the year.
I think the difference though is this on the heavy side that's going to stay that way.
They're going to be concentrated on fleets.
On the medium and the severe side you're going to see this dealer volume pick back up as the economy picks back up so that -- I don't think that's a permanent swing.
I think it's a short-term swing.
We also believe that there's an opportunity for a highway bill and I know many don't believe that that will happen.
I personally do.
Over time we'll get a highway bill then be right in the core of the severe service business which is a great business for us and for our industry.
We've also said that commodity costs are high but they're stable.
And we believe that it's in the pricing of vehicles throughout the industry.
So now let's turn to the financials of the third quarter for us.
Slide 11 shows that we had $3.5 billion worth of revenue and we made $0.79 earnings from that.
If you look at the bottom left-hand corner it shows the delta in the business revenues where Canadian U.S.
Truck business is up $500 million Global Truck Engine and Parts are all up.
And the Military revenue has shifted from the third quarter into the fourth quarter so the full year is basically the same.
But last year we shipped heavily in the third quarter.
This year we'll ship heavily in the fourth quarter.
We also have spent $132 million on product development which is up a little bit from last year.
The supply constraints have certainly stressed our system in terms of productivity.
And we also have some left in inventory but -- so in spite of having the $1 billion of cash there's still some in inventory that we'll be able to ship by the end of the year to grow that cash balance even more than where it is.
And our big bore engine side for the quarter we built about 800 per week or at about a 40 000 rate clip.
I'll talk more about where that is in the fourth quarter momentarily.
Slide 12 simple chart that shows shipments.
You can see the growth in every sector of the Engine business and particularly the OEM business is growing.
And as I mentioned the Military business was lower than last year but it will recover in the fourth quarter.
On market share Slide 13 Q3 for school bus was 47%.
We expect that to be closer to 60% in the fourth quarter.
Medium truck was 46% a strong quarter for us.
Severe service 36% and overall Class 8 was 21%.
If you'll look at Slide 14 it shows a trend here in Class 6 and 7 and 8 significantly growing for our company from beginning of the year to the last 4 months.
I want you to keep in mind on the Class 8 side that we went from a predominantly 15-liter bought OEM engine to an entirely 13 liter.
So this 22% share that we have is really almost all of it is in the 13-liter class.
If you look at Slide 15 I want to remind us all that we still have products that are being launched have been launched not out to market yet and will be launched at the end of this year that will grow their presence in the Class 8 market as well.
These products that are shown on Page 15 cover about 20% of the market that we haven't played in for the entire 2011 year.
So I think you can see why we're optimistic that our 25% goal is very realistic in the short term.
On Slide 16 we've been given 2 awards one on the vehicle side the Best Class 8 Truck Pick Up &amp; Delivery in 6 categories -- 6 important categories.
On the Engine side where we won an award for the Class 8 Heavy Duty Engine of the Year.
These are J.D.
Power awards.
Now I'll be the first to tell you that if we didn't get this award I'd be saying it doesn't mean anything.
Having said that I do think this does mean something because if you look at Page 17 it says that it's producing to the bottom line.
And if you look at independent value guides for used trucks you can see that our used trucks are valued somewhat significantly higher than any that are out there.
So I think the 2 tie it together and it will help us in our pricing and it will help us in our share going forward.
Now I'd like to take a moment and go through Slide 18.
Slide 18 is about how do we get from where we are to a strong fourth quarter.
How do we get a fourth quarter that gets us to between $5 and $6 a share for the year? And the simple side of that is our revenue will be up.
We expect revenue in the fourth quarter to be about $4.5 billion which is $1 billion higher than the third quarter.
North American charge-outs are up 30% from quarter-to-quarter.
I'll talk a little bit about Latin America increases but they're up substantially several thousand units.
In fact we will ship as many in the fourth quarter in Latin America as we did for the full year and margins on those are good.
And the Military as I mentioned earlier will be about $700 million which is $400 million higher than the third quarter.
So on the revenue side we were about $1 billion higher than the third quarter.
On the cost side you'll see our joint venture investments go down.
Some of it is in product development some of it is just in the establishment of our dealer body that we have in these countries.
Our manufacturing strategy is now in place throughout Engine and Trucks.
Our supplier constraints will be better.
They won't be gone totally in the fourth quarter.
But clearly they're better and so the costs related to those supplier constraints will be much better in the fourth quarter.
And we'll be at full production rate of our big bore engine and here's how that's significant.
We were at about 800 a day -- 800 a week sorry in the third quarter.
By the middle of September we're going to be at 1 200 a week.
And so what we did to protect the quality of the product we manned up our facilities as if we were at the higher rate so that people would be trained.
Obviously there's much efficiencies that go along with that volume.
So as you could tell 1 200 a week rate is over 60 000 units a year and that's what we think will help us into next year to meet the demands that are out there.
So that's how we think Q4 gets to our $3  to $4 a share number that is in our guidance.
Well let's talk a little bit about the full year now because I mentioned some supplier constraints.
We're going to be a little bit higher in product development maybe $20 million higher than what we anticipated.
And then the mix change between medium -- it's not so much on the heavy side because we anticipated that.
I think the mid-range products and the severe service products are stressing a little bit the pricing that's in that only because of mix not because we're not collecting it.
It's a matter of fleet buys versus smaller customer buys that run through our dealer.
So those add up to about $100 million of stress on our system and how we make that up.
So the fleets actually in a different way the fleets -- by having more fleets they actually help us in the financial service side because the quality of them is stronger than the smaller size.
So we'll have more earnings on NFC as a result of that.
In fact in NFC we expect to have maybe 50 million or 60 million better than the plan.
Some of that is clearly because of the quality of the customers that we're shipping to.
The second part of it is annual compensation and our whole company is on an incentive program.
And it's based on earnings and so it will be adjusted based on our earnings.
And so our net would be -- we'd be back into the $5 to $6 range that was in our original plan.
That's how we adjust those 2 out.
Then let's turn to Page 19 and talk about the supplier challenges that we've had particularly in Class 8 and how we're managing through that.
If you look at the bottom of the page I mentioned earlier that we spent a little bit more money on product development or we will spend a little bit more money on product development.
And one of the reasons is we decided to pull up some programs into South America and Latin America into 2011 because the market there is strong.
So we launched ProStar TranStar WorkStar and Continental Mixers in there in 2011.
And the result is they've taken off.
Our dealers are loving this product.
They promoted the product.
For the first 9 months of the year we've sold 5 000 units.
Now with the addition of these vehicles we'll sell more than that in the fourth quarter alone.
The margins on that as I mentioned earlier are strong and we believe that's the prudent way to balance out the challenges that are out there on supplier constraints.
So what that leaves us for in North American side is we'll ship somewhere between 38 000 and 40 000 Class 8 vehicles.
We think that will give us market share of 23% to 24% but it's frozen.
So whatever the industry is that's going to dictate what the market share is and our number for shipments is frozen at that number.
And we think that's the best way to manage these constraints that we have until they're lifted which would probably be -- or toward the end of this year before there will be free demand.
On the cost structure side you saw that we announced the official closing of our Chatham operation that completes our actions on Engines and Trucks.
We've saved over $200 million in that.
It's on the high side of $200 million.
Yet to happen is the improvements in synergies related to our Integrated Product Development Center.
We have several hundred -- I'm going to say 700 or 800 engineers already into that facility.
And remember that's combining 8 or 10 different facilities into one.
That will take us another 6 or 8 months before we capitalize on all of that.
But we said at the end of that which would be middle of next year we would start getting $60 million to $80 million a year of synergies as related to the product development center.
On Slide 21 we said that for the year our global business would be profitable as we're investing in the areas that we have not participated in.
So you can see from this chart that we have established 410 distribution points that's not fully complete to where we would like to be but predominantly there.
We'll start making money on those distribution points next year.
But our total business for global will be profitable as we said we would be for 2011.
Much of that of course is from what I talked about earlier about Latin American successes.
On the Parts side the important part of this slide is that Parts has a plan to have 10% growth each year.
And you have to remember a big part of this going forward will be our integrated engine strategy.
So keeping in mind this year we're going to go another 10% but we really haven't got all the benefits from the integrated strategy yet because those -- while they're coming in for service they're not coming in for engine service unless it's just a maintenance item.
So we would expect this rate to continue at 10% for many years going forward on the Parts side.
On the Defense side this will be our fourth year of the $2 billion business strategy achievement.
We believe in spite of the fact that there will be certainly some budget constraints our business model says we're well positioned to get our fair share of that.
And as you can tell from the fourth quarter we have $700 million worth of revenue in the fourth quarter as this -- as the government has constrained some of those investments that they're able to make in their budgets.
We still believe we're at the $1.5 billion to $2 billion worth of business.
There are other major programs that are out there one of those is the Humvee recap that we'll play in.
We think we're well positioned to be very competitive in this.
This is further into 2012 before we know where we stand on that.
But we like where we're at positioned in our product in our cost and our ability to deliver.
So finally on Slide 25.
It's a chart that we've shown before.
This is what we said to you on the left side was our business drivers for 2011.
And on the right side where we stand to that.
And as you can see most of these we're right on where we said we would be.
In total we expect to be $5 to $6 a share.
And somewhere in the middle of that based on what we know our promises from our supply base in bringing parts in.
The challenge with that is not just that we'll get them but they have to be done in a timely way.
So the variation from that is really when we get the parts.
It's not only if we get the parts it's when we get them so that we can have a good flow of our production and not do it offline and not have to put the extra cost in for flying or any other extra cost to make sure that that product is quality as it leaves the facility.
So we're between $5 and $6.
We'd say we're in the middle of that right now.
And A.J.
how about talking about the balance sheet? All right.
Thanks Dan.
We had a lot of activity in Q3 so I'll go through some of that activity.
And then also talk about some of the actions that we've taken as it relates to our capital structure.
On Page 27 our manufacturing cash ended the quarter with over $1 billion of manufacturing cash.
I think that's significant as our third quarter is typically our low point for cash on a quarter end.
But I also think it's significant that that's $250 million higher than it was just a year ago.
Our cash will grow in the fourth quarter driven primarily by growth in earnings and improved effectiveness within our working capital.
We -- again we expect our cash to end the year near the high end of our guidance.
On Page 28 Navistar Financial continues to do very well.
It had a very strong year.
Their profits in the quarter were good and their liquidity going forward is sufficient to support expansion of our dealer business as we expect the economy to recover.
Our partnership with GE Capital continues to pay good dividends for us.
It's expanded the financing products available to our customers.
But more importantly it's allowed us to limit the amount of capital deployed at Navistar Financial and use that capital where we can generate a better return on capital.
On the right side of this page I've highlighted the current status of our portfolio.
And I think it's important to note here that the portfolio statistics continue to improve.
This reflects not only the health of our customers but the health of the market in general.
And then what I've done here is shown that typically we see some deterioration in these metrics ahead of an economic downturn.
So we remain confident in the health of the industry and the health of our customers.
Dan talked about some of the actions that we've taken that took place in Q3 relative to our manufacturing cost structure.
We've highlighted 2 significant actions here in the third quarter both of which we believe help our cost structure going forward.
At Chatham we made a final decision to close that facility.
The majority of these costs are reflected in our third quarter items.
But some of these costs will carry forward into Q4 and 2012.
Those are related to final resolution of some employee costs once we reach final agreement.
The cash charges again are reflective of the cost to settle with the employees and some pension funding that will take place in 2012 and beyond.
Custom products is a combination of our Chassis and RV businesses.
These businesses have already leveraged the value of our purchasing scale and we've integrated our engine strategy across multiple platforms.
The next logical step here is to combine our manufacturing facilities and capture the synergies associated with that.
The charges associated here are mostly noncash as we've written-off some intellectual property and intangible assets.
The cash charges here are again related to some employee costs and some relocation costs which I think are more than offset by the savings that we can capture with this strategy.
We will continue to look at opportunities to improve our cost structure going forward both as the markets recover and our strategies evolve.
On Page 30 after much deliberation and a long set of analytics we've reached the conclusion that our deferred tax assets have realizable value.
As such we've been able to release the reserve against these assets and make the adjustments on the balance sheet.
The primary factors that contribute to this of course are generating profits at the bottom of the cycle.
But more importantly is the confidence that we have that we can sustain this profitability going forward.
The impact of this action will be that we will have low cash taxes and we can defer cash taxes into 2013 and beyond.
And equally important is the adjustment that it has been on our balance sheet as we're able to reflect positive shareholder equity for the first time in many years.
So the third quarter has been a busy quarter.
Our cash is strong and our liquidity is adequate to support the growth of our business.
And the confidence in our strategy is such that we've been able to take actions to not only improve our cost structure but to improve our balance sheet.
With that I'd like to take the opportunity now to talk about some actions that we're going to do relative to our cost structure.
But first I think we ought to take a moment and look at where has our focus been.
Up to this point our focus has been to deploy our capital so that we can improve the earnings of our -- of the business and support the growth of the business.
When you look at Page 32 you're able to see what we've been able to do with these investments.
But I think what's more important is how we've been able to do this.
Over the last cycle we have invested $300 million less than we did in the previous cycle.
And if we look further back to the cycle where we invested heavily in products previously we've saved over $500 million of investment.
We've been able to do this by leveraging our engine platforms across common chassis so that we can maximize the potential of this strategy while minimizing the investment required to implement that.
As a result of that we've freed up our capital and have sufficient liquidity to support the announcement of our share repurchase program today.
We have announced $175 million share repurchase program which represents approximately about 5% of our shares.
We're doing this today because of 2 reasons.
One the continued profitability of the business at the bottom of the cycle and the ability to generate sufficient cash liquidity that we can execute this plan from cash reserves.
As we move forward we believe we have adequate cash to support the continued investment in our strategy and expand that strategy to markets such as China and our global truck products.
As we move forward and outline our plans for 2012 we will continue to develop our strategy around capital so that we continue to invest in our business but also incorporate the opportunity to return value to our shareholders.
We'll have more to share with you on this as we talk about our 2012 guidance.
So on Page 34 I'd like to recap where we are for 2011.
We have a lot to do for our fourth quarter and Dan outlined the critical elements of that that support our guidance in the $5 to $6 range.
The primary element of this is to grow our revenue by $1 billion in the fourth quarter and that comes from primarily our North American Truck business our export business and of course the heavy Military business in the fourth quarter.
But equally important is to control the costs associated with executing that revenue and we've outlined the plans for that.
So we're confident in our ability to deliver our results in the $5 to $6 range.
But we've also done more in the quarter.
If you look at Page 35 and you look at the diversification of our revenue base.
No longer is our strategy simply a North American strategy where we have invested in market leading product and improved our cost structure and attracted investment into our distribution network.
But we've also added our Military business so we can leverage that investment and expand our revenue base.
From this we've effectively invested in a global growth strategy that will pay dividends in the future.
Our Engine business has expanded into the big bore product line and has repositioned itself to take advantage of those investments to grow into tangential markets both domestically and globally.
Finally our Parts business has effectively implemented the strategy built around better execution within our existing channel.
The Parts business is now well positioned to expand further as our Truck and Engine businesses mature their strategies going forward.
So if you look at Page 36 I think that shows the 2 critical elements of what we talked about today.
We're going to deliver on our results for 2011.
Dan outlined that the actions are in place to deliver our commitments and we're confident that we will do so.
But equally important we continue to put in place the critical elements of our strategic plan that build towards our objective to become a $20 billion company capable of generating $1.8 billion of segment profit and delivering value for our shareholders.
With that Heather I think we're ready to take questions.
Operator we're ready for questions.
[Operator Instructions] We'll go first to Henry Kirn with UBS.
I appreciate that the cycle is unfolding as you expected but I was hoping to delve deeper into the lower end of the guidance range.
Could you talk a little bit about what changed over the last month and maybe if possible quantify the impact from the surprise in mix to fleets and then the supply chain constraints? I don't know about surprises Henry.
I think the challenge of course has been the supply change -- chain not just in getting the components in but getting them in on a timely basis.
So if you schedule a truck to run down that line and you don't have that truck you may get the truck out in the quarter but you're doing it offline it's expensive.
You have to tell people I have to make sure the quality is right.
So that side of it I think you could say it was a -- it's a little surprise.
I'd say from -- the other challenge perhaps is over the last month and it really is the last month that's really going to affect opportunities for fourth quarter rather than third quarter is we've seen less dealer-type orders and dealers typically have smaller unit orders.
So our pricing is -- it could be 10% better on those kind of orders than if you get a fleet.
So we've seen some movement in that as Washington as -- and New York Wall Street has unfolded here.
The small guy now has stepped back and says "I'm going to wait and see a little bit." Now the fleets in that with the leasing companies they've gone ahead and they've bought.
In fact some of it instead of the guy buying a new truck he's renting.
So the fleets actually are fine it's the small guy.
So the mix for us is a little bit negative to the tune of -- you could have 10% difference in those 2 prices.
I think the other one is on the construction and the severe service side.
The government buys perhaps on the severe side.
There's been less of that with the tightening of the budgets.
So that's another negative because those are smaller buys again and many of them run through dealers so the margins on those are better than "on the road" fleet price would be.
That's helpful.
And on the Military business could you talk about the risks upside or downside to the $700 million Military for the fourth quarter and how much visibility you have into your fiscal '12? Well I'll let Archie say what this but -- and we have all the orders.
We're making the products.
I don't think -- and we got to make sure that we get the components but you have to understand that's by law and by practice.
They get preference on the components that come in.
So I think there's not a lot of risk on the production side of that.
I think we're pretty solid on that.
Arch you want to add anything to that? No I think we do.
We have clear line of sight to produce what we said we would.
And I think the risk is [indiscernible] not any risk at all to deliver what we said.
To answer the question about '12 and what we foresee there obviously with what's happening we do intend to see U.S.
funding come down but we're not sitting stagnant.
I mean we're going after other stuff in foreign countries.
As we've indicated in some of the prior calls we're in 26 countries that we operate in and we're continuing down that path.
We do believe that a lot of our revenue from next year is going to come from outside of the U.S.
into the business.
And that's also not only just the vehicle buy but what we're growing right now is the logistics supply chain with IOS putting mechanics on the ground to field support and part sales.
So we do see growth in those areas.
So we're trying to offset the lower vehicle buy by some of these other ancillary businesses that we're in.
Let me just add to that Arch.
If we -- outside of the U.S.
this isn't something that we just started working on.
These have been things we've been working on for a couple of years with foreign nations that we think will come into fruition in 2012.
We'll move next to Seth Weber with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC</strong> So I appreciate the preliminary FY '12 outlook on the retail sales.
I was wondering if you could just share some of the macro assumptions that are going into the -- your preliminary guidance for retail sales for next year? You mean like GDP and all that? LLC</strong> Yes GDP or freight volumes anything like that.
Yes we've got that.
Let us get you that Seth.
We can do that.
We don't have that with us here but...
LLC</strong> Okay.
If I could then just get another question in.
I guess I wasn't -- I thought I heard you say that you feel like pricing is now covering input or material cost.
Is that accurate? Did I hear that correctly? Yes.
Seth here's how we've looked at that.
We obviously price in total so it's hard to tell how much has been collected for commodity prices or anything else.
But in total we're probably a little bit ahead of our plan.
And the one area that I think we are ahead is the 13 liter.
If you followed us earlier we were -- our intentions were to price 13 liter and then 15 liter above it.
Today -- and that competes 15 versus 15.
Today our 13-liter pricing matches up with the 15 liter of others.
So a little advantage for us on that side of it.
And now the challenge is how do you price 15 liter.
Well in the markets we're going to play with that we should be able to price fine with that but we won't be able to price higher on long-haul tractors.
Our own 13 liter versus our own 15 liter we will not be able to price higher for that.
But we're in good position with our 13-liter pricing against others' 15 liter.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And as we look at one of the slides you had in there it looks like your commodity prices have basically stabilized.
So should we assume that if you were to push through kind of your typical price increase for next year that that would be further on the plus side then? I always worry about the plus side of that.
But yes I don't know that we're far enough along to say when the next price change would be.
Typically they are at the beginning of the year.
So as we see it today I'd say there aren't any other changes.
We're about where we're at with some maybe 1% 2% increase.
Jack Allen is here.
Jack? I'd have to say we think that we'll be able to move pricing along but we're going to have to grow margins as to the cost side not through pricing.
We'll go next to Ann Duignan with JPMorgan.
Ann Duignan.
Can we talk about the implied guidance for Q4? Could you just -- you got a $1 in range there and I appreciate that in the appendix you have the low end and the high end.
Can you just talk to 2 things? You do not have any assumptions for share repurchases in the current Q4 guidance is that correct? No that -- well yes Ann you are correct.
We haven't adjusted the guidance to reflect any share repurchase numbers.
Okay.
And then secondly could you also talk about whether you have any assumptions in there in Q4 for the debt extinguishment and the gain on that? The debt extinguishment? Clarify for me Ann.
Yes in your appendix you talk about debt extinguishment in Q4 could result in upside to for reported earnings.
That's really an inconsequential amount and that won't have any impact.
Okay.
So the bigger impact on Q4 might be beyond what you've laid out here it might be the timing of share repurchases? Yes.
For 2012 we do expect that the share repurchase program will decrease the number of shares outstanding in 2012.
And A.J.
it's possible we have some of those this year right? It's possible.
Right.
We will execute this plan in Q4.
The real effects of that you have to be averaged over the year.
So the real benefit of the share repurchase comes through in 2012.
Yes I just wanted to make sure that it's not included in Q4 as is.
We haven't adjusted the numbers for that.
Okay.
And then on the engine profitability side I mean that's probably the segment where we've had the biggest swing versus your initial guidance of $100 million in profitability.
Can you just talk about what's the real driver there? Is it just the ramp up of the internal engines and then the transfer pricing at X whatever the agreed price is? Is it South America? And what happens to engine profitability as we look into 2012? Well we've got Eric here Eric Tech with us so let me just give you a high level of that.
We had a plan of between $90 million and $100 million.
And you might remember Ann in the second quarter I think we had extra warranty from prior years that hit the Engine business so that stressed that some more.
So what his objective is to try to make that up.
And we're going to be close to that.
I'm not sure Eric can get all the way through the $90-ish million that we had in the plan but that's the target to make up that $30 million that's out there.
Eric maybe you can chat a little bit though.
The second question is what -- how do you look at the qualitative 2012 what would be the actions be that would show where 2012 might get better? Yes.
I mean one of the things that we're really focused on is our -- from an operating standpoint how we've been able to improve quarter-over-quarter especially in the North American business.
We're bringing the cost of our engines down.
The volume is coming up.
Dan talked about some operational things that will be helping us relative to the big bore.
And therefore when I'm looking at our run rate in the fourth quarter it gives me some confidence for full year profitability or improved profitability going into 2012.
On top of that we're still considering Brazil to be a very important part of our business going forward.
We will be transitioning to contract manufacturing but we've got a very healthy parts revenue and profitability down there that will continue.
And we'll actually see improved volumes with the contract manufacturing environment that we'll be going into as well as some reduced expenses associated with that arrangement relative to our prior one.
So we're thinking that both the North American and South American parts of our business are going to either maintain in South America and they will improve in North America.
And let me just add to it and just so to frame at least the big bore part of this.
When we launched the big bore quality was the number one thing.
And so that meant that we were going to man up the facility with more people in it but we wouldn't have to go through the training throughout the year as we kept increasing the production rate.
So there were extra costs with that.
We also didn't change anything.
We had suppliers out there from low-volume supply base that we just kept with us and that was because of quality.
Again we didn't want to make changes going on during the year.
Now in the fourth quarter this year there are some changes and in fact we're making our own castings we're machining our own castings at a cost reduction of $500 $600 a piece.
There's more of that that goes on into the 2012 so the cost structure is still not where it needs to be or where it will be on a long-term basis on our big bore engine family until all those get into place because our emphasis has been making sure the quality is right.
Okay.
And any update on warranty accruals on those new engines? What rate are you using going forward? Well actually what that has been is on the prior engines.
Our total warranty is about the same.
The prior has been higher than '04 and '07 it's been higher and the '10s have been lower.
But in total we're about the same as we expected to be other than that second quarter adjustment that we had.
We'll go next to Jerry Revich with Goldman Sachs.
Nice sales ramp on the NC squared business this year.
At what sales level do you expect that squared business to be profitable? And which regions has the product lineup been fully rolled out at this point? Well the product has been rolled about 80% in India maybe 80% to 90% is rolled out already in India.
In South America we just have 1 product on our way to 3 products.
South Africa we're kind of there.
Australia mostly there.
Latin America we're there now.
South America again there's some opportunities that we still have to launch more.
So next year we are expecting to make money in India as the distribution gets established and the products are out there.
Australia the same way a modest amount.
South America we'll be launching.
So I think we'll probably break even in that because of the launch factor and getting the dealer body in place to support the products that will be out there.
Then in Latin America again we're looking at a good year.
Troy or Dee anything to add to that? I think you said it Dan.
I think we have started the launch of products in all these regions as Dan said.
We will be adding a couple more products into Brazil in the next month and we're still working to achieve the full local content requirement in Brazil that enables you to get government or state financing which is a huge margin and sales improvement opportunity for us.
So again to reiterate what Dan said we got products in Australia that are being sold and we built enough to kind of tide us over until we get the Euro V version next year.
South Africa is going great.
I think we were the market share leader there in Class 8 last month.
Brazil is ramping up nicely and these additional products that I just talked about should accelerate that.
And then the Central America and indeed [ph] American -- Latin American markets are showcasing the strategy from several years ago while introducing new products and new dealers and we're doing quite well there.
So maybe Jerry at a high level I can summarize that.
At a high level what's going on this year was the establishment of the product so it's product development.
It's the establishment of distribution so it's a sales organization it's to help to get the dealer body in place.
So that's the cost that's -- and mostly that's in that line item that's $55 million for the first 3 quarters.
Now next year we start to get the revenue for that.
In fact some of it we have started already.
So that this year nets out to be 0 base some slight profit.
And next year we expect to get somewhat more significant profit.
And we'll go through that after the next quarter and we'll tell you more about that.
I appreciate the color.
And Archie excellent Dash wins this year particularly on the ambulance side.
When you talk about the foreign opportunities for next year are you seeing demand primarily for  MilCOTS-type product or is there a meaningful armored vehicle demand outside of that one tender in Canada? Jerry it's both.
Although it will be heavily weighted on MilCOTS-type vehicles.
But they are seeing some armored business that we're going after in foreign countries.
But the primarily focus it will be on MilCOTS.
Okay.
And lastly Dan can you say more about specifically what components are driving the supply constraints you highlighted? And with your castings capacity ramping up in the fourth quarter is that what you need to see to feel better about the supply chain? I guess looking at the lower intersegment engine sales this quarter sequentially it sounds like some of the constraints were concentrated in the engine component side.
Is that fair? Well I'd rather not get into that.
I know we had a reaction from our supply base last time when we said something about that and not that we mentioned names but it is several different areas that we think we got our arms around.
We've actually canceled some overtime on some of our production because it just didn't make any sense especially on the medium side.
So we think we've got it managed with that supply base.
We're tying in when we need it and when they can -- they promised on it.
The risk is they have to hustle to meet the timing that we have laid out with them.
And so it's probably 6 or 7 different ones.
I think Jerry the other part is when you get through those are there any other ones? And we think no.
We've tried to analyze and anticipate what else might happen that maybe is being camouflaged by some of the constraints we had elsewhere.
We think we've got our arms around that though we're not 100% sure.
But we've tried to anticipate any movement in that that could disrupt our production.
And remember the issue is twofold.
One we had to get it out there to the customer.
We made a delivery-date promise to them.
So that's one thing.
The second thing though is not just getting the parts during the quarter it's getting them when we need them in the quarter.
So they run down the assembly line as prescribed and we're not juggling schedules around all the time.
And that's what we ran into in the third quarter that -- we think we've got a better flow going right now in our production operations but we still have to prove that out.
We'll go next to Joel Tiss with Buckingham Research Group.
Inc.</strong> Can you just talk a little bit try to square up the big fourth quarter ramp in Military and the ramp in the big bore engines and some other areas and the inventory is only rising by $150 million? It doesn't seem like there's enough in the pipeline to be able to get all that out the door.
Well I mean the order board for Military is something that we've seen for a while so we can get prepared for that with our supply base.
And typically they'll bring it in a few days ahead of time.
We make it and ship it.
So that flow is pretty good.
Now we don't get paid for it right away so it may sit in payables but that flow is pretty good.
Yes we're averaging roughly about a 2-week window from the supply chain until it gets built into a product.
So you're not going to see a lot of inventory sitting around.
It flows through the system pretty quickly.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
And then just on Class 6 to 7 you said it was getting better.
Can you just give us a couple of the factors behind what's improving that business relative to expectations? Well it's better versus what our estimate was from the beginning of the year.
So here's what's happened on that.
It has gotten better now it's leveled off and it's leveled off because now the small guy is being a little cautious on buying.
So it's gone up Jack 30% from the beginning of the year to now? 25%.
Gone up 25% 30% from the beginning of the year now it's flattened out.
And what we're seeing on the flattened out side it's this guy that buys from the dealers.
It's the smaller business guy that's saying "I'm going to wait and see here before I buy another truck." And like I said he may turn then and lease a truck in the meantime until he gets more confidence in the overall economy.
But the goods he's moving they're still good.
I mean he's still moving what he expected.
So that's the positive that we see in the trucking industry is there's no pullback on their business and there's no pullback on the rates they're getting.
So they're getting paid and they're okay.
But they're cautious because they read the newspapers.
Inc.</strong> And the same sort of question on Class 8.
How long can those owner operators hold off from buying new trucks? It seems like their fleets are pretty stressed out there.
Well here's what I'd say on that one Joel.
I think the days of the owner operator -- there aren't many left anymore.
In fact what you'll see they do is they'll usually -- many of them will have been hired by a fleet to do specific loads.
So they could be even buying through that fleet.
So I think the owner-operator segment is very small and it's not going to get any bigger.
And so that mix change from year-to-year when you look at a truck and we had anticipated this so this is not a surprise to us but when you look at the mix of a fleet versus one of those owner operators that pricing could be 10% to 15% different.
So the pricing from 2 years ago to today is just because of the mix.
We had anticipated that that's why our strategy for our 13 liter is out there.
That's why we're strong in the regional hauling because that's where the market is going.
So I think we anticipated all of that.
And so we're right on plan for that.
And so I think the medium and the severe it's an aberration here for this year and as the economy picks back up and the people get confidence the small guy starts to buy back in those markets.
But I don't see it changing in the heavy-truck side.
We're not anticipating that ever going back to the small guy being a big factor in the Class 8 market.
We'll take our next question from Andy Casey with Wells Fargo.
LLC</strong> I'm trying to gauge the short-term production volume risk.
Are your U.S.
and Canadian Class 8 ordered to deliver lead times beyond October at this point? Sure.
For an order today? LLC</strong> Yes.
Sure.
LLC</strong> Okay.
So when you look at your constraints that need to be resolved other than what you've already done with the big bore how long do you think it's going to take for a majority of those to be resolved because it appears in the channel that your big bore engine availability relative to your competitors is pretty good? Well I wish I could say the answer to that is yes.
I think we're making -- every big bore engine that we make we're selling it.
And we're bringing some of that production in-house with our own foundry making the castings and machining it.
And that's how we get from an 800 per week schedule to 1 200 per week schedule.
And then we think we're okay.
Once we get to that 1 200 per week we think we're okay with kind of being able to sell what our demand would be.
But right now we're restricted on that to the number of engines we can make.
LLC</strong> And I guess the spirit of the question is understanding the big bore is going up in production while you're not going to name the components that you're seeing the constraints in are you looking at 4-month lead time for those constraints to be resolved? Well no.
I think on the engine side the biggest challenge is what I said there is the castings and machining on that and that we've got under control.
So I would say that's going to clean up here in the next couple of months.
But the other suppliers in trucks especially in trucks their visibility is maybe a couple of months.
They're going to be able to react to this by the end of the year and give us what we need.
I'm convinced the industry will be able to do that.
Do you have anything to add to that? I think Andy by the -- most of the suppliers that are having challenges here with our Tier 2s and such we expect a lot of breakthrough by the end of the calendar year.
As Dan said we're probably in better shape on the engine side than any of our competitors right now primarily because of the actions that we've taken to put casting and machining capacity in place of our own rather than relying on third parties to be able to do that.
Let me just add to it.
I think one of the benefits and we've said part of our strategy is controlling our own destiny.
Well can you imagine if we were buying someone else's engine what we'd be talking about on this call? We'd be allocating the product.
This way -- the most important part of the vehicle is the engine and we have control over it on the performance side and control over it on the delivery side.
So it's clearly a part of our overall strategy.
LLC</strong> Okay.
Then within the revised fiscal '11 guidance what is -- could you further detail what's driving that $100 million corporate expense reduction discussed on Slide 18? [indiscernible] not as corporate expense but there's 2 elements of it.
I mean the -- our financial services show up in corporate expenses.
So you're seeing a very good performance out of Navistar Financial and we'll have a good year there.
Dan highlighted a couple of the elements.
As we produce segment profit we accumulate annual incentive comp for our executives.
When that number goes down we adjust the AI.
But then we've also taken action to reduce our corporate costs throughout the year to bring down other elements across all the elements of our corporate level to keep our guidance in the range.
LLC</strong> Okay.
A.J.
and then a couple I guess longer-term questions.
On the curtailment and termination charges on the post-retirement that you took this quarter for the plants shutdowns is there any benefit on a post-retirement and expense annual run rate? Not of any real significance because the people don't -- the Workhorse chassis restructuring those people really weren't covered by those benefits and the Canadian benefits are all funded separately.
So there's a marginal improvement but not one of significance.
It's all captured in the annual savings that we highlighted there.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And then I guess a quick question for Eric.
The South American Engine business is the industry down there able to stockpile engines and should we expect any drop-off in the first half of calendar '12 due to the emissions changeover? The laws are different in Brazil and you have to sell any 2011 engine by March of 2012.
So the ability to stockpile or to hold engines is somewhat limited.
We're seeing our different customers are acting in different ways.
General Motors is actually not -- has seen slower fourth quarter sales of some of their engines in anticipation of a stronger first quarter and others are going the other way.
So we don't see a significant pre-buy impact in Brazil.
We think that will be a fairly smooth transition between fourth quarter and first quarter in the -- relative to the calendar year.
We'll go next to Patrick Nolan with Deutsche Bank.
A couple of follow-up questions.
Just first on the dealer orders could you explain is there any difference in the cancellation penalties between a dealer order and an order for one of the large fleets? In other words would the dealers get a larger penalty either in future allocations or something like that? Or that why they would not want to put an order in place just to lock in supply now? Jack? I don't know that -- we personally haven't had any of that fortunately to deal with and I don't know.
They're all case specific.
I'm sure Jack any...
I mean I think the -- first off we're not seeing cancellations of any meaningful sense as a result of what's going on in the economy.
In terms of the dealers ordering as dealers see their business coming back as they have confidence in the economy and their customers have confidence in the economy we'll see more dealer orders.
The element of cancellation I don't see that playing into any decision-making on placing orders these days.
And just on the Military business the foreign Military sales approximately of the $1.9 billion this year what will foreign Military sales be? I don't have that breakout right now.
We can get it to you.
It's not that significant.
Got it.
And just a last one Dan on the supplier issues.
Is it fair to say that at least to date it's mainly been a supply issue and not a component cost issue? In other words are you seeing the suppliers increase their prices along with ratcheting up their supply to you? Well here's a -- let's try to define the issue here.
It's really -- it's our suppliers' suppliers that would be hard for industry people manufacturers like ourselves or others to kind of understand that until you get -- until it happens.
And so when their suppliers get stressed they could come to them and say "Hey I need an investment or I need more money." And of course they come to us and say "Hey can you collect some of that." And we deal with those on a case-by-case instance but it's not a big number.
I would say this that freight charges to get those in on an expedited basis that's somewhat significant.
And for us running it off-line.
I think for everyone in the industry when you don't run it on the assembly line there's a lot of extra cost that goes into putting that vehicle together.
And that's what we're better at right now and our production process today we're better off today with that clean build than we were just 6 weeks ago.
That's where the real money is.
It's not so much that the supplier is asking for more money other than the freight part of it.
Got it.
And do you think your line of sight into those Tier 2 and Tier 3 suppliers has improved? I mean at least your preliminary guidance is still calling for industry growth again next year but with the economic backdrop some on these Tier 2s and Tier 3s may be a little bit more cautious about putting capacity in place.
Well I think that was the case to start the year out especially when you think about what some of those suppliers just came off of.
They were squeezing trying to survive.
And then all of a sudden this big order change comes into them and they can't adapt.
And so I think that's past us now.
We try to get into the second tier of our supply base to understand that especially the major ones.
And I think we've got it resolved now.
So I -- and I would expect this will clear its way through over the next 2 or 3 months and the industry will be fine.
We'll take our next question from Tim Denoyer with Wolfe Trahan.
I'd like to ask a couple of additional questions on Latin America if I could.
Can you give a little bit more color on which markets with the volumes that you've talked about with the 10 000 to 11 500 this year which markets are those going to? Is any of that Brazil? And in terms of production is that coming all from essentially Escobedo I would guess? And can you also address sort of the implication that that's sort of reducing the share of MaxxForce engines in favor of Cummins? Well let me take it one by one.
First none of its Brazil.
We do have an addition to that though.
I think we'll probably sell somewhere around a 1 000.
We just started up Brazil here in the last month or 2 and immediately we're going to sell 1 000 this year and they're going to be Class 8s.
So that's all the products that we have out in Brazil right now.
In Latin America if you'll look there's some photos in there of the products that we have and that goes from Class 8s to severe service.
We've been very strong in severe service in Latin America to DuraStar.
So it's a full lineup of product more so in Latin America.
Some of those products use the Cummins engine.
So I don't know that it's any different than what our plan was and the reason for that was just the emissions levels in those countries are different.
They're made in Escobedo.
All those vehicles are made in Escobedo and shipped into Latin America.
That's the best for costs and the best for tariffs.
Okay.
But the 1 000 in Brazil are those essentially knockdowns that are being built in Brazil? Yes they're made in -- we've got a contractor there that we work with at least for now until we build that business up stronger but they're assembled in Brazil.
The 60% local content.
60% local.
You heard Dee said there's -- we have to have the content in order to avoid the tariffs.
And just lastly to clarify these are all separate from the NC2 right? Brazil is in NC2s.
Brazil is included in NC2 and Latin America at least for now is not.
Okay great.
And then just one last question [indiscernible].
Can you give an update on EGNR? And given that Amminex just started production at its new plant this month? Yes EGR -- EGNR is a technology that -- it's an after-treatment technology that we have developed with Amminex for potential use for us and for sale in the rest of the world and that progress is being made on that.
There isn't a timetable for when we would use it but you could foresee us especially outside of North America where the quality of fuel kind of prevents us from using -- until that's improved the quality of fuel prevents us from having a strict EGNR answer at U.S.
emissions standards.
So that's a potential answer for us in those markets and maybe even some in the United States.
But the bigger I think opportunity for us is who else might buy that.
We'll go next to Brian Sponheimer with Gabelli &amp; Company.
Inc.</strong> Just a couple quick questions here.
Given the supplier constraints right now do you see some seasonality flattening out in the business where maybe we can look at your first quarter next year as being a little bit stronger than it typically is? Well at eye level it would be stronger than 2011 yes for sure.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
And just if I'm thinking about the weakness in the supply base being that of a Tier 2 and potentially Tier 3 issue what gives you the confidence that let's say in a -- let's say we wake up on Friday and there's some confidence in the economy and order rates continue to increase that the supplier constraints won't continuously pop up as volume ramps? The first thing Brian I'm going to do with that is I'm going to go out and have a drink.
We're going to celebrate.
And the second thing we're going to do is -- we've already gotten out in front and just in case that happens.
So we kind of know where everyone is on that and what it would take.
Now the issue gets to be when do you want them to turn on in an investment if they need an investment in the second tier? And so that's why we have to keep track of that so we can give them enough lead time to react to that.
So I would say that would take us maybe -- I'm going to ask Jack here -- 3 4 months.
Sure.
If it's anything of significance beyond the rate that we're at which is an industry of 290 000 if it gets to 325 000 it's going to take us a little time 3 or 4 months for the supply base to react to that.
Inc.</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then just one more kind of bigger picture.
You've done a lot of heavy lifting over the last 12 months whether it be facility integration shutting plants Chatham obviously.
If you were -- if you had the ability to snap your fingers and do one more thing tomorrow what's left? What would it be and what could we potentially as we're thinking about 2012 2013 see? What will we see as far as major changes in the business? Well 2 things.
We've got to make this global.
We've got to make that work now.
We've got the product in place.
The distribution is 75% in place.
We got to capitalize on that next year.
I think the other thing Brian that we still -- is a little bit unsettling is Mexico.
And while we've been fine with that we have a great place there the political environment there worries us.
So we have the ability to move production around.
That's the neatness of our strategy here is but we're going to be thinking through that.
We've got a lot of product that's made in Mexico today.
And I can say the quality is fantastic the plant is as good as we've got but the political environment worries us still.
So we'll have to keep thinking about that as we go forward.
We'll take our next question from David Leiker with Robert W.
Baird.
This is Joe Vruwink on the line with -- for David.
I just want to try to get a sense of what's your underlying truck profitability is.
And I know this is a very nuanced item but if I look last quarter and you did around a 4% manufacturing profit margin; I look this quarter you had a little less Military business and I'm wondering if maybe your customer mix stayed the same with fleets more in the mix than dealers.
But is this still essentially a 4% to 5% type margin business and it was just supplier issues that kind of brought it down to the 2% level this quarter? Well I think the end of that probably is correct that we were certainly stressed by the extra cost related to the supplier constraints.
But what we've said Joe is that all of our businesses need to make 10%.
We got a plan in place.
When the industry is at -- Heather I'm thinking 330 000 or 340 000 that the trucking industry would be at 330 000 or 340 000 industry that our Truck business in North America would be at that 10% level.
We're not at that point yet but we can say we've got a clear path to anything less than that and that's what we keep working on.
But I think it's been stressed in the third quarter.
You'll see an improvement in the fourth quarter clearly on the Truck business side as well.
Okay that's helpful.
But you can see -- you can get margin better in the fourth quarter probably in all the businesses.
Okay great.
As I look at the net corporate expense item and that moving down by about $100 million I understand that financial services should be pretty strong and that contributes to that.
And then am I -- I don't know if I'm understanding this correctly but with the incentive comp that you accrue given the profit at your segments can I read in that maybe Engine is a little below plan not hitting that $100 million target and so you're going to accrue less incentive comp in that segment and that kind of helps move that corporate expense item lower? Yes Eric is over here.
He's worrying about this conversation.
That is how it works.
That's why he's hustling to try to get it back to the number that's his commitment for the year.
But what we said on that was he is likely going to be -- miss his target of 90-ish because of the prior year warranty that we had in the second quarter.
But that's his goal to keep going after that number and we think he'll get close to it but it won't get all the way there.
Okay good.
And then just one last one for me.
I understand that the cash taxes are going to be lower.
A.J.
I'm wondering what the kind of tax rate might look like on the P&amp;L though? We'll use approximately a 30% GAAP tax rate but our -- but it's important to remember that our cash taxes will continue to be in the 10% to 12% range just like they were this year.
So cash flow was unchanged.
We'll take our next question from J.
B.
Groh with D.A.
Davidson.
I just had a couple of follow-ups on the charges.
It looks like the Chatham the Monaco total amounts are a little smaller than the original press release.
Can you kind of square that up in terms of what changed? The impairment and Workhorse in Monaco came in -- once we did a fair value analysis -- when we did the press release we didn't have all the final information.
So once we did a fair value of all the assets and the potential of the business that impairment came in a little bit lower than we expected.
Okay.
So the difference is just accounting not opportunity? No it's just accounting.
Here's what I would say.
We do have some that is still going to trickle in too..
Okay.
Not all -- I think Dan's point is not all the costs are in the third quarter.
Right right.
That's understood.
It looks like you've got like 19 -- roughly 20 to 70 remaining that's in Q4 and maybe into 2012 as you said correct? That's correct.
Okay.
And then I just want to talk -- maybe you could address sort of the seasonality.
I mean obviously this year highly back-end loaded.
I guess part of that's Military.
But looking into 2012 is there any expectation at this point whether it would be a little bit smoother on a quarter-to-quarter basis? Or is that just sort of the dynamics of your business that you've got always sort of a back-end loaded figure? Yes barring any major change in the economy we are back-end loaded.
And there's less -- there are downtime in the first quarter with Christmas and Thanksgiving.
There are less operating days.
It's seasonal for our customers as well.
So we're going to be -- unless there's something -- one year we had a Military business that was strong in the first quarter and weaker in the end of the year.
But other than those things I think we're going to see first part of the year is lower than the back part.
We're going to be back-end loaded.
And ladies and gentlemen that is all the time that we have for questions.
I'd like to turn the conference back over to our speakers for any additional or closing comments.
Okay.
I just want to thank everybody for today and your participation.
I also have 2 questions that I have outstanding that I want to give the answers onto now in the webcast.
The first is what were the GDP assumptions in 2012? And that is 2.4%.
So that's the GDP assumption in our 2012 industry standard.
The other thing too is we're still assuming that replacement demand is the major factor going into 2012.
The other open item was Military.
How much of the Military revenue in 2011 is foreign Military sales? And that is -- we anticipate Military sales having about 12% foreign revenue sources for this year.
So with that if you have any questions please call myself and Randy Diaz for follow up and we'll get back to you as quickly as we can.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen that does conclude today's conference call.
We'd like to thank you all for your participation.
Good morning and welcome everyone to the Navistar International Corporation Fourth Quarter Earnings Release.
Today's call is being recorded.
For opening remarks and introductions I would like to turn the program over to the Vice President of Investor Relations Heather Kos.
Ms.
Kos please go ahead.
Happy holidays everyone and thank you for joining us today for our fourth quarter earnings call.
Before we begin I'd like to cover a few items.
A copy of this morning's press release and the presentation slides that we'll be using today have been posted on our Investor Relations website for your reference.
The financial results presented here are on a GAAP basis and in some cases on a non-GAAP basis.
The non-GAAP financial measures discussed in this call are reconciled to the U.S.
GAAP equivalent as part of the appendix in the slide deck.
Finally today's presentation includes some forward-looking statements about our expectations for future performance.
Actual results could differ materially from those suggested by our comments made here.
For additional information concerning factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected in today's presentation please refer to our most recent reports on Form 10-K and 10-Q and our other SEC filings.
We would also refer you to the forward-looking statements and other cautionary note disclaimers presented in today's material for more information on this subject.
And now I'll turn the call over to Dan Ustian Chairman CEO and President.
Yes good morning.
Today's agenda if you can follow us on the slides Slide 4 we'll talk about the results for 2011 including the fourth quarter our progress to our long-term strategy and then A.J.
will talk about the balance sheet and also what you might expect to see us -- see from us on the Analyst Day February 1.
So with that Slide 5 shows the results for the year and how it compares to prior years and how it compares to the guidance that we had put out there.
And you can tell from this we did have a very strong quarter in terms of our revenue and in terms of our cost structure.
And our margins were above 10% for the quarter and our EPS was $3.37.
If you go into it a little bit the operational side it's not that we didn't have supplier constraints but most of them were cleared up.
There was one lasting and it's still with us now and it's in the area of casting.
And now we're talking about not just the casting itself but the machining side of that casting that we continue to have to work on.
And the foundry industry has lost its capacity for this type of casting now for several years and we knew this was going to happen.
We've got to try to get our arms around it.
And middle of the year you saw that we were able to bring our foundry back at a competitive cost structure and that's now in place and it's running.
We converted it to compacted graphite which was a gray iron foundry.
And that's running.
The next level of that is now the machining part of that so that we can get our cost down.
And so that's still going on.
It'll be another -- it'll probably be end of February before we get that all in place.
So the first quarter will be impacted somewhat by that constraint.
But other than that I think the industry and particularly us we should be more fluid in terms of our supply base and able to meet the demand that's out there with that one exception.
The other part is related to some below-the-line items.
We had an OPEB ruling late in the quarter on our post-retirement liability that will affect us -- affected us by $9 million in the quarter and I'll talk some more about that later.
But the ruling came on in the courtroom that we will have and we've already appealed we're going to have to find an answer for this.
But that affected us by $9 million in the quarter.
And then our tax rate is somewhat complex.
We have a VA that went back on the books earlier in the year.
We also changed our agreement on our NC2 structure that impacted our taxes.
And the rate actually ended up to be 15% versus our guidance of 10%.
And so if you adjust that back to the 10% we'd have been $0.30 a share higher in our EPS.
I think the important thing of that is that as we go forward we're going to -- because of the VA going back on the books our taxes from a GAAP basis will be in the range of 25% to 30%.
Again we'll talk about that at our February Analyst Day.
But the cash part of that will remain low probably in the area of 10%.
So we're going to have a difference here in cash and GAAP.
And we'll talk some more about that as I said on Analyst Day.
But a strong quarter and a strong year.
And let's shift to revenue now on Slide 6.
And within this year we improved by close to $2 billion.
And the areas that we improved now were in the commercial truck business and diesel engine business from North America; we went up by about $800 million as reflected on Slide 6.
We went up -- as part of our global strategy went up by $1.2 billion in the rest of the world.
So it's right in the same spot that our strategy is going to continue to progress on going forward.
If you look at the right-hand side of the chart the diversification of our businesses now I know the trucking industry gets a lot of discussion about heavy trucks.
But you can see for us it's just part of our business it's 20-some percent of our business.
You can see we're pretty well covered here on all aspects of the commercial trucking business and throughout the world.
It's kind of nice diverse basis as we go forward keeping in mind that the rest of that world part will continue to grow and become more prominent for us.
On Slide 7 this highlights the segment profit that we had.
And you could see from this Q4 was $455 million versus the prior year substantial.
And our segment profit was above 10% equating to $3.37 a share.
A couple points on the right-hand bottom side of this chart it shows the military revenue was $800 million a little bit higher than last year.
And product development was $115 million somewhat down from the first 3 quarters of this year but at $115 million rate.
In Q4 on Slide 8 now the operational results showing chargeouts.
I think these are self-explanatory.
And anticipated chargeouts in every business area increased.
One thing of significance I do believe if you do look at the bottom left-hand corner our revenue grew by $1 billion from year-to-year in the quarter.
So $3.3 billion last year $4.3 billion this year.
And it's got a nice spread on where that's coming from.
The military was up $200 million and the rest of the world was up $200 million.
And the rest of it is in the U.S.
and Canadian marketplace.
So it's a nice varied increase by business.
Pretty proportional to our overall business every area grew.
On Slide 9 you can see our market share.
This is pretty much what we expected.
I do want to highlight on this call the school bus came out at 48% a little higher in the quarter.
And the reason for this being down is we've chosen not to be in the natural gas business at least to this point.
The marketplace is charging about $40 000 increment to have natural gas and it's government supported.
And we feel the investment it would take for us at this point doesn't support that increase on a commercial basis long term.
So it's got the government support so far; where will it go in the future? And the benefits are not there for it.
That's different than natural gas and medium truck and perhaps even on the heavy truck side and we are investing in that and we have products in that arena.
But on school bus we're going to hold off on that.
It has forced us to suffer a little bit on our share and obviously on our earnings because that's a strong business for us.
But we're going to hold to that for now.
We're not going to invest in that at least for a period of time in here and watch it.
But I see us growing in the school bus industry without that anyway going into 2012.
And on Slide 10 it shows where we think we're going to grow and which products and which markets we're going to grow in Class 8.
As you know and we've said in the past these are markets that we have just started to get into at the end of 2011.
Of particular note is my favorite the LoneStar 13-liter 500-horsepower.
In my mind there's no product like it.
That was just launched and we'll have that in the marketplace in 2012.
But these are the areas in Class 8 that we will grow into 2012.
Slide 11 you might remember those that have followed us this industry was predominantly 15-liter.
And we invested at our core Class 8 engine in the 13-liter.
And we have changed this industry.
I don't think there's any question.
You can see from this chart now more than half of the volume is 13-liter.
It's going to continue to grow we believe.
Especially we're going to help it grow.
But we have been the leaders in this.
There are some distinct advantages to the product on a 13-liter versus a larger bore heavier 15-liter.
And this industry is no question converting and will continue to.
On Slide 12 the global revenue of $3 billion tried to depict where it comes from.
And certainly a big success for us has been in Latin America.
And part of that is because we have strong distributors there in Latin America.
The second part of it is we put new products there.
So during 2012 the early part of 2012 TranStar WorkStar ProStar all got launched.
And their impact in that market has allowed us to be #1 in that market from a relatively small position before we launched those products great success story for us there.
If you look at the middle bar on here you can see overall -- and mostly this other increase is in India.
There's some South Africa and Australia in here but mostly it's in India.
And you can see that we've grown by a total of 10 000 units and we expect to grow further.
On the right side is a depiction of our outside of North America diesel Engine business.
And that has grown to be $1.6 billion that we ship to customers outside of North America.
Now the bars are what we ship from South America and there's another number on top of this that's not displayed here for North America.
But the total of those that we ship equates to $1.6 billion which is a record for us.
And that will also continue to grow.
On the military side we believe we have a sustainable business.
In 2011 we supported that again.
$2 billion of revenue.
You can see from the pictures here where the revenue goes.
We believe this is sustainable.
Obviously there's some budget cuts going on right now that might put a little stress on 2012 and A.J.
will talk about that a little later.
But we do have a sustainable strong business in the military of at least $1.5 billion to $2 billion and with very little investment on our part.
On the Parts side this is really part of our integration strategy so when we talk about doing our own engine the implications of that affect our truck.
But just as importantly they affect our Parts business which has good margins on it.
And you can see we have targeted 10% growth every year.
And 2011 was another year that we achieved that and we expect this to continue.
So on Slide 15 this is something we showed at the last Analyst Day so a year ago.
On the left side is what we said and on the right side is where we ended up and I won't go through those.
But you can see we achieved virtually all of these what we set out to do.
But I do want to highlight a couple that are in yellow and that's the global business.
Because on the global business remember before 2011 it was an investment period.
So we were investing and our expenses were higher than our revenue and our income.
So that was investment.
In 2011 we said that would balance out.
So we're still investing but we would be able to make some money on it so we would be at a breakeven.
And that's where we ended up.
On the Engine side it's a similar thing.
We're building to profitability in the Engine business.
And in the first 6 months of the year we were about at a breakeven.
So this profitability that you see here is all back-end loaded.
And when we see you on the Analyst Day we'll show you how this is going to continue into 2012 and beyond.
And then finally the OPEB ruling.
We have a liability on OPEB that's now been increased because of 3 things: number one there's a ruling the judge gave on how we interpret what we owe going forward; the number two is what people often refer to as Obamacares; and the third one is just the interest rate on the funds that we have out there.
So that will increase going into 2012.
And we've got to find some answers to this and we will definitely find answers to it.
But from an accounting standpoint we're going to have to put this on the books.
And we'll talk some more about how we're going to address that again on the Analyst Day.
So A.J.
if you can take over.
Yes thanks Dan.
Today I'd like to cover where we landed the year on our manufacturing cash step back and take a look at some of the progress we made against our strategic plan put 2011 in context and then establish a framework to better understand 2012.
So on Page 17 let's start with manufacturing cash.
We ended the year at just under $1.2 billion of cash and that's what we expected to be.
Cash flow for the quarter was driven by strong EBITDA performance offset by capital expenditures and share repurchases.
As you can see we completed $125 million of share repurchases within 2011.
We expect to complete the remainder of our $175 million program in 2012.
Both the parent company and NFC completed significant refinancings within the fourth quarter.
I think it's important to note that these deals have allowed us to expand our liquidity lower our borrowing costs and extend our maturities.
2011 was a successful year because with strong earnings we were able to maintain adequate liquidity which gave us good access to capital markets and allowed us to stabilize our capital structure going forward.
But most importantly it's allowed us to continue to invest in our strategy and position us well for a market recovery.
When you look at Page 18 it brings us back to our strategy which is all built around the 3 pillars: great products competitive costs and profitable growth.
I think it's worth taking a moment to assess some of the progress we've made against these initiatives in 2011.
Let's start with products.
Page 19 highlights the results of expanding our product offering.
What is important here is that with better products we expand our market reach we improve the value that we deliver to our customers and we position ourselves for opportunities to grow both domestically and globally.
Next is cost.
Again the benefits of profits across the cycle is that it allows us to be strategic in our efforts to reduce cost.
As you can see we transitioned our manufacturing footprint to locations that allow for more flexibility and lower cost.
These actions have allowed us to reduce our manufacturing breakeven point and significantly improve our logistics cost.
In the areas of product development clearly we've expanded the scope of our work.
What I mean by this is we have more products with more engines and we compete in more markets.
But through the thinking of integration we've been able to control our costs.
If you look at Page 21 this is the mantra that we use to keep us focused on integration.
We call this 1-2-3.
What this means is we leverage 1 common chassis across multiple product lines and multiple markets.
Next we find ways to leverage 2 cab designs to meet the needs of the market.
Then we leverage our 3 engine families across these products.
1-2-3 streamlines our thinking and keeps us focused on cost and keeps our costs in line.
Finally by consolidating our product development group into 1 location and 1 organization we can improve the efficiency of our processes and the value of our products.
Leveraging our assets is another principle of our strategy when we first used this thinking to transform our bus business.
Next we used this thinking to enter the military business.
And as we all know this has been both a financial and a strategic success for us.
Financially we've created a business with very little investment.
Strategically we've changed the thinking around military vehicles and positioned ourselves for continued success.
Turning to Page 23 we can all anticipate that defense-related spending will be challenged in 2012.
But when we step back from this we can see a potential opportunity if not in 2012 then beyond.
Our thinking on the Saratoga is to change the game.
Here again we've created a new opportunity by leveraging what we had and changing the dynamics of the marketplace.
So whether we're looking at manufacturing costs product development or growth opportunities we've been successful at doing this with very limited investment while improving our results.
Let's take a look at a couple of additional growth opportunities built into our strategy.
Another success for us has been our Parts business.
As we focused on this element of our business model we've really discovered the value of our products whether that be trucks engines or even the Military business can be unlocked through the integrated approach to aftermarket service and support.
As our product offering expands and we more fully integrate around our engines the potential of our Parts business will grow.
Our next growth opportunity is our global business.
In 2011 our global revenue exceeded $3 billion.
When you step back and you look at the products that we have the products we can develop and then couple these products with the distribution points that we've added you can see we're laying the groundwork for a great business in the future.
On Page 26 we've illustrated the results of our strategy thus far.
The bars on this chart represent manufacturing segment profit.
The line plots the industry demand over the past 9 years.
For me the takeaway on this chart is that in 2011 we made $900 million more segment profit than we did in 2003 at the same volume.
Again in 2011 we made more segment profit at the cycle low point than we did in 2006 at the cycle peak.
Through 2011 I think it's clear to see that the strategy has created positive results.
So now let's turn our attention and take a look at 2012.
It all starts with revenue.
We all expect the North American market to expand.
Right now the range is fairly broad but we can agree that the market will expand in 2012.
Our presence in global markets will improve.
Our products will gain better acceptance and our distribution points will grow.
While I like our strategy in defense and I believe we're positioned for the long-term success in this area we expect defense spending will drop in 2012 and this will put our revenue closer to the low end of our range.
So given these dynamics what are we doing to position ourselves for success in 2012? At a high level our core business both truck and engine are focused on margin improvement and the actions necessary to achieve these objectives.
Our Parts business will continue to grow and our global business will be more profitable in 2012.
As Dan said earlier health care costs will be higher in 2012 and we'll have to deal with this.
NFC had a great year in 2011 but as their business model matures their earnings will return to a more normal level.
And finally in 2012 it's important to remember that our cash taxes will again be low.
But for GAAP purposes we'll have to raise our tax rate.
As Dan said that'll be in the 25% to 30% range.
Clearly there are a lot of moving parts for 2012 and we will have to deal with the seasonality of our earnings and take into consideration the impact of health care on our costs.
On February 1 we'd like to take the time to put specifics around our plans and objectives.
We invite you to come to Chicago and visit our new product development center.
Here you will see firsthand the thinking that goes into our products the value of integrating not only our products but our people.
At this event we'll provide insights into our strategies and provide specifics on our guidance for 2012.
And we welcome you to attend.
Dan unless you have anything to add I think we're ready for questions.
Good job A.
J.
Thanks.
Operator we're ready for questions.
[Operator Instructions] We'll hear first from Jerry Revich with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Dan can you talk about which markets outside of India you expect to drive growth in your global business next year? And can you comment on how much you can reduce the cost structure of the NC2 business now that you're consolidating operations? I think the structure of NC2 we have already kind of taken out the costs related to supporting that JV.
But our growths really are in every area on the global side.
First of all of course there's Latin America we expect to grow a little bit.
Remember we launched products there during the year so our real presence there is even stronger than our results showed.
This was very much back-end loaded and that'll continue.
We're into South America next year small amounts of growth in South Africa and Australia.
And then India we've really got to make some headway next year in India.
And so our focal point probably next year will be South America and India because we've established ourselves in some of the other areas.
Research Division</strong> And Dan on the NC2 business specifically the NC2 business lost about $80 million this year.
Does that swing close to breakeven next year with the cost cuts you've implemented? The structure is different.
So I don't know how that accounting is going to be on that.
Yes we'll consolidate the impacts of NC2 into our normal income statement and Truck segment profit.
But we'll -- NC2 will continue to grow.
We're still in the phase of launching new products and growing in those markets.
No but Jerry I think -- keep it -- let's clarify.
So this year again that's product development that was without a lot of revenue.
So now next year product -- we still have 1 or 2 products left like a Class 8 vehicle global Class 8 vehicle.
We're still going to have to do that and they'll be doing some work with Caterpillar for particular brands of vehicles.
But they didn't have any revenue.
Now this year next year 2012 we'll get some revenue to balance that out.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And if Archie's on the line I'm wondering if you can provide an update on timing expectations of the rolling chassis and MRAP record orders and also comment on any foreign military programs that are close to purchase decisions at this point? Rolling chassis is pretty much at our doorstep.
We have to wait for a few more I's to be dotted and T's to be crossed but it's coming home.
And as far as foreign stuff that we're doing we're doing quite a bit of work in Canada right now as well as Saudi Arabia.
So there's a little distant there.
We're not sure how that's going to impact this year but we're doing some more stuff in -- with the U.K.
as well.
But as far as records go it's a wait-and-see.
There's money in the budget right now for some more MRAPs.
About $3.2 billion got approved but I think it's more towards sustainment.
But there is money for vehicles.
Now that card's not been dealt yet as far as how that will roll out and what the need is.
That's the crystal ball that's a little bit fuzzy right now.
But rolling chassis is pretty much home.
We'll go next to Andy Casey with Wells Fargo Securities.
LLC Research Division</strong> First on the post-retirement expense you talked about $200 million expected for 2012.
What was the comparable expense in 2011? I think it's $180 million Andy.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then when you look back at 2011 can you help us quantify the supply chain issue impact on profitability? You mean for the whole year? LLC Research Division</strong> Yes.
There are direct things Andy and then there's indirect.
And the indirect probably is a lot more than the direct because you're not running your lines properly and you're taking things offline and sometimes that has a quality impact.
So there's plenty of opportunities to get better in that arena because of the supply constraints that are out there.
As I mentioned we still have one big one left and that's castings and the complete castings for our engine.
And so it's going to be through the first quarter before we get rid of all of those.
But efficiency is a lot better as we're running today but I couldn't put a number on it.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then in terms of the domestic Class 8 market the share kind of hovered in the high teens.
Given what you're talking about and then some supply chain constraints at some of your competitors do you expect the share to kind of creep up as you're going into Q2 and beyond? Yes I think we're still going to be limited in the first quarter.
These are Class -- there are 13-liter engine constraints.
So we're going to be limited in the first quarter on what we can sell.
So I suspect it'll be second or third quarter before we can dig out of that.
I can't tell you that I'm close enough now on the rest of the industry but I know they're going to have similar kind of challenges on castings as well.
But the scope of that I don't know.
LLC Research Division</strong> And just to be clear Dan that casting issue you make some of your own internally.
Is that right? Well the entire country got out of making blocks and heads and so we've relied on Mexico and Brazil.
We wanted to keep our foundry open.
And we couldnt get an agreement that made us competitive so we closed it.
And then fortunately we got back together with UAW and we put together a package that allows us to be competitive in making these castings.
And we converted to compacted graphite as well but that took us through the end of last year.
Now we have to bring in the machining into our country here too what's also done in Brazil.
Now we're going to do it here.
So that's just taking us some time to do that but we are -- we've got out in front of it a bit but not totally.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I'll take a stab at it.
You've got a lot of puts and takes.
And without providing explicit guidance should we be looking at flat to up earnings? Or is there more headwinds there that I currently perceive? No.
We're not prepared to talk about that today.
The only thing I'd say is we're going to be back-end loaded again.
I mean the way we're structured as a company is the first part of the year the first quarter of the year all the holidays of Thanksgiving Christmas and now there's Martin Luther King Day.
So I think there's like 10 days that we're not operating.
So there's no revenue coming in for that.
And then Brazil also Brazil is down.
I mean the country's production is down.
Our customers are also down for the month of December so again no revenue and expense.
So we're always going to have this challenge in the first quarter and be back-end loaded.
So you can expect that again next year.
But as far as our guidance we're not prepared other than to say we're going to continue on our path of our strategy.
As this volume goes up we're going up with it.
And as A.J.
pointed out defense probably is going to be a little lower next year than this year.
So we've got to overcome that.
We'll take our next question from David Leiker with Robert W.
Baird.
Research Division</strong> As you look in your Latin American markets where -- can you sort of rank for us what the most important countries are for you and what your outlooks are for those markets? Yes.
Some people look at it in terms of how large the market is.
That's certainly one factor.
But the other part is can you make any money on it? And so the 2 that really jump out at us is we can make money in Latin America and we can make money in Brazil.
And while they're both reasonable markets I think the more important thing is can we have a competitive product out there that allows us and our dealers to make money? And so we're concentrating on those 2 areas.
Research Division</strong> And in terms of Latin America you're talking more Central America regions outside of Mexico or are you including Mexico in there? No I'm not including Mexico in there.
Latin America would be Colombia all the Andean countries.
And then now next year we're going to get into South America Brazil more specifically.
Research Division</strong> On the Truck side? On the Truck side right.
We're already there of course on the Engine side very strong there on the Engine side.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then in your guidance on Page 27 you talk about normalized earnings at NFC.
What would you consider looking back in time would be a normalized market scenario for you? Yes when we talked about that last year David we kind of put a range in that in the $60 million to $70 million.
And remember this year we still have retail that we're making money on.
And we've got the balances on that retail notes.
And now they're starting to go away of course.
So we'll be a wholesale-only finance company and GE will take over all of our retail notes.
So and that works fine for us saves us from investing.
And they've done a better job probably than we can on rates.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just one last item.
As we look out over the next several years here in the North American market as we view this cycle progressing we're back up at normalized volumes to maybe something above normalized volumes with no emission changes on the horizon.
And the economy looks like it's going to muddle along here.
What do you think this cycle looks like? Is it a long steady volumes basically where we are? Or do you think there's upward pressure on that from a peak environment? Well David I think as you've seen here there's a lot of noise out throughout the economy.
And the trucking industry is pretty resilient.
And so it's been growing in spite of all that.
So I would say depending on what happens in the total economy it'll be steady unless the positiveness of the economy shifts and we get away from all the concerns long term about what the economic conditions might be.
It'll grow faster if something there changes.
But other than that based on where the concerns are today it'll be steady.
We'll go next to Mario Gabelli with Gabelli &amp; Company.
Inc.</strong> Dan terrific numbers terrific execution great outlook but I have to go and kind of ask you can you embellish on the comments? Because I'm reading what Jeff Altman wrote and what the other guy that owns 10% of your company wrote.
And I'm trying to figure out what's going on at your thinking on your comments on Oshkosh.
I know I know.
Listen I got to ask.
Well here's kind of where we're at on it.
As you can imagine there are some parts of our 2 companies that parallel each other certainly the military business.
We like our business model better than anybody else's that's out there.
Inc.</strong> We agree with that as shareholders of Navistar.
And the other part is on the commercial business.
We talked earlier about our integrated product.
And an example was buses.
We've got mixers now.
We're going to continue on integrating more of our products.
And Oshkosh is at the back end of that.
They put the bodies on.
So there are some synergies in our 2 companies that if they could be worked on together it might make some sense for us.
But there are some other parts of that business that make no sense for us at all and that's the lift equipment et cetera.
So some collaboration we think might be beneficial for everybody.
Inc.</strong> Well that's terrific.
I'm glad you embellished and obviously we're quite interested in your staying focused on what you're doing because you're doing a great job at it.
We'll move next to Henry Kirn with UBS.
Research Division</strong> How much visibility do you have today to the factors that would take you to the high end or low end of the truck industry forecast? Oh boy.
The trends -- if we look at the trends you'd say 300 is very doable.
But Henry honestly this thing moves so quickly from period to period it's hard for us to say low or high honestly.
I don't know Jack Allen's here with me.
Any other points Jack? Well I think the reason we have such a broad range right now is really just the uncertainty of the economy.
And what we see in Class 8 is primarily replacement-driven demand right now.
And any kind of uptick in the economy we think there can be some growth there.
Clearly on severe service the construction market is still flat as can be and government spending continues to be down.
We don't really expect much improvement in either of those categories for 2012.
And the medium duty market saw some good growth in 2011.
A lot was driven by the leasing companies.
We're counting on a little more of that this year and we'll watch it to see if we get a little more out of that.
And then we'll be at the high end.
Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
And could you talk a little bit about the potential impact of the 15-liter engine on your market share goals going forward? Yes.
Henry if you look at our share for 2011 it was predominantly -- I mean like 98% of it was related to 13-liter.
And we've said on a long-term basis we'll probably have about 5% share from 15-liter.
And so you can see some of the growth just from that very nature of that.
So that's 3% to 4% because of the 15-liter that we did not have coverage on in '11.
But 13-liter for us is going to be the predominant engine.
We've designed it for that market and we've been very successful with it.
We'll take our next question from Ann Duignan with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Can you talk a little bit more about Brazil engines? We know from comments that they're going to lose $170 million in revenue from MAN's vertical integration.
You kind of shared that business with Navistar.
So should we anticipate something similar from your business in Brazil on the engine side in 2012? I think what's going to happen with us is we're going to manufacture.
Instead of designing our own engine we're going to manufacture one that they've designed.
So I don't know that it affects our revenue at all.
It might put a little stress; our margins might change in the short term but our product development goes down.
So in the long-term basis we think those 2 will offset each other.
Maybe in '12 it might be a little lower as we go through this transition.
But all in all it'll take less investment on our side and margins might be just a tiny bit lower as a result of that.
But we're still going to be a strong supplier of those products for MAN.
Research Division</strong> But you'll be assembling their Engine.
Is that correct? Right that's correct.
Yes that's correct.
Research Division</strong> So your revenue should be lower if it's just assembling.
A little bit.
A little bit lower.
A little bit lower right.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
You talked about first half versus back half.
I appreciate the color on that.
If you were to give us percentage first half versus back half for forecasting are we talking kind of 40-60 again? Or are we talking even less than that? Yes I think this will be -- first quarter will be similar because last year's kind of -- I'd say the last 3 quarters are going to be more balanced out.
But we'll provide that to you in February.
But for direction on the first quarter you're going to see the same kind of things that we ran into last year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just back on the Oshkosh wouldn't there be opportunities for you to provide engines to Oshkosh vehicles? Would that not be another synergy? Yes for sure.
I think they use another outside engine.
They used outside chassis as well.
So you're exactly right about that.
Research Division</strong> Because when I sit back and look at the synergies it does to me appear that there will be several quite sizable synergies from a manufacturing standpoint.
You're right about that Ann.
We'll take our next question from Walt Liptak with Barrington Research.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to ask about the truck profit the $287 million.
If I make some assumptions about the military profit it looks like the truck operating profit -- commercial truck really popped.
And I wondered if -- I realize everything is back-end loaded to the fourth quarter.
But as we start looking into next year is there something that changed about the cost structure this quarter versus the last couple of quarters? Can we see more like mid-single-digit commercial truck profitability and then more improvement in the fourth quarter? Maybe explain a little bit about why it popped this quarter.
Yes.
I think we continue to advance on what we categorize as our core business North America trucks and engines.
And that progress will go into 2012 as well.
On the Truck side on the Engine side just kind of reference points here you saw the income growth from breakeven to significant profitability in the second half.
Our cost per engine is down because of volume and because of efficiencies by like $2 000 an Engine from the beginning of last year end of the first quarter so how we close the year out.
So those will continue going into 2012.
So what A.J.
said is that it's likely that our revenue will be down in a business that we have exceeded our 10% margins and that's on the military side.
It will likely be down.
What you're talking about is where we have to pick it up and it's our core business both in truck engine and global growth.
And that's exactly what we'll present to you in February.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Do you think you have a shot at getting to the 10% next year? No we didn't say that.
I didn't say that.
I think -- remember our goal is after everything is in place -- and we don't have everything in place yet.
But we expect as you said Dan as things move on in the fourth quarter we saw a much more efficient manufacturing process in the fourth quarter where we had less excess cost particularly compared to the third quarter.
And we were able to -- we reduced product development spend in the fourth quarter.
So those are a couple of the key drivers of margin improvement.
We'll go next to Andy Kaplowitz with Barclays Capital.
Research Division</strong> A.J.
or Archie maybe could you talk about your conviction level next year? I think A.J.
you had mentioned the bottom end of your military range -- your annual military range for next year.
Could you talk about the conviction level that we could see that kind of revenue? And then obviously military is a very high margin business.
Will there be any pressure on military margins next year as the revenue goes down a bit? This is Archie.
Yes as the military tightens their boot straps up a little bit margins are going to get squeezed.
And they compete in everything which we anticipate.
But we're in a good spot using the commerciality of our business that we take across the board where others can't.
And I think that's what helps us with the sustainment of our business.
They're going to be competing things more so going out.
I mean that's just what's coming out of The Pentagon compete everything which we're okay.
That's fine.
We'll stand tall.
But yes margins are going to get squeezed for sure next year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's fair Archie.
And then if you talk about price versus cost in North American truck market I imagine it is starting to get a little better with cost kind of leveling off here going down a bit as you scale up.
Is that a fair comment? Are you seeing a little bit of a tighter market versus the fleet guys? Or is it still kind of a little soft there? No I think -- here's what you have to consider though in commodities.
When we look at commodities you're looking at it from what happened in a point of time.
And they have been relatively flat maybe a little bit better.
But the impact on us is delayed.
So what we have to deal with now is make sure our pricing is in place that when the full amount of those commodities hit our cost structure that our margins don't suffer.
And that's exactly what we have been able to put in place.
But the cost structure for us actually is going up just a little bit as we feel the impact of commodities that changed 6 months ago because we had agreements and hedges et cetera that really kept us -- our costs lower during that period of time.
So they're going to go up a little bit but our margins should be fine.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And as you look 6 months from now is it kind of a similar situation or maybe price can get ahead of cost at that time as cost stays flat? Or is it kind of -- how do you look at that? Yes that's a hard one to answer because I don't know where commodities is going.
But it's been relatively quiet here for 6 months now.
I'd hate -- I'd be guessing -- to answer that question I'd be guessing.
So I don't know if there's any opportunity on that one.
We'll hear next from Patrick Nolan with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Most of my questions have been answered.
I just want to maybe touch on what you're seeing as far as industry pricing.
We haven't seen much in the way of 2012 price increases announced by most of the trucking companies.
Do you expect to see pricing power next year or is the end of market too weak to be able to push that through next year? Well this is Jack Allen.
Most manufacturers have announced their 2012 pricing and it varies between 2.5% and 3%.
And we're right in that ballpark too.
How that materializes throughout the year will depend on a lot of different factors.
But most manufacturers have been very positive about trying to collect on the lagging commodity cost that Dan just mentioned.
Research Division</strong> When you speak about that lagged commodity cost when you think about your overall component pricing next year a lot of suppliers have been talking about increasing prices.
Do you think that is just reflective of that raw material headwind? Or do you think there's going to be something beyond that as -- that you're going to have to work through next year? Well we really don't expect much more than commodities.
We have long-term agreements with all of our major suppliers.
We work with them on commodity pass-throughs and on efficiency gains.
So there's a lot of transparency and a lot of collaboration.
But we really expect to -- expect this to be commodity-focused on the supply base.
Research Division</strong> And just 2 more near-term questions on Q1.
Were there much in the way of supplier cost headwinds and disruptions in Q1 of next year -- Q1 of last year rather so that would be a year-over-year benefit in Q1 of this year? Really the dynamics of 2011 had a lot of pressure on the back half of the year third and fourth quarter.
So it wasn't that much in the first quarter last year.
Jack I don't remember much.
As the volume ramped up that's when the pressures came on.
Research Division</strong> And then on the military side it looks like you came in a little bit better this quarter.
Are we probably looking at a pretty low military revenue quarter in Q1? Yes.
I'd say we'll be back-end loaded again on military.
We'll hear next from Robert Wertheimer with Vertical Research Partners.
This is Joe O'Dea actually on Rob's team.
So just a question on the 13-liter and certification just progress within that process and any communication between you and the EPA and when we could potentially see any news on certification at 0.2.
So here's where we're at on it.
We are going to submit 4 certifications to the EPA on our big bore engine family mostly the 13-liter first.
This is how it has worked.
If you go back into time remember for those of you that aren't familiar with it what we did is kind of a building block strategy on our emissions.
And our emission strategy is inside the cylinder.
So what we did is beat the standards to earn credit use the credits while we get the technologies maturing.
And we've also said that the first product that would utilize all those credits up would be on our big bore engines and that's kind of where we're at.
So we are prepared now with the advancements in our technology and the strides we've made to mature that point through solution to be able to submit it to the EPA in the very short term.
What we're going to do is we'll be able to show you all of that how on Analyst Day on February 1.
And I think it'll become clearer to you how we're able to do that.
But the integration is a big part of it.
Obviously technology advancements in fuel air and controls is what makes that work for us.
Okay.
And then maybe a follow-up just on sort of pricing environment.
And it looks like your share has held up even across fleet sizes out there.
So as you report strong share even within barge fleets and on down to smaller fleets are you able to keep the savings that you have from the SCR approach? Or do you have to compete on a little bit of discounting? Or are you even getting a premium in some cases because people want to go SCR rather than -- or want to go rather EGR rather than SCR? Yes well here's our strategy on it.
The price is the same.
We compete against everyone that's out there on a product not on a technology.
So as long as our product performs as well or better we can price it not based on cost but based on vehicle.
And that's exactly what we've been able to do.
We'll take our next question from Adam Uhlman with Cleveland Research.
I was wondering if we can follow up just on that last discussion with the emissions credits.
Could you talk about how many credits that you have remaining across the heavy-duty engine line? How far into the year does that get you in the K? There's also some language that [indiscernible] regulatory solution.
Yes we don't go through all that detail for obvious confidential and competitive reasons Adam.
So -- but we'll be able to show you the exactness of how we're going to do that when you come visit us on Analyst Day.
Okay got it.
What exactly is the regulatory solution that you're looking for? It's in-cylinder a combination of fuel air and emissions control so electronic control to get the in-cylinder 0.2 solution.
Okay.
Just changing the subject Dan a little bit.
Within the industry forecast for next year do you have a breakdown on your forecast for medium and then heavy truck industry sales? We can get that to you.
I don't think we have it in the room here but we can provide something on that.
Yes we haven't put it in that level of granularity yet but we'll have all of that for you on Analyst Day.
Okay.
And then A.J.
you had mentioned product development expense was down a bit.
How should we think about that into 2012? Is that an expense that should be down next year? Do we have more programs unrolling? No I think we hold that -- we'll hold that flat year-over-year.
I mean it's part of our overall strategy is that we'll do more work without needing to spend more money as our strategy unfolds with product development.
We'll hear next from Kirk Ludtke with CRT Capital Group.
Research Division</strong> I guess you have another quarter of field results on the 13 liters and I was just curious if you could give us an update as to how they're performing durability-wise.
Durability has been fantastic on this product.
Really the quality of the 13-liter has been outstanding.
If you go back to what we did to get us ready for that we did a lot of work to get ready so we would have quality in the product.
And sometimes that's a risk of cost and now we're going after the cost.
Now that we have a stable product stable design stable manufacturing process and stable supply base we're going to take it to the next step and take some costs out.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So it's exceeding expectations? Absolutely.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
And on Slide 11 this chart that shows the 15-liter and the 13-liter the split where does this level off? I think it's going up some more through the 13-liter and then I don't know what the percent is.
But 5% 10% more and then it'll level off.
Just if you think about the leveling of it somewhat -- it's going to be somewhat because of the offerings that our competitors have out there.
And if you only have a 15-liter to offer and someone liked that brand they're going to buy it.
So it's going to level to some point slightly higher than where it's at today.
But it's not done yet.
Research Division</strong> Yes it looks like it's -- shows no sign of leveling off.
And then just switching topics for a second to OPEB you mentioned that there are things you can do to address the incremental costs here.
And I'm just curious if you have...
Well we've tried.
Unfortunately we've tried some and we haven't made it -- the progress that we had hoped on this one.
But we have to address it.
It's -- we've been after it now for a couple of years.
We've made some strides on it.
And then in the fourth quarter we had a setback on it.
But this is never going to end with us until we solve it.
So for now you're going to see our liabilities go up.
And the expense side of that go with it because we are amortizing it.
But we have to find a way for this.
Research Division</strong> If nothing changes would the OPEB expense be higher in 2013? No it'll be higher in 2012.
But then after that it should stay relatively flat except for economics and things like that.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So 200 is a good run rate for longer-term run rate? Yes.
And it appears that is all the time we have for questions today.
I'll turn the conference back over to our presenters for any additional or closing remarks.
I just want to thank everybody for participating today and we will be available for your follow-up questions.
And lastly happy holiday.
That does conclude today's conference.
Thank you all for your participation.
Good morning everyone and welcome to the Navistar International Corporation First Quarter Earnings Release.
Today's conference is being recorded.
For opening remarks and introductions I would like to turn the program over to Vice President of Investor Relations Heather Kos.
Ms.
Kos please go ahead.
Good morning.
Before we begin I'd like to cover a few items.
A copy of this morning's press release and the presentation slides that we will be using today have been posted on our Investor Relations website for your reference.
The financial results presented here are on a GAAP basis and in some cases on a non-GAAP basis.
The non-GAAP financial measures discussed in the call are reconciled to the U.S.
GAAP equivalent as part of the appendix in the slide deck.
Finally today's presentation includes some forward-looking statements about our expectations for future performance.
Actual results could differ materially from those suggested by our comments made here.
For additional information concerning factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected in today's presentation please refer to our most recent reports on Form 10-K and 10-Q and our other SEC filings.
We would also refer you to the forward-looking statements and other cautionary note disclaimers presented in today's material for more information on the subject.
And now I'll turn it over to Dan Ustian.
A.J.
why don't you start us out with the agenda and talk through the first quarter results please? Good morning.
As you can tell today we're taking a different approach to the call.
Given the significance of the results we're going to get right into the major pieces of the income walk.
I'll walk you through the quarter and then turn it over to Dan to outline for you our plan to bounce back from this quarter and deliver full year earnings in a range that gets us close to $5 per share.
Then I'll come back and update our cash position and discuss more about our focus on margin expansion.
Included in the appendix are all the normal slides that we traditionally use so that you can reference those at your convenience.
So let's get started.
On Page 5 summarized here are the results of the quarter.
In total the loss was $2.08 per share.
We've separated these into 2 columns because as you can tell the impact of the warranty charge can overwhelm the results.
Carving out the warranty and despite several operational issues that we discussed last month segment profit was positive offset by higher health care costs resulting in a loss of $1.02 per share.
As I said the impact of the warranty charge was significant.
We did record an adjustment to our accrual for engine warranty of $112 million of which this is separated into 2 significant buckets.
This is broken out for you on Page 6.
It's important to remember that the accrual is an estimate of future payment.
It's noncash and management actions can positively influence this accrual in the future.
So what many of you may be asking is how did we end up with such a large adjustment? As you may know warranty reserves are intended to be estimates.
We test these estimates at the end of each quarter for any material movement.
We track the actual spending and compare this against projected spending to determine the adequacy of the reserve.
The projected spending is based on frequency of repairs and cost per repair.
What happened in Q1 isn't so much driven by the absolute increase in spending but rather the deviation from the estimate.
It's also important to note that these estimates are built around historical data not anticipated future data.
So let me give you an example particularly as it relates to the 2010 engines.
As we have refined the calibration of these engines and improved their performance this has resulted in an unusually high frequency of repair on a couple of significant components.
While our analysis supports that this is a spike and that this will correct itself in the future the trend cannot be ignored.
Thus we have to acknowledge the higher frequency of repairs in our accrual.
It's important to note that these calibrations have stabilized and we expect the frequency of repair to normalize over time.
Thus we believe there's an opportunity for some of this accrual to be reduced as we move forward.
Also we've taken action to reduce our cost for repair and implemented field actions that we believe will reduce future spending as well but we cannot recognize these opportunities until such time as the data supports the change.
Beyond warranty the first quarter contained several other events that contributed to the loss.
These are summarized on Page 7.
We discussed health care at Analyst Day but the impact to the quarter was $49 million and for the year this is close to $200 million which is approximately $90 million more than 2011.
We discussed our strategy around reopening the Indianapolis foundry.
This has allowed us to alleviate some capacity constraints around castings and to lower our costs.
With that we explained we would have some start-up costs in Q1.
Additionally MWM in Brazil experienced some production interruptions associated with weather issues in Asia.
These issues disrupted the flow of components to a major customer which ultimately impacted the flow of engines to the same customer.
Coupled these issues within engine had a $20-million impact but we expect to overcome these for the full year.
We've already discussed that 2012 will be a year of lower military revenue but equally impactful is the reduction of tactical wheeled vehicles within that revenue mix.
We like what we have with our military business because this is a business that even in down years is capable of generating 10% margin.
Going back to Analyst Day we talked about the start-up status of our businesses in India and Brazil.
These both had an impact in the quarter but we expect that each business will improve as the year progresses.
We did have a minor issue around engine supply for our global products.
Recall we purchased these engines but we believe we have this issue resolved and we should be fine for the full year.
So we've had an eventful quarter.
Some things we knew about; some things we didn't.
With the exception of the warranty adjustment these first quarter events should have a minor impact on our full year objectives.
I'll let Dan take over now and put the remainder of 2012 in context.
Yes.
Thanks A.J.
If you turn over to Slide 8 I think A.J.
identified it properly.
We're going to be a little more granular today about how we get to the objective of somewhere around $5 a share.
So if you look at the bottom of Slide 8 you can see our guidance is $4.25 to $5.25.
I do want to point out that as A.J.
pointed out from last year to this year there are 2 things that are different.
Postretirement has increased by about $100 and the tax rate has increased as well.
The total effect is about $2-a-share difference from a nonoperating basis $2-a-share difference from year-to-year.
So essentially if we didn't have those the $5.25 guidance would be $7.25 on an apples-to-apples basis from last year.
But what we'd like to focus on now are 5 items how we make the $4.25 to $5.25 guidance that we have.
And A.J.
has -- so they're listed on here: warranty volume cost reductions and our global business.
And we'll go through each one of those.
But let me start with just adding one more thing to warranty.
And that is we expect to get a lot of this back.
We'd like to get it all back over time.
But for this year we think the opportunity is to get about 1/2 of it back.
When you look at the cash impact of that in the first quarter it was a small number.
It was $3 million.
So what A.J.
said is the model reacts quickly to that which hopefully also means when we put things in place and we lower this which is what our intentions were to begin with that that will come back to us.
So we believe there's an opportunity to get 1/2 of that back this year and hopefully all of that back over the next couple of years.
So let's turn over now to Slide 9 and talk about U.S.
and Canada charge-outs.
And this is similar numbers if not identical numbers to what we showed on Analyst Day.
You can see a trend in our company is always -- it's back-end loaded in terms of volume.
There are many reasons for it.
Some of it is seasonality for us our customers' operating days.
But you can see the trend here is that Q1 is always the lowest.
Q2 is kind of average and then the back end of the year is higher.
So this would illustrate a normal-type industry and our segment shipments for us.
In the North American side let's talk about margins a little bit.
This is totally for North America at this point.
Our cost reduction program in Q1 and Q2 was -- our program was basically a carryover from cost reductions we had in place as of last year.
In the second half of this year we have over $100 million identified and actions in place to improve our margins on our North American business.
And for those of you that visited with us here at our engineering complex in Lisle you saw some of the ways that we're going to do it through cost reductions on product but also synergies that we have in combining all of our operations into one place.
And that will take place this year yet and we'll get a $100-million benefit from that.
On the engine side big bore diesel in particular in Q1 we were transitioning over to making our own castings.
So what happened in the quarter was a significant number of airfreight went on in the quarter.
And we also started up our foundry to make these castings so we wouldn't have capacity issues with the supplier that was doing that.
And in the quarter it was $15 million to $20 million most of it excess freight but some of that was startup.
That is mostly behind us now.
There's a small amount still left.
But by April all of that is behind us.
And in the last half of the year we'll get the benefits of all that which is close to $1 000 per engine lower in cost on our big bore diesel as we go into the last half of the year.
In South America this is a business that -- this is diesels now South America engine business.
This business is about $1 billion a year and we have anywhere between 7% and 10% profits on this year in and year out.
It's typical for us in the first quarter to be lower than that because Brazil is down in the entire month of December.
And this year as A.J.
pointed out we also had lower volume from a particular customer who had his own supply issues.
So for the quarter in South America we had a loss of $14 million.
For the year we're still going to be at that 7% to 10% margin.
So this will come back over the next 3 quarters and we've shown this through every year for the last several years that this is doable and we will accomplish that again this year.
We look to the global truck markets now on Slide 12.
We've broken it into 3 categories.
First is Latin America and this is our mature market.
Our dealers have been there.
Our products are in place.
Our cost structure is right and we're making money on this to the tune of our 10% segment targets.
In the rest of the world -- and we've got a typo on here.
This is India South Africa and Australia the products are in place.
The distribution is growing and this is kind of a buildup over the next couple of years to where we get this to where we want it to be.
The final one is Brazil.
And this is a start-up year for us in Brazil where we're just putting in products.
We're just getting the distribution in place so there's some investment going on in Brazil.
And that's the 3 areas.
I'll talk some more about this at the end.
But in Q1 we had a loss of $16 million.
We expect the full year to be 2% to 3% return on sales and that's on $8.5 billion worth of revenue.
We know we have actions in place for that.
One of the areas operationally that hit us in the quarter was some engine supply constraints that A.J.
already spoke to.
We have those addressed through substituting a different engine in some cases and our supplier is also increasing his capacity so we feel we'll get that back by year end.
And we'll be back on the 2% to 3% return on sales that we had targeted.
If I may ask you to now go back to Slide 8 as a summary here.
As you can see from the actions that we have in place we are clearly back-end loaded.
This is not unusual for us to have more of our income and revenue in the back half of the year.
We have actions in place to be able to do that.
And those are the 5 major categories and actions that we have to reach those objectives of $5 a share by the year end.
So I'd like to take a moment now and then talk about some strategic things that we're also doing during the year.
And certainly the product development center that we have here in Lisle is at the cornerstone of that.
And if you look at Slide 14 what's going to happen this year is we're going to implement our feet first strategy.
And what that means is we're going to take assets that we have maybe not directly trucks but in other businesses like our engine business or in our bus businesses to get into the countries with our feet first and use those assets that we have to grow our truck business.
So this year our engine business will be in China and our bus business we are working to try to get into China.
And in South America we'll be there for sure.
So we call that our feet first strategy.
We'll start in there this year.
The benefits of those will actually take place towards the end of this year and into next year.
On the defense side this is a business that we've had consistent $1.5 billion to $2 billion worth of revenue.
This year a big -- a game changer for us is taking our MRAP product and lightening it up.
So it's a mine-resistant vehicle armored with about 1/3 of the weight and 1/3 of the cost.
And so hopefully by the end of the year we'll find a home for this for the future.
We're not anticipating that we get business with this or much significant business with this this year.
But we're hoping to land this for the future in this year and it certainly we believe provides our customers with a significant opportunity to lower their costs and provide the same level of survivability.
Now I'd like to shift a little bit to Slide 16 and talk about a business that we've entered recently and that's natural gas and perhaps some of you have seen the partnership that we've established with Clean Energy -- and that's Boone Pickens on there and with Clean Energy and Chesapeake.
And so the first question you might ask is "Okay now why does this make sense for you?" and that's on Slide 17.
Well first of all the economics and we'll show you that in a minute here.
The economics make a lot of sense.
We believe that natural gas can stand on its own without subsidies for our customers and of course then for us.
So it has sustainability without subsidies.
We also have breakthroughs and technologies on the gas extraction side and of course in our own engine emissions and of course in our integrated product as well.
So we believe this is a sustainable business and we're investing in it with some partners and you're going to see this grow over time.
I'll talk a little bit about what we expect from that as it matures in a minute here.
But if you turn to Slide 18 this shows you illustratively why this is going to work.
With an initial investment for our customers -- now this $25 000 to $40 000 is above the normal vehicle price.
$25 000 to $40 000.
With our arrangement with Clean Energy our customers can get that back over 5 years.
They can get it all back over 5 years through discounts that they get from Clean Energy if you buy our truck and Clean Energy fuel.
In addition to that this is the fuel savings that they get and we believe this is modest and conservative.
You can see from here it's a tremendous opportunity for customers that can use this in their applications to get -- drive their operating costs a lot lower.
And of course on Slide 19 is why we believe our answer is best than anyone that's out there.
I mean it's an integrated platform.
We have an integrated solution with our engine; with our vehicle; with our partner Clean Energy; and with a strong distribution network.
So we believe over the next couple of years this commercial industry will be -- 20% to 25% of the total buy could be in natural gas products.
And we'll be at the leadership of that.
Okay.
So let's go to Slide 20.
And this is a kind of a building block of our engine strategy.
But first of all an integrated platform one that we started off by converting the industry from 15 to 13 liter.
And the advantage goes to fuel economy and weight.
But for us it's also a steppingstone for our dealers to sell more parts and service more products.
And of course us to get some growth in the profits from a good business like the service part provides.
It also provides our engine business with volume and technologies to grow their business and to be a player throughout the world.
I've also mentioned that it's an enabler for us in our feet first strategy to get in some countries that are looking for technology and particularly in this area to meet emission.
And I'll give you one of the examples of that.
We have entered China now.
And with that we have a 3-liter and a 5-liter engine in there that meets Euro IV the only one that meets it without the need of urea-based after-treatment the NOx.
We'll be the only one in that area as well and that's implemented already.
And as I mentioned earlier it's a platform for alternative fuels as well.
So if you look at Slide 21 now this is a summary of the year as we've described here and we'll tell you what's in it.
So if you look at the right-hand side it says our guidance is $4.25 to $5.25.
And a couple of things are in it.
First I mentioned we anticipate recovering some of that warranty.
$50 million to $60 million of that warranty we expect to recover back.
So it's still an increase here of $50 million to $60 million above what's in our original guidance.
We've also included $25 million for NCPs and here's why which is somewhat different than what we said on the Analyst Day.
And the difference is this: there was a lot of noise out there about how long these NCPs would last.
So what we did is in the 10 states that require no NCPs we're going to use credit for those and the 40 states we're going to use the NCPs.
So that should take us through the year to try to quiet down the noise of the uncertainty that some have had out there about whether we can ship products.
So we feel this is the best answer for us for this year.
And we've included in here $25 million worth of cost in our guidance.
Now one other point I would like to say.
I mentioned earlier that we're going to get more savings in the back half of this year related to our new facility here.
And it's uncertain as to where that's falls.
Does it in segment? Or does it fall in SG&amp;A? So this is an estimate of where it falls.
It could change a little bit between SG&amp;A and in segment but that doesn't change where we think the guidance should be but it may change between segments and our support.
So let's talk a little bit about that integration.
We said this facility here would save us $60 million directly and then the benefits of course are far greater than that in the product and in other areas.
Now we believe that's more like $100 million.
And so that's just direct savings of it.
Again we'll start to see that about midyear this year.
And the ongoing part of that will be $100 million going into 2013.
So stepping back now.
Remember on Slide 23 our objective was to be a $20-billion business when the economy was average and the trucking industry was about 350 000.
We said at that point we would be a $20-billion business and we'd have about 9% segment profits or $1.8 billion.
So now let's talk about where we're at to those in terms of actions.
So completed actions are bus military Latin America and parts.
Those are done.
All the actions are in place.
By the end of the year we believe the actions are in place for North American truck for engines and now natural gas as well.
We still have more actions to put in place and probably more time in the global business both in truck and bus.
But in the rest of the businesses by the end of this year all the actions will be in place for us to achieve those targets.
So with that A.J.
I think I'll turn it over to you.
Thanks Dan.
We talked back on Analyst Day on the importance of expanding our margins and improving our cash flow in order to sustain the investments that lead to our strategic success.
This is where we have our businesses focused primarily on margin expansion and cash flow.
So let's start with cash flow.
We ended the quarter with manufacturing cash of $837 million.
As you may recall we had to stop shipping trucks late in the quarter.
This caused us to end the quarter with slightly more inventory than we expected but we've resolved these issues and trucks are now flowing normally.
For the full year not much has changed.
We recognize that there's been some adjustments to cash from operations.
But like warranty most of these are noncash items.
Similar to income however the cash will remain relatively flat through the first couple of quarters and then recover in the second half of the year.
To improve upon our cash flow we continue our efforts to reduce the level of working capital we deploy in our business.
While not yet developed well enough to incorporate into an official forecast we have challenged each business to reduce their working capital needs which would enable us to close the year with a cash balance beyond $1.2 billion.
To close I'd like to build upon Dan's discussion on margins particularly our efforts to expand on these margins.
As we've stated our strategic plan is to expand our business to $20 billion of revenue.
And when we do this generate 1 point billion dollars (sic) [$1.8 billion] of segment profit for a blended return on sales of 9%.
We've organized the chart on Page 25 to show the path that each of our businesses is on to achieve our strategy.
You can see here that we've incorporated service parts into the businesses because as we grow our truck and engine businesses we create the opportunity to expand our parts business.
We believe we have the business on the right path.
When we normalize 2012 and look at the run rate of the business by the end of the year you can see the results.
Throughout this presentation Dan's focus has been on the elements of the business that lead to strategic success and improve our margins.
From our focus on integration and streamlining our organization by leveraging this new building; to expanding into new markets like natural gas and further leveraging the opportunities within our defense business; and finally and I believe most importantly by expanding our product offering both domestically and globally to get closer to the customer and to continue to expand our margin.
I believe these are the differentiators that we have and that these will drive success in our business and ultimately lead to strategic success.
With that Heather I think we're ready to field questions.
Operator we're ready for questions.
[Operator Instructions] And we'll hear first from Andy Casey with Wells Fargo Securities.
LLC Research Division</strong> First thanks for the clarification on the $25-million NCP hit.
Dan could you -- or A.J.
let us know how many months you're assuming the NCP payments continue for that $25-million hit? Yes.
So Andy here's a -- maybe a way to look at it.
We've submitted the -- for the 0.2.
And that goes through a process and typically that's about 3 months I think is about the average of that.
So when we get the certification it still takes some time for us to get to production on this.
So what we're doing right now is getting ready to go to production in that and it will be about June before we can get into production with that particular engine.
So that -- it kind of gives you a framework of where it would be.
The preciseness of it we can't tell you but our objective is to begin production on that in June.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then if we look at these warranty issues that caused the charges can you kind of give us a little more detail so we can make an assessment on why these may or may not impact field performance of your ultimate solution for EPA 2010 at the 0.2 level? Yes yes.
First let's break it into 2 categories.
I think the first one is those are -- the half of it is from old products.
And those are things that we had assumed we had repaired.
We had all those fixes in place and -- but the trends didn't come down like we had expected.
So obviously we didn't fix them to the level that satisfied our trend rate and so that continues.
The other ones were -- we went out in the field and were more proactive on it and it increased our trend rate because of that.
And what we need to do now is to prove that those fixes are in place and that trend rate will come down both from a -- as A.J.
points out from a frequency standpoint and from a dollar standpoint.
So we believe they're all in place.
These are from '10 -- early '10 products.
We had an opportunity when we found that our customers their utilization of their vehicles are less in the December month so we went after them with aggressiveness to try to get at them during periods when they wouldn't be running as much.
And we did that but what it did do was increase the trend rate on that.
So that also gives us the confidence that we can bring it down again.
And we'll continue onto David Leiker with Robert W.
Baird.
Research Division</strong> Dan did you say the actual cash cost to execute these warranty changes in the quarter that was the $3-million number? Did I hear that correctly? Yes.
David it was a $3-million increase from what we expected.
Increase from the trend that we had before.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then if...
Someone just slipped me a note here and these -- we've got all of the Vs and the inline DTs and we haven't had any issues since the '06 and '08 one I just talked about there.
So these '10 engines are running the best they've ever run.
It's that in the early on '10 there were some minor things that caused us to go back and repair them and much of them were in calibration.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then can you detail specifically what components what parts of the engines that you're having a warranty issue with on those engines? I think when you get into these things everything is so electronically controlled that when you do a calibration on it it could affect whether the performance of any part of that engine works or not.
And when you have how many different -- I've got Jack Allen here.
We have so many different variations that the electronic controls have to be able to adapt to each one of those.
And we had -- we took some time several months before we got all those things in place on the control side.
So it's more of a system thing I think Dave than it is a part thing.
Not specific hardware.
Research Division</strong> Right.
Not specific hardware right.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And if you go over the next several months or so and you wait for this -- the cost trend to start to improve from these actions what's the timeline on the other as to being able to see that? Are those weeks? Are those months? Quarters? How would you characterize that? Let me -- so we understand what it is.
So the ones going out the door for the last year that -- those are done [indiscernible] we're talking about the ones that are already out there.
So what's accounting does -- and I'll ask A.J.
to chime in here but I've had enough study of this.
It's not like I don't know.
And that is -- the accounting has to have the experience on the frequency of repair and the cost of those repairs.
You have to prove it before you can bring this back out again.
And we think it will take us until -- certainly won't happen in the second quarter.
I think that's no question about that.
It's going to be in the third or fourth quarter before we're able to get that back.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
That's exactly what I was looking for.
And then one last item.
If you hadn't seen that boost in the warranty reserve it looks like you would have been in a position potentially to have raised your guidance.
Is that the right way to look at that or not? We probably wouldn't have.
But I would say we wouldn't do that.
We wouldn't have done that Dave.
I think we would keep it at the same level that we're at right now.
And I understand your question.
I think it's probably appropriate that we've found ways to overcome some of those things out there but we wouldn't have raised our guidance.
We'll take our next question from Jerry Revich with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> I'm wondering if you could talk about the comment you made in the Q about material cost outpacing pricing in the truck business in the first quarter and just help us get a sense for when pricing is going to meet or exceed material inflation over the balance of the year.
How does your contracted pricing and product out the door look from here? I'm going to ask Jack here but just to frame it now what that means Jerry.
That means that -- remember last year we had pricing before we had the commodity increases because we had those hedges on it.
Now the hedges are off or less and so the commodity costs are going up.
So Jack? I mean the best way I think to describe it is we have escalators with many of our customers relative to material costs but they have lags built in with them.
And now as commodities costs are hitting us relative to a year ago as Dan said primarily because we don't have the hedges.
There's just a natural lag before we collect that in the marketplace on pricing.
But we certainly have built into our plan to catch-up on that as the year progresses.
So I think somewhere maybe we have it in the package.
I think we have that it has -- it's really stabilized for the last several months now and our fuel is up a little bit now.
But commodities have stabilized now for several months.
Research Division</strong> And so as you look at your remaining hedge book and your pricing schedule to customers on a year-over-year basis Jack when do you expect pricing to exceed material inflation? Which quarter or -- would you just give us a rough sense? Well I think Jerry the way Jack described it is the best way to look at it is that pricing will escalate throughout the year.
There's never a perfect match between material cost movement and hedge movement and pricing action.
So our plans are to recover that in the second half of the year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And Archie if you're on the line can you comment on the timing of the rolling chassis program? When is it looking like you'll get to work on those products? And also touch on the softer parts sales in the quarter.
Anything timing-related that drove the significant decline? Yes Jerry.
We're in production on the rolling chassis as we speak.
We've already made our first delivery.
We just acquired a contract to do the retrofitting of the body on the chassis at West Point.
That contract was just over the wall as of last week.
So that's ongoing and as you know that's got a leg to it to go into 2014 -- or '13 rather.
The parts side of the house we're actually seeing an incline right now on parts sales.
It is more so related to some of the earlier trucks that we had out in the field in Afghanistan and Iraq.
And there's some new stuff going and I don't have the full order yet but it's showing positive impact.
Again on the sustainment of everything we put in the field is really holding up well.
And that business as you know we've turned completely over to the sustainment side.
And that's starting to show pretty good results.
We'll take our next question from Ann Duignan with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Can you talk a little bit about the impact of these higher warranties on residual values for your used trucks? And then secondly could you talk a little bit about 15-liter to 13-liter? You've only submitted a 13-liter for approval to the EPA.
Does that mean you're giving up on the 15-liter? And we look at Cummins in the last couple of months and it's gaining share engine share suggesting that customers are still specifying 15-liter engines out there.
So sorry for the lengthy question but if you could just kind of hook the 2 of those together I'd appreciate it.
Sure.
And I'll ask Jack to answer those.
Go ahead Jack.
Maybe one at a time.
Used trucks clearly -- our ProStar continues to have excellent used truck residual values.
The issues that we have described here we're addressing them with the customers and we're addressing them in the deals.
And therefore there's really no impact to used trucks or calibration.
We're fixing the calibration on them.
We continue to see excellent used truck values.
Regarding the submission I think was your second question.
We submitted the 13-liter.
We're prepared to submit the 11 and 15 Ann.
I'm not quite sure why you would jump to the conclusion that we're abandoning it but we're prepared to submit the 11 and 15.
But it really doesn't make a lot of sense to do that until the EPA addresses the 13-liter and we can work back and forth with them and then we'll follow on with the 11 and 15-liter.
I'm sure you see the trend reports like we do.
In 2011 13-liter has crossed the threshold 15-liters and there's now more 13-liters sold in the marketplace today.
And we believe that as one of our major competitors has a more free supply of their own proprietary engines in 2012 you'll continue to see the trend of 13-liters grow in the marketplace.
Research Division</strong> So you have no comment on the fact that Cummins' 15-liter is gaining share in places like Freightliner and Volvo? I think you got to just go back to the comment that I just made.
Ann I think he's saying that there's some capacity constraints with some of our competitors on their own 15-liter and 13-liter right now.
We'll take our next question from J.
B.
Groh with D.A.
Davidson.
Research Division</strong> I think this maybe plays a little bit on Ann's question on share.
But can you -- on Slide 27 I noticed a little bit -- market share down a little bit.
And I'm guessing that there's an impact from maybe some delays on the shipments in Q1.
Can you sort of -- is there a way to quantify or maybe just give us an indication of why that's down and where you think it's going? Well salvage certainly is the Bendix shipment [ph] related at the end of the quarter.
But in medium-duty we had a big run-up the last half of the fiscal year last year where we were trending way above 40% which is above what our norm is.
And that was driven by some big fleet sales as well as our fiscal year end and we had some fewer year-end programs.
So it wasn't really totally expected for us to see that fall off as the year began because competitors had their own year ends in December.
So a number of things happened in the quarter.
We replenished the stock inventory in our dealerships so that hasn't rolled through to retail market share.
Some fleet build that we traditionally would have had in the quarter has moved out to the second quarter and then a little bit of the Bendix issue.
But just to give you one bit of data here as we look at February.
So it's not in the quarter but we have the information for February.
On medium-duty our retail deliveries in February for medium were 31% higher than our average monthly rate in the first quarter.
So we're seeing the recovery that we had expected.
Research Division</strong> So you got a combination of a little bit of a tough comp from last year and then some of the stuff that we mentioned about the delays? Yes.
Research Division</strong> Okay okay.
And then can you talk about maybe driver shortage and how that's -- you think that will impact customers? It's kind of an interesting dynamic.
Well it is pretty amazing that in this era of unemployment that driver shortage has continued to plague our customers.
But we spent a number of days with them this past weekend at the Truckload Carrier Conference.
We talked a lot about drivers.
I think the biggest thing you're going to see here and that they're seeing is that driver pay is progressing.
And they're willing to pay drivers for productivity and drivers that are doing a good job for them.
So we'll continue to see driver pay increase.
And frankly fleets are -- they're pressuring us around driver amenities and appeal and uptime for the drivers so they can be profitable [ph].
We'll hear now from Patrick Nolan with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of follow-up questions on the warranty and then a question on military.
So just so I interpret it right so you are factoring in that you do get $50 million to $60 million of this warranty charge back in the back half of the year.
That's incorporated into the full year guidance.
Yes that's correct.
Research Division</strong> And so it sounds like most of these warranty issues are all engine calibrations.
I mean is it reasonable to assume that as you launch out the 0.2 engine that there's potential for this to reoccur? Well I think that's a good question Pat.
This is why we're taking until June to go to production with it so that won't happen.
But I think that's a fair question and we're doing the actions to prevent that from happening.
Research Division</strong> And just on those early 2010 engines I mean what's the average mileage of those engines that are out in the field now? Because I mean I would assume a lot of the Advanced EGR concerns that people have would be when you're at the higher end of mileage for engines as far as additional heat and the impacts of that.
The early ones probably have a couple of hundred thousand miles on it.
The things we're talking about are really kind of input things so not mileage-related.
That's probably the ones that are very early there's a couple of hundred thousand miles on it.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And could you give us some color on what the cadence of military revenue is going to be for the remainder of the year? Yes.
I think it's going to -- we said it's $250 million.
I think the question earlier was -- so it was about $250 million in the first quarter.
And I was anticipating and I think we'll be probably be a little higher in the second quarter.
Archie what [indiscernible]...
Well the revenue -- as you know we have a schedule for rolling chassis that are going through the system.
And we are kind of regulated by schedule how many we can produce per month.
I mean there's a flow that has to be consistent with what they can take and so that's governing a little bit of what our revenues look like.
But for guidance for the year I mean we're still marching towards the $1-billion to $1.5-billion range of guidance for military.
Now how that comes in quarter-over-quarter it again -- it will be more heavily loaded in the fourth quarter but that's just the way the business is.
I think -- Pat this is A.J.
I think the -- when we look at that I think military revenue was lower in the first quarter this year versus last year and it will be lower in the second quarter versus last year as well.
But we said the whole year is going to be less.
Right.
Around $1.5 billion.
Tim Denoyer with Wolfe Trahan.
Quick question on the -- actually this is a follow-up on the military guidance.
I thought that you had said $1.5 billion for the year.
I thought -- was that new the -- what Archie had just said in terms of $1 billion to $1.5 billion? No our guidance is based on $1.5 billion of military revenue.
Okay.
And then another question just sort of on the medium duty market overall.
You said things are picking up there but just looking at the order trends over the last couple of months it seems like medium duty has sort of taking a little bit of a step back.
Are you seeing that in terms of your order trend in terms of heavy duty maybe outperforming medium right now? Well certainly the growth rate in heavy on a year-over-year basis is more than medium.
But medium-duty market has some really -- some good increases also.
But medium-duty market today is really heavily influenced by some large fleets and primarily it's on the leasing side.
But -- so that medium tends to be more choppy from an order received rate and even from a share standpoint.
In the first quarter there was 16 000 deliveries.
So 1% market share swing happens over 150 160 trucks.
You'll see a lot more choppiness in medium duty.
And then one other question on natural gas actually.
With one of the slides that you showed in the sort of cost-benefit economics do you imply that the customers would be getting sort of locked-in CNG prices over a multiyear period with Clean Energy? I'm going to ask Eric Tech.
He's in charge of our engine business.
Eric? Yes.
That's one of the potential.
There's a lot of different ways our customers can benefit this -- from this.
They can stabilize their fuel costs over several years they can lock in to the Clean Energy program or they can just play on the spread between the 2.
So we're looking at developing the right solutions for our customers depending on what fleets we're selling to and depending on their circumstances.
But clearly there's a huge spread there and an opportunity for them to reduce their operating costs.
Yes.
And at what point do you expect to introduce your own engine into the natural gas market? Was that '13 or '14? We are currently producing a DT engine for medium trucks.
And we're looking right now at introduction of a big bore engine sometime in the next 1.5 years.
Okay.
Is the DT at any significant numbers in terms of CNG? Yes.
Right now we're really -- we're in the 100s and we see a large ramp-up as really we see now the interest that we've garnered on this natural gas play.
And we really see the numbers ramping up through the end of this year.
And really -- probably the impact will be more real in the next year than 2013.
We will continue on to Andrew Kaplowitz with Barclays Capital.
Research Division</strong> This is Vlad Bystricky on for Andy.
First question.
Can you just talk about on the warranty issue in the quarter how is that impacting your dealers? Is it an additional cost or additional work for them? And is that taking away at all from some of the training that you had talked about at your Analyst Day related to rolling out more of your own engines? Jack go ahead.
Why don't you answer that? Well the dealers have worked together with us and the customers in a partnership here to address the actions primarily that we took over Christmas.
That's really the big driver here that we're talking about on this morning's call.
So during this period of time the customers would typically -- their vehicle utilization is down over those holidays and also the dealerships have more availability during that period of time.
So together -- we put our resources within the company together with the dealers and customers to address the customer concerns in that period of time.
It worked out very well from a customer satisfaction and an upside standpoint.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then just thinking about your customers.
We talked about the driver shortage and impact of rising driver wages.
Can you talk about gas prices? Obviously we've seen an increase there and what are your customers saying about that? When does that start to be a concern for them? Are they able to pass on those prices now? Or when might it affect their buying decisions? I think it's -- a lot of that depends on different segments of the business.
I'll take it if you're really focused on Class 8 here most of the large fleets today and the shippers have a formula that they've used for some period of time now called fuel surcharge.
And it allows the fleets to vary their rates to the customers on an ongoing basis very variable depending on what fuel prices are at the time the load is delivered.
So it's a -- rising fuel prices are never a good thing for our industry.
But at the same time our customers have a mechanism under which to recover that.
But at the end it really does focus back on us.
And the more we can do to provide a great fuel-efficient truck and engine integrated solution that's what our customers are looking to us for.
We'll take our next question from Seth Weber with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just wanted to go back to the accrual adjustment for a second.
The 45% attached to the '06 '08 time frame was that the same adjustment that you took in the second quarter of last year for the same -- is that the right way to think about it? Yes it is Seth.
As Dan said when we put that adjustment in last year we thought we had the right trend and we expected that to perform according to that forecast and it's continued longer than we expected.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And if I remember that was basically an injector problem or something like that.
Is that correct? Right.
That's correct.
Mostly related around medium-duty engines.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just a clarification on the outgoing run rate margin targets that you put up.
So for the engine business the 7 to 8.
So that includes the $50-million to $60-million add-back for the accrual then? Yes we've -- I mean we've taken the accrual adjustment out of that so that we can look at the business on a run rate basis.
LLC Research Division</strong> Sorry.
So just -- that does not include the add-back at the end of the year that you expect? Well no no.
No.
It doesn't include the add-back.
It doesn't -- also it doesn't include the charge.
We're kind of viewing the charge for warranty as a onetime item.
And Robert Wertheimer with Vertical Research Partners.
I'm still trying to figure out how to isolate or evaluate the 15-liter side.
And I'm wondering if you could say if the issues were specific to a particular production run or a particular production date or engines that underwent a particular calibration.
You mentioned you went out to customers with a fix.
And I don't know whether -- how you identified those trucks that you went out to those engines that you went out to and whether you've gone out to all the ones you've identified yet.
So that's sort of the early 13-liter I don't -- if we said 15-liters we didn't mean...
I'm sorry.
That was my fault.
I beg your pardon.
Okay.
So these were early 13-liter vintage that we went out and did some calibration to get these different -- various different repairs [ph] sometimes in signal sometimes in operations.
We went out there and tried to get at most of those or all of those during the holiday period here.
So the final calibration...
The production side of that is in place and it has been in place for quite some time now.
Okay.
So the final calibration you're pretty confident is not causing issues.
It was an interim calibration that caused an issue with component failure.
I'm just trying to understand that part.
It was the calibration that was in effect at the time those vehicles were built back in 2010.
We subsequently updated those vehicles with current production calibrations and that's alleviated the issues that were present at that time.
Okay.
And so you have not seen any issues with trucks that were shipped under the final production of the current calibration.
The vehicles that we're putting in the marketplace right now are performing to our expectations.
Okay.
And then just one quick question A.J.
It was a little surprising to see this issue pop up after you have listed the few issues that could have affected the quarter and this wasn't on it.
I assume it's because that $3-million ramp over trend was just something you hadn't spotted as of February 1.
Is that why it came in after the quarter? It came in after the quarter because it does take us a little bit of time and it takes a lot of analytics to truly understand the real impact of this type of an adjustment.
And we didn't have that information clearly understood on Analyst Day.
And ladies and gentlemen that's all the time we have for questions today.
I'll turn things back over to our speakers for any additional or closing remarks.
Okay thank you.
Of course Heather and Randy will ask any questions -- answer any more questions that anyone might have and we'll get back with you if you have any further questions.
But thanks for joining us here this morning.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen that does conclude today's conference.
Thank you for your participation.
Good morning and welcome everyone to the Navistar International Corporation Second Quarter Earnings Release.
Today's call is being recorded.
For opening remarks and introductions I would like to turn the program over to Vice President of Investor Relations Heather Kos.
Please go ahead.
Thank you for joining us today.
Before we begin I'd like to cover a few items.
A copy of the morning's press release and the presentation slides that we'll be using today have been posted on our Investor Relations website for your reference.
The financial results presented here are on a GAAP basis and in some cases on a non-GAAP basis.
The non-GAAP financial measures discussed in this call are reconciled to the U.S.
GAAP equivalent as part of the Appendix in the slide deck.
Finally today's presentation includes some forward-looking statements about our expectations for future performance.
Actual results could differ materially from those suggested by our comments made here.
For additional information concerning factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected in today's presentation please refer to our most recent reports on Form 10-K and 10-Q and our other SEC filings.
We would also refer you to the forward-looking statements and other cautionary note disclaimers presented in today's material for more information on the subject.
And now I'd like to introduce A.J.
Cederoth Executive Vice President and CFO.
Good morning.
Following up on the format we used on our first quarter call I will walk you through the actual results; put these into context because there's been some significant adjustments to our estimates.
Dan will then step in and outline the path forward for the remainder of 2012 particularly our expectations for improved results in the second half.
Again consistent with our presentation for the first quarter our traditional slides that illustrate year-over-year comparisons are included in the Appendix for your reference.
Starting on Page 5 illustrated here is a non-GAAP presentation side-by-side to the GAAP presentation of income.
We did this to pull off a sizable impact of warranty charges and changes in tax rate in order to put the results of the business for Q2 in a more understandable context.
This highlights a small segment profit for the quarter of $7 million.
Page 6 then takes our segment profit of $7 million and separates this further in some approximated results.
From this you can see that our core business for Truck and Parts performed better than the total would indicate.
This was despite some overhang from quality and some market uncertainty that impacted our market share.
But it's important to remember that our -- that for our core businesses in Truck and buses the second half of the year is historically stronger than the first half.
We expect this trend to continue for 2012.
This phenomenon is also true in our export business and our South American engine business.
There is a certain amount of what we call seasonality of demand that favors the second half.
The second takeaway from this is the performance of our global business in Defense.
In Defense similar to last year the majority of our revenue occurs in the fourth quarter but we have seen some softening in defense-related spending and we have seen some schedules reduced due to budget cuts.
As a result we have modified our full year expectation for military revenue.
Dan will cover this in greater detail as he previews the second half.
But despite a slow start to the year we continue to view the Military business as a business capable of delivering 10% segment profitability.
We are also experiencing some softening in our global markets particularly India and Brazil.
Recall Brazil is going through an emissions change and in 2011 the entire industry produced in anticipation of a prebuy.
What happened is that the prebuy demand was lower than expected plus the economy has softened.
As a result the industry has too much inventory thus demand for 2012 vehicles is lower than expected until the market absorbs the excess 2011 inventory.
This not only impacts our Truck business but it impacts MWM as well.
Its customers like MAN and Volvo have reduced their schedules.
As we have seen in the past the Brazilian economy changes quickly.
As rapidly as things slow things can recover.
We remain optimistic around the second half recovery in Brazil.
Similarly the market in India is weaker than expected as growth has slowed and thus our business over there continues to operate at low volume.
I like our strategy in India.
We have a strong partner and a good product.
But our business needs volume to become more cost-effective and our volumes are lower than we anticipated.
Finally we continue to make investments in our niche businesses to expand our revenue base and improve our cost structure.
We talked about this in the first quarter relative to our foundry which are now operating more efficiently and excess logistics costs have been eliminated.
We continue to consolidate operations within our Truck business as we work to optimize our manufacturing footprint and our cost structure.
We expect to begin to realize some of these benefits in the second half of 2012.
Clearly there has been a lot of moving pieces and activity during the first half of the year.
Some of this is seasonal but most of it we believe is behind us.
Moving forward we expect volume to recover in all of our markets and our performance to improve.
Turning to Page 7.
Given all the puts and takes needed to develop a comparable set of figures I wanted to take one moment to reconcile all of this back to the data presented in our financial statements.
I won't go through this line-by-line but we've highlighted the significant differences between the segment profit of $7 million and our GAAP statements.
I will discuss warranty in greater detail in just a moment but as you can see here a sizable release of additional tax reserves.
This is the output of restructuring our business in Canada and shifting our manufacturing operations back to the U.S.
If you turn to Page 8 I'd like to put some context around the additional warranty reserve we recorded this quarter.
We have detailed the element of the accounting charge and again it's important to remember that this is an estimate of future lifetime costs.
It is not a current-period cash item.
Warranty spending in the quarter only increased by $6 million.
When we discussed this on the first quarter call I know we indicated that we felt the worst of this situation was behind us.
Our belief at that time was primarily driven by the trends we were seeing.
As you can see from the chart on the left side of the page the data on spending was actually improving in February and March.
Unfortunately this trend reversed itself in April.
Again we see some improvement in May and we remain confident that we are putting a quality product in the marketplace.
I want to point out the chart in the lower right of the page.
This data shows the repair frequency of the big bore engines at 3 months in service.
As you can see which each subsequent quarter the data is improving.
Not illustrated here is that we expect this trend to continue past 90 days but we will need more data in order to put a proof behind that premise.
So I will not speculate on when we will be able to potentially reduce the reserve for warranty but the early trends are favorable.
Moving onto manufacturing cash.
As you can see we closed the quarter with $681 million of cash.
Honestly I expected this to be higher but a couple of factors impacted cash in the quarter beyond the financial results primarily working capital.
As we discussed earlier the economic conditions in Brazil have delayed the growth of volumes.
This has delayed the turnover of inventory into receivables and ultimately into cash.
Second our used truck inventory has grown.
While this creates a profit opportunity and the used truck values remain healthy temporarily it is tying up some cash.
So working capital is a little higher here seasonally but we expect this to improve as the year progresses.
Finally our outlook on cash for the remainder of the year has been adjusted to reflect lower incomes as you can see here.
So those are the major items for the quarter.
I'll stop here and let Dan put the remainder of the year into context.
Thanks A.J.
What I'd like to talk about is how do we take the first half unacceptable results into -- back on track for a strong second half and position us for 2013 and beyond.
You can see from chart -- on Chart 10 our estimates for the second half ranges from $575 million to $725 million segment profit and that's -- I'm talking now about how we are able to achieve that success but we need to start with a couple higher-level points to make and A.J.
talked about the first one already and that's warranty.
Early-in production failures have caused our warranty expense accrual to go up and A.J.
talked about that chart.
He also talked about we believe we have the actions in place so that ongoing production at least for the last year is in accord with a much lower warranty.
If you'll look at the chart on 11 this is our other engine family at the bottom of it.
So draw a line underneath the Q1 rate and this is the other 2 engines using the same technologies that we have somewhat different suppliers but mostly the same suppliers somewhat different suppliers.
You can see the trend on that has been flat all the way to the process here from the launch of 2010 product to today.
So on our DT and our MaxxForce 7 products we have had no issues with those.
In fact we're very confident in those.
The other side at the forefront of course is the emissions.
A lot of noise and speculation out there on this path and we have to get that behind us.
We have submitted as we spoke to you before about an application for certification on our Class 8 engine family and we are continuing to work with the EPA on that.
EPA is for those of you that follow us also has an NCP rule that they are finalizing.
Frankly we don't want to use that.
We want to get our 0.2 certification behind us and not use the NCP but that is a backup that the EPA is working on.
On the other hand we are also getting ready.
As soon as that certification is approved we can go to instant production within 30 days.
So we have all the mechanisms in place to respond quickly once we get that certification approved.
Now let's look over to Slide 12 and this talks about market share.
And as you can see from Slide 12 our market share from year-to-year was flat.
We should be higher than this as A.J.
pointed out based on the performance of our products the fuel economy of our products the features that are in the products.
We should be higher than this and some of this we believe is with the speculation on the emissions certification.
You can see on the school bus we anticipate this growing really should be unrelated to -- actually school bus and medium truck should be totally unrelated to emissions.
But we do think there is opportunity for us to go beyond what we already have in that 48% on school bus up to as high as 55% 58% in the second half.
And on medium truck we've been at 36% and we think we can go up to 38% maybe even a little bit higher in the second half.
We've been flat.
In spite of this speculation we've been flat on the Class 8 business 18% 19%.
And as soon as this gets behind us we certainly expect this to grow to at least 20% 22% and the ongoing rate even more than that.
The performance of this product has been outstanding as well as fuel economy.
And the longer it gets in the field the better chances we have of improving our position in the Class 8 marketplace.
So if we turn to Slide 13 maybe we step back and look at where we think the industry is going.
And if you remember we have been at 300 000 to 310 000 as an industry for 2012 for quite some time now and we believe that's exactly where it's going to come out again for this year.
What the chart shows is a rolling 12-month average of retail.
And what we believe will happen is it's been increasing now for the last couple of years and we believe the second half of the year will flatten out.
It won't go down it will flatten out.
So the increase has gone up at a pretty strong rate over the last couple of years and it's going to be flat in the second half.
And at that rate the first half was at 323 000 or thereabouts it'll be probably a little bit less than that perhaps in the second half but we think that rate will at least continue into 2013.
So the rate of 325 000 is certainly within the realm of the industry for 2013.
For 2012 300 000 to 310 000 is about where we think.
If you compare this at the bottom of the page to what ACT says they actually -- and this is only Class 8 they actually think that it's more than that so we have been pretty accurate on our estimates over the last several years.
So we feel pretty strong about this is where the market is going to be going.
Obviously the economy could change the future of this but based on what we see today we feel confident that that's where the market will be over the next 18 months.
Our real success for the second half in positioning for us in 2013 is about margin though.
You can see this 4-panel chart at the top is the total overall market share that I've just spoke to.
But the real key is taking costs out and improving margins.
So in our integration of our facility here bringing product development together with the support groups we have said we would take $60 million out in the second half.
We are a little bit ahead of that.
We would be at a run rate of $100 million coming out of SG&amp;A and product development going forward.
In addition to that some of the SG&amp;A will actually filter into the Truck businesses and the Engine business and so there's even more cost reductions related to that integration built into the Truck and the Engine process going forward.
If we look at the bottom left-hand panel this is what we expect margins to improve on truck and it's related to -- somewhat related to pricing in that we put our price increase in January but it really doesn't come into effect until orders we receive after that.
So the orders we had before that and of course due to first half of this year most of those would be at the prior price.
Orders going forward would be at the higher price.
We also have identified and implementing cost-reduction programs of $1 200 to $1 500 per truck depending on the model.
And the summation of those is 3% to 4% improvement in margins in the second half of the year on North American trucks.
On the Engine side as we have spoke to the first half of the year we invested in our foundry and in changing some of our supply base.
And in the second half of the year we're going to get by the end of the year $1 400 per unit reduction in our big bore costs and similar cost reductions on our smaller engines as well.
So now if we look at Slide 15 let's talk about Defense for a minute.
As A.J.
pointed out we have had a -- we've been stressed on the budget as everyone has known for quite some time now.
We did actually have some order cuts from us recently that would say that our full year will be about $1.1 billion revenue for the year.
And it's probably not too many risks or too many opportunities to that.
That's kind of where we see we think we will be.
As we look at that going forward assuming the budgets are at the constrained levels that we see them today and you might argue that they will increase but based on what we see today we have a path for $1 billion in that business.
And then if you look at the right-hand side of this page this is how we get more than that and there are several major programs that we're bidding on now some shorter-term some longer-term.
If you look at the top right-hand corner of this panel you'll see it looks like a pickup truck there that's a SOCOM product.
It's a high-mobility off-road product that we're bidding on where volumes just beginning of next year so relatively soon.
If you look at the -- down below that there's a vehicle for Canada.
It's off of our MXP family.
It's sitting right next to the MRAP there on the left of the MRAP.
That's for Canada and for Saudi that we're bidding on.
And again those are relatively soon type of awards.
At the bottom right-hand corner this is a product that we're bidding on for Canada and it's called our SMP.
So these are things in the relatively immediate future over the next 12 months that we could see some breakthroughs in terms of volumes above $1 billion.
Of course the big one is JLTV and as most of you that have followed us know this is a program that's probably 2 to 3 years away yet but it's one that they will decide on the finalist over the next few months.
And of course we expect to be included in that on a much larger scale on a long-term basis.
So now let's move over to Slide 16 and let's talk about the global business.
And A.J.
pointed out that in India and these are just some statistics on what their economy is and of course he mentioned India.
The expectation was 8% growth and it's more like 5%.
Obviously it's still strong but it's not at the rate that many including us had anticipated.
In Brazil A.J.
also highlighted that this is an adjustment for inventories that -- out there in the first half of the year so we believe that Brazil will recover and these are forecasts from Moody's on what the second half and the forward years would be.
And then of course there's Russia.
And in China it remains strong in spite of what sometimes we hear.
8% is a strong indication of continued growth in China.
We have recently approved actually in the last week our joint venture for engines in China has been approved and of course we'll be able to capitalize on that into 2013 and beyond.
And it's also a prelude to our potential JV with JAC on the truck side.
But that's the backup for the global business.
I want you to keep in mind as we look to Slide 17 what we've said for the global business is 2 years ago was investment period last year was a breakeven this year we'll be profitable.
And that's exactly where we're still at and in spite of some of the reductions in the global economies we're still at profits it will be second half loaded.
You can see the volumes that we have on here.
This excludes India so these volumes are volumes in Latin America South America Australia rest of the world.
And we shipped 5 600 units in the first half and we have a path to 9 300 units in the second half which together with cost reductions will improve the global business by $60 million or more first half to second half.
Now let's talk about Parts.
As we know a big part of our strategy especially on integrated strategy is to have Parts growth.
And if you look at Chart 18 it shows that -- 2 things here.
From the first quarter of 2011 to 2012 that's a 6% increase.
And frankly we would have expected a little bit more than that.
As you all know the weather has been mild the winter has been mild and certainly that's affected all parts for the industry in the first half of 2012.
In spite of that we've had a 6% increase with that.
We expect the second half to be a 16% increase and that's not without a background that we've been able to do that in the past.
So we still feel strong about our Parts business and its growth and we'll talk more about that as we go to organization later in the discussion.
So if I can summarize on Page 19.
Let's try to help you identify how we're going to get to a $700 million second half of the year.
And let's take some things -- start with some things that we have said in the past that are still consistent and let's start with global.
So in global we made investments in the first half that we talked about softening of the market and the global business with $10 million loss.
We've said that that'll be profitable for the full year.
So you can take the numbers we had there.
We said it'd be better by $60 million in the second half.
On the Defense side of the business we've said we have a business that makes at least 10% and that's true to course again this year.
So without giving you numbers we have $1.1 billion of revenue for the year and we've said we have at least 10% margins on that.
On the other side these are our niche businesses.
So we made investments in consolidation in many of these businesses: mixers chassis RVs and we started up Alabama plant.
What we've said is those will go away in the second half.
Those investments are made.
We're ready to reap the benefits of those.
So in addition to those going away we expect at least another $20 million in improvements coming from those investments that we made for the second half of the year.
For the balance of the improvements that are coming from Trucks and Engines and if you look at the margin improvement on Truck we've said that's 3% to 4%.
So take what we've had in the first half and 3% to 4% improvement on our Truck business in the second half.
And we've said on the Engine side we have $1 000 to $1 400 improvement in our cost structure on that.
And I think if you go through that you can see how close to $700 million segment profit for the second half is doable.
If you look at the right-hand side of this page let's summarize a little bit what we've talked about here for the full year now.
So the BRIC economies are softer.
And so this is revenue differences from the original plan that we had in Brazil.
On the Truck side that would be about $200 million.
On the Engine side it's also about $200 million so the effects that we see on our own Trucks are carrying forward into the other commercial truck businesses including pickups and smaller-sized trucks that we don't play in that we do provide engines for.
In India now this is in consolidation so the revenue won't show up but we expect that $200 million reduction in our revenue versus the original plan on in India.
In North America in Parts slight difference in that the Defense that ties to the $1.1 billion we expect so you can see our revenue will be lower for the year than originally planned.
If you go to Slide 20 let's talk about the middle box here guidance for the second half.
And we expect revenue to be about $8 billion.
We've talked about segment profit ranges; that makes margins 7% to 8%.
And adjusted income before tax you can see the ranges we have that -- that are identified.
And EPS somewhere between $3 and $5 for the second half of the year.
Then let's turn to Slide 21 and put it in perspective to an ongoing rate here.
I think if we take the second half as segment profits that we've targeted here translate that to a full year you'll get a $15 billion to $16 billion business at 300 000; segment of $1.2 billion to $1.4 billion; and EPS of somewhere $5 to $8 a share.
So now let's turn to Page 22 and this is what we said on the first quarter call is our outgoing run rate for the businesses.
We have targeted in our strategic objectives of a $20 billion business with 9% segment profit.
This is how it breaks down by the businesses: Truck global and Parts -- and Engine I'm sorry.
Trucks Global and Engine.
And you can see the outgoing rate we are at the same level maybe a little bit ahead we believe by the end of the year for the outgoing rate which approaches what our strategic long-term targets are with opportunities especially in global as we grow that business and mature.
So let's turn to Slide 23.
I think it goes without saying that the start of this year has been a disappointment for us.
The influences some outsiders certainly there but it's much to do about our own execution.
And so the second half is to get us back on track.
If you'll look at our strategic plan here it's to be a $20 billion business with $1.8 billion of segment profit and that's at about 350 000 units.
It's also to be profitable at all points in the cycle take the cyclicality out and we do that with growth.
As part of that strategy a cornerstone of that strategy in the early front is to have our own engine in the Class 8 marketplace.
Competitors have done this as well.
They've chosen to do it over many many years and they're still doing it.
We thought the best process for us is to do it at once and we think the hard part of that is over.
And our share has held it need to gets better but it has held over the last several quarters now.
So we believe the hard part is over now.
Let's look at Slide 24 and put this in perspective.
What this slide shows and it's a chart we've shown in the past is the black line is the industry and the bars are the segment profit as it correlates to that industry.
So if you look at back at 2003 it said that at 250 000 units or 270 000 units we couldn't make any money on segment profit.
And you can see at that same level last year we made $880 million.
We have got a trend on here that's consistent with the strategy and the plans that we've had.
Now this year -- first part of this year we're off of that.
So what I'd like to do is just plot the last half of the year and going in 2013.
So what we've said is the last half of the year at 300 000 that will be 1.2 plus running rate.
So if you put 300 000 go across plug in 1.2 that's the running rate that we believe we'll be at going into 2013.
So let me now change this topic here to how we're going to deliver on this.
We have consolidated our product development and we've also consolidated the support for that product development into one place.
We're sitting in it in Lisle and we believe now it's time to consolidate the businesses into one.
So what we're doing on the consolidation of that is we're going to take Truck we're going to take Engine and we're going to put -- and take Parts and roll them up into one.
There's so much integration related to that that we believe it's time to capitalize on that and execute.
So we put an organization structure together bent on execution bent on leaders that have already been successful in various aspects of what they've done in their career and let's start with Troy.
Troy Clarke joined us a couple of years back.
He was president of North America with General Motors.
Prior to that he had built up a successful Asia Pacific business which falls flat.
Really that's what we brought him in for is to help us with our global strategy and he's certainly done that with us.
He's very successful in building the General Motors Asia Pacific business and still successful today as perhaps many of you know.
Troy's background he's an engineer but he's got an operations bent to him.
And we're happy to have Troy be the President of our Truck and Engine business.
Next you'll see Jack Allen.
Jack's been with us for his -- most of his career.
He's got an engineering background as well.
He's worked in sales and marketing.
He ran our Engine business a successful Engine business.
He ran our Parts business and helped grow that Parts business and he's improved substantially the profits of North America.
So Jack has also a record of success with us.
The other thing we're adding to Jack's responsibility is Parts.
So we're consolidating put Parts in there.
And the real thing with that is for the service side of it.
I think our people have shown that they can grow this Parts business and with this strategy in place that we'll continue to do that.
One of the things Jack brings is the service side of that with our customers to help them get good uptime on their equipment better than anyone else.
We all know Archie Massicotte and he's known as kind of the legend of our company at least in the Military business.
But before that Archie ran manufacturing for us for many years both in Engines and in Truck.
So we're asking Archie to have a dual role here: to keep -- continue to run our Defense business and also be in charge of our manufacturing.
So we have brought in a gal named Jan Allman.
You can see on the right-hand side of this there's Jan and she came from the automotive sector.
She worked at Ford.
She was responsible for manufacturing in many of the Ford product lines.
She also ran some engine manufacturing businesses.
So Jan brings a great background of the automotive type thinking and processes and qualities and I think with Archie helping her to a truck business here that's a good match for us to improve in all aspects of manufacturing and quality.
And we also many of you know Bob Walsh so obviously we're going to count on Bob more and more to help Archie run both of these sectors.
Then there's Eric Tech.
Eric joined us about 6 ago he came from automotive as well.
He's background is engineering.
He has been running our Engine business and his particular successes have been growing the global business.
And in South America today we have $1 billion $1.5 billion business -- a $1 billion to $1.5 billion business over 150 000 units.
And he's very successful as well.
He has also been at the leadership of our feet first strategy of getting engines into our global businesses first.
So we've got engines first into India.
We got engines now into China which will help grow our Truck business.
So with that we're asking Eric to be our global business leader as well.
So his background certainly fits that and his results also would dictate he'll be very successful at that.
And then finally there's Ramin Younessi.
And Ramin's been us about 5 years now.
He came out of a competitor I won't mention their name but they're from Germany.
He's been in the industry for 20 years now.
People in the industry refer to him as Ramin and everybody knows who they're talking about.
There's no one that knows product better than Ramin although he declines he does.
Ramin brings a plethora of background into product development.
But we're also adding to Ramin's role purchasing and quality because really the design of the product and the integration of that with our supply base is important.
So Ramin has taken over those functions as well to help us drive costs and quality into all of our products.
So with that Heather maybe we'll turn it over to questions.
Operator we're ready for questions.
[Operator Instructions] We'll take our first question from Stephen Volkmann with Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I'm not sure where to start.
I guess the question is -- we'll start with the EPA engine certification.
You said in your Q that you resubmitted that I think in May.
Do we have any idea I guess what's the difference between what you submitted in February and what you submitted in May? And what are your views on when and if this thing gets approved and how much of that is kind of built into your second half forecast which is just a massive sequential improvement? Yes for sure Steve.
I think let's define what we did there.
In working with the EPA they asked us that there were some spots that they wanted us to modify and so we did that and we've been running tests on that to make sure that they meet all the requirements not just the EPA but our own requirements on performance et cetera.
And so we resubmitted that back to them and we're in the process now on working with them on getting that certified.
So that's where that stands.
Of course it's hard for since it's somewhat out of our control to tell you exactly the timing of any of that.
So I hope you can appreciate that.
But that's the process that we're in right now.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> The last time I guess we were talking about this you said that it would be sort of 3 to 4 months for the approval process so does that clock start again now in May? No of course not.
Again it's somewhat out of our control.
But no there's plenty of background out there now that it shouldn't take nearly as long.
I mean I could argue we should have been done with this but we're not.
So we have to go forward and get it done expeditiously.
We're all over the top of this every minute of every day as you can imagine.
And so now we're in that process.
In terms of your second question Steve you asked what's the second half.
I think it's got -- for us to achieve those goals I think we got to have this approved in a reasonable time frame here.
Not so much from the costs it's just the aura the -- I mean your question here affects us in the marketplace.
So we have to get this behind us over the next short period of time and get that aura and speculation that you and others have out there and get that behind us.
And that's -- in order for us to achieve the second half that's got to happen.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> So I guess that kind of begs the larger question which is sort of you can't control what the EPA does but you can control what you do.
And I guess the simple question is how long do you as CEO let this thing go on? I mean you guys are you losing market share? It's obviously starting to impact the core business the warranties have been off the chart so even what you got out there hasn't been working very well.
There are other solutions to this problem that are fairly simple and yet you guys just continue to kind of take these punches to the gut.
And as CEO I mean at some point you have to decide how long this thing goes on.
Well we're not losing market share Steve.
We're not gaining any.
And I think -- so we have to get this behind us and then we'll turn this around and get this stimulus going the other way.
And that's what our target is to have us distracted into something else is probably not conducive to the longer-term objectives.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> All right.
Maybe just a quick follow-up for A.J.
I mean at this point I think we have to assume that I mean you guys have some again massive numbers in the second half.
I think the credibility there is pretty close to 0.
I mean if we assume that things continue the way they're going right now and you continue to burn cash you guys are going to start to get pretty tight on your liquidity.
And I guess how do we think about covenants and revolvers and kind of what's available and sort of how long this thing can go on before everything falls apart? Okay.
Well let's kind of take those one at a time.
And I think volume in the first half we have been working through some quality issues and a little bit of uncertainty in the market.
We have the ability the quality issues are improving and customer satisfaction is improving.
We monitor that very closely.
So we expect those are the factors that'll drive higher volumes in the second half and allow us to sell product and be successful.
We do not have any maintenance covenants.
So our liquidity is presented on the page.
We have 700 -- just short of $700 million right now and as volume continues to flow through the second half that liquidity will remain sufficient.
Of course everything is contingent on volume.
So we have to sell trucks and we expect to be able to do that.
Recall that the majority of our volume and the profitability of our businesses are driven by medium and school buses and we expect both of those to recover in the second half and those are impacted by this EPA issue.
And our Parts business look at the page that Dan showed you on what we did in our Parts business in the second half of last year and what we'll do in the second half of this year.
And then of course the other part of our business that will grow in the second half is our Military.
So clearly the second half has a lot of moving parts to it.
They're not all contingent on the EPA.
And so that's why we remain confident in the forecast that we put out there.
And we'll take our next question from Henry Kirn with UBS.
Research Division</strong> You're 1/3 of the way into the third quarter.
Can you talk about whether the profitability trends have already shown any signs of improvement based on some of the changes you made? And then I know you can't give details but maybe some direction on how much of the path to profitability relies on defense and EPA certification time line? Well Henry here's what I said.
Say third quarter will be obviously better than the first half.
We're going to be -- we are a company that's back-end loaded every year and this will be no different.
But third quarter we will trend much better than in the first half of the year.
If you look at the trends in terms of our orders they continue to get a little bit better in terms of share.
And so we're starting to fill in the rest of the year to get some confidence in being able to achieve the goals that are out there.
But the fact's that we need to get this certification behind us.
I don't think there's any question about that so you can quit asking these questions and we'll have good answers for you.
And that's #1 objective right next to getting the vehicles repaired from early production and get the warranty passes as well.
Research Division</strong> And as a follow-up what have the customers been telling you about the importance of EPA certification in the purchase decision? Has the lack of EPA certification impacted your ability to get price? And do you have any view on how much demand is waiting for your trucks as soon as certification is achieved? Henry this is Jack Allen.
The way I would answer that is the customers that we're doing business with today they like the performance of the vehicles.
They like the fuel economy.
We're dealing with these dances with the early quality issues from our build.
These customers are really -- they're indifferent about the 0.2 certification.
But we're not satisfied with our market share.
We want to grow back to where our historical levels are.
And clearly the overhang of the EPA emissions is challenging us from being able to get back into a number of customers that we've traditionally done very well with.
And we'll take our next question from Tim Denoyer with Wolfe Trahan.
A quick question on medium duty.
One of your public comments recently said that the medium duty credits might be running out sometime in fiscal '13.
Can you talk about that just the strategy for additional EPA certification filings on the medium-duty engine line? And is something like solid-state SCR still possible for that? I mean there have been reports that's it doesn't work that quite well in heavy duty but is this still medium-duty option? Yes.
Henry I think what's submitted on the -- Tim what's submitted on that is an estimate of where we are today versus when we might have the credits run out there.
They're into next year.
In some cases they're out many more years.
We'll continue to work on lowering that to give us more time than that.
But at the same time we're making our engines capable of meeting that 0.2 in the timing that we need.
As far as EGNR it is definitely a technology that can work and it can work on our own products.
I would be remiss to say that we'll use it on that in the short-term not because of technical things it's just marketing influences so we're going to have to measure that on a longer-term basis but not likely over the next year when we bring that to production.
It is still a great technology and it's closed looped so it runs all the time.
So it meets emissions all the time probably only system in the world that does that.
So it's got a big value to us going forward but probably not the next year Tim.
Yes okay.
And then sort of a bigger picture Dan is it fair to view the organizational changes today as the beginning of a succession? Well clearly I think Tim what we would say to that is there are a bunch of old guys like me and Jack and Archie and Troy is old too.
So if you look through the rest of that chart and maybe down underneath that chart you're going to see many people that are in their 40s or early 40s to mid-40s that now have got the experience.
And the Archies of the world and the Jacks of the world have helped them develop and now they're ready for the next step.
And I think that's the case with Eric with A.J.
with Ramin.
There's another gentleman that you'll know more about Persio.
We have Bill Osborne on there.
We have Jan.
So it is indeed and you could some succession throughout the company is in our thought process.
So I think the answer to that at a high level Tim is yes.
And we'll go next to Patrick Nolan with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> A couple of follow-ups on the EPA certification.
It looks like you excluded the noncompliant penalties in the Q2 results.
Is that the case in the full year guidance as well? Yes we -- that's in the Reg G reconciliation.
We did that so that you could really step back and see the performance of the business without kind of these extenuating circumstances on it.
But that data is included in the back.
Pat maybe let me add to that.
We've also excluded anything that we might bring back on warranty.
So you could kind of get an ongoing business look at that.
So if we get the EPA accomplished here shortly of course that number will be very small.
And if not it's $30 million $40 million for the whole year I think is the rest of it.
If you don't get any approved at all and we have to use NCPs the number is $30 million $40 million.
And that's not in it but there's also no recovery in it for warranty which we do expect.
But it's hard to put a number on it right now.
Research Division</strong> And Dan based on your comments it seems like the backup plan as of now would be to just continue paying noncompliant penalties.
You're not starting to think about your alternatives be it adapting another company's liquid SCR be it bring in other engines be it using solid SCR.
None of those you're even going down the road as kind a backup plan to start thinking about what to do? Yes Pat I'd just make one comment to that.
I'd say that -- those are the kinds of things I think we need to keep for ourselves except for this.
We're going to have our own engines I think and our Class 8 products are going to be our own engine family so we should just think -- don't think of that happening now.
Should we look at other avenues on our long-term basis? We always do that.
But now you're talking about things that are kind of privy to our company and we'd rather not get into any of those.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
The $1 billion in Military revenue that you see kind of locked in going forward how do you see that breaking out between Truck and Parts? Yes let me -- a lot of that is services and Parts.
I mean there's a lot of services that we're providing right now.
But there's also a product that we're supplying into other foreign governments not just U.S.
So we are under contract with Canada as well as we're doing some work in Saudi Arabia right now.
So as we look in the future a lot of that is predicated on a lot of overseas spending in other governments.
Research Division</strong> And just last one last one for A.J.
Could you refresh us what do you believe is the minimum manufacturing cash level? I don't know that we've talked about a minimum manufacturing cash level.
I mean you've seen the cyclicality or I'll say really the seasonality of our cash from the end of the year to the low point can move as much as $500 million in the year.
And we'll take our next question from Jerry Revich with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Archie can you talk about which programs were impacted by the budget cuts this year and just update us on how much of this year's sales are on the rolling chassis upgrade and how much of that program do you have in fiscal '13? Yes.
The budget cuts that we got impacted by was primarily on the FMS side where we are supplying some of the cargo trucks the variants and other variants into the Afghan National Police and security forces where they have cut back on some of that procurement.
That's where we've seen the biggest impact on the schedule reductions.
On the rolling chassis side I mean we're every month we're building rolling chassis and now we're actually even doing the conversions in West Point where we're actually doing the integration of the body back on those chassis and then giving it back to the government.
So again if you look at the back end of the quarter is where Dan indicated where a lot of our revenues coming from are on those contracts.
Your second question is how much of that business continues? Well I mean that contract it goes well into '13.
And I believe there's another 1 300 to 1 400 units to go into '13 that's built into our plan.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And so if we're thinking about $600 million of that platform in fiscal '12 213 is that the way to frame it? In a ballpark yes.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And Dan can you just talk about the plan for higher production rates on the Truck side in the back half of the year and reconcile that with the order trends we saw in the second fiscal quarter? I think shipments outpaced orders by about 10% but we're talking about production levels picking up from here.
Can you just say more about is that inventory build or what are the underlying assumptions? Well our forecast for the second half of the year from a production standpoint really only calls for slight increases on what our production levels are mainly because you have the industry flattening out but we have a positive trend on share growth in both medium duty and the expectation that we're going to do better on heavy.
The last 3 or 4 months of order intake on both medium and heavy for us albeit the industry wasn't as stellar as we would like but from a share standpoint our incoming orders are greater than what our current retail market share is in the second quarter.
So that's what gives us the confidence for going into the second half of the year.
Research Division</strong> Yes appreciate the color Jack but on Slide 13 very good talking about for the industry as a whole orders and production rates coming down over the course of the year and even if you do pick up some shares it's going to tough to deliver the type of production growth that you have outlined on the Appendix slide for the base business.
Just wondering if you could say more about what's the underlying inventory assumptions are or the other drivers and so I'm looking at Slide 28.
Well let us grab Slide 28 then.
Jerry I don't know that in our production rate itself that that is much changed at all.
So maybe we need to understand the question better.
Research Division</strong> Yes so Dan on Slide 28 you're showing charge-outs rising from roughly 28 000 units in 2Q to about 43 000 in 4Q.
Yes so maybe we'll get into more detail on it.
But we have no down phase in the fourth quarter.
If you look at the blue I think you're looking at the blue section in there the global growth but North America and because of more days of production that will grow because of that but the rate's really not much different.
Right.
And our exports similar to last year will have much stronger export volume in the fourth quarter than we've certainly had in the first half.
So that's also a contributing factor to that growth in volume.
We again Page 28 is worldwide charge-outs and that includes not only trucks but buses and export and our global business.
So we're kind of mixing the U.S.
industry data with the global production outlook.
So I think Page 13 reflects our point of view on the U.S.
market.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And lastly I'm not sure if Eric's on the call.
Can Eric or someone talk about what the back half of the year margin targets for the Engine segment are assumed for the warranty to sales accrual rates and how should we think about that heading into '13? Yes this is Eric.
In the back half of the year we're continuing and we're making some very good progress on our cost reduction -- material cost reduction goals for all of our engines but especially in our big bore and that's really driven by the scale and the volume that we've achieved as well as bringing the castings here to North America from Brazil where we're able to improve our margins there.
As far as our accrual rates go as the warranty improves and we saw some of the trends in the deck we'll be able to improve the accrual rates on a CPU basis.
So we're very confident in our margin goals for all of our engines where we have a lot of focus on our heavy duty as you can imagine as it's a major contributor to our overall profitability.
And we'll take our next question from Robert Wertheimer with Vertical Research Partners.
I have 2 questions.
One is I mean you mentioned you're not gaining share you're not losing a lot but there's been some commercial impact from the 0.2.
Your margins even stripping out the warranty and other stuff are not great the quarter.
Have you lost several points of pricing due to this? Has there been sort of a damage that will take you months or quarters to recoup or is there -- is that not the case? We'll have Jack here Rob.
From a pricing standpoint the answer is no.
I mean that's not the issue that we have right now.
It's really when what you're looking at here is really an impact of mix in our business.
And from a different model there's less medium there's less bus.
The growth in the industry that we've seen in 2012 is primarily on the heavy side and it is primarily with a number of large customers.
So it's really what you're looking at is more a mixed phenomenon than anything else.
I guess without the SCR module you're saving thousands per truck so it seems as though you ought to be able to make better profits on that if there's not a lot of discounting going on? Yes Rob I think that's correct.
And I think all of the cost structure to get that in place is in the second half of the year.
And so we're getting the scale of that in our engine families and the scale of that on our vehicles.
So we're able to capture that in the 3% to 4% margin improvement for the second half.
Okay.
And if I can ask just -- sorry.
Your point's still right.
Okay.
A second question I know these numbers are pretty small and the actual cost overrun on the warranty side and I think you mentioned $6 million.
But you had done a pretty good job I think of explaining how it was contained to third shift on a certain I think it was a coding and then on a certain calibrations and geographies.
Was there a different issue that popped up or was it just a new population of trucks that popped up with the same issues that you didn't realize was out there? It's the same thing.
It's just when we go out and be aggressive on repairing these that'll increase the trend rate and the accounting of that has to be accorded -- recorded appropriately as to what that trend is which then tell us we think we're going to get some of this back.
As we repair all the vehicles it will start coming back.
But we said it would be coming back the last time so we're not counting on that in our results.
But certainly we believe that this will come down over time.
The other thing that happens to us is in the -- what we're recording in the reserve for warranty comes down on new vehicles when you prove that this is at this lower level as well.
So we booked as you noticed on this page $21 million or something for vehicles that were signed on extended warranty packages out there that are really several years still to be complete on it.
So as we prove that these are behind us that should come down as well.
Right.
I think just to build on what Dan is saying there is that with the charts that we showed that illustrates that our 90-day in service quality is improving as we accumulate more data on the newer engines we're able to rely more heavily on that data.
Absent that data we rely on the engines that are already in service.
So as the newer engines mature that improvement will influence the accrual going forward.
And we'll go next to Ann Duignan with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Dan could you tell us if your engine strategy is on the agenda for discussion at your next board meeting? All our products are always on our agenda Ann so...
Research Division</strong> Yes.
I just I guess I'm just echoing what Steve Volkmann said earlier.
Then a separate question.
I know you like to show the charts with the 350 000-unit market and you can generate $1.8 billion in manufacturing profits.
But you are telling us in this release that you don't anticipate the market getting to 350 000 probably not this cycle.
If you're not going to get there next year it's highly unlikely we'll get there the year after.
So why bother showing that chart anymore? Okay so -- fair enough Ann.
But what we have tried to show you is that at 300 000 we'll be at the 8% to 9% segment profit rate and that's going into 2013.
And we've said that next year we expect the market to be 325 000 to 345 000 which is on the low side of what some others feel it should be.
So I don't think it's too far out of the range of being on that for 2013 in fact going out of 2012.
Research Division</strong> Right.
But it looks like we're not going to get to 350 000 this cycle so kind of irrelevant.
I don't know if that's true or not.
Research Division</strong> Just on a separate note can you talk about the lawsuit that the industry has filed against the EPA claiming that the nonconforming penalties are not sufficiently punitive and what the outcome of that could be? I don't know if that -- the suit was that they had on order that they felt didn't go through the process on granting NCPs and they've questioned that.
At the same time -- so that was kind of an interim order so at the same time the EPA puts out and is working on a final order and they don't -- there's nothing that they can say about those.
They protest at the interim and who knows where that'll come out.
But the final one is up to the EPA.
So I don't know.
I think it's a moot point to be honest with you.
Research Division</strong> Do you have any idea when the timing for the EPA ruling will be? No.
I mean I -- it's their normal process.
It's one of those that we don't control on.
But I know is they're in the process of completing that so I would assume that it'll be at the same time or before any final ruling is from the court on whether the interim was legitimate or not.
So I think it's really a mute point.
And we'll take our next question from Andy Kaplowitz with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Dan or A.J.
can you talk about so you changed your BRIC forecast in terms of revenue.
How much of that was that like in places like Brazil you're sort of still building out.
You're the newcomer there to some extent on the truck side and so how much of that is sort of being the newcomer versus the actual markets as we go forward here? This is Troy Clarke on the -- with a response to your question.
Actually the majority of it from our analysis is in fact the headwinds that we face in the market with regards to the emission changes.
Typically when you enter a market like we did there's-- the first couple of points a share come rather quickly because you're the new kid on the block and you have a really good proposition and certainly a name like International Truck has a good reputation in that market already certainly with the -- and the backup of our MW I mentioned brand.
But in our particular case we lost right into this emission change.
The market over built and although all the units are in the dealers' hands then the dealers' orders for the industry have dropped off significantly while they're selling down their inventory.
But we anticipate that that'll happen throughout the quarter and then we'll be as the whole industry we'll be selling Euro V a little bit later this year.
One of the things that gives us confidence in the second half of the year that the volume will come back because of the Brazilian government as you probably know introduced about USD $8.8 billion worth of incentives into the market for vehicle purchases.
They readjusted the FINAME rate the financing mechanism upon which commercial vehicle purchases are made to make sure that that market -- and there's a lot of construction that's just taking place.
So the Brazil thing is really the market conditions and we'll work through it as basically the rest of the industry down there is.
The real key to South America for us however is really Latin America.
Latin America has a strong seasonal influence in the second half of the year.
And our deliveries were actually up in the Andean countries in Central America that's the area we call Latin America in the first half in our share with them.
And so we anticipate that that strong trend will continue to deliver.
And our production schedules those are mainly export products from North America our production schedules comprehend those higher volumes in the second half of the year.
I hope that got to your questions.
Research Division</strong> Yes I think so that's helpful.
And Dan maybe if I could ask Ann's question in a slightly different way.
You got a $20 billion revenue sort of strategic target that you've talked about for a long time.
Do you think -- and one of the things that I worry about is that there's just too many things that Navistar's trying to doing at once here.
And would it be beneficial to the company to sort of back up and sort of retrench in a sense and focus on some of the things that really matter maybe pulling out of markets or not building out as fast and maybe not having a $20 billion target and focusing more on profitability than that revenue goal? No that's a fair question.
I think the way we look at that is we're into the implementation stage the execution stage of that.
So if you look at our strategy of 1-2-3 so now all our products if you look at the difficulty of what we're trying to accomplish it's about the actions that we have to do.
And so now the products are in place.
A 1-2-3 meaning commonality between the products between even the countries and those things are behind us now.
Now it's the matter of the marketplace.
So what this reorganization structure will do for us is let us focus on the execution of those and get those things accomplished of all the work that we've put in place.
So I think that's what we have to prove for the rest of the year.
Research Division</strong> Dan how great a distraction is this certification process on you and the senior management? I imagine it's quite big.
I don't have -- there's no question about that.
It's a distraction for the senior management myself and others.
And so Andy that's why we are focused on getting that behind us and it's somewhat out of our control.
But we've got enough leverage here and things we can do to get that accomplished but I don't think there's any question it's a distraction for the senior management for sure.
And we'll take our next question from Seth Weber with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just want to go back.
I think I heard A.J.
say that used truck inventories were up but you're not worried about it.
I guess can you give us some color on that and why we shouldn't be worried about it? Sure.
I'll let Jack give you more color on that.
The large fleets that we've been buying significant amount of trucks in the first half of this year and really in the last year are finding ways to optimize our assets and trade the vehicles.
So it's really just -- part of it is just timing.
But the turnover of the used tracks in the marketplace continues to be strong.
So although the inventories are up the aging isn't something that we're worried about.
The margins are fine on these.
So we've built an infrastructure in place to be able to be a market leader in used trucks to be able to be a manufacturer that the fleets can count on as part of our value proposition for us to be able to take that to the market and that's what we're doing right now.
So we watch used trucks all the time.
It's certainly an area that can change dramatically.
But I'm not worried about our numbers.
And the biggest one is this: if you go back into the recessionary times here in the last number of years when you look at how few new trucks were built as we move into the next couple of years there's just not going to be a lot of 3- 4- 5-year-old trucks in the used truck market.
So the supply-and-demand phenomenon is going to continue to make I think the used truck market be robust for the next couple of years for sure.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And if I could switch back to the warranty chart on Page 8 I guess Slide 8.
So it looks like May has come down from April but it's still higher than the 1Q rate.
I mean so is it fair to assume that we're going to see another fairly substantial charge -- accrual here in the third quarter? No based on the data that we're looking at today and we looked at that May data when we developed the estimate for Q2 and stress tested that I can't predict the future.
But given the data in front of us and this is exactly what we look at we think that Q2 rate you can see it's below the Q2 rate.
So we're confident that that Q2 rate is sufficient going forward.
So maybe Seth just for clarification.
The reserve has been established based on that high rate that you see on the page here.
And I think what A.J.
was trying to point out is that at least for one month it's coming down.
We're not counting on that.
But for us it's got to go past the higher rate in order for the reserve to go up and we're confident in that it won't happen.
LLC Research Division</strong> Right okay.
I mean I think you touched on this before so it's just hard to get confidence that it's not going to tick back up but you guys seem to think that you have that conviction? Well I think that's why the chart in the lower right-hand side of that Page 8 is important because you can see that sequentially quarter-over-quarter the new engines that are going into the market are demonstrating better performance than the engines that we put out in the market in late 2010 and early 2011.
And we'll take our last question from Jeff Kauffman with Sterne Agee.
Research Division</strong> I guess really too at this point I think a lot have been asked.
Question one if I look at your share of the orders that the North American Class 8 excluding military market was you're down about 200 basis points versus last year about 9.4%.
If I add it all up with the military you're closer to 15%.
How do we average 20% to 22% share of the market if you're running roughly 15% 16% of the order flow? Are you thinking when the EPA mandate comes through that you're going to be representing closer to 25% of the market? Jeff I don't know where those numbers are coming from.
But our orders share is a little bit higher than what our -- as Jack pointed out it's higher than our retail share right now.
And I always worry about orders because if you look back at the orders the relative accuracy of orders you could question over time if you look that the order rate for the last 2 years the industry should be about 450.
So we can't tell you what goes into those orders.
All we can tell you is what ours are.
And even based on those past practices our order rate is higher than our retail rate right now.
So we have to understand where you're getting this from and I think...
Research Division</strong> Okay I can hit you off-line.
But it's normally within 100 basis points of what you do.
Last follow-up if I take military out of your Truck business it looks like your units are up about 10% and your revenue per unit is up close to 13% which is actually very positive.
Can you help me bridge those numbers to the Truck profit excluding military being down about $60 million? And this is adjusting for the table you put in the back.
Recall that commodities are up year-over-year.
Yes I'll have to -- I want to point out commodity costs are higher year-over-year but we can get together off-line and go through that.
Thank you everyone.
That concludes our question-and-answer session.
At this time I would like to turn it back to our speakers for any closing remarks.
I just want to thank everybody for their participation and we'll be available after this call for your questions.
Thank you.
Thank you everyone.
That does conclude today's conference.
We thank you for your participation.
Good morning and welcome everyone to the Navistar International Corporation Third Quarter Earnings Release Conference Call.
Today's call is being recorded.
For opening remarks and introductions I would like to turn the program over to the Vice President of Investor Relations and Financial Communications Heather Kos.
Please go ahead ma'am.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us for Navistar's Third Quarter 2012 Conference Call.
With me today are Lewis Campbell Navistar's Chairman and Interim Chief Executive Officer; Troy Clarke our President and Chief Operating Officer; and A.J.
Cederoth our Chief Financial Officer.
Before we begin I'd like to cover a few items.
A copy of this morning's press release and the presentation slides that we will be using today have been posted on our Investor Relations website for your reference.
The non-GAAP financial measures discussed in this call are reconciled to the U.S.
GAAP equivalent as part of the appendix in the slide deck.
Finally today's presentation includes some forward-looking statements about our expectations for future performance.
Actual results could differ materially from those suggested by our comments made here.
For additional information concerning factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected in today's presentation please refer to our most recent reports on Form 10-K and 10-Q and our other SEC filings.
We would also refer you to the safe harbor statement and other cautionary notes disclaimer presented in today's material for more information on the subject.
And with that I'll turn the call over to Lewis.
Thank you Heather and good morning everyone.
Many of you know me from my days at Textron and I'm really looking forward to working with each of you again.
I am probably new to most of you however.
So I hope to get out in the next month or 2 to meet as many of you as possible.
Probably on your mind this morning is you're probably wondering how I landed here at Textron -- Navistar.
I knew I'd say that.
I've only been at Textron for almost 18 years.
So I'd like to take a moment to explain.
After retiring from my former company I recently received a call saying that I was being considered for the job here at Navistar.
I was obviously very surprised to get the call but I was very intrigued by the opportunity to join what I believe to be a very important American icon.
You know there are not many times in life that you can come into a company with such a rich history and have the opportunity to help a great team shape the future in an important way.
So after a lot of careful study consideration and due diligence I agreed to come onboard.
And it's an honor to be given this opportunity.
And you can be assured that I am and will continue to be 110% committed to Navistar our leaders and our employees our dealers and our business partners and most importantly to our shareholders.
My wife and I actually finalized an offer on a home here in the area over the past weekend.
So as they say in poker I am all in.
Look there's no doubt that we have as some would say some really big boulders in the stream.
But as you can imagine I did plenty of due diligence.
And while there are a host of issues that need to be resolved there was nothing I felt was unsurmountable when deciding whether or not to pursue this opportunity.
In fact regarding the issues we face I was pleasantly surprised how well the experiences and sometimes scars I received at GM and Textron have prepared me to tackle the challenges we face.
And on the positive side what I learned in this due diligence process is that we have a strong management team with good operations great products and a strong dealer network.
I think we can all agree that Navistar is a great company.
I believe that Troy Clarke is the perfect choice to be our President and Chief Operating Officer.
I was also pleasantly surprised when I got here to find out that Troy and A.J.
and their teams had already begun work on each of the critical issues we face.
And we are already finalizing a strong 18-month operating plan that we'll be putting in place throughout the balance of Q4 and I believe we'll have the proper metrics including ROIC put in place to help ensure our success.
But I do believe we have to accelerate the pace of progress on the improvements needed so that we can quickly resume our rightful place as a profitable leader in the industry.
Let me emphasize that North American truck engine and parts are our core businesses.
They will get the lion's share of focus for the foreseeable future.
And while the fundamentals of the plan are there we need to sharpen our focus so our plans become a reality.
I've broken down our plans into 6 key areas.
First improving quality.
Quite simply we need to step up the pace and address our problems as quickly as we can.
Troy and A.J.
will talk more about that in a minute but basically we have to be known in the future as the highest quality truck producer on the road.
Second great products.
This company is blessed with many great products.
The ProStar is a phenomenal truck.
You can be sure that we intend to continue to develop leading-edge products that will truly satisfy every one of our customers' needs.
But let me pause for a second.
We had a great idea with our EGR-only emission strategy and while some would say we came very close it didn't work out as completely as planned.
Obviously there are a lot of great trucks on the road today using that technology but for the future we know exactly what we need to do to implement our SCR-based clean engine transition.
We're dedicated to hit each of our launch target dates.
And we believe that as we begin to implement our clean engine strategy we will begin to regain our rightful market share and eventually add to it.
Third point we will be increasing our focus on customer satisfaction.
Now there's already some great work underway here.
As a matter of fact the integration efforts at our new Lisle Illinois campus has gotten people focused on processes that actually has a promise to yield possibly the best customer service in the industry.
We also plan to rededicate ourselves to our dealers our business partners and our customers.
We know that when they're truly satisfied winning is just around the corner.
Next improving our cost.
We need to get our costs in line with revenue with the central focus on return on invested capital.
Volumes haven't been where the company or the industry thought they would be.
But be that as it may we intend to spend the next 2 months finalizing concrete plans to return to profitability as soon as possible.
We know we need to lower our breakeven point for example.
We are almost complete with our voluntary separation program and reduction in force across the corporation.
This is a bit early for us but we have to step up the pace on other big cost drivers like material costs and discretionary spending both of which I believe offer opportunity for much further improvement.
A.J.
and Troy will talk to you about these initiatives in more detail in just a moment.
Fifth one of my favorites instilling a sense of urgency.
The faster we work on our problems the faster we'll get them fixed.
As you'll hear from Troy we're launching a review of all of our businesses to evaluate their potential to drive long-term profitability and significantly improve our return on invested capital.
In addition by removing these initiatives that will not contribute to a strong ROIC improvement the team has more time to spend on improving our core businesses.
And finally people.
I was so pleased to see that our people are becoming more engaged energized and enthused as they do their work with perfect integrity.
I've been out meeting as many people as I can this past 1.5 weeks and I have to tell you that people at Navistar are top notch and ready to go.
I am confident that with a clear plan and unbending leadership focus they will help our leadership team deliver the results that I believe we're capable of.
To ensure that we stay focused on the right objectives and that we hold ourselves and our teams accountable for meeting these objectives we have just announced this morning a formal senior and executive leadership structure.
This will allow me Troy and our other top executives to have much more regular and direct access to our plans our commitments and our accomplishments going forward.
And if we see an issue that's not on track we will act with urgency and speed.
Let me emphasize one more point before I wrap up.
We've been able to take I think one big question mark off the table.
With the EPA final rule set to take effect in the Federal Register we now have clarity on the transition to our clean engine strategy in 2013 which as you know includes a strong new business relationship with Cummins.
We've been fortunate enough to have business relationships with Cummins for decades.
Last week I actually spoke with Tom Linebarger the Cummins Chairman and CEO.
During the call we both fully committed to our SCR implementation timetable.
And in fact Cummins has already agreed to ship us 300 ISX 15L engines 15-liter engines in November for customer installation and we already have customers lined up to buy those trucks before year end.
So let me conclude by saying we know we have a lot of hard work in front of us.
We will be increasing our focus on the 6 areas I just mentioned and as a matter of fact any other area that we need to put more attention on to get us back on track.
And we will be using return on invested capital to drive our decision-making process going forward.
We already have many plans in place to remove the boulders out of the stream but I'm sure more effort will be needed as we dig further into the details.
We do all this with the full intention to increase shareholder value not only for next year but for the years to come.
In fact I believe you will begin to see meaningful progress quarter-by-quarter beginning in our 2013 fiscal year.
And as I said at the outset I am honored to have the opportunity to be at this great company and I will work tirelessly to see the time when all of you join me in recognizing our greatness.
With that A.J.? Thanks Lewis and good morning.
The results for Q3 are in line with the ranges that we previously provided so let's take a look at some of the details.
Revenue for the quarter is $3.3 billion or 0.3 higher than our guidance.
This was driven primarily by changes in mix.
For the quarter North American chargeouts were 18 600 units which was driven primarily by lower industry demand and lack of recovery within market share.
Revenue from our defense business was $253 million.
We remain on track to achieve our goal of $1.1 billion of revenue for the full year.
Export for -- export volume of trucks was 3 000 units.
The volume of exports is higher year-over-year but is below our original estimates and the mix of vehicles has shifted from heavy-duty to medium.
OEM engine shipments primarily from MWM and South America were 31 600 units which is 11 000 units lower than our original forecast.
The penalty for NCPs in the quarter was $10 million.
Warranty expense for the quarter was generally what we expected.
Spending was within the range of our estimate and the frequency of repair data continues to track with our forecast.
We did make a $28 million adjustment to prior-period warranty primarily related to fuel campaigns that we initiated.
We also received a vendor recovery relative to warranty of $10 million netting $18 million for the prior-period warranty expense within the quarter.
As you can see we had a sizable adjustment to income due to taxes.
This change is driven by lower overall income from jurisdictions like the U.S.
and Brazil.
In the second quarter we estimated that the tax rate would be 4% to 5% for the full year.
This was driven by our previous forecast which had within it offsetting jurisdictional gains and losses.
The impact of this dynamic was a low effective tax rate which was trued up in Q2.
As the forecast has shifted these offsets no longer exist and thus the effective tax rate has increased reflecting a more blended overall rate.
This has been trued up in Q3.
For the remainder of the year you should use an effective tax rate of approximately 38%.
Comparing this year's results to last year for the third quarter revenue was lower by $200 million resulting from lower North American chargeouts of 1 500 units which is offset by increased pricing actions within North America of $26 million lower OEM Engine deliveries of 10 300 units and lower defense-related revenue of $87 million.
Year-over-year the adjusted segment profit has decreased by $136 million.
Within our Truck segment profitability has declined by $73 million after adjusting for non-GAAP items like engineering integration.
This is driven primarily by lower defense revenue which we previously discussed; lower contribution from our global business primarily in Brazil and India; lower truck and bus deliveries within North America; higher product development expense; higher material costs not completely recovered through pricing; and offset partially by year-over-year manufacturing cost improvements resulting from our restructuring plans.
Within the Engine segment profitability has declined by $66 million excluding the impact of NCPs and engineering integration costs.
The significant pieces to this are lower contribution from MWM higher material costs higher warranty costs and lower overall volumes within North America truck and bus.
Corporate SG&amp;A is higher year-over-year due to higher -- to increased health care costs which have been partially offset by cost reduction activities implemented during the fiscal year.
Let me take a minute to talk about NFC.
Even though the profitability is lower year-over-year at NFC NFC continues to have an excellent year.
Portfolio quality is very good and available capital remains strong at $745 million.
Recently NFC completed several transactions in the market that have improved overall available capital including a deal that supports the funding of exports through Bancomext in Mexico.
We also renewed our wholesale facilities during the month of August.
Turning to Page 8 the parent company did complete the funding of the term loan facility on August 17 so we are showing cash on a pro-forma basis and it included at the bottom of the page a forecasted range for year-end manufacturing cash of approximately $950 million.
This shift in cash flow versus our typical fourth quarter is unusual.
We do expect the softening in the North American market to continue.
Thus volumes will be lower in the fourth quarter and this will have a negative impact on working capital of approximately $100 million.
I believe the overall consensus is for the market to expand from these levels as we move into 2013.
Thus we should expect working capital to improve as volumes increase.
Within our defense business we are finalizing the terms of our rolling chassis contract which is taking longer than anticipated.
While these vehicles will be delivered on schedule collection of the receivable is likely to carry into fiscal Q1 thus consuming working capital in Q4.
This has pushed approximately $100 million to $150 million of cash into Q1.
As you can imagine our team is laser-focused on finalizing the terms of this contract in order to collect this receivable as quickly as possible.
If successful some of these collections could be pulled forward into Q4 thus improving our year-end cash position.
With regards to our cost reduction efforts we anticipate $50 million to $75 million of onetime cash expenses associated with our headcount reductions which includes severance costs and other contractual obligations to occur in the fourth quarter.
We have estimated that these cost reductions will save approximately $70 million to $80 million annually and are part of our overall plan to reduce our cost structure by $150 million to $175 million.
When we step back and analyze where we are with cash taking into consideration the current market dynamics our restructuring actions the shift in engine emission strategy and the corresponding transition plan we believe we have adequate cash reserves to fund our business going forward.
In anticipation of the term loan we developed multiple stress-tested scenarios in order to understand the impact on cash.
And of course the biggest driver of this is volume.
Not only does it drive earnings but it has a significant impact on working capital.
With the revised Engine strategy and the shift to SCR which includes the introduction of the Cummins 15-liter engine coupled with the performance of our vehicles we expect that our market share will recover and that we will return to profitability.
But this will take some time.
Until then cash management will be very important.
With that in mind we are taking actions to improve our cash flow.
First we have reduced our capital spending and have curtailed many investments primarily within our global strategy.
Second we have reduced our SG&amp;A and we will reduce this further going forward.
Finally we have redirected our product development resources to focus primarily on the clean engine SCR strategy and curtailed investments on other projects in an effort to reduce our product development spend.
To summarize we did anticipate this situation with our cash that is why we added additional capital when we did.
As you've noticed we have not provided specific guidance on earnings at this time.
Precision around the industry volume remains uncertain.
And as Troy will detail later we are examining many elements of our business and will make decisions regarding these in the fourth quarter.
The exact impact of these decisions may have on our accounting is not yet known.
So we think it's best to let these facts solidify before providing any additional earnings guidance.
I believe we are taking the correct actions to improve our business.
And with that I'll let Troy take over and talk about those actions in greater detail.
Thanks A.J.
and good morning to all.
Some months ago we began to develop a plan to address Navistar's key challenges.
And within the company that has become known as our drive to deliver.
And I'd like to share some of the highlights of that plan with you today.
They say that a picture is worth a thousand words.
If you look at Page 10 in your deck you will see that our drive to deliver is about clear P&amp;L accountability across our business units.
But looking on the left side of the chart it's also about a stronger emphasis on the functional excellence necessary to improve the performance of our businesses: excellence in areas such as material procurement quality manufacturing and the other key drivers of our business results.
Moving to the next page.
As we develop the plan it became clear that it was important to focus on first things first and act on those things quickly and decisively.
So listed here are the actions that we've already taken.
As indicated we defined an SCR-based clean engine strategy.
We conducted several conversations with the EPA and CARB to ensure that we could have a clear path to certification that works with our transition timing and that recognizes the important role that the availability of NCPs and credits play for the next several quarters.
To further reduce risks during transition we've reached out to a company that we know and have done a great deal of business with over the years Cummins to supply the SCR emission solution for the MaxxForce 11- and 13-liter engines and to include the Cummins ISX 15-liter as an option to supplement our on-highway product offering.
This allows us to hit the pause button on further development and spending on the EGR emissions approach and we'll step back to determine the role that this technology may play in our future portfolio.
On Page 12 let me talk about the progress on our clean engine strategy.
This is something that we have referred to in the past as ICT+.
With the EPA final rules now in place we have a path to support MaxxForce 11 and 13 sales using NCPs for the majority of the U.S.
We will continue to use our emission credits in California and the other 9 states that follow the CARB regulation.
This provides to our dealers and customers assurance on the availability of product during the entire transition period.
The first MaxxForce 13-liter power trucks with SCR after-treatment will be delivered to dealers beginning in April 2013.
For ProStar+ with the Cummins 15-liter we already have orders for the first 300 units.
And these initial 300 units will be delivered by the end of December with full production beginning in January 2013.
As we continue to work our plans what started as a turnaround effort has evolved to become the basis of our 18-month operating plan covering the balance of 2012 and fiscal year 2013.
Turning to Page 13.
This plan reflects an intense focus on our North American core truck engine and parts business and the willingness to do whatever it takes to ensure our successful return to profitable leadership in these markets.
As an important part of this undertaking we are evaluating all parts of our business using a return on invested capital strategic assessment model.
We're going to make decisions about the future of our business using a disciplined process and we're going to communicate those decisions as appropriate.
We have accelerated efforts to right-size our cost structure and have implemented changes to the organization so that we can be faster more efficient and more focused on the decision-making required to drive progress.
Actions are already underway to reduce material costs; improve our quality; more effectively utilize our manufacturing capacity; reduce costs which includes SG&amp;A and other product development spend; and increase our market share.
On the next page #14 this is the traditional market share chart that we've shared in prior quarters.
As you can imagine there's been a lot of noise in the system and you can see that it has impacted our market share.
And as you know share in this business can be sensitive to the movement or lack thereof by just a few big customers.
Truth is that some customers have been waiting on the sidelines to see how our interest strategy develops.
The good news is that our progress in recent weeks including our clean engine strategy and the EPA final rule helped remove that uncertainty and positions us to begin rebuilding our medium- and heavy-duty market share leadership.
Turning to Page 15 I'd like to make a few additional comments about the return on invested capital base analysis that I referenced earlier.
It's really a pretty simple concept.
We're taking a look at all of our businesses outside of our core North American business and making an assessment as to both their strategic fit and their current and anticipated return on invested capital.
Obviously in the businesses where there's a great fit and the returns are there we're going to continue to invest in those pieces of business and we're going to grow.
At the other end of the spectrum those businesses that have a marginal or low strategic fit and are not providing adequate return on invested capital or forecast to do so we're going to fix them or they're going to become candidates to divest.
We don't intend to present a chart with specific businesses listed in each file but I do anticipate that in the future we could show you where portions of our revenue fall in the chart so that we can demonstrate the status and progress of this process.
Next Page 16 overall cost reductions are on track.
We began with the effort to create an appropriate cost structure based on realistic volumes and factoring in NCPs or the cost of those into 2013.
We know we needed to look for ways to offset those NCPs in our cost structure along with resizing our product program spending to a more affordable level.
As an example of that we set that target to reduce costs by $150 million to $175 million per year from our Q3 spending levels.
We supported that with a voluntary separation program which is complete and approximately 500 people are in the process of leaving the organization.
And we anticipate an additional reduction of force around 200 people that will be completed in the fourth quarter.
These 2 actions taken together account for $70 million to $80 million of our planned reduction.
Other actions such as reducing direct material spend have been identified.
And we will be implementing those in the fourth quarter to deliver on this target.
Next Page 17.
So if I can just wrap up the third quarter some significant actions have taken place to put us on a positive trajectory.
EPA's final rule gives us clarity and certainty on our transition plans to the clean engine solution.
Our MaxxForce 11- and 13-liter program is on track for April 2013 and the ProStar+ with ISX15 will begin deliveries in December.
An affordable operating plan is being created when we can establish the focus on return on invested capital.
We will manage capital expenditures thoughtfully providing oversight and discipline on working capital as well.
And we have also begun to assess the noncore pieces of our business.
Our cost reductions are in process and we have a manufacturing capacity utilization assessment underway that we look forward to sharing with you in the future.
And finally we have several organizational changes we are working through to ensure we have the right people in the right places to drive these results.
In summation I'm very pleased with the progress that our teams have made.
We're going to continue to accelerate the speed and the urgency of these actions which will position us to deliver both short and longer-term results.
And I share Lewis' enthusiasm about Navistar being a great company and we are indeed excited about the future.
And I look forward to sharing our progress with you on these and other things in upcoming calls.
So with that I'd like to turn it over to Lewis for his closing comments.
Thanks Troy and thanks A.J.
Well at this point I've only spent 12 days here but as I said before this is a great company with super products.
Let me reiterate a few points.
I believe we have an opportunity to reexamine how we look at our businesses and make the necessary changes that Troy and A.J.
have talked about.
And let me point out that we recently reorganized to hold ourselves even more accountable to this great company and to you our investors.
North American Truck Engine and parts is the heart of our business and it will get the lion's share of focus for the foreseeable future.
By the way we intend to align our incentive metrics to have a significant portion attributable to ROIC for all of our bonus-eligible employees.
I want to complement Troy and A.J.
on their plans that they have already put in place.
And as I see it my role is to add a sense of urgency to everything we do.
I believe this will ensure that we are layer -- laser-focused on removing those big boulders in the stream as well as becoming more transparent to our investors.
And all of these actions should help restore our profitability and increase our shareholder value for years and years to come.
And I do look forward to meeting many of you in the near future.
With that I'll turn the podium back over to Heather.
That concludes our prepared remarks.
[Operator Instructions] Operator we're ready to open the lines.
[Operator Instructions] And we'll take our first question from Henry Kirn with UBS.
Research Division</strong> Could you give a little more detail on the expected cash burn over the next quarter? Sorry Henry you broke up there.
On the next quarter? Research Division</strong> Sorry.
Could you give a little more detail on the expected cash burn for the next quarter? Sure.
I think when you step back and you look at it you should expect that cash earnings will be negative which includes the estimates for our severance costs and our restructuring actions that we've taken we've put underway.
Working capital will be negative for the quarter as we talked about the impacts of volume within North America and the impact of the military receivables.
Now obviously if we can collect that military receivable that creates an opportunity to improve that.
We expect that we'll spend about $100 million in capital as we complete the projects that are underway.
And then we'll have some incremental pension and OPEB funding requirements within the fourth quarter.
But those are the big elements of cash flow in the fourth quarter.
Research Division</strong> That's really helpful.
And then as a follow-up can you talk a little bit about the hurdles for a business to stay in the portfolio? Any more specifics around the ROIC that you'd like to see in a business before you'd make [indiscernible] So this is not a new process to many of us.
So we've kind of seen this movie before and we know it can be accomplished.
Don't think of this as us selling off everything but North American truck engine and parts.
That's not the drill.
We have a lot of good initiatives underway and so we'll be working hard to understand why they aren't positively contributing to ROIC.
And I believe we'll make a lot of progress in those individual initiatives.
If there is an initiative however that we can't see our way clear to within reason get a positive ROIC versus our weighted average cost of capital then we'll have to take another step.
And hopefully there won't be too many of those.
But whatever it is it is.
And we're going to stay focused on this until we get that job done.
Would you add anything to that Troy? No.
I think that captures it very well.
I think we're refraining at this point in time from throwing out our hurdle rate.
It's really a process that I think a lot of the value is the analysis will tell us the kind of things that we need to be doing.
We'll go to our next question from Jerry Revich with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> [Audio Gap] on how you're thinking about the U.S.
engine business within your ROIC framework? It looks like the business lost call it $300 million per year over the past couple of years.
Are there any product lines that you'd consider in that exit bucket? Is that up for discussion at all? If you could just help us get a sense for how you're thinking about the opportunities or are you committed to maintaining the full range of product lines that you currently have? Well Jerry let me say this.
Integrated engines is core to our strategy and will continue to be so.
And so we've been careful to say that our core North American business is about truck engines and parts.
And that's what we still need going forward.
However within that portfolio of businesses because our Engine business is more than just a single engine and it's more than just the engine that goes into our truck there are pieces of that business that will run through this assessment our strategic assessment to make sure that the decisions that we made in the past are still the right decisions going forward with regards to the level of integration in the value chain as an example and what we purchase versus what we make.
So those things are all on the table all in an effort for us to make the right decisions to bring our business back to profitability and leadership as quickly as we can.
Research Division</strong> And I'm wondering if you could flesh out your organizational structure in a little bit more detail for us in terms of the changes versus the last time you announced the structure specifically you mentioned about a P&amp;L focus.
Just help us understand at which levels you're going to be allocating P&amp;L responsibility.
Well I think if I could just make a comment on that there will be a series of organizational announcements out.
I really don't want to foreshadow those on the call if I can.
But we'll make these announcements.
Many of them will be public.
Some of those are in fact reorganizing inside the company to put the right decisions with the right folks.
But if you can envision just to kind of give you a tip-off our business is about designing great products making great quality products selling those products.
And so with the left side of the chart #10 that I referenced a high degree of fidelity and emphasis on driving those 3 functions in particular again for the satisfaction of our customers and ultimately the satisfaction of our shareholders.
Research Division</strong> So functional focus just to make sure I am translating that right.
Yes additional emphasis on functional focus.
Yes let me add to that because I referred to this senior leadership team which is about a dozen folks.
We're not changing the reporting relationship out from under Troy.
So Troy will still have both of the big selling functions.
He'll also have -- we've also decided to move purchasing under Troy to get more focus on material costs.
He'll have engineering.
We'll see a much more clear line of sight between me Troy and the rest of the organization.
And we're doing this as quick as we can because we believe we can make better progress if we're all in the same room at the same time.
Our first meeting is Monday -- sorry Wednesday at 1:00.
And we're going to meet weekly until we get ourselves totally focused on taking this company where we want to be.
We've got a good operating plan too.
I was really pleased to find that in place or almost in place when I got here.
It's being developed and it will be finalized for our board meeting in October.
We'll take our next question from Stephen Volkmann with Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I'm curious whether you in part of your due diligence or even since joining the company have had any discussions with some of your larger shareholders and whether they're kind of on board with these plans or have had any input or feedback for you.
Well I have not had any conversation with them.
And in fairness if I had it wouldn't be fair to comment.
I will say this though.
Look there isn't anything I can think of anybody outside would want to do that we're not doing.
So if you want to take a look at looking at every single initiative we have in place to make sure it drives profit return on invested capital ahead of our weighted average cost of capital we're doing that.
We've got a very strong team in place.
We reorganized to make sure that the top 12 people in the company are marching in lockstep.
We've got really good handle on cash.
I don't know.
Maybe you guys can tell us the things you'd like to see us do differently but I don't know what else we could be doing.
And as I tried to say on the call when I was talking this company is a good company and the leaders already had put in place a pretty doggone strong operating plan.
It still needs a little more work and we may find a few more things we want to do but this is a good team and I think we're organized to win.
I really do.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay fair enough.
I'm wondering can I assume that the fourth quarter A.J.
is going to be the biggest cash burn quarter.
And that things kind of get better from there? I would expect so Steve.
But let's let that play out.
But we've done a lot of stress testing around our forecast going forward.
As you can imagine as we prepared for this term loan facility that we did last month that we did a lot of scenario planning and really looking at how long would it take to effect the change in the engine plan and where market share could go and what to do that.
So obviously I've been looking at a lot of various stress-tested scenarios on that.
I think our cash is adequate to bridge us through this transition plan.
And as we get this executed I expect market share will grow volumes will come back and cash flow will again be positive.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And then maybe one just quick one for Troy.
As you think about the change in engine strategy has that changed the way you think about the ultimate EBIT margin opportunity in the company? In other words when we're getting all the way through all these changes and we have some sort of a normal year in the market I guess you used to think of kind of an 8% to 9% EBIT margin opportunity for the overall company.
Has that changed given that you're going to have to pay I guess probably some more to suppliers and so forth? How do we think about that? Well I would say we haven't given up on that.
That I think is still directionally the goal that's in the right zip code.
As we work through I think the next 3 quarters in particular we'll have a lot more -- a lot better line of sight on our cost structure and the things that we're doing to modify that.
And then we'll have our new products in the market.
We still believe strongly that our products are very competitive offerings that should be able to demand a price in the market commensurate with the quality and service that they offer to customers.
So I would say we're not backing off on any direction or changing any direction in that regard at this time.
Lewis again.
So we -- I've made quite a bit of my comments today around return on invested capital and I don't take any of those back.
But we're not taking our eye off margins.
We're not taking our eye off EBITDA margins.
We know exactly where we want to end up because that's a strong measure of performance as well.
And we have a lot of emphasis on reducing our material cost which is the next big area I think of improvement.
And once we get the SCR components on our engines then there's other improvements we already know we can make going forward.
So stay tuned more are coming.
And we'll take our next question from Andy Casey with Wells Fargo Securities.
LLC Research Division</strong> I guess I wanted to start out you have the goal to improve ROIC and refocus on the core truck engine and parts business and NAFTA.
Can you discuss the return to profitability? I mean both in the near term you're addressing current unprofitable NAFTA performance in what has been an above-normal volume market.
And then looking forward you're likely facing higher supplier-related costs related to the Cummins and the increased content next year.
On that supplier costs can you kind of give us some buckets? How much do you think is going to be covered by increased pricing and how much of that really needs to be offset by core cost reduction? Let's try and tackle those a little bit at a time okay Andy.
I think as we go forward the things that we've done right now is really looking at the size of the overall corporate structure and taking action to reduce that going forward.
So I think as that plays out into 2013 that will have a positive impact on the business.
Clearly we're going through a transition plan here of modifying our engine strategy and integrating the SCR components into the trucks.
And that does come with additional material costs.
I think that will have a better -- I think that will also -- let me just be clear here -- that eliminates the NCP penalty that we're currently paying on those engines.
So going forward that falls off.
Then I think on a more long-term basis I think you step back and you look at things like a better manufacturing strategy that will drive costs out of the system.
You look at the opportunity to eliminate some of the quality concerns that we've had going through this year.
And then even beyond that I think there's cost optimization around integrating the Engine and the truck and the SCR system in a more effective manner that will take true material costs out of the system.
So I think those are the key elements that drive us back to profitability.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay if I could follow up on the internal core cost reduction.
In the release you talked about $150 million to $175 million from the run rate of the first 3 quarters.
In the first 3 quarters though you had previously discussed things like engineering integration and so forth.
Could you give us kind of a net what you expect 2013 cost reduction relative to 2012 would be? That is our -- our stated goal of $150 million to $175 million Andy is just pure cost reduction year-over-year.
Go from our third quarter annualized run rate.
Next year our objective is to reduce that run rate by $150 million to $175 million.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then lastly the longer-term question how do you suggest we should view the underfunded postretirement obligations as it relates to ROIC and cash allocation especially as I look out to 2014? You have a fairly large convertible debt obligation coming due.
Well I think all of those items need to be taken into consideration.
When you look at the unfunded pension and the OPEB those require about $180 million drag on earnings.
So as we can improve those and reduce that drag that's an opportunity to improve overall results.
I'm going to withhold commenting on what we're going to do around the 2014 refinancing until we let things play out a little bit further.
We'll take our next question from Robert Wertheimer with Vertical Research Partners.
So Lewis I wanted to ask about your comfort level as you did your due diligence and then I guess stating what's your insight on the 13-liter in April.
Obviously it seems to be very doable but it's an accelerated time line it may come with trade-offs on how much work you can do on calibrations et cetera.
So just how did you get comfortable with that? Are you already working with Cummins on it or is that to start when the final agreement is signed? And what's the risk around it? Well let me go backwards.
We [indiscernible] are already working with Cummins.
You can bet your [indiscernible] on that.
And we have a pretty clear line of sight as best I can tell before I came to the company and then after I've been here.
That's been -- one of the most important things we can do is to get this SCR technology into our product line as quick as we can.
We know which engines to introduce it first on.
We know what we have to do.
We've got a plan in place that allows us to accelerate the necessary certifications that we need.
We've got some more work to do there.
But we wouldn't have reconfirmed that timing on today's call if we had a doubt that we weren't going to make that timing.
And we're going to spend one heck of a lot of time on it weekly to make sure that all of our dates are hit.
We like the ISX 15-liter a lot.
And so it coming in right now is a big plus.
And so -- I mean as best as I can tell you we've had a lot of long sessions on it we're going to hit our dates.
Excellent.
And just one other quick question on what else you found as you were coming to the company.
Any core concerns? The warranty issue obviously had popped up and it looks like it's settled in a bit although you still did have a prior-period adjustment as opposed to maybe a reversal of experiences and it's not expanded to a wider pool of engines.
So I'm just curious what else -- if you look at the internal warranty data and are comfortable on it if anything else may pop up for concern? We have had a couple of meetings on that.
I've only had about 12 days here.
But I understand warranty well.
I've got some experience on that from my prior life.
So I think it's good news that our warranty expense is much less this quarter than it was in the prior 2 quarters.
So we have gotten some things behind us that we needed to get behind us primarily related to the EGR valve system.
I'll just call it that for now.
Those problems also tend to get better as we move SCR onto our engines.
So that's a plus.
We will have a very detailed approach to eliminating warranty defects and starting to get some metrics in place like defects per thousand and defects per million [ph].
And that in turn usually results in much more improvement in our overall warranty costs over and above what we accrue each time we sell a truck.
The other thing I forgot to mention.
Some Steve and others may remember I'm a certified Lean Green Belt.
So lean is pretty important the way I think about running the business.
That's one thing I missed.
I saw a little bit about it during the due diligence.
But I was really pleased to see how much progress that Arch and Troy and others have made in leaning out our facilities because that also brings a lot of profit to the bottom line as well.
I hope that answered your question.
We'll take our next question from Brian Sponheimer with Gabelli &amp; Company.
Inc.</strong> Just a question first on how you as a company expect to sell your fleet customers and your dealers on SCR after 4 years of a fairly highly combative ad program against SCR? And do you anticipate having to do anything unusual regarding guaranteeing residuals in order to provide some greater comfort to your customers? Hey Jack.
Jack Allen is here with us.
I'll throw that ball to you.
Sure Brian I'll take that question.
We have had significant conversations with all of our major customers about our strategy of moving from our current technology to SCR.
And the bottom line is this really goes back to some of the earlier comments that were made about our ProStar product.
We're confident today that either with an EGR engine or with an SCR engine ProStar is the most fuel-efficient truck on the road today.
The drivers like it.
And so the customers that we have today we will transition them into our SCR product.
Now we believe that we can demonstrate because of all the work we've done on EGR in the past and because of the inherent fuel economy of the vehicle that we can just demonstrate a competitive advantage.
And we're just moving forward with these customers.
We're not looking back over the last 4 years and rehashing the situation that we're in.
The reception's been very positive.
We're talking to more customers today than we ever talked to before about our newly constituted product line.
Customers continue to be interested in the 13-liter.
And now we have a broader base and they're also interested in the Cummins ISX 15-liter.
So we're very bullish on what our opportunity to return to what we view as our right level of market share here throughout 2013.
Inc.</strong> And just shifting gears to defense you just -- you revoked your protest on JLTV after you weren't part of the down select.
How are you thinking about the military business as you're going forward? Is that a business that's potentially not part of this core North American business? Just some comments on that would be helpful.
Before Arch -- Arch is here too.
Before he speaks up look everything [indiscernible].
So there's lag.
And start right there and say we like the military business.
I'm personally very comfortable with it coming from where I came from.
But it's going to have to withstand the same scrutiny that the rest of our businesses are.
But I think it will but we'll have to wait and see.
Arch maybe some comments about the protest withdrawal et cetera.
Yes we did evaluate where we stood within that protest and both from the cost side and what we would gain from where we saw it going forward and how we would benefit from that protest we opted to pull out.
I mean the government made their selection they went down the path.
They marked the 3 that were successful.
But there's another bite at the apple.
It's not the end of the day for JLTV.
And we're reading things right now where with sequestration and everything else that's in play right now JLTV could slide out to 2020 before they see a production contract.
And that's public today coming out of some Congress congressional papers.
So we're not giving up on any of the business.
We have a solid business going forward into next year.
We do have line of sight on backlog that we're fulfilling for 2013.
And we feel very comfortable where we're at right now from a military business.
And we're still a key player.
One more thing I'd add these guys do have a good focus on this business.
They beat my former company on the MRAP.
So we were thinking they were pretty hot.
It's not unusual to lose a contract.
I mean I've seen that movie before.
We had to file a protest by Friday or not do anything at all and we wanted to get a look to see where we could do better in the future.
We had some ideas on that.
And so we're just going to go on down the road as Arch talked about.
We'll go next to David Leiker with Baird.
Research Division</strong> I guess first you put a little bit of insight into your slide deck as you'll -- with the chargeout that you're looking for Q4 down significantly from the old number.
It's down a bit sequentially from Q3.
If we take away the unusual items severance charges and things like that that would imply that from an operating performance Q4 looks similar to maybe a little bit worse than what we saw here in Q3 directionally.
Does that make sense? When you say operating performance what do you mean? You mean manufacturing segment profit? Research Division</strong> Yes that's probably the best number to look at.
Yes I think it's going to improve a little bit in Q4.
But you're on the right track David.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then secondly as we look at the capital structure and if you get some sense longer term of what your view is as a comfortable capital structure in terms of debt relative to equity or EBITDA.
And within that context the healthcare portion of that unfunded liability is a pretty significant cash outflow for the company.
And if there's any thoughts there of the ability to do a viva [ph] trust or prefund that and move that off to a trust-type structure as opposed to keeping it internal? Well I can't say too much about that.
I'm going to let A.J.
talk a little more about capital structure in a second.
But on that unfunded pension liability that was well available to look at before I came here.
And in conversations with the board and others I think we have a plan to possibly address that in a different way but I don't want to say too much about it.
And I think we'll work through that as we'll work through any of our other issues.
But that is an issue.
I mean it's on our plate.
It's not something we're kind of looking the other way and pretending it's not there.
We've got a list of 10 or 12 big things we're working on.
It's one of those.
But I think we'll work through that one.
I hope to -- plan to.
And David as it relates to the balance sheet I think you just have to take a look at the pension the OPEB and the overall debt level of the company.
And it doesn't take a long analysis to figure out that those need to be our priorities and that we do need to work diligently to improve the results of the company and to improve our cash flow and to reduce our overall debt level however you choose to measure that.
Research Division</strong> And I would suspect included in that is some willingness that obviously adding price in terms of using equity to reduce those liabilities? We'll look at everything.
But for right now I think we need to focus on turning around the results of the company and moving forward with that.
And so we'll take our next question from Ann Duignan with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> It's Mike Shlisky filling in for Ann.
Most of my questions have been answered but I just had a one quick one here.
I noticed in your filing today the cash flow for our product app and the 10 CARB states that could happen prior to the introduction of ICT+.
I was kind of wondering how important those 10 states are to you as a percent of sales.
Can you give us some kind of color as to how likely you are to hit any kind of gap before ICT+ is introduced? Those safe harbor statements are always tricky ones but if you ask anybody around this table today do we plan to miss and run out of credits? The answer is no.
We think we have plenty of credits in the CARB states to have time to implement the engines as we need to in the March April time frame.
It is possible because we haven't done it yet it is possible that something comes up and we have to slip.
And we don't have an infinite number of credits.
But -- and Troy can add something there too.
It is about to your question 20% of our market.
And those are good markets and they're markets that we typically do very very well in.
And I would just endorse the comments that Lewis has already made.
Research Division</strong> Okay just quickly to follow up.
I also noticed in the filing that you hadn't -- that some of your peers have filed an additional lawsuit to invalidate the NCPs from the interim rule.
I guess that's what you've already paid to date.
I'm not quite sure what they can sue for.
It's already been sort of produced and paid.
And I'm kind of wondering if you could tell us any -- what impact that might have on your cash or on your profitability were that case to be successful.
Actually you caught me unaware.
As of yesterday when I went home I am unaware of any legal action at present contesting any part of the NCP ruling.
That's a possibility that exists because 2 weeks ago the court unfroze while the interim NCP ruling was being -- had been ruled and was being sent back to the EPA the court unfroze the opportunity for our competitors to create additional legal actions against the EPA.
But I'm unaware of that anything else at this particular point in time.
I'm not saying that there is -- that there may not be anything out there.
That said these are legal actions toward the EPA.
At present we are complying with the letter of the law and intend to do so.
The EPA final ruling clearly states that there is no impact on the certificates of engines that NCPs have already been paid on and are already in Cummins.
I don't know if that gets to your question or not.
Research Division</strong> I guess maybe I could just take it offline.
It's definitely in your 10-Q today.
So we can talk about it later.
It's one of those potential risk items that there is a potential for a legal action.
But as Lewis indicated earlier I think in the spirit of the transparency that we're trying to create it is something that we had been tracking but it is not something that is an issue as we speak.
Remember what was -- what happened there.
The EPA they created rulemaking that was very much in favor by us because they didn't withdraw any certificates and reissue any certificates.
And basically in layman's terms increased the penalty going forward.
So the certificates are still going on engines.
And when the final rulemaking is complete we'll change our penalty from 1919 to 3775.
And down the road we go.
Since our friendly competitors would love to see us not sell trucks they may or may not try to sue the EPA.
I don't think they're going to get very far but that's just something that we hope they don't do and will just grow out of it.
We'll go next to Tim Denoyer with Wolfe Trahan.
We know that one of the company's biggest strengths is supporting products.
But if you hit the April target I think you'll probably have about 60 000 or 70 000 of the post 2010 13-liter engines with EGR only out there.
Can you help us understand roughly how many sort of put options or residual value guarantees you have out on them? And if this is having any impact on cash? I'll try and take that one.
Tim we don't have any -- every deal is different and every deal gets negotiated but every deal is accounted for on the balance sheet.
So there's a variety of things that -- elements that go into selling trucks whether that's trade-in offers or mezzanines against the fair market value lease or any other elements of that.
And all of those are accounted for against the original transaction of the sale and held on the balance sheet.
So I don't expect any impacts from cash on any of this.
The values of our trucks are holding up very well.
And so I don't think there's much there to be concerned about at this time.
Okay.
Can you give us a sense of how much you have on the balance sheet in terms of used truck inventory? Used truck inventory is ranging around $150 million at this time.
And we'll go next to Andy Kaplowitz with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> This is Vlad Bystricky on for Andy.
Just on the introduction of the Cummins ISX 15 engines can you talk about whether that will ultimately be available on all of your heavy-duty trucks? And sort of what percentage of your heavy-duty truck sales do you think will have the Cummins engine as opposed to your own 11- and 13-liter offering? Vlad this is Jack Allen.
Initially we'll introduce the ISX 15 in where we think will be the highest volume product which will be the ProStar.
But we'll ultimately add it to a couple of vocational models.
How do we think it's going to sell throughout the whole portfolio? As you look back in time the 13-liter market is rapidly gaining progress against the 15-liter market.
And actually today there are more 13-liters sold in Class 8 trucks than there are 15-liters.
So we expect that trend to continue.
But we believe that going forward our market share of the 13-liter market will be about equal to our market share of the 15-liter market.
So we think we can equally participate in either one.
And ultimately we'll be indifferent to whether -- to how that market plays out by having a broad product line that provides the engines in each [indiscernible].
Research Division</strong> And then what's your level of confidence around the April time frame for having the SCR after-treatment available? And what gives you that level of confidence that you have? Well as we have -- as Lewis indicated earlier this is something that we track on a daily basis.
We have a very detailed time line I would say as detailed as anything I've seen in my experience.
And I might ask Lewis to comment on that as well.
We have had on-site for several weeks co-located Cummins engineers who have actually done the task that we are doing actually put this particular SCR system on the back of somebody else's engine and walked it through the certification process.
So from the hundreds of line items that [indiscernible] level of detail I would tell you that it is a progressed [ph] program.
It is aggressive.
But it is not based on a whole bunch of Hail Mary passes.
It's based on a lot of good blocking and tackling and just lining things up that need to get done tomorrow and get them done.
So I have a high degree of confidence.
And from what we see today we'll be able to stay on our program.
Lewis you've seen some of the detail and you've walked through it.
I would ask you if you want to...
Obviously one of the first things I did and I'm an engineer by background so I kind of like this kind of stuff.
Anyway and I've spent time with the engineering team.
And because I knew that I was going to be on this call this morning and I wanted to assure myself just the way I look at things not the way necessarily anybody else looks at them I've been involved with a lot of product launches in my day.
And here's some stuff I found.
First everybody's focused on getting the job done.
I like the fact that nobody is trying to resurrect the technology that almost got us there but didn't.
We totally turned the page on that.
So everybody's refocused and rededicating to SCR.
And as Troy said the fact -- I thought -- I didn't know that we were -- had Cummins co-located and having them here -- they've been there done that already.
So we're not having a fresh bunch of eyes look at it and say "Geez I wonder how we can get that done." So for as much as we can see since I've been here I'd have to say Troy I'm pretty comfortable with the fact we're going to get this job done when we promised if not earlier.
And I'd like to turn the conference back over to our speakers for today.
Thank you.
I'd like to thank everybody for participating today and for any additional follow-up please contact myself or Randy Diaz and have a great day.
Thanks everybody.
Have a good one.
That does conclude today's call.
Thank you for your participation.
Good morning and welcome everyone to the Navistar International Corporation Fourth Quarter and Year-End Earnings Release.
Today's call is being recorded.
For opening remarks and introductions I would like to turn the program over to Vice President of Investor Relations Heather Kos.
Please go ahead.
Happy holidays everyone and good morning.
Thank you for joining us for Navistar's fourth quarter 2012 conference call.
With me today are Lewis Campbell Navistar's Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; Troy Clarke our President and Chief Operating Officer; and A.J.
Cederoth our Chief Financial Officer.
Before we begin I'd like to cover a few items.
A copy of this morning's press release and the presentation slides that we'll be using today have been posted on our Investor Relations website for your reference.
The non-GAAP financial measures discussed in this call are reconciled to the U.S.
GAAP equivalent as part of the appendix in the slide deck.
Finally today's presentation includes some forward-looking statements about our expectations for future performance.
Actual results could differ materially from those suggested by our comments made here.
For additional information concerning factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected in today's presentation please refer to our most recent reports on Forms 10-K and 10-Q and our other SEC filings.
We would also refer you to the Safe Harbor statement and other cautionary note disclaimers presented in today's material for more information on this subject.
And with that I'll turn the call over to Lewis Campbell for his opening remarks.
Thanks Heather.
Good morning everyone and thank you all for joining me on the call.
If you turn to Page 6 as a reference for my discussion this morning.
As you all know this morning we issued our fourth quarter and full year results.
And as you saw there was undoubtedly a lot in the ways of numbers which I think you can expect from a company that's going through such a rapid transition.
You can be sure that we'll take the time this morning to fully explain all the details and just as importantly address each of your follow-up questions after we finish our presentation.
At a high level I would characterize the fourth quarter as one in which we made good progress in many key areas but unfortunately served us some of the last lingering quality issues which must be eliminated to make our turnaround more successful.
Two points that I would put at the top of the list included a very strong ending cash balance and the start of our ProStar ISX launch 5 days ahead of schedule.
At the other end of the spectrum relative to the quality issue I just mentioned we discovered several weeks into November shortly after the quarter's end that warranty expenditures unexpectedly spiked up in October.
In fact a lot of today's call will be focused on what happened and specifically what we're doing about it.
But let me say this.
We aren't the first or the last company in this industry to experience something like this.
And although I was surprised I was not disheartened by this development.
I was surprised because our dealers and customers would be the first to tell you that our quality performance has steadily improved this past year and the trends are increasingly positive.
I've talked to many of them in recent weeks and universally they're very happy with our 2012 models.
Their increasing satisfaction reflects the fact that our repairs per thousand are steadily decreasing.
In fact these numbers have improved by 35% in the past year and are nearly best in class.
The fact is while our quality is improving the few issues that remain are much higher cost items.
Those of you that know me know that I've been steadfast throughout my career in my commitment to customer satisfaction and quality.
We have to incur the expenses necessary to do what is right for our customers.
By doing so we believe that this is an investment that pays off handsomely over time for our shareholders.
And remember key point every improvement we make today will be embedded in our new MaxxForce 13-liter SCR engines that we launch in April.
The size of our warranty reserve reflects our commitment to our customers who comprehensively address these issues through specific actions including newly designed parts put into production and replaced in various proactive fuel campaigns.
In a few minutes Troy will discuss our corrective actions in more detail.
The second big issue this quarter relates to the need for us to reestablish a valuation allowance against our deferred tax asset.
Per accounting regulations we're required to look back for 3 7 and 10 years on our financial performance.
As a result we found our historical losses outweigh our positive outlook for the company.
To be clear this is a non-cash charge and does not reflect our future outlook on the business.
A.J.
will provide more details about this later in the call.
Beyond the numbers during the quarter we continued to make progress on strengthening our North American core businesses while taking a disciplined return on invested capital approach to evaluating non-core businesses and product programs for potential sale closing or fixing.
We made the following progress since our third quarter call.
As you know we're closing our Garland manufacturing facility later this summer.
We're moving forward on selling our stake in our truck and engine JV in India to Mahindra &amp; Mahindra.
And finally we're discontinuing our 15-liter Engine.
As I mentioned earlier we also strengthened our cash position ending the quarter with $1.5 billion of manufacturing cash.
This reflects our strong focus on cash and A.J.
will give you more specifics later in the call.
So overall I'm very pleased with our efforts and results with respect to managing cash.
Turning to Page 7.
All in all we continue to make steady progress in our 6 key priorities including quality cost sense of urgency great products customer satisfaction and people.
Before we go to the details of our financial results and our drive to deliver planned milestones let me turn the call over to Troy Clarke to talk about the warranty charge we're taking in the fourth quarter.
Troy? Thank you Lewis and good morning to all.
Turning to Page 9.
As Lewis said before A.J.
takes you through our financials I'd like to provide some color about the fourth quarter warranty charge.
While the charge is higher than we expected it's important to reiterate a couple of key points.
One this primarily relates to 2010 and 2011 before engines.
And two overall our quality is improving.
As a matter of fact the story about quality metrics is a good one.
As you see on this page our data shows that fewer vehicles are coming in for repair in the first 12 months of service.
Dealers and customers are experiencing it and they are providing us with positive feedback.
Just last week 2 significant customers noted their satisfaction with our 2012 ProStar as they placed orders for several hundred more to be delivered in 2013.
And this was after both fleets evaluated several vehicles purchased earlier in the year.
They just liked the product.
What has necessitated the fourth quarter warranty charge is twofold.
First as Lewis told you the fixes for the remaining issues are costing more than expected.
Again it's not more issues just that the fixes are more expensive than anticipated.
And second as we continue to compile data for larger populations of vehicles in service a issue that was believed resolved with the earlier fix is not and requires more effort to put it to bed once and for all.
So if I could turning to Page 10.
Let me talk a little bit about the time line on this.
The 2010 engine launches have been an industry challenge.
And as our issues focus we evaluated and addressed them as quickly as possible.
During 2010 and 2011 new calibrations consistently improved performance and uptime.
In fact the majority of issues encountered have been corrected through updating calibrations.
But even after the calibration updates and other minor fixes over time we found that a few sticky items remain.
These issues are primarily bound on some of the more high-cost systems and are necessitating costlier hardware fixes.
Just one example of what we're talking about here.
We decided to significantly improve the design of the EGR valve.
The improved valve went into production engines on November 12.
And we will now do a field campaign for those engines already in the field.
The EGR valve was a critical component on all modern diesel engines and is at the top of the hit list of expensive fixes.
We have made several improvements to ours that fix the number of issues.
But at the end of the day we realize that we can invest a little more and put it behind us.
Not easy to make decisions like this.
It's costly.
It diverts our engineering resources from other programs.
But it's just the right thing to do.
Many other items are behind it and we've seen the positive impact on our daily warranty spend.
Without identifying specific issues 2 additional items that are part of the EGR system are similar magnitude and cost as the EGR valve.
One or both of these issues could require a field campaign which we may book in the future.
Once we validate the solutions we will make the right plan.
We'll do the right thing for our customers and our shareholders.
The bottom line.
Our trucks are getting better our engines are getting better and our customer satisfaction is improving.
Our customers really do like the vehicles and our goal is to keep their confidence and support their trucks.
So to our customers I want to assure you and our dealers that we will do what it takes to support your businesses and keep you satisfied with the performance of your international truck.
That is our top priority.
And with that let me turn the call over to A.J.
Thank you Troy and good morning everyone.
Picking up the discussion on warranty.
On page 12 for the quarter we recorded an adjustment to pre-existing warranties of $149 million bringing the full year total to $404 million as illustrated by the light blue portion in the chart.
For the full year warranty expense was $895 million which is approximately $400 million higher than cash.
For next year we expect warranty expense to normalize driven primarily by the actions and improvements Troy previously outlined.
Cash payments for warranty will be greater than expense for the next couple of years and this impact is factored into our cash forecast.
As I have stated before we review this data every quarter end and our accruals are tested to ensure we are properly recording the liability.
We confirm our estimates with third-party actuaries to ensure our estimates are reasonable.
Turning to Page 13.
As you may recall we foreshadowed the need to review the valuation allowance in our third quarter filings.
In the quarter we reached the decision to establish a valuation allowance against our U.S.
deferred tax assets in part due to the impact of warranty.
It is important to understand that this decision was based by relying more heavily upon the negative historical performance and is not based primarily on our future outlook of the business.
From an accounting point of view the historical negative evidence outweighs our positive outlook for the company.
Thus the guidance dictates that it's appropriate to establish a reserve against the full value of the $2 billion deferred tax assets.
It's very important to remember that while this reserve creates a dramatic impact on the income statement this is a non-cash accounting charge and it does not impair our ability to utilize these assets in the future.
Our strategy remains on track and we remain confident in the positive impact this plan will have on our market share and our business results.
Turning to Page 14.
Before I get into the specifics of the results I thought I would take a minute to summarize some of the management actions we alluded to on our last call and the impact these had on the quarter.
We did execute a reduction in force in both the U.S.
and in Brazil.
This is a key element of reducing our cost structure by $175 million.
But this required us to record a charge of $73 million in the quarter.
The cash impact of these actions were consistent with our forecast.
We made a decision to close our Garland assembly plant and recorded a small charge in the quarter relative to this decision.
We do anticipate some one-time costs associated with this event to occur in 2013 and may have to record some accelerated depreciation once we finalize our timing.
The estimate for this is represented on this chart.
We are managing this decision to be cash neutral in 2013 as the savings will fund expenses and the full year benefit will flow through in 2014.
In the quarter we took action to eliminate sell divest or discontinue several businesses including our proprietary MaxxForce 15-liter engine a small business related to after-treatment development our Indian joint venture and several other small development projects.
This created a pretax charge in the quarter of $31 million.
We are continuing to evaluate the portfolio plus the impact these decisions may have in our accounting is difficult to estimate.
We will remain as transparent as we can with these decisions but as we divest we expect these decisions to be cash flow positive.
Those were the major impacts on the financial statements for the fourth quarter.
Turning to Slide 15.
We provided guidance on cash and as you can see we have significantly exceeded that forecast even after adjusting for the impact of the equity offering.
As you may recall we have not yet finalized some of our military contracts.
And as a result we expect it to carry a significant receivable balance over year end.
The team worked hard to finalize the contract terms on a number of these and did so in time to allow for the collection of the receivable significantly ahead of schedule.
Equally important are the results within our core North American operations.
Again due to lower production volumes we forecasted lower payables and thus lower cash.
However through the efforts of our manufacturing team and with the coordination of our sales team we have significantly reduced not only our work in process but our finished goods inventories.
As a result rather than expected reduction in cash from lower payables we improved our cash by reducing inventories.
Thus cash is above our previous expectations.
And as you can see at the bottom of this chart our cash balance is higher than it's been in recent history.
We believe it's important during this transition period to demonstrate strong liquidity and believe the results of the fourth quarter puts us in an excellent position going into 2013.
Turning to Page 16.
As reflected by our cash balance our business generally operated as we expected.
Revenue for the quarter was $3.3 billion $1 billion lower than last year primarily due to a decrease in commercial truck volume and military revenue.
Also our South American Engine business was lower year-over-year.
For the full year revenue was $12.9 billion again $1 billion lower than last year and this is primarily attributed to lower military revenue.
Given the significant impacts that the warranty restructuring items and most notably the valuation allowance had on our business results we no longer believe a non-GAAP presentation to be used effectively.
The fourth quarter and full year results are presented here on a GAAP basis.
Segment profit for the quarter was a loss of $371 million and for the full year a loss of $642 million.
Included in these results are warranty charges of $357 million for the quarter and $895 million for the full year.
Restructuring charges for engineering integration manufacturing operation and the reduction in force were $89 million for the quarter and $184 million for the full year.
NCPs are included.
They were $14 million for the quarter and $34 million for the full year.
Net income for the quarter was $2 769 000 000 loss which includes the impact of the valuation allowance on tax expense of $2.2 billion.
For the full year net income was a loss of $3.10 billion which includes the impact of $1.8 billion due to the valuation allowances both in the U.S.
and the reversal of Canada which we discussed previously.
On Page 17 we compare this year's segment profit results to last year for both the fourth quarter and the full year.
At the segment profit level for the fourth quarter the significant differences are again the impact of repair costs flowing through warranty and the decrease in military revenue.
For the full year within our truck business profit declined from a profit of $336 million last year to a loss of $320 million in 2012.
Beyond warranty costs and military revenue the most significant difference was material costs which were higher by $91 million.
Engineering and SG&amp;A combined were higher by $76 million.
Within our Engine segment profitability declined from a profit of $84 million last year to a loss of $562 million in 2012.
In addition to warranty the impact of NCPs another significant driver was the decline of our business in Brazil.
MWM was lower year-over-year by $160 billion.
Service Parts profitability was lower by $47 million primarily attributed to lower volume and higher material costs not completely recovered through pricing.
Corporate spending was lower year-over-year but these improvements were overshadowed by higher postretirement costs primarily health care and the impact of the fourth quarter restructuring items.
Turning to Page 18.
Financial Services profits were lower year-over-year by $38 million driven by lower retail note balances.
Financial Services continues to perform very well as they have effectively scaled their business for the changes in their portfolio.
I should also add that the partnership with GE is performing well for both parties.
NFC recently renewed their wholesale facility program and overall liquidity is very good with over $950 million available to fund future receivables.
NFC's performance over the past several years has been exceptional.
The portfolio is performing well and the business has been restructured to remain profitable.
In fact we find ourselves over capitalized at NFC and we'll begin to consider reestablishing dividends from NFC to the parent in an effort to maintain adequate asset coverage and normal leverage ratios.
These actions are not yet included in our cash forecast but do offer the opportunity to enhance liquidity as the parent company in the future.
Turning to Slide 19.
Clearly 2012 was not the year we expected.
But I believe we have redirected the strategy and we'll effectively execute the engine transition.
Our product quality is improving and we are standing behind our products.
Unfortunately this is costing us more than we expected.
We have strengthened our liquidity both at a parent and at Navistar Financial which puts us both in a strong position going into 2013.
As we look forward we believe it's best to focus on cash.
Turning to Page 20.
Here we are providing our cash outlook for the first quarter similar to what we did at the end of Q3.
We expect cash at the end of Q1 to range around $1 billion depending on earnings.
Those of you familiar with the seasonal nature of our business should not be surprised by this forecast.
Our production levels are lower in Q1 thus working capital runs off of it.
We also make semiannual interest payments in Q1.
This year is slightly exaggerated by a couple of unusual items.
First a scheduled debt service payment which reduces cash by approximately $40 million.
Second we will be completing the reduction in force and we will be making severance payments to those employees who left the company at the end of the fourth quarter.
This is approximately $50 million.
As you can see from the historical data at the bottom of the page our cash position at the end of Q1 has not recently been this strong.
And as we look forward into 2013 we expect the market to strengthen as the year unfolds.
Our forecast for the Class 8 market ranges around 215 000 units for the U.S.
and Canada which is in line with most market opinions.
Q2 will be an important quarter.
We have the Cummins ISX15-liter engine available in the ProStar for the full quarter and we will complete our development program on the MaxxForce 13-liter engine by the end of the quarter.
As our Engine strategy unfolds and given the performance advantages of our products we expect our market share will improve.
As our market share improves volumes will grow.
With growth in volumes cash flow will improve.
As we previously stated we have taken action to reduce our structural costs and have additional plans to continue this in 2013 most notably transitioning out of Garland.
By leveraging the scale potential of both Escobedo and Springfield we anticipate our margins to improve because of the impacts of volume and lower conversion costs.
To summarize I believe the combination of all of these impacts puts our core business in a position to be generating respectable profits by the end of 2013.
I think there's more opportunity as we move forward.
But 2013 will be the year that we focus on fixing our business and putting in place the building blocks of the successful strategy.
Once we bring stability to the strategy we will be able to provide more clarity to the earnings potential of the business.
But for now I think it's best to stay focused on cash.
With that I'll let Troy talk in more detail about the key actions to drive our 2013 operating plan.
Okay.
Thank you A.J.
Before we get into some more detail over the progress and our drive to deliver plan I would like to talk quickly about a couple of key factors for the quarter.
On Page 23 you see our full year market share position.
And while we have lost some share during the course of the year overall our market share has been relatively consistent for the last 2 quarters and our position in each segment has not changed.
Additionally our orders for the quarter were right in line with our market share which supports the notion that we've begun to stabilize.
And that's exactly what we're focused on continuing in 2013 market share stabilization and eventual growth.
Moving to Page 24.
So turning our attention to the drive to deliver plan that we introduced last quarter.
You'll remember that drive to deliver is about clear P&amp;L accountability across our business units.
But it's also about a strong emphasis on the functional excellence necessary to improve our performance excellence in such areas as material procurement product launches quality manufacturing and the other key drivers of our business.
We've made good progress these past 3 months and I'd like to give you a few highlights.
First traditionally at Navistar functional expertise live within each separate business unit.
This often resulted in duplication and redundant efforts.
To drive clear alignment around functional excellence and drive common processes we've made several organizational realignments.
Let me give you just a few examples.
The leader of North American Truck and Parts is now also heading up sales and marketing for the entire company Jack Allen.
The Leader of Global Initiatives and Engine is also now responsible for Quality Eric Tech.
Our Chief Procurement Officer is also responsible for driving our lean initiatives Persio Lisboa.
The head of our Defense business is now also responsible for manufacturing Archie Massicotte.
And product planning is now integrated with product development.
In fact many of you may have seen this.
Today we announced Dennis Mooney will be appointed Vice President Integrated Product Development.
Denny succeeds Ramin Younessi who's leaving Navistar to pursue other opportunities.
Denny's broad product development experience and passion for quality combined with his demonstrated ability to drive our program management processes is exactly what we need to accelerate our progress to bring the highest quality trucks to the market.
We strongly believe that these organization changes will accelerate our rate of progress and are in line with what Lewis outlined with regards to speed and urgency.
We will continue to look for even more opportunities to further leverage the capabilities of the leadership team to drive our commitment to excellence.
Turning to Page 25.
Now I'd like to give you an update on the progress of our clean engine emissions program.
Let me start by saying that both the ProStar with the Cummins ISX 15-liter SCR and the ProStar 13-liter with SCR programs are on track.
In fact we'd like to celebrate the fact that the first production build with the ISX 15-liter was on November 12 a few days ahead of schedule.
As you might remember Lewis saying we're now driving program targets to a day not just within a target week or month.
ProStar with ISX has been on the road accumulating miles.
And in fact the ProStar ISX test lead vehicles have logged more than 235 000 miles and we've been pleased with their performance.
And on December 14 we reached the OK-to-Ship milestone of our new launch process and opened the gate to start shipment to customers 5 days ahead of schedule.
Volume production actually began on December 11.
This has been a great effort and I'm extremely proud of our team.
And I also want to express our appreciation to our supplier partners who include of course Cummins diesel.
Turning to Page 26.
For the ProStar with our 13-liter testing is underway.
And I can tell you that we are pleased to the performance data coming in.
Drivability is greatly enhanced which has significantly increased torque drive.
Fuel economy results are emerging and suggest several percentage points of improvement.
All of this is being accomplished while reducing diesel particulate filter regeneration frequency and retaining the superior NVH characteristics the industry has come to expect from our 13-liter engine.
But just as significant as the dates on the calendar are the behind-the-scenes efforts that implement the advanced engineering processes and practices that are making these milestones possible.
I referenced our OK-to-Ship milestone or gate of our revised launch process that will be used to ensure quality on all programs large and small.
Another example is the new quality system in our plant to provide consistent measure and the key quality characteristics and ensure first-time quality trucks built right the first time.
We're seeing significant and impressive improvements at the plant level.
Our October first time quality in Escobedo was over 90% a significant improvement since just the beginning of the year.
At the heart of it all is a gated program management process to make sure that milestones are met and that we don't go to market without the appropriate levels of test and validation.
These are important capabilities for Navistar and they will continue to serve us well in the ProStar 13-liter program and every other program that we'll undertake in the coming years.
This is simply how we're going to do business going forward.
Turning to Page 27.
Finally let's discuss our successes in rightsizing our business and improving our cost structure.
As you know the company established our annual cost savings production target of $150 million to $175 million.
Well $175 million and some change is done.
And we've taken actions that position us to exceed that target.
As A.J.
noted we have implemented processes to improve working capital and inventory.
We completed the voluntary separation program reduction in force and taken the first steps toward adjusting our manufacturing footprint including the closure of the Garland manufacturing facility in 2013.
For the return on invested capital analysis you know that we've identified more than 7 businesses or programs that will generate at least $52 million of EBITDA improvement if we sold them or discontinue.
News this quarter is that we initiated our exit from our joint venture in India.
And as you saw in the press release yesterday we have reached an agreement for Mahindra &amp; Mahindra to purchase our stake in the venture.
Despite having a capable partner and the fact that we still see products in the Indian market the segment where we participate has simply not grown or expanded as quickly as we expected.
And given our near-term priorities our capital needs will be allocated to business opportunities in line with our focus on our core North American business.
We continue to work the ROIC process with rigor and we'll have additional updates each quarter of 2013.
I want to assure you that our focus on the core North American truck Engine and Parts businesses remains strong and we will accelerate meaningful improvements and performance.
Turning to Page 28.
So in summary I hope it's clear that a lot has been done this past quarter and yes there's a lot more to do.
But we've come a long way and that helps motivate us to do things faster and better.
Our team is excited about the progress and we have created momentum that will be evident as 2013 progresses.
I look forward to talking with you again next quarter to update you on our drive to deliver accomplishment.
And with that let me turn it back over to Lewis for some closing comments.
Thanks Troy.
And turning to Page 30.
I'd like to summarize our comments this morning by reminding you of our key priorities for 2013.
I can assure you that we are intently focused on these 3 top areas.
First dramatically improving our product quality.
Second hitting every one of our clean engine strategy launch dates with the appropriate quality levels.
And finally delivering on our operating plan with an emphasis on maximizing operating profit and manufacturing cash flow.
And now to Page 31.
Importantly the entire organization is committed to value creation.
And to align the interest of our employees with those of our shareholders we've implemented a new incentive compensation system for 2013.
The key elements of the plan are tied to achieving our operating plans improving our profits and cash flow hitting our launch dates with appropriate quality metrics continuing to reduce our SG&amp;A and improving our return on invested capital.
This will reinforce the sense of urgency and make sure there is clear alignment in everything we do at Navistar.
Turning to Page 32.
As you can see this is a very busy chart.
It's busy because we have accomplished quite a bit in all 3 areas of governance costs and products during the quarter.
And we're continuing to complete important milestones this quarter such as the OK-to-Ship milestone that Troy discussed.
Now turning to Page 33.
As we do so I am unwavering in our 6 key priorities of quality cost sense of urgency great products customer satisfaction and people.
Of these priorities I'm most passionate about quality.
For the long-term viability of this company we will do what it takes to get the products right.
I believe that this is the necessary foundation for continuing to increase our market share and our financial results.
Despite the work we've done I recognize that we still face a number of important issues.
But we believe our drive to deliver plan has all the right elements.
The people of this organization are committed to turning Navistar around and they're taking out unnecessary costs and fixing core business with resolve and purpose.
If you can see what I'm seeing you would have the same confidence that I do in the future of Navistar.
We are a proud company.
We've been around for over 170 years and I believe that Navistar's best days are yet to come.
And finally on Page 34.
In closing as I said in the outset this is a 12- to 18-month turnaround and we're continuing to charge the path forward.
Importantly we have ample liquidity to manage through this transition year.
And I believe that when we're done we will have market-leading products in each segment.
By the end of 2013 I believe our business will be back on track and we will be positioned for a strong and profitable 2014 and beyond.
Thank you all for listening and we look forward to answering any of your questions.
Heather? That concludes our prepared remarks.
[Operator Instructions] Operator we're now ready to open the lines.
[Operator Instructions] And we'll go to Ann Duignan with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Ann Duignan.
Ive got so many questions I don't know where to begin.
Let's talk about the defense accounts receivable that you reported in Q4.
Was that simply a pull forward out of first quarter into fourth quarter? And does that account for the fact that working capital is expected to be a negative $200 million in Q1 despite lower volume? I might have expected working capital to be a source of cash with the lower production.
Well Ann with lower production we'll have lower accounts payable.
So when production goes down you have to remember that our working capital works in the opposite direction.
So we generate cash when we have higher volumes.
But your first point is correct.
We did expect the receivables to come in in the first quarter.
We just -- the team worked hard and we got the money in the fourth quarter.
We're happy to have it.
But our first quarter forecast is exactly what we expected it to be.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
And a follow-up question just probably a little bit more philosophical question Lewis.
And that's as we see you get a handle on the warranty costs and yes they may be higher than you expected the one thing that concerns me is that as recently as yesterday you had a customer file a complaint -- a legal complaint around the costs he incurred from the old trucks primarily around the engine.
Is there a risk that as we move beyond the warranty cost that we're going to start seeing more and more of these legal actions from your customers.
And we won't be talking about warranty costs here but we'll be talking about higher SG&amp;A because of higher legal costs.
No I don't think there's a risk at all there.
I think -- I've been in the product business for at least half of my business career and it's not unusual for a customer here or there to be disgruntled about whatever.
But I would say from a lot of personal experience that I have in conversations with a lot of customers and dealers as we said I tell you people are very happy with our products even people that have products that were built in 2010 and 2011.
So I don't think that should be a worry at all.
I'm not familiar with the item that you just brought up rather address this specifically but no I don't think that's the case.
I think we'll be fine there.
Research Division</strong> Are there any other current legal actions that you are concerned about? No.
And next we'll go to Andrew Kaplowitz with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> This is Mark on for Andy actually.
So just a few questions I have for you.
One would be in terms of the -- if you look at the pretax loss this quarter and the $500 million cash we're expecting next quarter it looks like the breakthrough point is still very high.
How will you get that down lower the cash burn in the near term? And what steps can you take to slow or I guess reduce the cash burn? Well I think in the first quarter production is lower.
So what you're seeing there in the working capital is really the impact of lower production levels flowing through lower accounts payable.
We talked about a couple of the actions that I think will drive better profitability as we go into 2013.
Most notably we've taken a $175 million out of our cost and the second is the transition of our manufacturing footprint from 3 plants to 2 plants.
And that will lower our conversion costs and decrease some of our logistics costs.
So I think as 2013 unfolds you'll see our margins improve from that and we also don't expect to have the quality issues that impacted 2012 repeat themselves again in 2013.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And one other question I had around NCP.
So I think there was a potential for the per-engine NCP on heavy-duty engines to increase in calendar '13 from around that $4 000 range.
Do you have any sense of the timing of when you could find out if the penalty is changing or what it could go to? We will -- so this is Troy Clarke by the way Mark.
And some kind of how that works is we have the $3 919 level that it is today and it can go up to $4 300.
So in fact our business plan for 2013 is based around that $4 300 number but it doesn't have to go all the way up to the $4 300.
The EPA will really advise us what the amount is.
So we're kind of counting on the worst but they'll advise us certainly after the first of the year given the nature of our plans and the fact that we're changing over and the fact that we've combined with all the regulations and requirements what that adjustment will be.
And next we'll go to David Leiker with Robert W.
Baird.
Research Division</strong> This is Jon Langenfeld for David.
Troy just on the 7 businesses that would generate $52 million in EBIT if sold or exited.
With you guys getting $33 million for the Mahindra stake did that mean Mahindra was always the majority of that? Or did you just get more for the Mahindra stake than you were planning on? So -- okay I see what you're saying.
The -- what you're talking about in our press release I think has to do with the proceeds that we get.
The $52 million or $53 million that we referenced in previous comments are actually what the ongoing losses would actually be okay? So there's an apple and an orange there.
That's exactly not the number there.
But the Mahindra for us wasn't -- isn't the largest portion let me say of the $52 million.
But it's important with respect to the fact that that business will require future capital investments going forward as wed really rather focus those future capital investments right now on fixing our North America core business.
Does that make sense? Research Division</strong> No the -- I understand now.
And then just -- you kind of have talked about a changeup in how you're launching or thinking about launching new product to market.
I'm just wondering and it's kind of a 2 parter when you launched the new 13-liter MaxxForce but with your higher-than-expected warranty experience on the 2010 2011 vintage engines does that change at all the cadence that go into market with a brand new engine learning from past experiences? And any concerns about -- just you're launching a brand new very important engine in kind of a short amount of time so any concerns there on warranty experience with that new engine? And then I'd imagine youd probably have to accrue warranties for that new engine at the same kind of pace you're generating for the older engines.
So would it be fair to say that over time if this kind of trajectory of improved performance continues you'd be getting benefits there at the warranty line? Let me kind of go at that backwards if I could.
The economy regulations around warranty accrual are very specific and so we're following all of those requirements.
And as such we don't forecast -- we don't make forecast of future accruals because that's just a difficult thing to do and kind of regulations really don't require you to do that or allow you to do that.
But let me get back to your first question which I think is a great question because I think if I would put it in my own words hey do you kind of have some concerns that as you launch this 13-liter SCR engine you're going to be really launching yourself into another series of potential warranty costs and going through the same kind of things we've gone through this year? And I would like to say -- and I'm not -- don't misinterpret too much roboto in my voice.
I'd say quite frankly just the opposite.
And part of the reason why I say that is in the world of engineering there's a concept called cycles of learning.
And so we started our 13-liter engine based on a very good and solid foundation that we licensed off of our European colleagues.
And as we have million -- they have millions of miles we now have millions of miles on the basic structure of the engine.
We know that engine very well and so we have no concerns about the basic structure.
The real issue is in the stuff that we chose to hang on the engine or the things that we've modified on it.
Our 2013 SCR engine represents the third cycle of learning.
We launched the product in late 2008 and that was our first cycle of learning kind of first time in the big bore world in our truck and we learned a lot.
The next one was basically when we tried to launch the -- or when we launched our 0.5 engine.
And that's pretty significant because even when we get to the 0.2 requirement you still have to be the 0.5.
Again we've learned a lot and part of those learnings are what you see reflected in some of our warranty costs.
In most -- in the world of engineering most of the time it takes you 3 cycles of learning to get to where you really have the knowledge and the ability to look forward in what you might anticipate.
And I would tell you the stuff that we've seen leads us to believe we have in fact crested that peak and in fact we're -- we are well into that third cycle learning with this new product.
And we're quite frankly very pleased and impressed with the progress we made.
Our safety valve is the gated launch process.
Though in fact if the engine -- if we do run into a defect in the early cycle of the engine we treat it as if that's going to be something that we might have a huge problem with and we problem solve the heck out of it until we make sure that we understand totally what that issue is and what implications it might have.
And we won't go to the next step of our process or launch those products in the customers hands until we're satisfied.
So there is discipline.
There is rigor.
But last but not least there is confidence because we are in the -- fully the third cycle of learning on this engine and we're getting a lot better on it.
And next we'll go to Brian Sponheimer with Gabelli &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> I had a question for you in the warranty expense.
And I think Troy you noted that there may be a couple of other issues that may have to be addressed in coming quarters.
Lewis you have a man there right now to clean up the company and you certainly have done a number of things thus far.
I guess my question is particularly given what took place in this quarter why not go ahead and in the effort to I guess "kitchen sink everything " go ahead and get those fixes done so that we're not talking about a potential another shoe to drop in the coming quarters.
So here you go let me see how to start on this.
So let me do this.
First of all we did everything we knew we had to do or could do when we announced our results for Q4.
We found some high cost items that needed to be addressed due to high spending that popped up in our data which we saw in mid-November.
And we have specific areas actually there's 4 of them 2 of which we have fixes for and are going to campaign.
We announced that.
That's embedded in our numbers on Q4.
We have another one coming which we're probably going to address in the first half of this year.
And so we believe as Troy said that not -- that we will enter the 2013 SCR 13 liter with a product that is extremely well tested and proven in the marketplace.
Keep in mind that if -- we're kind of lucky in a way.
The EPA mandated because of that tightness of the timing that we use the exact same engine configuration so to speak when we add SCR onto it for the 2013 big bore launch.
What that does for you is every single improvement that are in our engines stays in our engines.
It's embedded there.
And these improvements that we just announced will all be in the product as we launch it.
So every single person in the company is going to be -- have a piece of their incentive compensation based on the quality levels of the engines and the trucks that we launch in the 13-liter SCR engines.
And we expect that quality level to be very specific to be equal to or better than the current engines we're shipping now and as we said they're near best-in-class levels.
So we have to clean up these 3 higher cost issues and get them behind us and we will and that's why I said we cannot -- we can't take our eye off the ball here.
We have to do what it takes to get the product right.
And with the fuel economy we're going to get from that engine coupled with the 15-liter ISX from Cummins we will have superior trucks to defeat the marketplace in all areas that we compete.
Inc.</strong> Right.
Now I understand that going forward the product is going to be very good.
I suppose maybe I misunderstood.
The warranty issue was called out for 2010s to 2011s that are still out there that you may announce in the first half of the year.
I guess my question was why didn't you just announce it for this quarter just to get it behind you.
Well wait.
Here is what we announced.
We announced that we had to take a charge for preexisting engines.
That was 2010 2011.
I think that was $140 million.
We also -- because of that that bin falls over into the 2012 engine population and we had to add to their accrual about $50 million.
And then we have campaigns the 2 I mentioned for another $50 million so that's the total.
Brian this is A.J.
I think what you're trying to go to is why don't we just create a bigger accrual that covers everything that may come up in the future.
Inc.</strong> Right.
And get it out of the way.
And get it out of the way.
And as much as we would love to stop talking about warranty accounting that's just not allowed under the guidelines.
And so we have taken all the data that we have and tested it and I believe have put a conservative assumption to appropriately recognize the quality of the products that we're building today.
And as Lewis said all of these improvements are factored into the products that we're building today and we've taken the adjustments that we think are correct.
But I just can't create a kitchen sink accrual.
It just wouldn't work that way.
Inc.</strong> All right understood.
I guess just moving past that Archie if you're there with sequestration potentially a major issue for the military business what line of sight do we have on vehicle programs as we head into fiscal 2013? Vehicle programs that are -- I would say that are programs of record are questionable with sequestration.
There's no doubt about it.
Unfortunately we don't sit with the program of record.
And we do have line of sight as we have outlined in our forward planning.
The monies that we're working with is usually FMS funds or money that's OCO that's already supported by budgets that are already approved and in the system.
So we don't see much impact on sequestration whatsoever.
And next we'll go to Jerry Revich with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Troy how much was the field campaign on the EGR valve that you mentioned in your prepared remarks so that we can assess the potential cost of the future fuel campaign that's possible that you alluded to? And also can you say more about what gives you comfort that additional issues hardware or otherwise won't come up as the fuel population ages for the 2010-2011 class engines? Jerry it's A.J.
The cost of the campaigns were included in everything we recorded this quarter.
We don't get into the details of exactly which program we've accrued for but it's included in all of that.
And then I'll let Troy talk about some of the actions around the product going forward.
Yes.
So Jerry what -- let me build off of what Lewis had indicated.
Part of our understanding with the EPA so that we can have an expedited approval process is to not change the hardware on the engine as we add SCR to the -- basically to the exhaust flow.
And the reason for that was -- is because of what's called the DV requirements basically aged components.
So we can actually test engines that have a lot of miles on them and then Cummins can actually provide us with SCR systems that have a lot of miles on it too.
And so the -- we could provide data to the EGR of what an engine looks like after maybe 400 000 or 500 000 miles and that will expedite the approval process or the certification process of the engine.
So the bad news about that is as we talked on previous calls that we're unable to take some stuff off the engines that we will eventually to help reduce the cost and provide further performance improvements.
The good thing is we really know these engines.
And so we have gone out and brought back in some of the very -- of the most high-mileage engines that we could find and have taken them apart and have looked at their warranty records and repair records and so we really don't see another major system on the engine.
Nothing in the data so far would indicate there's another major system on the engine that presents a risk that we don't know about.
So a lot of our confidence is based on the fact that we have seen our engines are now getting some pretty high mileage some pretty high miles on them.
And we have seen I can't say everything we're going to see but we think we've seen a lot.
So that gives us a lot of confidence.
And we do spend a lot of time certainly working through all those issues.
And again when you first launch an engine you got a whole bunch of issues to deal with.
You're just trying to get as many dollars as you can.
At this point in time we're dealing with a handful of issues that we're very very intimate with.
It doesn't seem as daunting and it does give us a lot of confidence.
Research Division</strong> I appreciate the color.
And then lastly in the 10-K you mentioned that you haven't focused on getting the 11-liter engine performance compliance audit approval.
Is that a sourcing cost-savings opportunity for you Troy as you focus on the core products? Or can you just give us some more context there? Hey Jerry can you help me -- elaborate a little bit on the question there about a sourcing cost-savings opportunity.
Research Division</strong> Sure.
So I'm wondering is this not a core product for you? The volumes have never been particularly high for 11-liter engines.
And so is this not a core product as you think about your Engine business? Okay.
Yes.
Well certainly 11-liter engine is a core product.
It just happens to be a very small segment for us.
So we're not making any announcements today around the 11-liter engine.
We have complied with the product compliance audits that the EPA requires of us and we've submitted that information.
And we're going to continue to work with them on anything that we need to do.
But we're not announcing any decisions to pull that engine from the market and we stand behind the engines that are out there.
We just don't sell a lot of them compared to our 13-liter engine.
So we'll stand pat with our product program as it currently is.
Eric Crawford UBS.
Research Division</strong> Wanted to circle back to an earlier question on military.
It sounds like it might be back-end weighted.
But could you provide some color on how the $750 million in revenues you expect is weighted through the year? And is that number weighted to the downside or the upside? Well it's averaged over the year.
I mean we've got contracts right now that we're providing.
It's -- we're DX-rated contracts.
So in some cases it's as fast as we can go they want the product.
And what we've done is scheduled our systems as fast as they can take it.
They're taking the products.
So I mean that's how our revenue is calendarized over the year.
So it's really in conjunction with the Army and how they will -- can receive and take inventory.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then on the Engine business in South America you called out some headwinds there for the quarter.
Can you provide some color there as to what you're seeing or expecting going forward? And do you see it being a continued headwind while its in the portfolio? Yes.
Volume is recovering in South America and we expect that that business will be profitable again next year.
You mean 2013? In 2013.
Yes.
Yes.
In fact that -- we think that business is recovering and we think it will continue to improve year-over-year.
So '14 should be better than '13 actually and '13 will drop.
Research Division</strong> And how do you see it fitting in longer term to your portfolio? Just fine actually.
I shouldn't be flip about that.
Look we talked about return on investment capital.
Every single element of our business including Brazil including North America everything we're going to use the return on invested capital lens to find ways to either improve the investment -- or reduce the investment base or improve the returns and I think we have a pretty good plan in place to do just that down in Brazil.
Time will tell.
And Rob Wertheimer Vertical Research.
LLC</strong> I wanted to look forward a little bit into the back and then I guess 2 related questions.
It seems as though even if you strip out the warranty stuff -- and to be fair the profit mix there's a lot inflection with some of the positive actions you're taking on restructuring.
But it still seems as though you're losing a few thousand dollars a truck as is and then you're going to have extra cost and componentry with the 15 liter and then the 13 liter.
And so on the early sales of the 15 liter have you done to a per-truck obviously profit projection? And have you raised prices enough to cover it and make that a profitable vehicle from the get-go? Is there an initial launch price? I mean how much do prices have to go up? And then I guess I'll hold the other question.
Let me give you a big look at this and then maybe some of my colleagues can comment okay.
So let me summarize what we announced in our call so that everybody is crystal clear on where we're coming from.
First of all cash is an issue that we don't need to spend a lot of time on.
I know it seems like it's a big issue around the table here but -- around the call here but we feel really good about cash.
It came in much stronger than we thought.
That $1 billion in Q1 is the highest we've seen as far back as we can look.
That does not even include the Mahindra proceeds for example so we have some other cash ideas in mind as well.
So I think we should put cash behind us.
Second we put in a modest price increase for 2013 on our trucks and those prices are sticking.
So we -- that's not outlandish.
In fact it's possibly just a little bit less than the 2012 but too soon to tell.
Third A.J.
mentioned that we're going to -- we are forecasting to end the year with a profitable fourth quarter jumping -- preparing us to jump into 2014 which should be much stronger.
I think we've got a great sales team.
I think we have a super distribution network for our trucks.
Our dealers are investing $25 million $30 million in facilities to get ready for the products we're getting ready to send them.
So we have work to do on profitability for our trucks obviously because we didn't make money in 2012.
We intended to turn that around in 2013.
And as I said the drive to deliver plan has all the key elements.
We could talk to you specifically but probably wont today about material cost improvements which we have underway a major area of improvement for our truck costs.
We could talk to you about a plant efficiency improvement.
Archie signed up for another big chunk of savings in 2013.
He's really got the ball rolling from a manufacturing cost standpoint.
This reduction in overhead and SG&amp;A we don't expect that to quit.
You can expect that to improve from where we are not stay fixed.
So we have a lot of improvements that are underway.
We have a line of sight on how to complete each one and we have clear accountability for everyone in the company to achieve each of the milestones inside the drive to deliver plans.
So I'm very bullish about '13.
It's a turnaround year for sure.
But I think you'll be proud of the profitability we have for truck when we end the year.
Anything you want to add here? No.
I think we -- the -- just to add to what Lewis said you had an interest there at -- in the 15 liter.
We will be competitively pricing the market.
We intend to be profitable on that unit.
We're doing many things as Lewis indicated to improve our margins to include other opportunities from material costs that may not be associated with the engine improvement in quality and our daily run rates those type of things first time quality improved cost of TDI those things.
Those are all things that contribute to improving margin.
A.J.
referenced several times we are getting our manufacturing capacity consolidated which allows us to remove a big chunk of fixed and reduce our logistics costs as well.
We are -- have eliminated a number of engineering programs on things that just weren't going to have the right kind of paybacks for us.
The big SG&amp;A and other cost of goods sold reductions all is part of our lean initiatives.
And then last but not least the stuff we're doing in our ROIC analysis which at the end of the day we have many things that contribute that we have some things that are kind of a drag on our margins and we're just getting -- we're just not going to stop those things.
So when you look at that it is a story of improved margins.
I think it's bigger than just the cost of the engine.
We have other things that we are doing and making great progress on the board and of I think the expectations that we all have of where we'll be at the end of 2013.
LLC</strong> Okay that was helpful and I'll follow up off-line as well.
Can I ask just another quick one on the 13 liter? Youve got this interesting sort of transition where you got the non-SCR right now you got the SCR version coming out soon.
I don't know whether you think the commercial demand for the I don't know [indiscernible] legacy engine the current engine is going to be stronger or weaker the normal given that it's all going to flip probably get better fuel economy on the new one but it's uncertain.
And so just curious if you're seeing better or worse -- materially better or worse share on the order book in the meantime on that 13-liters as it is going to transition.
Eric this is Jack Allen.
Your question about 13-liter EGR and SCR and 15 liter is really an interesting mix that we're seeing in the marketplace right now.
There's a lot of positives that our customers are seeing and our dealers are reporting back to us as a result of the operational changes that Troy and Lewis are -- have talked about.
Our dealers had a very good year in 2013.
They're profitable.
They're very bullish on the changes that we're making and they're out rebuilding relationships with customers.
And what the customers are telling them is really consistent with what we reported.
The quality of 13-liter EGR product continues to improve and there's many customers that want to continue to buy the EGR version.
On the other hand there's customers that have had experience with competitive products in SCR and they're more comfortable moving to SCR faster.
And at the same time our order intake for ISX engines continues to improve literally week after week as that product gets known in the marketplace and as we make the broad range of the product available to the marketplace.
As you remember we just -- we launched here in November with a very narrow product and that product expands throughout the year.
Andy Casey Wells Fargo Securities.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just -- first a clarification related to a couple earlier military questions.
If you could be a little bit more explicit and I guess just asking it more directly the 2013 $750 million military revenue guidance how much is included in the Q1 EBITDA guidance that you gave within the cash flow? Is it 25% or more or higher than that? I mean it's relatively flat throughout the year Andy.
I mean typically -- I think we've got a pretty healthy backlog right now with military revenue.
We continue to satisfy the contracts that we had last year.
So the military revenue as opposed to years passed where there's been a lot of it back-end loaded I think with the $750 million that we have this year it'll be relatively constant throughout the year.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay A.J.
And then understanding you're in a transition wondering if you can help us understand 3 things.
First are all the divestiture and consolidation announcements included in the $175 million cost reduction? Or are there some that you've announced incremental to that? Second is the yet to be done medium-duty truck transition to meet emissions excluding the credits of 2013 event.
And then lastly any incremental pension and OPEB expense headwinds that we should consider in our -- when we're developing the 2013 estimates? Let me tackle 2 of those and then I'll let Troy talk about the plan with the SCR engines.
The divestitures are not part of the $175 million cost reduction.
The divestiture plan is really more towards a drive to improve EBIT and cash flow.
So they -- any improvements that we can have there would be incremental to our plans to reduce our cost structure by $175 million.
On the pension and OPEB numbers we expect those numbers to be slightly down next year on the funding side from the benefits of the transportation bill.
So cash flow for pension and OPEB will be a little better next year than they were in 2012.
Troy I thought -- will you? Yes.
With regard to our medium-duty engine lines those engineering programs are ramping up as we speak.
We have credits to last us through 2013 so we know we'll get into 2014.
We don't really plan on having to use NCPs and you're going to look forward to future announcements with regards to for instance selection of supplier on the SCR system and things like that.
I would highlight that little different than the 13-liter engine we will take advantage of this opportunity to optimize our midrange engine for SCR.
So we will be able to take off some of the EGR hardware and that engine will come to the market in its cost and performance-optimized fashion with SCR.
So please stay tuned.
We'll give more updates as appropriate during the course of the year.
Those engineering programs are really just ramping up.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay Troy.
And if I could follow up A.J.
on the 2 items that you answered.
The -- should we then assume the $175 million has an incremental something like $52 million from all the divestitures that you're entertaining some of which you've announced and some haven't? I think that's the long-term potential.
Some of those aren't done just yet Andy so we haven't factored all of that into the forecast.
But that is the right way to look at it.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then lastly on the pension and OPEB.
I wasn't really asking about the cash flow impact.
I was more interested in the expense related to the -- what I would presume would be a decreased discount rate.
Yes.
We've done a lot of stress testing on discount rates on this Andy.
It'll be down slightly but not a big significant decline.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
So flat to slightly up in terms of the expense? No.
Flat to slightly down for the expense.
LLC Research Division</strong> For the expense? Okay.
Yes.
Adam Uhlman Cleveland Research.
On the NFC profits what are we thinking about for 2013 as the rundown continues? And what are the normal ratios for that business as we try to think about what the potential dividends back to Navistar could be? When we did restructure the business we talked about NFC having the potential to make between $60 million and $70 million a year on their portfolio as it stabilizes.
Results for the past couple of years have been better than that due to portfolio quality and the remaining retail portfolio.
But I think on a go-forward basis you should look at it as $60 million to $70 million.
On a leverage basis right now we have to leverage at 3:1.
I think that's way too tight.
I think we can operate that company more effectively with a leverage ratio in the 5 to 6:1 which would be pretty typical for a captive finance company.
Okay great.
That's helpful.
And then on the material costs for 2013 when did those -- that should be a tailwind earnings I would think.
But not knowing how the contracts are structured when would that really start to kick in? Obviously it's dependent on volumes.
But when would you expect to see the benefits there? And any way to ballpark potential savings on a dollar-per-unit basis? We actually -- our -- the material -- this is Troy by the way.
Our material contracts they're pretty well staggered throughout the year.
And so part of it is really assessing timing of -- as you have the opportunity to re-identify those -- or to renegotiate those contracts and/or when we place contracts for new parts or new components as we have some pretty substantial engineering programs underway in the market.
I haven't really looked at it the way you're suggesting.
But if I had to say I'd say I don't think it's a tailwind.
I don't know that I would -- yes.
I think the commodity costs are generally kind of trending up a bit.
And so you got things like steel and -- steel and rubber are the 2 biggest issues that we deal with.
So I don't know that I would characterize it as a tailwind right now.
As the market improves those type of headwinds those things actually turn into headwinds the whole industry would have more demand for these components where there seems to be some constraint.
Seth Weber RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> My questions have been answered.
Tim Denoyer Wolfe Trahan.
I was wondering if you could give any color on just over the past month or so how orders have come in both with the Cummins engine and the MaxxForce 13 on SCR specifically.
Tim this is Jack Allen.
So we had a very good October along with the rest of the industry but still the market remains choppy.
And if you look at the last 6 months of Class 8 order receipts annualized it still only 170-some thousand.
So our forecast of 215 000 we need some more -- we need some industry recovery here.
And we think the fundamentals still remain in place for that industry recovery to happen.
It's just the uncertainty about the economy that seems to be holding things back.
On the other hand though we continue to see very positive reports on the field about our progress and December is a good month so far.
We have a very good chance here to finish the month of December with actually more Class 8 orders than we had even in October.
So in its basic form we're really quite pleased with what's going on in the marketplace right now relative to the introduction of the ISX engine as well as the improvements that our customers keep telling us about the EGR engine and as well as the excitement that we're building around the introduction of the MaxxForce 13 SCR.
And one quick follow-up maybe for Troy.
Could you give a sense of what the cost is per truck on the EGR valve replacement in the fields? No Tim I really shouldn't pass that information out.
And that concludes our question-and-answer session for today.
Ms.
Kos I'll turn things back over to you for closing remarks.
I'd like to thank you all for participating.
And I'll ask the group if there's any other closing comments they want to give here before we end the call and take your questions.
This is Troy again.
I just would like to close and -- I mean I guess I maybe a little broken record here but I would like to close that the quality of our products is improving.
Our customers are telling us that.
And the type of things that we're looking at going forward maybe as I indicated in my comments another field campaign or so.
We have made a lot of improvement and I think we're going to continue to see that -- I think all of us will continue to see the benefits of the investment and focus that Lewis referenced earlier on the subject of quality and subject of customer satisfaction.
That's a good comment Troy.
Except that let me add that we know this business very well.
We have a plan in place that's very strong.
We have people assigned with clear accountability to make each element of the plan happen.
And I think it shouldn't go unnoticed that when A.J.
said we should end 2013 fiscal year with a very strong profit for fourth quarter and allow us to spring into 2014 and you should see improvement quarter over quarter over quarter in cash as well as profitability.
So we're excited again to 2013.
It's here with us now and we're totally aligned to make it happen.
So appreciate everybody attending the call this morning.
Look forward to your questions off-line and have a happy holidays.
Thanks very much.
Thank you.
And that concludes today's conference.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning and welcome everyone to this Navistar International Corporation First Quarter 2013 Earnings Release Conference Call.
Today's call is being recorded.
And now for opening remarks and introductions I would like to turn the program over to Vice President of Investor Relations Heather Kos.
Please go ahead ma'am.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us for Navistar's First Quarter 2013 Conference Call.
With me today are Lewis Campbell Navistar's Chairman and Interim Chief Executive Officer; Troy Clarke our President and Chief Operating Officer; and A.J.
Cederoth our Chief Financial Officer.
Before we begin I'd like to cover a few items.
A copy of this morning's press release and the presentation slides that we will be using today have been posted on our Investor Relations website for your reference.
The non-GAAP financial measures discussed in this call are reconciled to the U.S.
GAAP equivalent as part of the Appendix in the slide deck.
Finally today's presentation includes some forward-looking statements about our expectations for future performance.
Actual results could differ materially from those suggested by our comments made here.
For additional information concerning factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected in today's presentation please refer to our most recent reports on Form 10-K and 10-Q and our other SEC filings.
We would also refer you to the Safe Harbor statement and Other Cautionary Notes disclaimer presented in today's material for more information on this subject.
And with that I'll turn the call over to Lewis Campbell for his opening remarks.
Thanks Heather and good morning everybody.
Thanks for joining the call.
Before I turn to the quarter I'd like to spend a minute on the other news we announced this morning.
As you've likely seen I'll be leaving my positions as Executive Chairman and Interim CEO of Navistar on April 15.
At that time I am truly delighted to hand the CEO reins over to Troy Clarke who's served as our company's President and Chief Operating Officer since August of last year.
Troy is going to also remain President and become a member of the board and Jim Keyes who's served as a board member since 2002 will become our Non-Executive Chairman.
As you know when I joined Navistar in August my mandate was to serve on an interim basis and help lead the company through an important transition period.
Since that time we've made significant progress on many important fronts and you'll hear updates on much of that as we talk about our performance on today's call.
In short our turnaround is well underway and is gaining momentum which is why we're now ready to put a longer-term CEO in place.
Suffice it to say I couldn't be more pleased with our accomplishments over the past 6 months and I am truly honored to have had the opportunity to work in partnership with Troy as we set the company on a clear path forward and we have.
Troy is a proven leader and I am thrilled that the board and I have decided that he's just the right executive to lead the company at this time.
Troy has been instrumental at implementing Navistar's Drive to Deliver plan leading the company's transition to its clean engine strategy and taking the necessary steps to improve Navistar's cost structure.
I'm very confident that under Troy's leadership Navistar will continue to build on this momentum with a focus on improving performance and quality for our customers and creating value for our shareholders.
Since I arrived last summer I have often said I was honored to lead such an iconic American company and that couldn't be more true today.
Navistar is a great company with great products and great people.
We've achieved a great deal in a short period of time and this is in no small part the result of determined efforts of all of our employees and I want to thank them today for their efforts.
With that let's now turn to the quarter and let me provide some high-level remarks.
Overall the numbers were in the range we expected.
I would characterize the first quarter as one in which we made good progress in several key areas.
In my mind progress proof points that I would put at the top of the list include a strong first quarter ending cash balance our structural cost actions are now reflected in the bottom line results and we have exceeded each of our clean engine launch milestones.
A.
J.
and Troy will talk to you further about all of these in just a minute.
Beyond the numbers during the quarter Troy and his team continue to make progress on strengthening our North American core businesses while taking a very disciplined return on investment capital approach to evaluating non-core businesses and product programs for potential sale closing or fixing.
On Page 5 you can see we've made the following progress since our fourth quarter 2012 call: we submitted our 13-liter certifications to the EPA ahead of schedule; we kicked off a best-in-class benchmarking initiative to further lower our cost and we're already 7 weeks into that 12-week project; we completed the sale of our equity interest in Mahindra; we subleased a portion of our Alabama facility to FreightCar America; and we announced the sale of our Workhorse Custom Chassis brand.
As you can see on Slide 6 our company continues to operate according to 6 guiding principles: quality; reduced cost; a sense of urgency; leading edge products -- great products as a matter of fact; customer satisfaction; and realizing the potential of our people.
And our team continues to be steadfastly aligned around our 3 priorities for 2013: continuing to make major improvements in product quality hitting every one of our critical Truck and Engine launch dates and finally delivering our operating plan while maximizing manufacturing cash flow.
Let me now provide more insight into our 3 2013 priorities.
Navistar supports its customers with many great products including our flagship International ProStar+ but we plan to continue making major improvements in product quality in order to establish quality as the foundation for our company's culture.
Troy and his team have started by improving the processes by which we design engineer and build our products and all of our efforts are enhanced through the use of advanced engineering processes so that all of our products go to market with the appropriate levels of test and validation.
We've also made a significant investment in manufacturing education -- execution systems MES for short that will support high-quality launches now and in the future.
And that's thanks to Archie Massicotte Jan Allman and their teams.
They're installing new quality systems at our plants to provide consistent measurement of key quality characteristics and to ensure that every truck is built right the first time and we're already seeing improvements at the plant level.
Since October our first-time quality at Escobedo Mexico has exceeded 90% a significant improvement since the beginning of the year.
I've got to stop here and give Troy the credit for making a key management change last summer in Escobedo.
Miguel Garca Rojas our new Plant Manager at Escobedo has led the charge in improving quality at the plant.
Over time with accomplishments like these we intend to become known as the quality leader in our industry.
Now let me give you a brief update on the progress of our emissions programs.
As I talked about last quarter we're in full production of our ProStar with the ISX 15-liter engine.
We've engaged a number of customer fleets who are providing us with realtime quality data to ensure that our new engines exceed the quality of those being replaced.
The bottom line we've absolutely committed to meeting or beating our launch date with unprecedented levels of quality.
For the ProStar with our own 13-liter engine testing is well underway and I can tell you that we're pleased with the performance data coming in so far.
Denny Mooney and his engineering team are making significant progress across a wide variety of 13-liter launch activities.
Early test results look very promising.
For example drivability for our ProStar with our new 13-liter engine with after treatment is greatly enhanced due to significantly increased torque drive.
Additionally fuel economy results are emerging that suggest several percentage points of improvement.
Later in the call Troy will give you some more exciting news on the International ProStar+ with our own 13-liter engine.
Across the company we're building important new capabilities for Navistar and they'll continue to serve us well in the ProStar 13-liter program and as a matter of fact every other program that we will undertake in the coming years.
This is simply how Troy and our senior leadership team are going to do business going forward.
The final priority is delivering on our 2013 plan.
We believe we can achieve significant improvement in financial performance while beginning to restore our core North American Truck Engine and Parts business back to market-leading positions.
We are resolutely focused on reducing our overall cost structure in order to lower our breakeven point.
Before I came onboard A.
J.
and Troy had established an annual cost reduction goal of $150 million to $175 million in SG&amp;A and product development.
This year we intend to significantly exceed that target.
We've also taken steps to improve working capital.
As you know in 2012 we completed a voluntary separation program and a reduction in force.
Additionally this year as we shift to a more functional organization structure and we review our filings for our benchmarking initiative we expect additional reductions in the near future.
Furthermore we're on track with the closure of the Garland assembly plant this year and going forward we will continue to initiate actions to adjust our manufacturing footprint.
With that let me turn the call over to A.J.
for details on our financial results.
A.J.? Thank you Lewis and good morning everyone.
Turning to Page 8 are the results for the quarter.
Manufacturing revenue decreased by $372 million or 12% for the quarter versus first quarter of 2012.
The majority of this decrease was in our traditional Truck business where vehicle shipments were down 24% or 4 200 units from the first quarter of 2012.
Beginning in the first quarter we have changed the basis of our financial presentation to include Workhorse and Monaco RV as discontinued operations.
Earlier this week we announced the sale of our Workhorse brand and assets.
The treatment of Monaco RV as discontinued operations reflects management's decision to put this business up for sale.
This is a great brand with a viable future but falls outside of our core North American business strategy.
We previously discussed our restructuring and divestiture plans for these businesses; thus they are no longer included in our segment results.
Despite lower volumes our manufacturing segment profit from continued operations improved by $98 million due to lower overall warranty expenses and reduced structural costs.
I will talk in more detail about the segment profits on the next slide.
Corporate EBITDA improved year-over-year by $163 million primarily driven by better performance at the operating segments but also bolstered by lower overall corporate spending.
Additionally we reached a legal settlement that created a $35 million benefit in the quarter.
Despite the improvement in EBITDA the loss from continuing operations only improved $30 million versus 2012.
This reflects the impact of our tax position as a result of reestablishing the valuation allowance in the U.S.
Last year we recorded a tax benefit in the quarter of $76 million while this year we recorded a tax charge of $15 million.
On Page 9 we showed the details of the segment profit improvement year-over-year.
Within the Truck segment profit declined by $31 million driven primarily by the decline in volume partially offset by lower structural costs.
Included in the results is a portion of the costs associated with closing Garland which were $12 million in the quarter.
The Engine segment profit improved $93 million primarily due to lower warranty costs of $83 million for prior-period adjustments.
Engine also benefited from the improvement in South America at MWM and lower overall structural costs.
Included in the Engine results are NCPs of $10 million and accelerated depreciation on tooling related to the 15-liter engine of $10 million.
Within the Parts segment profit improved by $36 million primarily driven by volume and pricing strategies and supported by the benefit of lower structural costs.
On Page 10 we have reconciled our actual ending cash against the forecast we provided on our last call.
We ended the quarter with manufacturing cash of $1.189 billion significantly better than our forecast.
Corporate EBITDA ended on the high side of the range due to the performance within the segments and lower overall spending.
Capital spending was lower than our guidance primarily due to the delay of any additional investment in the China project which has been deferred into the second quarter.
Net working capital was better by $10 million despite lower volumes.
The improvement here was primarily attributed to managing inventories as we typically experience growth in inventories during the first quarter but the manufacturing and sales teams continue to effectively manage the throughput of units better than we have in the past.
Finally cash payments for restructuring items were lower than anticipated.
Turning to Page 11.
Here we are providing our cash outlook for the second quarter.
We expect cash at the end of the second quarter to range between $1 billion and $1.1 billion.
During the second quarter our production will expand.
And with that margins will improve and working capital will become a benefit.
At the segment level we expect results to improve; however these will be tempered as we do anticipate finalizing some field service actions to further improve our product quality.
This may result in a charge in the quarter.
Corporate expenses will have the appearance of increasing but this is attributed to the absence of the benefit from the legal recovery that we had in the first quarter.
Capital spending will be higher in the second quarter as we anticipate completing our agreements in China.
And finally we will have some timing differences that will flow through as well.
Overall we remain confident in our overall liquidity.
We have a strong cash balance and additional liquidities available from NFC should that become necessary.
From here we anticipate cash to improve as market share improves in the second half of 2013.
So in conclusion the first quarter results were generally in line with what we expected.
The ISX Engine launch went as expected and we are progressing as planned on our 13-liter conversion.
We are ahead of our goal on structural cost reduction and are taking the steps to build upon this success and as I stated previously we're pleased with our cash position.
From this point forward our plan is about improving our market share as 2013 unfolds and continuing to improve our earnings.
With that I'll stop and I'll let Troy put more color around the first quarter accomplishments and our path forward in 2013.
Thank you A.
J.
and good morning everyone.
And I'm truly honored to take on the role of CEO and join Navistar's board.
And I would also echo Lewis's comments about Navistar's progress over the past several months.
We've made great strides in our turnaround plans and I'll address specifics in a number of areas in just a few moments.
But first I'd like to thank Lewis for his guidance and leadership during a critical period for Navistar.
I feel very fortunate that I've had the opportunity to work closely with such a high-caliber leader.
Working together we have taken many key actions that have established a strong platform to build upon going forward and on behalf of everyone at Navistar we appreciate and thank Lewis for his valuable contributions.
I would also like to reiterate what Lewis said about organization.
We have a great leadership team and a talented group of employees and I look forward to continuing to work with them in my new role as we take further steps to strengthen our North America core businesses improve quality and customer satisfaction drive future profitability and deliver value to shareholders.
Now let me give you a progress update on our Drive to Deliver turnaround plans and then I'll help add some more color to the numbers that A.
J.
just shared.
As we've stated 2013 is a pivotal year for us and when we launched our Drive to Deliver we said we will do whatever it takes to turn our business around.
To do that we're focused on the 3 near-term priorities that Lewis referenced: hitting our product launches improving quality and delivering on our 2013 operating plan.
The key takeaway from Q1 is that our plan is on track.
The most important point about the quarter to me is that we did what we said we were going to do.
Our product launches are on schedule we're making strides in quality and we are on track to exceed our structural cost targets.
With regards to the product launches Slide 15 a few points in progress.
As you know the ProStar with 15-liter ISX is in the market.
We've built 1 035 ordered units and we have about 2 200 more orders in queue to build.
ProStar/ISX ran 21% of Navistar's big bore production for both January and February and should ramp up to more than 30-plus percent in March and we expect those numbers to increase through Q2.
Test mileage on our class  [ph] leader ProStar/ISX continues to accumulate with no major issues and fuel economy is outstanding.
Moving to Slide 16.
On the Navistar 13-liter SCR engine we have submitted the test data to the EPA that demonstrates 0.2 compliance.
On-road testing and data gathering for OBD compliance is on track so we're on schedule to complete EPA and CARB certification in the end-of-March time frame to support our end-of-April shipments.
This week we began to build the first 18 full-production saleable ProStar 13-liter SCR trucks and the first 7 of those trucks came off the line at our Escobedo plant earlier this week and production began a day or so ahead of schedule.
Each unit started and it drove off the end of the line just as we expected.
They look good and we're going over them with a fine tooth comb as per our new quality gate process.
With the exception of 2 units that you can see at the Mid-America Truck Show (sic) [Mid-America Trucking Show] later this month these trucks will go into Navistar and some customer fleets and begin to accumulate accelerated mileage.
Turning now to quality on Slide 17.
In the last quarter we discussed some quality issues that surfaced related to our 2010 big bore engine launches and what we're doing to fix them.
2010 emission system issues are not unique to Navistar.
The entire industry has experienced them.
But what I believe sets us apart is how we are responding.
Let me reiterate what we said last time.
The repair incident is in line with industry performance and continues to improve or is best-in-class.
The repair cost per engine also continues to improve.
Similar to our competitors we experienced some issues with components of the EGR system and we told you about those on our last call.
These issues have been addressed on engines being produced today and as a result will not be part of our 13-liter SCR engines as we launch later this month.
On our last call we also discussed potential field campaigns to address the engines in our customers' hand.
One of these campaigns has started and is progressing per plan.
We have not made plans for a second campaign but I want to highlight that that is still a possibility.
One thing is for certain: we have made a lot of progress in a short period of time and our customers will attest to that.
I was visiting a large fleet customer a few weeks ago and I was loaded with data on quality issues we've seen and what we've done and how we're addressing them.
Halfway through my pitch the customer complimented our service efforts but said they really hadn't seen these problems and in fact they were very satisfied with their 2011 and 2012 trucks.
We have more than turned the corner on quality but quality is a journey that never ends and I would like to reiterate that we will do whatever it takes to improve quality and customer satisfaction.
Moving to cost improvements on Slide 18.
Lewis mentioned earlier that we established an annual cost reduction goal of $150 million to $175 million and we're on track to exceed this $175 million target and we're not done.
On our last call we told you how we realigned our organization to focus on functional excellence.
And as an outgrowth of our more functionally aligned organization we have launched a best-in-class benchmarking initiative which Lewis referenced earlier.
It supplements the actions already underway to right-size our business and improve our cost structure.
This benchmarking effort will help us understand how we compare to industry norms on a function-by-function basis.
We've already compiled data from the key functional areas of our business and we're cutting the data a lot of different ways to see how we compared to 15 industrial peers in heavy manufacturing.
This is helping us to tier business in new ways and identify more opportunities to become leaner and further improve our cost structure and we're confident that this will result in additional savings yet this year and help offset potential risks to our plans.
Moving to Slide 19 you will recall that our plan is intensely focused on our North America core Truck Engine and Parts businesses.
We're looking at our non-core businesses to assess their strategic fit and their currently anticipated ROIC.
Let's talk about progress.
Last quarter we did announce that we would exit our Truck and Engines joint ventures with Mahindra in India and since then we have completed the sale of our stake in the JVs to Mahindra.
The deal has received regulatory approval and Mahindra has now taken complete ownership of operations.
But this effort is not just about selling stuff; it's also about fixing our businesses.
So take our operations in Brazil for example.
MWM had an outstanding first quarter.
By taking out fixed cost and reducing SG&amp;A they've made year-over-year improvements of $14 million in the quarter.
And looking ahead if the Brazilian market continues to recover we believe there's an opportunity for them to contribute more to our results for the year.
Yes we've made a lot of progress and I couldn't be prouder of how far we've come.
But realistically we face some headwinds.
The biggest challenge to our plan is the volume forecast for the year.
You know there's 2 pieces to that: the market itself and market share.
For our fiscal year the truck industry itself is down year-over-year.
We previously stated that we anticipated the Class 8 truck market will be down from 230 000 in 2012 to 215 000 in 2013.
We haven't changed our forecast and it appears that our competitors' published forecasts are now more in line with ours.
With regard to market share Slide 20 we're playing this 1 quarter at a time.
Q2 is the transitional quarter in a transitional year yet we expect that it will be the quarter where our sales of the ProStar with ISX will ramp up.
There is a lot of interest out there in the winning combination of the ProStar with the 15-liter ISX and this interest has allowed us to talk with important customers who really haven't considered us for a while.
The results of our quality improvement efforts will become more evident to customers.
And it's the quarter where we introduce the Navistar 13-liter SCR engine the ProStar.
Interest is building in the performance and availability of the ProStar 13-liter SCR and we'll show more of this as we get closer to customer shipments.
Marketing surveys indicate Navistar and in particular International Truck enjoys significant brand loyalty.
I've met a lot of customers who want to be committed to us and our products.
And into the next quarter we will rebuild our market share by committing to them.
We'll do this by committing to deliver best-in-class quality superior performance in drivability and fuel economy and the rapid availability of our clean engine products.
With this commitment and the availability of our new products we will improve market share throughout the year.
The foundation for this has already been laid and I'm confident that you will see the results.
In closing we've been saying that 2013 is our transitional year.
But with everything we've accomplished so far from our product launches to our structural cost improvements to our benchmarking initiatives it might be more accurate to say that this is a year of transformation.
And Q2 will be an important part of this transformation and a quarter where we will continue to find even more ways to improve our business.
And with that let me turn it back over to Lewis for some closing comments.
Thanks Troy.
So let me summarize by quickly reminding you of our key guiding principles for 2013.
I don't think you can stress them enough and I hope you can see that we are beginning to see concrete progress in each of our 3 top areas: dramatically improving product quality a real focus inside the company; hitting every one of our SCR-based engine launch dates -- we've exceeded almost every one; and delivering on our operating plan with an emphasis on manufacturing operating profit and you heard the good numbers that A.
J.
talked about about the manufacturing cash flow.
And as we do so you can be sure we will remain unwavering in our focus on the 6 key guiding principles of: quality cost a sense of urgency great products customer satisfaction and most importantly the people that make all of that happen.
Now we know despite the work we've done there's much more to be completed but we believe and I firmly believe the turnaround Navistar has started and the Drive to Deliver plan has all the right elements to make significant progress during this year of transformation.
The people of this organization are committed to turning Navistar around and they are taking out a unnecessary cost and fixing the core business with resolve and purpose.
As I've said before if you could see what I'm seeing you would have the same confidence that I do in the future of Navistar.
We're a proud company proud people.
We've been around for over 100 years but I believe that Navistar's best days are yet to come.
Thank you.
This concludes our prepared remarks.
[Operator Instructions] So operator we're now ready to open the lines.
[Operator Instructions] And we will hear first from Steve Volkmann with Jefferies &amp; Company.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I'm wondering -- just a quick one A.
J.
just to make sure I heard you right.
Are you suggesting[ph]  That the cash balance in the second quarter will be sort of the low point of the year and 3Q or 4Q will be higher? I just wanted to confirm that.
Steve let me repeat that because you broke off a little bit.
But I think you asked if Q2 would be the low point for cash and if cash would improve from there.
Yes we expect our market share will improve in the second half of the year and that will be the key driver to improving our cash in the second half.
You have to admit though Steve -- this is Lewis.
$1 billion is not too low.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Great.
I just wanted to make sure we set the trajectory right.
We'll now move to David Leiker with Baird.
Research Division</strong> Just in terms of the cash the directional cash commentary.
It makes sense with higher volumes that working capital should swing around and be positive for you.
But I guess just trying to reconcile the EBITDA guidance because that's plus or minus breakeven with higher revenues higher profits.
I'd kind of expect that to move higher sequentially.
So what I guess are the costs that are popping up in Q2 that gets you to the Q2 EBITDA guidance? I do expect margins to improve in Q2.
But as Troy talked about and the things that we talked about on our fourth quarter call we continue to develop field campaign strategies to improve our quality and we are in the process of analyzing a potential fix for the second quarter and that's factored into our guidance.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And is there an order of magnitude you can put on the field campaign? I know some in the past have been in kind of the $25 million to $50 million range.
That's the right way to look at it.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just one quick follow-up.
Troy with the numbers you gave for Cummins and if I just kind of compare that against your Class 8 order intake during the quarter it looks like Cummins was around 40% of your overall heavy truck orders.
Is that a good way to think about mix going forward? And then maybe steps lower as you get the 13-liter engine into the mix? Yes that's a very good way to look at it.
I mean I think by the time we get to the end of the year it will probably look like -- whatever the mix of 13-liter and 15-liter in the market is today I think it will stabilize like that for us as well and I think that's probably in that 50-50 45-55 kind of range.
So I think that is the right way to look at it.
And next we'll hear from Andy Kaplowitz with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> If I could ask you about your military business.
So you kept your guidance at $750 million.
I mean we all know about sequestration.
How's the visibility into that business right now? How did you do in the first quarter? And how is the visibility for the next few quarters in the business? We had a very good first quarter with military.
Particularly on the Parts side of the business we had strong revenue.
And then I'll let Archie speak to the path forward.
Yes we -- sequestration really I mean is it going to affect us? We're not sure yet.
But right now we're on path we're staying with that plan we've submitted and we have a path to get there.
So I'm confident that where we're at and the guidance we've given is -- we're okay.
Research Division</strong> A.J.
or Archie could you tell us how much you did in revenue? And do you disclose that or...
Oh.
I don't have that number.
Yes military revenue for the quarter was just about $225 million.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
I appreciate that.
Maybe Troy we could step back.
Orders for Class 8 have looked quite good over the last few months; actually really for the last 4 or 5 months.
And it kind of feels a little bit like last year where we had very good orders at the end of the year and in the beginning of the year and it was maybe leasing guys and freight guys sort of buying what they needed for the year.
What are you seeing this year? Do you have any concern that orders would fall off or does it feel different this year where maybe there's a little more confidence the fleet age is up there we know we've got to replace.
I mean what are you seeing as you go into Mid-America? Yes Andy let me -- I'll just take a couple of set of comments.
And Jack Allen is with us and then I'll ask Jack to make some comments as well.
But coming to the first part what we have learned and I think the industry observes is there are some large program buyers who make some of their decisions in the fall of the year and basically those trucks go into our production schedules throughout the balance of the year.
We certainly had noticed that.
And I think the second point that I'd highlight though is we had always anticipated that we would run into a period of time principally in this quarter where we would experience some softening in our -- in order intake and ultimately market share because we are in the process of making that transition.
There is a lot of interest in the new engine the 13-liter SCR engine and they're just not available obviously until the end of April.
So we're in that kind of time period where I think people have an option to wait.
And in some cases that's what we're seeing.
On the other hand in some cases we're seeing customers step forward to say "We really like the EGR engine and where it's at today." Very satisfied with it it works great in their applications and they're actually placing orders for those type of engines throughout the balance of the year.
Maybe a little more color Jack that you could provide on our orders? Yes I think Andy on the industry side we just came back from the Truckload Carriers meeting.
And the mood there in my view was pretty darn optimistic.
Freight is good freight rates are good.
But there is -- there are clouds on the horizon for these guys and that's making them tentative on their outlays with capital.
Hours of Service if this goes into effect on July 1 as is currently planned is going to be a 10% to 11% immediate reduction in productivity and the driver shortage is not getting any better.
So there was a -- they like the business they're seeing right now in terms of freight and rates but there's no one going to step out here and make any big purchases beyond what their replacement needs are.
So the Class 8 industry is actually coming in as we had anticipated.
If you take the last 6 months' order receipts and annualize them you come in at 212 000.
We've anticipated 215 000 against 230 000 last year so it's kind of the way we had expected the year to unfold.
I do think Andy one of the things that I learned from spending the time with Jack and a number of the big fleet customers is the influence that driver availability has.
I think if there was not a driver shortage in the industry we would probably see a smoother flow of orders.
There wouldn't be this kind of lumpiness to it that I think we have experienced over the course of the last year.
We'll now move to Brian Sponheimer with Gabelli &amp; Company.
Inc.</strong> Lewis just wanted to take a step -- first of all congratulations on the decision.
It's certainly a big change from where this company was 6 months ago.
But I guess with the real -- and I don't want to say end of the road but the real goal being the 13-liter production bogey at the end of April what made you make the decision now to hand the reins over to Troy? Well a couple of things actually.
First of all I am totally committed to this company.
I've often used the phrase I've really "fallen in love" with this company.
I'm very devoted to Navistar.
I care so much about it.
And so it was kind of a bittersweet thing that I recommended to the board that we put Troy in place now.
I did that because our turnaround is evident.
We can see the end of the runway and it looks very good.
We understand what we need to do and some of those actions are going to be pretty tough.
And my experience with turnarounds which goes back to my Textron days is that if you're going to have tough decisions you need to make you ought to put the long-term leader in place so that he can say to the team "Follow me.
I'm with you 100%." And obviously I had this doggone interim moniker on my shoulder.
I have worked 24/7.
It's been a very -- a labor of love for sure.
But it was just the right time.
And Troy is totally ready.
I mean there's just no doubt about -- in my mind at all that this company will become even stronger under his leadership than under mine.
So it was a piece of cake.
And remember this was a unanimous choice by me and the board.
So our major shareholders supported it which is also a key thing if you think about it.
So they know the company well themselves.
So this is just the right thing to do right now.
Inc.</strong> All right.
A couple other questions or just one other question and then I'll hop back in queue.
As you close Garland what are the puts and takes on the balance sheet that we should be expecting? Any working capital issues? Can you talk about that A.J.? Sure.
I expect the Garland decision to be cash flow positive this year.
The working capital is actually going to improve as we close that facility.
We did take some accelerated depreciation as we marked the assets to fair value this quarter but I think overall you'll see cost-neutral this year from Garland with the benefit flowing through next year.
And then the cash impact will be positive this year.
Inc.</strong> Right.
And then -- I'm sorry just as far as 13-liter orders for the SCR engine when do you think we'll have a better idea as to what we can expect initially there? I'll let Jack handle that one.
Well we've just opened the order book.
As Troy said we've begun production here this month.
We'll begin shipping on April 30.
Our coming-out party is at Mid-America.
This will be the showcase in our display will be -- the ProStar with the ISX and the ProStar with the 13-liter SCR.
So we'll have a much better feel after the Mid-America Trucking Show.
I think today we have hundreds of orders not thousands of orders.
We have -- several fleets have stepped forward for several hundreds of trucks so that they could get a feel for the fuel economy improvement and the drivability improvement that that build's turning in.
Now we'll take a question from Jeff Kauffman with Sterne Agee.
Research Division</strong> Maybe a longer-term view here Troy.
You're making progress you're getting the company to where you want.
Let's go out 1 to 2 years and assume that you're successful in doing what you want to do.
What types of margins should we be thinking about longer-term for the different businesses with more focus obviously on Engine and Truck? And what time frame do you think is a reasonable expectation for thinking the business is keeping to those levels? Because you seem to be so far ahead on at least the cost-cutting portion right now.
Yes well no -- that's a great question.
And I hope every quarter we can talk about that we're ahead basically in the plan.
Let me kind of ground that if I could that -- I think different today than maybe any call that we had prior the path forward for us with regards to how to restore our margins is extremely clear and it's really just about executing and time okay? And so part of what we need to do is stay focused on the run rate that we have currently established and make sure that we deliver the numbers that we have in plan and in queue for this year.
And certainly our goal would be to exceed those.
But what that really does is it kind of gets us out of this year which is really a turnaround year so there's obviously puts and takes -- gets us out of this year I think with a good run rate.
So what can we look forward to going forward? I think we can look forward to at least another tranche of SG&amp;A improvement that will be material and we'll see the main benefit of that in 2014.
So with regards to getting the business right-sized and lean I think that we'll see the cost the kind of final tranche other than continuous improvement across there for 2014.
Material cost which is a significant opportunity for us both in Engines and Trucks will take us probably over the course of the next 2 years to realize.
So we'll see those benefits in 2014 I think and 2015.
More Trucks in the early phase and then more Engine as we're able to take the EGR components off the engines and then net out the savings versus the SCR systems that we've added.
Of course a piece of this is NCPs the non-conformance penalties go away by the end of the fiscal year and basically -- so that's a pickup for 2014.
Manufacturing costs per our plans I kind of see 2 more tranches of savings.
So that's the savings that A.J.
already referenced that we'll see that are significant in 2014 and we'll see another tranche of savings that are probably a similar note in 2015.
And again that's just from building it right the first time getting the terms right allocating the product to the right spot.
And then last but not least I think we'll see this continually will be quality.
Okay? We do have our accruals set for this year so far.
As we improve quality we could have some expectations that those accruals will be adjusted per the warranty model and I believe we'll see significant savings in the 2014 timeframe and again in the 2015 timeframe as our goal is to not go backwards on quality but continue to go forward even in these launches.
So those are the things that I would advise you are the kind of the big buckets.
Those are -- there's obviously smaller items but those are the bigger buckets that you could put double -- at least double-digit numbers to and those would be the timings of those.
So I would tell you that we have a good 24 months of initiatives.
And I think in that time frame we'll be in a margin realm in that 8% to 10% kind of rate which is where we want to be.
And I'm really referencing North America core truck Engine and Parts.
Pull all those together that's kind of the margin kind of range.
A little bit of puts and takes.
Research Division</strong> Follow-up looking out and ahead you have some debt that needs to be defeased or financed coming up over the next say 12 to 15 months.
A.J.
can you talk a little bit about where you are in that process right now? Sure.
I mean as you said we've got plenty of runway on that.
We've got 12 to 15 months to work on that.
And I think kind of building off the success of this quarter I think as we gain momentum and we take doubt away from the company's ability to recover we'll have plenty of opportunity to refinance that debt in a timely manner.
And now we'll move to a question from Jerry Revich with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Troy I'm wondering if you could talk about your progress on rightsizing the International franchise.
When you took full control of the NC2 joint venture losses were running at about $90 million per year.
Can you just tell us where you are in the process of cutting overhead and perhaps reducing the product range across the International franchise and the former NC2 business in particular? Yes and Jerry part of this will sound anecdotal so we may have to get -- if there is something more specific you want certainly we'll volunteer to provide that to you.
So some of this may sound a little bit anecdotal but -- okay so what we did was we established in our turnaround plan that we really wanted to focus on our North America core business.
So let me just jump quickly to the global stuff.
We kind of retrenched ourselves on the global around basically the type of products that we export out of the United States.
We have very successful businesses in Central America and the Andean countries.
It's profitable for us.
It's been profitable for a while.
It uses engines that are already in the stable and well known because they are previous emission levels and we really kind of doubled down our efforts there just to make sure that that continues to be a solid contributor in our global portfolio.
The second thing on the global thing is -- I would highlight to you is that we've doubled down on MWM.
The team down there did a great job of kind of picking a profit target and then going and -- the kind of profit target that you'd want to have for that business and then going and adjusting their cost structure to make sure that it'd fit within our business model down there.
So 2 big successes in that regard.
The third thing from a global standpoint is we decided to continue to invest in our joint venture efforts with JAC in China.
Those are still nascent.
They're not a drag but they're not an add so to speak at this point in time to our results.
But we do see a lot of possibilities there.
The type of product that they have are the type of products that we think we can use in Mexico and Latin America and when combined with our MWM Engine portfolio could give us some opportunities to find some good business down there.
With regards to NC2 we're kind of stepping back from saying "Look we're going to play in a big way everywhere with our global capital and products." We haven't made any announcements on that but I know that in prior news we had emphasized that as one of our aspirations.
And just quite frankly we've pulled back from that.
We have not been able to find a path forward at a meaningful cost and return level to suggest that we can go into markets that are heavily cabover kind of European-type markets and make a lot of headway there.
So that's really the biggest piece of what NC2 was lined up to do.
And so since we now are the owners of NC2 it is no longer a joint venture those are just some decisions that we've made.
That leaves the question a couple of outposts that we've got out there and that we're working through what the right thing to do is but they're not businesses of material consequence for us.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And Troy in terms of I guess the product development path can you frame for us your action plan on the medium-duty franchise? When do you expect to shift the R&amp;D focus on that part of the portfolio? And can you give us a sense of the timeline on the transition? Yes.
Actually we've already begun.
And Denny Mooney the head of our Product Development activity is here with me.
And I'll let Denny just step up here just in case I miss something.
But we've already begun.
We have I believe announced on previous calls that we will use SCR in a midrange engine.
We have credits that get us into let's just say the mid-2014 kind of timeframe.
And so you can expect that transition to take place between now and then.
Stay tuned.
We think we'll have a lot more to announce on that.
But it is -- but our midrange engines will continue maybe that was part of your question and they will have an SCR system on them next year.
Next question will come from Justin Ward with Wells Fargo.
Justin Ward in for Andy Casey.
Can you guys walk us through the cost savings bridge from Q4 to Q1 for the Truck and Engine segments? Just kind of calling out the big buckets there and maybe any swings in the warranty cost as well from Q4 to Q1 that is? Obviously the biggest movement from Q4 is going to be the warranty.
And then the next biggest bucket would be the SG&amp;A savings.
Those are the 2 biggest elements of that from Q4 last year to Q1 this year.
There's better volume in the Parts business.
But overall volume is about flat from quarter to quarter.
The improvement would really be in the warranty and in the SG&amp;A.
Okay.
Okay and then in terms of the further structural cost savings you guys have identified forgive me if you already gave it but what sort of order of magnitude are you guys thinking by the end of 2013? I don't know that right now.
Again I think Troy summed it up best.
It's better to take this quarter-by-quarter.
We established a goal to take out $175 million of structural cost.
We put plans in place to achieve that.
What we're working on now is as Lewis alluded to is kind of a 12-week analysis and benchmarking process to identify what those next buckets are and then we'll begin to take and address those.
So right now we haven't really quantified what those opportunities are.
Okay.
And then real quick the EBITDA guidance for Q2.
You guys called out the field campaign is baked into that.
Are there any other onetime items either positive or negative baked into that? No.
We'll continue to pay NCPs in Q2.
We will continue to have some cost associated with closing Garland.
We do expect with the sale of Mahindra to record a benefit from that in Q2.
But those are the big puts and takes.
And next we'll hear from Adam Uhlman with Cleveland Research.
I guess first of all A.J.
just a clarification on the accelerated depreciation that we saw this quarter.
Is that a cost that carries forward until we sell those assets or is this just a onetime catch-up in the quarter and then we go back to the normal level? Let me break that into pieces.
The 15-liter is finished.
We completed production of the 15-liter actually in December.
So those were really November and December costs.
Those are gone.
And as I just answered we'll continue -- we'll have a few costs next quarter associated with the closing of the Garland facility and then those will go away after Q2.
Then we'll actually start to see some benefits flow through the bottom line as our manufacturing costs will be lower as the year progresses on.
Okay great.
And then could we begin for the medium duty business a little bit here? Why were the orders so soft there? And the retail share fell a lot and then broadly speaking what sort of magnitude of recovery are we expecting in the second half of the year both with the medium duty and the bus business as well as the heavy-duty truck business if I can lump those all together? Well on the medium duty side our business has been -- from a share standpoint it's been really just impacted by the overall challenges that the company's had as kind of the spillover impact with many customers and many segments from our heavy-duty quality issues.
But clearly that cloud is lifting now.
The biggest segments that have impacted are leasing as well as government and we've taken very serious corrective actions here over the last couple of months in order to turn that around.
The other area has been on the dealer side.
Our dealers have had a lot of concerns and a lot of issues with the success that's been laid out here on the phone today.
We have put a program together with our dealers to replenish medium duty inventory here and that will happen in the second and third quarter.
But our inventory has fallen almost 40% at the dealer level.
So the actions we have in place will work and we'll be growing share here certainly in the remainder of the year on medium duty.
And then actually on bus I think we had a pretty good quarter on bus.
I think we actually -- I'm just flipping through my notebook here trying to find the numbers but we held our own I think or maybe picked up a little bit on bus.
We had a very full quarter.
A lot of good orders and that's why I think we've kind of turned the corner on that.
Your question on Class 8 it's very difficult with all of the little pieces right now to predict the shares.
As A.J.
and Troy mentioned we're just looking at this 1 quarter at a time.
But I will tell you this: we know that we're going to build and charge out more trucks -- more Class 8 trucks in the second quarter than we did in the first quarter.
So we know that from our standpoint we'll deliver more trucks in the second quarter.
The next question will come from Eric Crawford UBS.
Research Division</strong> You touched on it earlier with Justin's question.
But I was hoping we could talk a bit more about the warranty expense.
It looks like you had a $40 million adjustment to pre-existing warranties.
Really nice progress there but could you give some more color on what contributed to that adjustment? I see in the Q there was a supplier issue there.
Yes let me take that in some pieces.
And some of that is just the way that we characterize the expenses.
We actually had a very sizable vendor recovery as one of our warranty issues was relative to a purchased component.
During the quarter we reached agreement with that vendor and we had a fairly substantial recovery from the vendor.
Actually more than we had expected the expense to be.
As a result we trued up the expense to reflect the size of the recovery.
Unfortunately the expense shows up in pre-existing warranty and the recovery is blended against normal warranty expense.
So they net out but the optics make it look like pre-existing warranty was higher than we had been -- really it truly was.
So that's the big moving part there.
We did true up a couple of field campaigns in the quarter.
But overall there was no real significant change in the warranty accrual for the quarter.
The noise you're seeing there really just reflects the accounting.
Research Division</strong> Perfect.
You'd cited improved repair cost per engine.
I was wondering if you could give us any metrics for us to frame or quantify that improvement.
I'll tell you what why don't we get back with you on that? Let us figure out how to answer that question.
We really just don't share that and I don't think anybody else in the industry does as well.
But obviously I don't want to walk away from your interest in the subject or the magnitude of the improvement we've made because it's pretty substantial.
As we've talked about last time -- actually our customers don't see a higher repair incidence on our vehicles than they do with some other people's vehicles.
But what really brought this whole quality issue to the forefront -- and arguably I think we tried to be more transparent with it than we may have been in the past was the fact that we had a key component or 2 that turned out to be very expensive to fix.
And in fact those repair costs are what's reflected in the field campaigns that I've indicated where we're currently underway and the field campaign that could potentially come or that we might consider at some point in time that A.J.
referenced to earlier.
So the data itself maybe is not as significant as the fact that it's kind of skewed by kind of 2 parts that again we warrant the parts.
So we're going to do what we've got to do to support our customers but they're not cheap parts.
They're 2 rather expensive parts.
That said all the improvements that we've made and the majority of those things are actually underway prior to the end of last year our fiscal year we are really seeing the benefit of having kind of taken those actions in that time frame and putting that behind us.
Research Division</strong> Understood.
And one last one.
I know Andy had asked earlier about the defense business and sorry if I missed it but did you address -- or could you address cadence in military revenues in the year? Is that still expected to be pretty evenly spread? Yes.
We -- typically we see a big increase in our military business in the fourth quarter.
Kind of given that we had -- we've taken our revenue slide down to about $750 million we had -- I think I said 225 000 -- the number was really more like 215 000 in the first quarter.
So I think you'll start to see military revenue go down in Q2 just a bit.
But we feel as Archie said we feel very confident about the $750 million for the year.
And we have time for one final question coming from Seth Weber with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> Adam Nielsen on for Seth here.
Just a question on ICT+ transition here.
It sounds like you're pretty pleased with the initial feedback from customers here.
How are you feeling about early indications on pricing? And how are you thinking about attacking market share versus margin and pricing there? Well the initial feedback as you said has been positive on the ISX.
And with the MaxxForce 13 the initial vehicles are being built in our test fleet.
We intend to be competitive on pricing.
We don't see any nasty price wars going out in the marketplace right now.
We've met with a lot of customers who -- they like our company they like our brand they like our dealers.
They want to do business with us they're just waiting for us to demonstrate to them that we've got this right.
So as that confidence builds we think we'll be able to get our market share back.
We don't intend to do that by sacrificing margins.
LLC Research Division</strong> Sorry if I missed it but did you give a guide to expected market share for the full year for Class 8? No we did not.
And that will conclude today's question-and-answer session.
I'll turn the call back over to your host for closing remarks.
Okay.
I'd like to thank everybody for joining us today.
And if you have any follow-up questions you can contact myself Heather Kos or Randy Diaz.
We'll be around all day.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen that does conclude today's call.
Thank you for your participation.
Good day and welcome everyone to the Navistar Second Quarter 2013 Earnings Results Conference Call.
Today's call is being recorded.
For opening remarks and introductions I would like to turn the program over to the Vice President of Investor Relations Heather Kos.
Please go ahead.
Good afternoon everyone and thank you for joining us for Navistar's second quarter 2013 conference call.
With me today are Troy Clarke our President and Chief Executive Officer; Jack Allen our Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer; and A.J.
Cederoth our Chief Financial Officer.
Before we begin I'd like to cover a few items.
A copy of the press release and the presentation slides that we will be using today have been posted on our Investor Relations website for your reference.
The non-GAAP financial measures discussed in this call are reconciled to the U.S.
GAAP equivalent as part of the Appendix in the slide deck.
Finally today's presentation includes some forward-looking statements about our expectations for future performance.
Actual results could differ materially from those suggested by our comments made here.
For additional information concerning factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected in today's presentation please refer to our most recent reports on Form 10-K and 10-Q and our other SEC filings.
We would also refer you to the Safe Harbor statement and Other Cautionary Notes disclaimer presented in today's material for more information on the subject.
With that I'll turn the call over to Troy Clarke for his opening remarks.
Okay.
Hey thanks Heather and good afternoon everyone and thank you for joining our call.
Hey I recognize the call is later than we would like or normally do for this quarter.
We had to take some time to work out an accounting issue that we wanted to make sure that we got right and A.J.
will give you some more color on that in his comments.
But for my part I would like to apologize to all of you for any inconvenience we may have created in your schedules.
And in addition to that to assure you that we'll work back to our regularly scheduled time when you might expect it at the end of our next quarter.
Our agenda today will follow the same process we've established several quarters ago.
I'm going to lead off with a high-level overview of our second quarter performance and our progress in our strategic objectives.
A.J.
will provide a deeper dive on the financial results; and Jack Allen our new Chief Operating Officer will discuss the latest warranty and quality developments as well as provide more specific direction regarding our second half sales and share initiatives.
And then I'm going to wrap up with some closing remarks on long-term EBITDA goals and that will lead into then Q&amp;A.
Before I begin however I just want to reiterate how pleased I am to have Jack joining me on the call as our COO.
Many of you know him from past earnings calls and some of you have even met with him in person.
As I have worked with Jack I found him to be a results-focused and industry-savvy leader the right leader to strengthen our North America core business.
And you're going to hear directly from him in a few minutes.
Turning to Slide 6.
You will notice that this is the same roadmap we have been using since we embarked upon our turnaround last August.
The point I would make there is no change to our strategy or our guiding principles since we introduced this back in Q3 of 2012.
We have a solid plan.
One we've consistently said will take us 12 to 18 months to execute.
I believe this quarter's performance reflects continued progress on our near-term priorities while pointing out that we still face a few significant yet solvable challenges.
So regarding our results let's get right to it.
Positives for the quarter include: Our cash performance exceeded our guidance for the second straight quarter.
As you know cash is a major focus of our efforts during this turnaround year.
Two we are overachieving in our efforts to reduce cost.
An example of this include higher-than-planned reductions in structural cost and SG&amp;A.
Last summer we set tough targets for the operating cost of our business.
Through aggressive benchmarking we continue to find more opportunities for improvement and that should drive us well past the $175 million goal we shared with you before.
Three during the quarter we received EPA and CARB approval for the MaxxForce 13-liter engine with SCR.
We began shipments to customers in April like we said we would do.
We're now back in business with 2 great powertrain options for our ProStar and our heavy-truck lineup.
Four we've made more progress in our efforts to shed non-core assets that don't provide an appropriate return on invested capital and Jack will provide more specifics in his update.
And five I would round out this list by highlighting that we continue to make progress building our leadership team to reinforce key areas of the business with the addition of Bill Kozek as the President of North America replacing Jack Allen in that position; and announcing Bill Osborne as our new Senior Vice President of Quality.
Adding Bill Kozek and Bill Osborne to their respective roles are the latest steps in an effort I call One Navistar.
This is the effort you heard me reference before to organize more effectively to create focus and functional excellence resulting in a more capable Navistar enterprise and it all starts with the right leaders in the right jobs.
We're pleased with the progress we are making but there were 2 areas where our progress fell short of our goals for the quarter.
We were disappointed with our sales and share performance as well as with continued increases in our pre-existing warranty cost.
As for sales and share.
We knew that Q2 would be the quarter where we'd transition to our new engine emission strategy.
We knew we could get to a point where a potential customer might not want to buy the last EGR product or the first SCR product and that's part of the reason we added ISX at the beginning of the year.
And that's really part of what we saw in the quarter.
We have said share would increase in the second half of the year or sales volumes would increase throughout 2013 and share would increase in the second half of the year.
Frankly we have met or exceeded so many goals we have set for ourselves we thought that progress would have come faster it didn't.
But it is coming.
Now that we have 2 great products to sell with great fuel economy and much improved quality we are redoubling our efforts with dealers and customers to build confidence and accelerate sales.
Jack and the North America Truck and Parts leadership team have spent the last 2 months working with our dealers to reinvigorate our sales processes.
They have introduced disciplined planning with an emphasis on execution similar to the gated program management process we used to launch the ISX and the MaxxForce 13-liter SCR in record time.
And as a result we've already begun seeing the benefits.
Our market share bottomed out in the fiscal Q1 timeframe and I am confident that we will improve share through the remainder of the year.
With regard to our cost of quality we have a statistically significant number of 2010 trucks that are now out of base warranty.
So we've learned more about potential warranty claims of the EGR system at high mileage levels.
This has shown us that we need to make some additional provisions.
However I would note that it also lets us be more precise about understanding the warranty exposure for the remaining population of EGR engines.
The 2011 model year engines' actual warranty cost are better than the 2010 at comparable mileage but not as low as we had planned thus requiring an increase in the warranty reserve.
Also even though the 2012 and 2013 EGR engine warranty costs are much better but at lower similar mileage we felt it prudent to increase the reserves across these years as well.
The improvements especially seen in the model 2012 and 2013 engines are a function of several design and validation efforts that have taken the form of running changes during production.
To get at the engine in the field we advised you on the last call that we began a major field campaign at the beginning of the year to upgrade the engines of previous model years.
We're making good progress and the campaign is running ahead of schedule.
Jack is going to talk more about that in just a minute.
But as the trucks are in for repairs we're taking advantage of that time with the truck to do other things to make sure it does not come back again.
And these efforts add to our warranty and policy costs and quite frankly they're hard to estimate.
But they're important for customer satisfaction and we think of it as an investment in future sales.
I don't want to forget the progress we're making in manufacturing as well through the implementation of our MES system first time quality has improved 15% year-over-year.
And not only did we successfully launch our MaxxForce 13-liter ProStar with SCR in time we did so with over 1 million miles of testing [indiscernible] they're been no major failures.
And as Jack will note shortly the data indicates we won't see any issues that drive higher warranty due to lower levels of EGR in our new engines.
In the same field test mileage accumulation is true for the ProStar with ISX.
Launched at the end of last year which also now has over 1 million test miles.
Customer and fleet feedback on uptime and quality has been positive.
And between the 2 launches and our quality efforts we have conducted over 4.5 million miles of engine and component-specific testing which incidentally is more testing than we've done in the previous 2 years combined.
I think this reflects our dedication to engineering excellence.
The trucks we're building today are the highest quality trucks we've built for more than a decade and they also have improved fuel economy.
I hope that explanation is helpful.
Although we're not satisfied we are making progress.
And we know we're doing the right things and we will stay focused.
And this is where Bill Osborne in his new position will help.
Bill is a seasoned truck executive who has extensive experience and knows how to bring together the parts of the business necessary to manage the cost of quality and to create customer satisfaction.
I'll reiterate something I said previously we are standing behind our engine and doing what it takes to satisfy our customers.
We intend to be the quality leader.
Before I turn it over to A.J.
let's turn to Slide 7.
I'd like to point out that much has been accomplished since we started this turnaround.
As a matter of fact we have met or exceeded every target or benchmark we've set for ourselves with the exception of market share and cost of quality both of which are improving but not as fast as we thought when we made our plans last August.
I recognize both are key proof points to our turnaround efforts yet there is more to do we know.
And we continue to work with a sense of urgency and we will not rest until that job is done.
And so with that let me turn the call over to A.J.
Cederoth for the details of our financial results.
Thank you Troy and good afternoon everyone.
Turning to Page 9 are the results for the quarter.
Revenue for the quarter was $2.5 billion down $735 million or 23% from 2012.
The primary driver of this was lower overall industry demand which was down 14% year-over-year.
Lower industry combined with market share decline resulted in lower overall shipments for North America of 6 900 units versus 2012.
For the quarter loss from continuing operations was $353 million which is $215 million worse than 2012.
Here again I think the impact of the volume and the warranty are overshadowing some very positive changes in our business.
Turning to Page 10.
Here we are showing what has changed in our business.
And while the results of the quarter are not satisfactory several positive trends are developing in our business.
Structural costs primarily SG&amp;A and engineering spending are $81 million lower than last year.
Material costs and manufacturing efficiencies have improved year-over-year by $25 million.
Service parts margins have improved by $22 million.
And our focus on return on investment has improved the bottom line by $53 million.
As I mentioned before the overall industry was lower by 14%.
During the engine transition our market share has also suffered.
As we complete the product changeover to SCR we expect our market share to recover.
But year-over-year industry market share and mix had a negative impact on the business of $109 million.
As we all know we continue to experience higher warranty costs.
Finally the year-over-year results are skewed by the release of the Canadian tax valuation allowance that occurred last year resulting in a $181 million onetime gain that ran through the tax line.
Turning to Page 11.
Let me spend a moment on the warranty charge.
As we discussed on our December call given the level of expense we recorded in 2012 we expect that cash spending on warranty repairs to be higher in 2013.
This was factored into our planning and our cash forecast.
As Troy alluded to earlier we are now starting to receive more end-of-life data on the initial builds of 2010 emissions vehicles and we've experienced an increased level of repair activity driven by our field campaigns.
It's important to understand that even though the actual data from the field is driven by a limited population it has a large influence on the estimated liability for the entire population until such time that we have sufficient data to support that the design changes implemented into production have effectively reduced the frequency and cost of repairs.
Jack will share with you later that our build quality continues to improve quarter-over-quarter and we believe a significant number of these field repairs are corrected in later builds.
But given the data that we have we believe it's appropriate to increase the warranty reserve related to pre-existing vehicles by $164 million.
On Page 12 we've reconciled our actual ending cash -- manufacturing cash against the forecast we provided on our last call.
We ended the quarter with manufacturing cash of $1.164 billion which exceeded the high end of our guidance.
As we discussed corporate EBITDA was adversely impacted by volume and warranty.
On this page we've isolated the warranty true-up for vehicles in the field that I previously mentioned to illustrate the EBITDA result of the business net of the warranty impact.
We did have an out-of-period adjustment in the quarter to correct revenue recognition on certain sales that were financed by GE Capital.
This is further outlined in our 10-Q.
The net income impact of this adjustment is immaterial to the bottom line and does not impact cash but it does impact EBITDA favorably for the quarter by approximately $62 million.
This should be viewed as a onetime adjustment.
From the range we provided on our previous call EBITDA on a comparable basis came in closer to the low end of the range.
The reason for this was primarily lower volumes.
Chargeout volumes for the quarter were slightly below our internal goal.
We expect to recover these sales in May and June.
Capital spending was lower than our guidance as we are closely managing investments during this transition period.
An example of this was the deferral of the second investment of our China project until May.
Finally as we've discussed before working capital management has improved and those actions continue to have a positive impact on cash flow.
Turning to Page 13.
Here we are providing our cash outlook for the third quarter.
Recall the third quarter is typically a challenging cash flow quarter for our business due to the traditional summer shutdowns.
We expect cash at the end of the third quarter to range between $1 billion and $1.1 billion.
I expect EBITDA to improve in Q3 primarily driven by volume.
Through the first half of the fiscal year there has been a significant amount of noise running through the P&amp;L.
We have taken action to improve the business and to eliminate issues that have been a drag on earnings most of this is behind us now.
We expect Q3 to be the quarter that we begin to demonstrate improved core business performance thus we expect to generate positive EBITDA during the quarter.
While we anticipate EBITDA to improve it will still fall below the fixed charges for the quarter primarily interest and pension as these cash flows are seasonally higher in Q3 versus Q2.
We are judiciously managing capital spending but I anticipate an uptick in spending as we invest in programs that drive our cost reduction targets for 2014.
And as I mentioned before we made the second investment into our China project during Q3.
Production volumes will increase in the quarter.
Our forecast is built around the assumption that the overall market will strengthen during Q3 and our market share should begin to gradually recover.
Thus volume will grow and working capital will continue to have a positive impact.
As I mentioned earlier I am forecasting cash payments for warranty to exceed expense.
This will manifest itself through working capital.
We continue to remain confident with our overall liquidity position.
We are carrying a large cash balance in order to demonstrate to all of our constituents vendors customers and shareholders that we have adequate liquidity to support our turnaround strategy.
In addition to our existing cash we continue to have additional liquidity available from NFC.
So in conclusion the second quarter presented some challenges.
While we are not satisfied with the results this quarter I believe we are taking action to put the company on a better path going forward.
We are carefully managing our spending while taking action to satisfy our customers.
We are ahead of our goal on structural cost reductions.
We have launched the 13-liter engine with SCR and we expanded the number of vehicles that offer the Cummins ISX engine.
From here we expect volume to expand and our results to improve.
I will stop here and let Jack put more details around the actions we are taking to drive continuous improvement in our business.
Jack? Thank you A.J.
and good afternoon everyone.
This is my first time joining you as Navistar's Chief Operating Officer and I've gotten to know many of you over the years through my previous positions with the company and I look forward to working with you in my new role.
Let me kick off my portion of today's remarks with a little more color on the leadership change Troy mentioned.
We're enhancing our organizational capabilities and we're thrilled that Bill Kozek is joining Navistar as President of our North America Truck and Parts business the job I held prior to being COO.
Bill joined us from PACCAR where he most recently headed up Peterbilt and before that held a similar position with Kenworth.
His insights and perspectives on the industry and customers will help us improve the business and that's really critical to our turnaround.
So turning to Slide 16.
Today I'll focus on the 3 key elements of our Drive to Deliver plan: Quality our product launches and delivering on our 2013 operating plan.
As you heard we've made a lot of progress so we've added another priority building our sales momentum to improve our market share.
On Slide 17 let's start with quality and warranty.
As you know we had a handful of the EGR-related quality issues with our 2010 engine launches that resulted in higher-than-anticipated warranty expenses and we're fixing them.
We launched a field campaign earlier this year.
We thought it would take about 18 months to complete.
But customers told us we needed to move faster and it was impacting our ability to sell trucks.
So we refocused our plan and put more resources on it and we accelerated our response.
And now 5 months into the process the EGR valve campaign is more than 68% complete.
We focused on getting this done and we anticipate it will be largely behind us by the end of the summer.
So here's the positive.
Customers are seeing the benefits.
Vehicles are operating well.
Uptime continues to improve and the trucks are not coming back for repeat issues.
The warranty charge that Troy and A.J.
talked about earlier is specifically related to this process.
As we upgraded the EGR systems we uncovered other repairs related to EGR components.
As Troy said earlier the higher EGR rates stress some components particularly in tougher applications.
So we said back in December that additional field campaigns could be required to ensure that each and every customer knows they have the latest and best components available.
We elected to make repairs related to the EGR componentry now during the current campaign and we revised the cost to complete this existing campaign.
We are also addressing later in life EGR issues on big bore engines and on medium-duty engines but to a lesser extent.
The good news: there's a limited number of vehicles that need repairs we know where they are and we know the upgrades that we need to make.
And we strongly believe that the newer EGR engines won't have these same issues because the fix has been made in production.
And our data indicates SCR engines won't have them either due to lower levels of exhaust gas in the system.
Meanwhile the trucks we're building today are the best we've ever built from a quality standpoint.
The reasons center on better design and manufacturing processes.
For one we've implemented our manufacturing execution system at our Escobedo truck plant and now we're rolling out MES in our other plants.
As our plants get better our trucks get better too.
Our 3 months in service repair rates have decreased by 40% across medium and heavy product lines since October of 2011.
The results are evident in our new product launches.
If you go to Slide 18 we launched the ProStar with the ISX 15-liter on time and we have over 5 800 orders to date.
We've built about 3 200 of these.
Customers like what they're seeing with the ProStar/ISX and we've gotten very positive reports from them on uptime and fuel economy.
This was pretty much a flawless launch and we applied the same discipline and quality of focus to our MaxxForce 13-liter SCR launch.
With the 13-liter we're running -- we started running our captive test fleet back in January.
We conducted a very thorough testing and validation.
Our goal is to put 400 000 miles on our vehicles before launch and we had twice that number.
Today we're at more than 1.3 million miles.
And these miles are an indicator of quality.
The uptime we're experiencing is what enabled us to get more miles.
The trucks didn't break down.
And that bodes well for our customers who are experiencing these trucks as they come forward.
We started taking orders in March and today we have over 2 200 orders.
Right now there's only a few of these 13-liters that are out in the market so it's too early for any initial quality data but we don't expect any notable issues.
Recently we did a ProStar 13-liter ride and drive with industry trade media and the response was outstanding.
One reporter tweeted from the event "My initial impressions of the SCR MaxxForce 13 are all positive.
There's more power than the EGR version smooth throttle response very quiet." And we know our customers are going to feel the same way.
We're confident we have the right products and we're working hard to convince our customers.
So now that we're through the product launches and quality is improving our next biggest challenge is to gain sales momentum and recapture market share.
So turning to Slide 19.
Last quarter we said we anticipate the Class 8 truck industry would be down about 7% from 230 000 in 2012 to 215 000 this year.
And today our forecast remains the same.
So now let me give you a little perspective about market share.
Back in 2009 Navistar Class 8 market share was in the mid-20s.
And I might point out that back then our main product was the ProStar with the ISX as well as the ProStar with our 13-liter.
Our share bottomed out in first quarter of this year at 14% and we finished Q2 with 15%.
So clearly we have work to do but we're headed in the right direction.
We've made significant business improvements over the past few years all aimed at enhancing our market position.
For example we have new dealers in key markets.
In fact we transitioned 21 markets since 2009 from the Bay Area in California to Atlanta Salt Lake Indy Toronto just to name a few.
Some of this has been organic but we've also attracted many new dealers who have experience with other OEMs like Volvo Mack Peterbilt and Freightliner.
And our dealers have invested more than $100 million in facility improvements in just the past 2 years alone resulting in a 22% increase in service hours in 2012.
So if you take all of this combined with the quality improvements and our investments in the ProStar line these all show we have a solid foundation to regain market share.
We didn't lose share for a whole multitude of reasons.
It happened because of a very narrow set of reasons.
Number one we didn't have a product in the 15-liter market and our customers lost confidence in our mission strategy and in some cases our company.
So we will work to gain this back one quarter at a time.
The biggest factor in boosting sales momentum is having 15-liter and 13-liter product coverage and our coverage is rapidly increasing.
We launched our 15-liter in Q1 and the 13-liter SCR during the last week of our Q2 so it's no surprise that our market coverage of SCR products averaged less than 15% in the first quarter and grew to 50% in Q2.
But this will quickly rise to 80% in Q3 and 95% in Q4 and we'll be at 100% as we enter 2014.
So to see how we're doing let's turn to Slide 20.
As I've said or market share bottomed out in the first quarter of 2013 at 14% and was just up a bit in Q2.
But we will build 25% more Class 8 trucks in Q3 than we did in Q2 and our order book for Q3 is nearly full.
And it's our intention to build 18% more Class 8 trucks in Q4 than we did in -- than we will in Q3.
So how are we doing this? Well let me share some information with you about incoming orders.
So the total orders for May which is our first month of Q3 were 39% above average order intake in Q2.
And for on-highway trucks so trucks built with a 13- or a 15-liter engine we were up 83% over the average order intake in Q2.
So clearly we're gaining momentum.
But as we've all said we just thought it would be sooner.
So if the industry forecasts hold we expect full year Class 8 market share to be at least 15% and our end of the year run rate will be in the range of 18%.
As for medium duty we've taken a market share hit and it's primarily related to our challenges with Class 8.
Purchases from leasing companies account for 35% to 40% of all Class 6 7 trucks sold each year.
As we improve our Class 8 share with these customers the spillover effect will help us on the upside just like it hurt us the past few years.
And speaking of medium we have an important announcement this afternoon.
We will introduce SCR in our medium-duty engines at the beginning of calendar year 2014 and we selected Cummins as our aftertreatment supplier.
For the past 9 months our engineering efforts have centered on adding SCR to our big bore engines.
But now this effort shifts to medium duty.
And we're going to move as quickly as possible but we won't compromise any of the quality gains we've made.
And with this plan we expect to avoid NCPs on medium-duty engines and it's likely we'll even have credits leftover.
Now on Slide 21 let's start with the financial performance from an operations standpoint.
In many areas things went very well in the quarter.
As Troy and A.J.
have mentioned we continue to make progress on the controllable items of our operating plan.
With SG&amp;A and overall structural cost we stated our 2013 goal is $175 million but we're on track to deliver $200 million.
We've done it by reducing spending and headcount and driving efficiencies.
This will carry into 2014.
Our Parts business have been a real success this quarter.
Revenue was up 7% in Q2 and profit is strong.
That's due to controlling cost and spending and through better pricing strategies and we expect that trend to continue.
In purchasing we set an aggressive cost reduction goal.
We're driving for year-over-year material cost improvement and we're ahead of our plan for the first half of the year.
In manufacturing we've transitioned out of Garland.
We've moved production to Springfield and Escobedo.
This will enable us to lower fix and variable manufacturing cost and we'll see these benefits in 2014.
The used truck market continues to be strong.
We sold 14% more this quarter than we did in Q2 last year.
Our used truck inventory value went down by $27 million versus the first quarter.
And all of this progress continues with the backdrop of declining defense revenues.
So on previous calls we told you how we're improving our organizational capabilities.
We're focused on functional excellence.
We've had some hard work to do but things are getting done better today than before.
And to achieve this functional excellence we've recently completed a benchmarking effort.
And it helped us to see our business in new ways.
We know what it takes to be best-in-class in all functional areas and that's our goal.
We're making changes to further improve our efficiency and effectiveness and our cost structure.
And as a result we'll be in a stronger position in 2014 and beyond.
Turning to Slide 22.
Since the very beginning of our turnaround we said we would do whatever it takes to win and that includes shedding non-core assets.
Our most recent proof point is the sale of Navistar RV to Allied Specialty Vehicles.
Add this to the actions we've already completed over the last 9 months.
We've exited our truck and engine joint venture with Mahindra in India.
We eliminated our own 15-liter engine.
We closed Garland sold Workhorse and sublet a portion of our Alabama manufacturing facility.
So in summary on Slide 23.
We are not pleased by the incremental warranty expense we incurred this quarter but we put our customers first.
And we believe that's going to payoff with their increased satisfaction and repeat business.
We continue to make progress this quarter on our new product launches quality gains and across-the-board business improvements.
We know we still face headwinds but we're executing our plans to regain customer confidence and market share.
And we're already seeing the results in our increased order intake.
I couldn't be prouder of the men and women at Navistar and our dealer personnel for everything we've accomplished so far.
We remain focused on building our momentum in the second half of the year.
And with that let me turn it back to Troy for some closing comments.
Hey thanks Jack.
As we stated 2013 is a pivotal year.
It's really our turnaround year.
And when we launched our Drive to Deliver plan we said we're going to do whatever it takes to turn our business around.
And for us that means targeting an EBITDA run rate in the 8% to 10% range by the end of 2015.
We have more to do but this is the right target.
We are excited about the progress we're making.
So let me elaborate a little bit by laying out the major building blocks you'll see towards this goal.
First our vision is not based on a large market recovery.
We believe the market will improve but we need to be more profitable in our core businesses at times in the cyle like today.
To get to our EBITDA goal we see the ability to make additional progress in the following areas: One in the area of fixed cost our benchmarking efforts indicate that we can further improve SG&amp;A and product development cost through efficiencies we have identified with our co-located enterprise and engineering center.
Additionally manufacturing costs will reduce as we become leaner in our manufacturing processes and practices.
And as we have noted in the past we will plan to consolidate engine operations like we have with assembly into fewer more highly utilized facilities.
Two in the area of variable cost we see even more opportunity to reduce material logistics cost across the entire truck to include harvesting the savings from the elimination in the EGR hardware on the engine in the truck that is no longer needed.
We expect our cost of quality will become less as we proceed on our journey to quality leadership.
And with quality and product performance we believe it becomes easier to hold on to price in the market.
And last but not least we anticipate further growth in earnings from regaining our market share as well as our businesses like service parts MWM and our pared down but profitable global business.
These are the areas of our business where you will see significant progress in the coming years.
Hey in closing we said 2013 is our transitional year.
And I'll admit hey it feels good to have these product launches well underway and the results look so promising.
In all areas of our plan we continue to improve and gain momentum yet we're not satisfied with our overall financial results.
We are already implementing the right leadership and business changes however to effectively solve the issue of market share and cost of quality.
And the second half of the year remains an important part of our Drive to Deliver.
Thank you very much for your time this afternoon.
And let me turn it back over to Heather.
That concludes our prepared remarks.
[Operator Instructions] So operator we're ready to open the line.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I'm wondering if you guys might be willing to address what's going on with pricing? I guess I'm trying to figure out vis--vis the kind of miss on the top line here.
How much of that was things like market share? And how much might be something like pricing? And what we should expect in your order book as you kind of give guidance for 3Q and 4Q? How does pricing look in that environment as well? Sure Steve it's A.J.
I think the year-over-year decline in revenue is really driven primarily by volume which is really market share and mix.
I think when I look at our data year-over-year our pricing hasn't materially changed so the change in revenue was driven by that.
Also in the quarter the accounting correction also reduced revenue by approximately $100 million as well.
So those are the big pieces in the year-over-year change.
I'll let Jack comment around our strategies going forward.
Steve what we're really trying to do here and we have said this on numerous calls is in a very measured way gain back our market share one quarter at a time.
The market is very competitive right now.
There is excess manufacturing capacity in the market and we expect the Class 8 industry to be actually down year-over-year by 7%.
So the opportunities to drive pricing are really limited and probably just limited to in the most part collection of the commodity increases that all of us have experienced.
On the other hand we are very comfortable with our product line and our quality and their performance.
And we're presenting a very strong value proposition to our customers.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay but it sounds like what you're saying is you do expect to capture the increase in commodity costs? Yes in our experience yes.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then just finally on the warranty the gift that keeps on giving I guess.
When do we get some kind of comfort level that we've kind of got all of this under control? I mean it feels like we've been through this a couple of times so maybe it's not even answerable but how do you know that we're not going to see another one of these in the next couple of quarters as we continue to work through the backlog here? Steve this is Troy.
So let me take a shot at that.
Now that the 2010 engines or a significant number of the 2010 engines are out of their base warranty period we think that gives us a really good idea as to what the total exposure would be if we made no improvements on the quality of the engine in the succeeding years yet we know we have.
So we believe that we don't -- not just believe but the numbers for 2011 and 2012 and 2013 are lower.
Now we're trying to be a little conservative with regards to not making too -- assumptions that they go significantly lower.
The second thing is is that we have these field campaigns.
And when you have these field campaigns there's just a lot -- there's a lot of spending that's really related to making sure that the customer who kind of didn't want his truck in there to begin with is satisfied when he leaves.
So between those 2 factors we believe we're getting our arms around the big bore warranty spend.
One of the things that now I think does maybe present some risk to us is our midrange engine spend.
Those are still EGR engines and although to a different scale nowhere near the magnitude of the costs around the big bore engines those engines experienced similar issues and we're trying to get ahead of those so that we don't incur this seemingly unending pre-existing adjustment.
So if we can manage those 3 things well we're pretty confident that we have a trapped population so to speak of these engines and those numbers should start coming down.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> If you have improved the population a little bit is there a scenario where some this actually reverses at some point? It's certainly possible and we would certainly hope that's the case but that is -- that's kind of not how the accounting process works.
We really are booking what we think is the realistic cost that these engines will experience in their life.
Right I think that it would be difficult to forecast something like that Steve.
But I think to Troy's point there's a lot of good changes that have gone into the products in order to come up with these estimates.
LLC Research Division</strong> A couple of questions there.
We realize this is a turnaround situation and so far the actions seemed to be good.
I'm just wondering about the profitability.
And A.J.
you may have talked about it is Navistar still in a position to generate positive earnings in Q4? Well I don't think that we've gotten into that granular level of detail for Q4.
I think going back to the last quarter Andy we talked about taking this one quarter at a time.
And when you look at the changes that occurred in the business from Q1 to Q2 obviously the warranty kind of overwhelmed the quarter.
We did see lower defense revenue in Q2 versus Q1.
We had a little bit of restructuring onetime charges that flowed through this quarter.
As we look into next quarter we don't expect the warranty to repeat itself so the warranty costs improve volume starts to come back into the equation.
In Q3 we're also seeing very nice improvement in our business in South America.
That continues to improve.
As Jack alluded to we don't have a high expectation for the defense business to show a lot of signs of recovery this year given what's going on in Washington.
And we'll start to see less of these onetime charges flowing through.
So it will be a much purer play on the business as we come out through Q3 and then I think that starts to build momentum for Q4.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
Just a follow-up on that question.
If I look on Slide 34 it looks like your dealer stock inventory has been creeping up over the last several quarters.
And it seems if I'm reading the chart correctly to be at the highest since Q2 '08 is all of that EGR-related engines? And is there any expectation that the dealers may need help to move that? Andy this is Jack.
Our dealer stock inventory turnover is at normal levels.
What you're really seeing from a building up here in just the last couple of months is some of the new products so ISX engines coming forward into the marketplace is one along with just the anticipation here as we said all along of the second half of the year being stronger than the first half of the year.
So this is a building in inventory in anticipation of a stronger market in the second half of the year.
If you go back in time on this chart boy it goes all the way back to 2003.
And our dealer stock inventory levels by any historical measure other than in the throes of the recession our inventory levels are in fine shape.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then on a longer-term basis this 8% to 10% margin goal has been interpreted a few different ways.
It's very clear now it's an exit rate 8% to 10% EBITDA margin goal.
What sort of volume improvement -- I know Troy you indicated not much but what sort of volume improvement do you think needs to occur to hit that goal? Because when we're looking at the revenue year-to-date and there's a lot going into this comment but it's approximately $1.1 billion beneath last year so I'm just asking it in the context of what is the earnings promise potential when we look out to 2015? Yes Andy so thanks for asking the question because -- a large part of what we're doing here with regards to pulling costs out of running the business is to lower our breakeven point so that we could take advantage when the market does come up okay? But the market doesn't have to go back to where it was in years past.
Basically when I kind of laid that 8% to 10% out in the groupings that you saw we're thinking about an industry that's 240 to 250 for heavy okay? And a market share that's in the 20s okay? Not over 25% but over 20% between 20% and 25%.
That's kind of the range that we're thinking about as our kind of planning sweet spot.
And then as the market cycle's up obviously we think we're going to do a little bit better.
As the market cycles down it will shave a couple of points off but we think that kind of EBITDA margin in that kind of volume and share makes our business a lot more robust than it has been in the last couple of years.
Is that helpful? LLC Research Division</strong> It is.
And I was wondering I mean since you gave the heavy is there a consideration for the medium duty? Yes.
Yes.
The overall industry would be in the -- this year we're anticipating $306 million last year was $317 million.
So the 8% to 10% EBITDA is in the $325 million to $335 million ranges would be as high as it ever gets.
Yes and we're thinking in the medium our share would be between 25% 30%.
So you can see there's some modesty or some conservatism and are trying to plan for that.
Research Division</strong> This is Joe on the line for David.
Just with the commentary on orders that was good detail.
If the order rates are running up 39% but the plan is to build 25% more sequentially is the expectation that the order progression slows into June and July? Or is it a case that the order books are nearing capacity so any incremental orders you get late in the quarter help fill out the fiscal Q4 schedule? What really it is Joe is that when we receive orders some are for immediate build some the customers ask for them to be spread out over the near-term months and that's really the phenomenon that you're seeing here relative to your calculations.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Do you happen to know in terms of your plan how much is left to go or much of your planned production still needs to be filled by orders? I don't have that in front of me.
As I said we're -- our third quarter ends in the end of July and for all intent purposes we're practically full through July.
We have orders on the books for August September and October but also plenty of capacity to accept additional orders and build them in the fourth quarter.
Yes.
The majority of the book is not filled.
Over 50% of the book is not filled for Q4 yet.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And If I can just sneak in with a quick one do you happen to know the mix of the orders you've been getting in recent months between the 13- and 15-liter? I do.
The last number of months the order intake has been about 50% ISX's and the ratio between the EGR and the SCR the SCR just keeps going up every month but there's still a number of customers that continue to order the EGR engines as we wind down and transition.
Research Division</strong> Troy maybe if you can just talk about this market share run rate guidance for the end of the year or your goal.
Navistar has given out these goals in the past and we know what's happened with them occasionally in the market share goal.
And then I always worry when you give out a market share goal that with the focus on market share versus profitability I know you're going to tell me otherwise.
But maybe you could talk about your confidence level in market share sort of reaching these rates.
And I know it relates a little bit to the previous question but just how do you feel about it? I'm a little bit surprised that you've given a goal.
I think that's a good thing but at the same time you know the history of the company.
Yes no no.
Andrew that's a great question.
First off let me just kind of restate what Jack said in his presentation was he said we would have a market share of 15% for the year so we kind of ran that in the second quarter right.
So that implies that in the third quarter we tick up a little bit more or between the next 2 quarters we tick up another point or 2 just to be able to get the math to work out.
So I don't think that's really overstating it that we would be able to expect to get into the 16 kind of percent market share range especially with the product offering that we have.
And then I think the more important thing that Jack said though is that we think we'd have an improving trend as we exit the fourth as we exit the fourth quarter.
Let me give you a little bit of a background.
Number one we think we've got some great products here.
We've not really made any superiority claims or claims at all yet with regards to -- about the improved fuel economy but the SCR systems on the truck does give fuel economy improvements and we're getting a lot of great feedback from the folks who have had -- who have some of these trucks in their fleet.
So we really do think we have something special to sell.
All the proper attributes of the ProStar and the drivability and all that good kind of stuff.
So we still think we have something to sell there.
And then these major fleets these are -- this is -- we're tipping in in that fourth quarter for the period of time where you start getting the larger fleet buys come through.
Now as Jack said some of those are spread out.
They will make the orders in the fourth quarter.
You deliver some in the fourth quarter.
And a lot of them you deliver in the other quarters as well but I think to suggest that we go from a 15% average to an 18% that's pretty doable especially with regards to the market share coverage we have.
Now if I had told you that we were going to go to 22%.
You might say yes I don't know how the math works on that right? It's kind of like you're bowling average right? The longer you go through the year without bowling games over 200 the higher it is -- the harder it is to get your bowling average up.
But I think with the order intake rate that we have right now and where we see the market going for the balance of the year we're pretty good.
We're pretty good with our estimate.
And I'm not really -- I don't want to say I'm not concerned.
Obviously we're looking to sell trucks everyday but I don't think we're overstating what we can do yet this year.
And it's really important for us to get the run rate going.
We need the momentum going into 2014 because even an 18% run rate is not where we want this company to be and not where this company will be.
Research Division</strong> Okay okay Troy that's helpful.
So maybe I could ask you about the overall market.
I mean you've alluded to it a couple of times in the presentation that you expect the market to improve in the second half of the year here.
I mean we all can see the order numbers for the market and they look pretty good over the last few months especially as we enter what can be a seasonally slower time.
So maybe you can talk about that.
Do you expect sort of industry order rates to sustain or even improve from today's levels and why? Joe this is Jack.
Our plan was built on an increasing market for the third quarter and the fourth quarter.
Not dramatically over the first and second quarter but just a steady increase and it really is what we're seeing.
So order intake rates we expect them to stay where they are maybe uptick a little bit as we get into the end of the summer.
As you know typically in the June-July time period orders receipts are a little softer and then they kind of pickup near the end of our fiscal quarter.
And that's what we expect to happen.
And if that does happen we'll hit our industry forecast for the year.
If you track the averages they're tracking very consistent with what our plan has been.
It's kind of the reasons why there's on the positive -- there's positives and negatives.
Clearly there's still a lot of concern about what's going on in the economy concern about drivers concern about the new hours of service regulation.
But on the other hand fleets see better performance out of newer vehicles.
Better fuel economy and lower maintenance costs whether those are our trucks or our competitors' trucks.
And as they see that those that are well capitalized and well run they're the ones that are buying the trucks right now.
And there is I mean at a macro level there is a tick up in construction and there is a tick up in industrial activity both of which are key indicators that drive I think the overall market.
Research Division</strong> Troy I'm wondering if you could just flesh out for us the cost-savings opportunity from engine manufacturing consolidation now that we're another quarter in? And just if you could just talk about timing? Clearly you've got a lot of capacity in that business.
And just if you could step us through how we should think about when you actually move forward with those efforts? Yes.
So Jerry so here's the deal.
We make engines in 3 different facilities today.
The fact of the matter is we probably need 1 facility to make those engines.
The problem is is that the vintage of manufacturing technology in each of those facilities is different.
Our older more traditional products tend to use captive transfer line kind of technology which is big and hard to move and underutilized.
And then of course when you get down to some of our operations in Huntsville we are able to use agile flexible machining centers.
So we have a handful of proposals that we've developed internally that depending upon how much money we want to spend will tell us that we could pull the trigger on that consolidation next year and be done in 2015 or we can do it in pieces and be done in 20 -- at the end of -- actually into 2016.
So it's important that we get this done in order to get the -- to the cost rate that we're trying to get to and we're not making any announcements today.
We obviously have to -- we have to select the technical path we're going to go down and we have to go talk to the right folks about it as well.
But I would say before the end of the year we'll have selected that path and laid out the timing.
And then you guys will hear about announcements as we're ready to make them.
But look we don't make any money with underutilized manufacturing facilities.
That's just a given for our business.
And the kind of circumstances we really want to be in is where we always need the capacity to build one more as oppose to having the capacity to build one extra.
Research Division</strong> And Troy just order of magnitude of the savings I mean are we talking in multiples of what you're going to save on Garland or comparable levels can you just calibrate us? Well so if you think about the Garland thing let's just say it's probably in the same Zip Code okay? It's in the same ballpark.
And again it depends on how we do it but it's in same ballpark.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And lastly A.J.
on EBITDA guidance for the third quarter on 25% higher production rates.
I think that implies now under 10% incremental margins and you folks typically have high absorption when you ramp production.
I'm wondering if you'd just step us through what are the sequential headwinds that we should be thinking about or is it just a function of hey we've got a new product cycle here so we want to make sure we can execute.
Well I think there's a couple of things that are influencing us this year Jerry.
First there is quite a bit of moving around within manufacturing so we've got some start-up costs factored into that quarter as we ramp-up production in Springfield and realign manufacturing.
The second thing we've talked about is with the addition of SCR to our products we are adding material cost to our products during this transition.
We've talked around the timetable that it will take to properly design the SCR system and to optimize that integration into the truck we won't have that done in Q3.
That will be things that come in 2014.
So during this transition period our margins will be a little bit lower because we've got added material content on the truck.
Research Division</strong> A lot of my questions have been answered.
Troy can you just talk us through what exactly happened that caused the disappointing market share at this point? And then what is Plan B if we turn around a quarter from now 2 quarters from now and the market share has stalled out at the 18% or whatever? Yes so I guess I referenced when I set that up in my comments we had expected our market share to ramp-up faster.
And in the heavy quite frankly we thought the take rate on the ISX would have been much faster in the ramp-up than it really was.
If I could just be extremely candid we recognize that the -- we were in the process of changing that 13-liter and so you kind of either like EGR or you don't like EGR but that was kind of be what it was going to be.
And what our plan really was hey ISX and the ProStar.
I've had fleet managers tell me they think that's probably the best truck that they've ever had.
And so kind of on that anecdotal evidence we thought the take rate would be higher okay? And quite frankly maybe this is a good thing as Jack noted orders are still coming in kind of 50-50 15-liter and 13-liter.
So I guess those who say really there is no 13-liter segment of the market it's really a 15-liter segment then you're pricing down for 13 that may be not true.
It turns out there's a lot of folks out there who like the 13-liter.
So I would tell you that that's kind of at the beginning of that.
With regards to the what's Plan B if the market share on our heavies doesn't increase? Well I guess Plan B the first part of that is we're going to go figure that out.
We think we have a product that's extremely competitive.
And if it's not selling then we're probably not doing something right okay? And then the second thing is I think this probably gets maybe to -- maybe to what your question is can you successfully run the business at an 18% market share over 240 000 or 250 000 units heavy market? That's probably tough to do.
I mean that's probably just below where we think our -- in the breakeven range that we're at.
So haven't fully studied that up.
I mean obviously it's just numbers but I think we'll keep focused for the time being on getting our market share back.
And Jack referenced this process that the guys have put in place to make the sales process a little more visible for us.
And quite frankly it's a great process and I'm very encouraged by the opportunity for us to get in front of folks and tell our story.
Ann are you still there? Inc.</strong> One of the positives in the quarter was the Parts segment.
Just talk about how repeatable this is? If it's kind of mid-teen profit margin and what you're thinking about kind of going forward? This is Jack Brian.
Our Parts business was very good in the quarter.
Really so far in the first half of this year.
There's been a uptick in military parts on the revenue side on the North American side although the sales are not as maybe as robust as what we'd like.
As part of our overall structural cost reductions we've gotten extremely lean in the Parts business.
And we've also employed some very sophisticated pricing strategies.
And the combination of that has improved our margins and lowered our cost and we absolutely believe that's sustainable going forward into the third and fourth quarter.
Inc.</strong> All right.
I appreciate that.
Just A.J.
just for a second talk about the out-of-period adjustment with GE.
And if this is something that we should expect in Q3 and Q4 and the first quarter of next year? Well I'll answer the second question first no we don't expect to have any more out-of-period adjustments.
What this is really related to our fleet transactions that get financed through GE Capital with a lease.
And the complexities of lease accounting really dictate that we should amortize that and not treat that as a true sale even though we did sell the truck to the fleet who subsequently financed it.
So that's really what's driving that.
It's kind of as we gain momentum here this volume of financing has really risen to the level that we checked it a little more carefully this quarter and found that it's probably more appropriate that we amortize those transactions over the life of the lease rather than book the sale at the time of the sale.
Again not a big impact to the bottom line but it is corrected and we'll treat it correctly going forward.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
And not to beat this into the ground but just on the warranty side should I be reading correctly that we're going to be looking at a medium duty engine campaign at some point in 3Q or 4Q? No we've made no announcements with regards to field campaigns on the medium duty.
And at present we're managing through the normal warranty system.
By the way let me just say there are small campaigns that probably affect most of our products on minimal kind items so not a large field campaign that we have yet to announce okay? LLC</strong> Let me circle back to the GE financing was there any change in commercial practice that led to this? I mean I guess A.J.
mentioned the volume got bigger but was there some sort of a different practice? And then does it relate to either an enhanced trade-in price and/or a change in your residual values that would make that whatever trade-in price was offered more relevant? The answer's no.
There was no change in any of our commercial practices.
It was really just the volume of the business reaching a level that we did some further investigations.
It's really driven by our overall commercial agreement with GE Capital not any specific transaction of a deal.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And then I just want to make sure I understand when the 2010s go out of base warranty does that mean the exposure that you have is over? Or I'm not sure I understand the distinction between that and some of the campaigns you might do to keep customers and customer retention et cetera.
I don't know whether you're out of the woods on those or continuing to fix them even though they're out of warranty.
So Rob we have kind of 2 things we do.
One is we do have some extended warranties on a portion of that population and which is an industry convention so you have a normal warranty and an extended warranty.
The customers pay for that extended warranty so we just have to extend the warranty period and that ends up getting netted against what we end up having been paid for that.
And then the second thing is is in the vehicle industry as a whole there's a thing called policy.
And look if someone is 1 mile or 1 week over the their warranty period and the truck breaks down and comes into the dealership that's the kind of thing where we would use discretion and probably cover that under the original warranty.
So the important thing of what I said though was we have a statistically significant sample of 2010s that are through are their base warranty period.
So given the volume of that product and the failure modes that we've observed we believe we have a very good view of the potential failure modes.
And at least through that base warranty period through the probability of failure for anyone of those major major systems.
Research Division</strong> First question for Troy.
Can you -- I just want to revisit the variable cost savings and particularly the material cost that you referred to.
Does the redundant or however you want to describe it the EGR components that ultimately will come out of the 13-liter engine does that come out on a model year basis? Is it something that will be done gradually over time that takes several years? How should we think about how that cost comes out over time? I think right now we're planning on taking 2 slugs at it.
The first -- let me put it this way there's some truck pieces and there's some engine pieces.
So on the engines they are in effect EGR coolers that we no longer need to -- that we no longer need.
When we reengineered those off the engines those are significant emissions component and so we have to recertify the engine with the EPA.
And so that piece will -- we've already embarked upon that process.
And in fact I would anticipate that next year early next year first half of next year let me put it that way we'll recertify the engine and be able to pull those pieces off.
After we pull those pieces off there's pieces on the truck like an additional radiator which really exist to service those coolers and some other things.
And then -- so then after that then we'll engineer that off and so that will be kind of the second tranche that I want to anticipate will get done by 2015 or early in 2015.
So from an engineering workload right now and having to certify the engine with the EPA again we've decided to do it in 2 pieces.
Research Division</strong> That's very helpful.
And if I could just ask one follow-up for Jack.
The overall Class 8 share actually improved versus Q1 but the severe service took another dip down in Q2.
Did that have to do with the leasing companies? It's kind of similar to the trend that we've seen in medium duty or was there some other trend going on there? Well first off it's not really related to the leasing companies.
It's really primarily more driven by municipalities.
Our severe service market share traditionally has been very strong in the government business.
And as you would imagine with what's going on in state and local budgets the municipality businesses is off a bit.
I will say though that our order intake in the severe service side has recovered a bit here during that quarter and in the month of May so we think we'll get that back.
And the other thing you have to remember the severe service portion of overall Class 8 is small so it doesn't take many sales to really move up or down what your market share is.
LLC Research Division</strong> Most questions asked and answered but on the medium duty transition to Cummins aftertreatment do you expect any disruption or hiccup? Do you think customers will wait for that or you think that's just a seamless transition.
I think it's a pretty seamless transition.
We've been in the market with our EGR version going to SCR.
This has been expected by the industry.
We have alluded to it before.
So we expect that will just be a smooth transition.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just -- as you look forward into next year? I think previously you've talked about the 13 15 mix being kind of like a 50-50 is that still the right way to think about it? We don't see anything different today that would make us feel differently.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then -- and sorry just lastly.
Did I hear correctly no NCPs in the third quarter? I think if you're referring to my comments what I said was that we -- due to the plan we put in place on medium duty we don't anticipate that we'll have any NCPs on medium duty engines.
LLC</strong> Just one more quick one on the accounting the revenue recognition.
On the cash flow statement there was $263 million in proceeds from finance obligations.
Can you explain was that related to the accounting change and can you explain what that cash inflow was? Yes.
It's not really -- it's an accounting statement Tim so it's not truly a cash inflow.
That's recording the deferral.
There's an offsetting cash flow up above that so the true cash flow is 0.
LLC</strong> Okay so it's a net-net net 0.
Yes sure.
LLC</strong> And can you give any timing on the medium duty transition over to SCR at this point? Well we'll start in the first calendar -- first quarter of calendar 2014.
I just had one big question.
It looks like the structural cost for the last 2 quarters have been running about $100 million below year-over-year between the SG&amp;A and the engineering cost.
And I just wondered obviously that's a $400 million annual run rate.
And I just wondered if you could give us any like what am I missing when the gap between that and the $200 million that you guys expect of full cost savings? That's because what you're seeing there is the quarter-over-quarter where costs were higher in Q1 and Q2 last year.
We had a pretty significant cost reduction effort in the second half of last year.
So as that run rate will slow because we reduced cost in the third quarter and the fourth quarter but we do expect to exceed our target.
Right yes because there's a lot of add-ons on top of that closing down businesses and things like that.
Right yes.
And.
I didn't know I didn't catch it if you mentioned...
We didn't catch your second question.
Sorry I got cut off too early.
The cost to complete the field campaigns I don't know if you mentioned that or not.
No we did not.
Yes we did not.
The cost to complete -- one of the things we tried to emphasize was the accounting is a little difficult to handicap because it's very driven by how we spend the money and where.
But the amount of money that we are spending has been incorporated into our forecast and we have a forecast for Q3.
We don't reveal it in that level of detail but we are spending it the way we thought we would spend it.
Hey again I certainly appreciate you hanging in there with us this particular quarter with regards to the rescheduling of the call.
Again I apologize for having maybe disrupted your agendas.
For those of you who did not get an opportunity to ask a question and you got something burning please call Heather.
We're hanging around and we're available throughout the week so we can make an opportunity to chat with any of you with regards to the questions you maybe didn't get to ask or anything you need clarified.
Thanks a lot and we look forward to seeing you all in person in the near future.
Thank you.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you! Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to Navistar's Third Quarter 2013 Earnings Results Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference call is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Ms.
Heather Kos.
Ma'am you may begin.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us for Navistar's Third Quarter 2013 Conference Call.
With me today are Troy Clarke our President and Chief Executive Officer; Walter Borst our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; and Jack Allen our Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer.
Before we begin I'd like to cover a few items.
A copy of this morning's press release and the presentation slides that we'll be using today have been posted on our Investor Relations website for your reference.
The non-GAAP financial measures discussed in this call are reconciled to the U.S.
GAAP equivalent as part of the Appendix in the slide deck.
Finally today's presentation includes some forward-looking statements about our expectations for future performance.
Actual results could differ materially from those suggested by our comments made here.
For additional information concerning factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected in today's presentation please refer to our most recent reports on Forms 10-K and 10-Q and our other SEC filings.
We would also refer you to the Safe Harbor statement and Other Cautionary Notes disclaimer presented in today's material for more information on the subject.
With that I'll turn the call over to Troy Clarke for his opening remarks Thanks Heather and good morning everyone and thank you for joining our call.
Our agenda today will follow the same process we established several quarters ago.
I will lead off with a high-level overview of our third quarter performance and our progress on our strategic objectives.
Walter Borst will provide a deeper dive on the financial results.
Jack Allen will provide more specific direction regarding our Drive to Deliver initiatives.
And I will wrap up with some closing remarks on long-term EBITDA goals leading into Q&amp;A.
Moving to Slide 6.
Before I begin I'm extremely pleased to introduce Walter Borst our new CFO.
Before joining us Walter was with GM for 33 years in a wide array of key executive roles.
His past experience as the head of GM Asset Management Treasurer of GM and CFO of Adam Opel makes him the right person to lead our financial operations here.
Although he's been here only a month he's already made significant contributions especially as it relates to our 2014 strategic plan.
And you're going to hear directly from him in a few minutes.
Turning to Slide 6 you will see our roadmap.
We remain focused on our Drive to Deliver and our guiding principles.
We've referenced in the past that it'll take us up to 18 months to execute our plan.
We're 1 year in and we've made significant progress.
As I pointed out last quarter we still face a few significant challenges but we have laid the groundwork to solve them and obviously we want to accelerate our rate of progress.
Slide 8 summarizing our results.
Our EBITDA was less than we hoped for in the quarter.
I consider the challenges that impacted our performance to fall in 3 buckets: first we continue to experience onetime costs and charges related to our ROIC divestitures and restructuring efforts; second we encountered some significant reversals in our results in Brazil and Latin America due to social issues that developed during the quarter; and third we fell short of our sales volumes primarily due to medium-duty market share erosion.
Positives for the quarter include: our cash performances at the top of our guidance.
For fourth straight quarter we have delivered this goal.
As you know cash management and working capital reduction remains a major focus of our efforts during this turnaround year.
Two we continue to overachieve in our efforts to reduce structural costs.
An example of this is our targeted reductions in SG&amp;A.
On the last call we stated we would like to achieve over $200 million in year-over-year savings up from the $175 million we talked about before.
And despite a few onetime unexpected items this quarter we showed $236 million improvement year-to-date.
And just this week we took more actions based on our best-in-class benchmarking initiatives to further reduce costs and Jack will talk to you later about these actions which will benefit 2014.
Point three Class 8 orders received increase from 12% of the industry in Q2 to 20% in Q3.
And customer feedback continues to be excellent on our new products.
Fourth just yesterday we announced another key initiative in accelerating our turnaround: the 2014 product strategy that focuses on bringing SCR offerings to our medium-duty vehicles as quickly as possible.
We announced that we will now offer to Cummins ISB 6.7-liter engine for international DuraStar and the IC Bus CE Series vehicles.
The ISB engine will provide customers with an expanded engine offering and an additional engine choice.
Importantly it will allow us to get an SCR offers -- SCR offering into our medium-duty truck segment faster than we had previously indicated.
We're taking truck orders now and we're going to begin shipments in December.
And last we continue to work through our noncore assets that don't provide an appropriate return on meaningful cash flow.
These are smaller initiatives now and some of the true-ups and charges impacted in our quarter but the right thing to do as we focus on our core North America truck business.
While we're pleased with the progress we're making we fell short in our traditional and global volume assumptions so let me come back to this.
Our Class 8 market share continues to show improvement but not as quickly as we had hoped.
That being said we are encouraged by a substantial uptick in orders and this will eventually materialize into retail sales in the next few quarters.
Our medium share situation however has become similar to what we experienced in Class 8.
As we are switching technologies some folks are waiting in the sidelines so we felt we needed to take action as quickly as possible.
And by launching the Cummins ISB into our medium duty products we believe we can more quickly grow our market share.
Globally we came in lower expectations given the social situation in Brazil and the negative impact it has had on the economy.
In addition Colombia's truck scrapping laws have depressed sales where we are the market share leader.
We did not see these issues at the beginning of the quarter and both of these businesses provide healthy returns over the cycle and we view this as a short-term situation at this time.
On the positive side our China engine joint venture is performing slightly ahead of plan as it ramps up.
We're making good progress on quality and the major field campaigns are nearly done.
Expenditures per campaign are coming down and the quality of the trucks that we are producing today continues to improve and we're encouraged by the early trends.
Jack will talk more about that in a minute.
And as we said in the past customer satisfaction is one of our guiding principles and we think of it as an investment in future sales.
Before I turn it over to Walter let's turn to Slide 9.
I'd like to point out that much has been accomplished since we started this turnaround approximately 1 year ago.
We're doing a good job managing those factors within our direct control.
As an illustration we have met or exceeded every targeted benchmark we set for ourselves with the exception of market share and cost of quality both of which are improving but not as fast as we thought when we made our plan last August.
Yet we recognize that both are in fact proof points of our turnaround efforts so there's more to do and we continue to work with a renewed sense of urgency and we won't rest until the job is done.
So with that let me turn the call over to Walter for the details of our financial results.
Thank you for the kind words Troy and good morning everyone.
Before I begin I'd like to say that I'm excited to join the Navistar team and I look forward to helping shape the company's financial and strategic direction.
Since I started August 1 I've spent a significant amount of time evaluating our strategic plan and look forward to developing and implementing the company's operating plan with my colleagues.
I relish the opportunity to play a part in the turnaround of this great American company.
Now let's turn to the financial results for the quarter on Page 11.
Revenue for the quarter was $2.9 billion down $385 million or 12% from 2012.
We experienced lower sales across all truck classes in our traditional markets as we transitioned to our SCR-based products.
We were also negatively impacted by lower industry volumes.
Additional shipments were at 3 900 units lower than in 2012 as medium-duty truck sales declined 2 400 units compared to last year.
In addition military revenue had a little over $100 million for the quarter as compared to Q3 2012.
For the quarter the loss from continuing operations was $237 million $317 million worse than last year.
The primary drivers of the year-over-year decline are shown on Page 12.
Taxes interest and other were $248 million worse than the prior year.
Tax expense was $204 million worse than the prior year driven primarily by a $173 million change in our estimated 2012 effective tax rate in the third quarter.
Additionally in Q4 2012 we increased our U.S.
deferred tax valuation allowance.
As such we did not recognize a tax benefit on our U.S.
pretax losses in the current period.
Lower industry volumes combined with lower truck market share declines resulted in reduced profitability of $84 million year-over-year.
Warranty expense in Q3 was $35 million more than in the prior year's third quarter.
Nevertheless additional warranty accruals were significantly less than in Q2 and we did not experience any significant charges related to our big bore engines or our heavy-duty trucks.
Despite some onetime items related to our transition we continue to improve our bottom line through aggressive cost control actions.
Focusing on SG&amp;A and product development efficiencies resulted in a year-over-year cost improvement of $50 million.
As we position the company for a solid fiscal year 2014 we will continue our cost reduction efforts and get the full year benefits of this year's actions.
On Page 13 we've reconciled our actual ending manufacturing cash against the guidance provided on the company's last call.
We ended the quarter with manufacturing cash of $1.09 billion which was at the high end of guidance.
As Troy mentioned this is the fourth consecutive quarter that we have met or exceeded cash guidance.
Excluding discontinued operations consolidated EBITDA was a loss of $74 million compared to the $0 million to $50 million management had expected.
As previously mentioned we experienced lower medium-duty truck sales in the U.S.
with slower unit volume growth in Latin America than anticipated.
Moreover much of the shortfall can be attributed to certain onetime items as we continue to evaluate our product portfolio and pursue our return on invested capital improvement initiatives.
In this regard in conjunction with the closure of our Garland plant and transfer of this work to our other truck facilities we also experienced some start-up issues at our Springfield plant.
EBITDA impacts from the lower volume and onetime items and start-up costs each accounted for about 1/2 of the shortfall [indiscernible].
Despite the shortfall in EBITDA we are able to meet the upper end of cash guidance by focusing on other controllable costs.
First we are able to outperform our capital spending forecast by deferring and in some cases eliminating capital spending as part of our ongoing product evaluation.
Second our manufacturing team has done an excellent job of reducing truck inventory which drove incremental working capital improvement that allowed the company to exceed the high end of the range provided.
Turning to Page 14 you'll find our manufacturing cash outlook for the fourth quarter.
We expect manufacturing cash at the end of the fourth quarter to remain in the range of $1 billion to $1.1 billion.
Typically Q4 is one of our strongest cash flow quarters for our business driven by an increase in operating days and truck charge-outs.
However in Q4 2013 we expect that truck charge-outs will be slightly lower than in Q3.
This change reflects slightly lower industry volumes lower forecasted medium-duty truck volumes in advance of our expanded SCR offering in late 2013.
Consolidated EBITDA for the fourth quarter is expected to be in the range of $0 million to $50 million excluding any onetime items.
Meanwhile we expect capital spending and pension and OPEB funding to be at -- to be higher than in the third quarter.
Net working capital is expected to show continued improvement but at somewhat slower pace than in the prior quarter as higher seasonal commercial parts sales reduced inventory levels and account payables increase towards the end of the fiscal year.
Let me assure you that Navistar's balance sheet will be one of my major areas of focus.
We want to maintain strong liquidity and improve our capital structure over time.
Turning to Slide 15.
While we are pleased that the third quarter manufacturing cash balance ended at the high end of the range we are not satisfied with this quarter's results.
With our new SCR engine offerings we are confident that we can recapture recent market share losses.
In the meantime we are looking to further build on our recent structural cost reductions.
We're prepared to do what is necessary to rightsize the cost structure to deliver on Navistar's future profitability targets.
I will stop here and let Jack provide more insights on our Drive to Deliver plan.
Jack? Thank you Walter and good morning everyone.
If you'll turn to Page 17 this morning that's where I'll start and I'll give you a progress update with a key focus on 4 areas: first is quality then the status of our product launches an update on sales and market share and where we stand on delivering our 2013 operating plan.
First quality on Slide 18.
On our last few calls we've talked about a handful of EGR-related quality issues with our 2010 engines and what we're doing to fix them.
The campaign we launched earlier this year is nearly done.
And realistically it should have taken us 1.5 years to get through this campaign but we put an intense focus on it.
And 8 months into it we're already 80% complete.
Now the fix rate typically slows down towards the end of campaigns because some customers just simply don't bring their trucks in to be fixed.
So we believe this campaign is essentially behind us.
For the vehicles we fixed the quality trends are positive.
Compared to 8 months ago uptime has significantly improved as a result of the aggressive approach we took to fix issues.
The positive quality trend continues with our new products also.
Our customers can see it and feel it in the vehicles we're delivering.
While we don't have mature data yet we're getting very positive feedback from our customers about the quality of the ProStar with the 15-liter ISX as well as our own 13-liter SCR engine.
Now before I get into more details about how these trends are translating into sales let me give you some perspective about how we see the industry today.
Turning to Page 19.
The Class 8 industry sales continued to experience a number of headwinds and tailwinds.
On the positive side tonnage and freight rates continue to be good.
And some sectors of the economy like housing and automotive are showing improvement.
But on the other hand there are areas of the economy that continue to lag and that is definitely holding back truck sales.
Last week's durable goods orders are an example of that.
In Q3 the Class 8 industry orders were 8% below the prior quarter and we now believe the industry could be 5% below our initial forecast of 215 000.
However we continue to believe there is a fundamental need for replacement vehicles due to fleet age.
Combined with improving economic conditions this is going to result in a 2014 Class 8 industry of 220 000 to 230 000 retail sales.
So with that backdrop let me talk about what we're seeing in our business.
Slide 20.
It's been 8 months since we launched the International ProStar with the Cummins ISX 15.
This is a configuration with a strong reputation in the industry and we're seeing increased interest across our key segments.
In addition to ProStar we've launched the ISX and the International PayStar as well as the 9900 model.
The majority of the configuration options for all our heavy-duty models with SCR are now complete and this has been a big factor in boosting sales.
It's a very positive indicator for us that we've secured more than 10 000 orders for International Trucks with the ISX 15.
We brought back the ISX for a reason: our customers demanded a capable and efficient 15-liter solution within our trucks.
And a number of orders we received so far is a testament to customer acceptance.
Our orders come from some of the industry's largest for hire and leasing fleets: Knight Penske Ryder Swift.
These fleets all conduct rigorous analysis before they buy and their increasing acceptance is evidence of the value of the vehicles that we are delivering today.
And we're starting to see repeat business too.
For example one of our earlier ProStar/ISX customers put 200 trucks into service this past January.
Based on the quality the driver acceptance and the fuel economy they've experienced in the past 6 months they've just ordered 850 more.
Reception for the 13-liter SCR has also been positive.
Our test fleet today has over 3 million miles on it and there have been no major issues.
Just last week we heard from a customer who has a vehicle that turned 131 000 miles.
He's only brought it into the dealership for preventative maintenance such as oil changes and to replace 1 wiper blade.
So far we're over 4 500 orders for the 13-liter SCR.
In fact Heartland Express one of the country's premier fleets just placed a very significant order for this combination.
We're encouraged by this kind of response.
It's evident that we're starting to see -- to regain our customer confidence and earn back their business.
In fact if you look at Slide 21 our Class 8 order share is coming back.
For the quarter our order share was more than 14 -- was more than 20% which compares to a retail market share of 14% for the quarter.
Class 8 order share is a leading indicator of retail market share.
So looking ahead we can expect to see our retail share pick up on the strength of these orders.
Now let me shift to medium-duty.
Medium continued to be a challenge in Q3.
And as we discussed last quarter our market share has softened because of earlier issues related to the SCR transition within our product line.
Medium share for the quarter was 24% but order share was only 16%.
So we still have a lot of work to do here.
And our announcement yesterday is directly intended to reverse this trend.
Turning to Slide 22.
What we announced yesterday is that we're expanding our medium-duty product offering to include the Cummins ISB 6.7-liter engine for our trucks and buses.
We're making this move for 3 key reasons: first it allows us to get to the market faster with medium-duty SCR vehicles; second like the ISX the ISB is proven technology.
And finally we've got a ton of experience here with the ISB.
We've been building this same configuration with SCR on the Ford Blue Diamond vehicles in our Escobedo plant since 2010.
This is going to allow us to ramp up very quickly.
The ISB in our medium-duty vehicle is going to be a winning combination just like what we're seeing with the ProStar and the ISX.
We're taking orders today and our first salable units are actually being built this month.
And we have said at December okay-to-ship date.
So we expect near-term improvements in our order intake and that will be -- will quickly flow to growing our retail market share.
In addition to -- of the ISB to our medium-duty lineup provides a number of advantages including opening the door to new customers and strengthen the demand from existing customers especially those who want commonality in their engine offerings.
In fact a number of customers have already approached us about adding this choice.
The ISB will help us recapture bus share also and our leading position in that market.
Our 12 -- our rolling 12-month retail share is about 38% but we believe our bus share will grow quickly.
Everyone in the industry offers the ISB in the bus and now we will too.
We've won in this market before and we'll win again.
So the obvious question is where does this put us with our own proprietary engines? On our last call I said we would introduce SCR in our medium-duty engines at the beginning of calendar year 2014.
Now with the addition of the ISB we'll have a proven SCR offering that we can bring to market faster and that gives us more time to lay out a revised transition plan for our own midrange engines.
In the meantime we'll continue to offer EGR versions of our midrange engines and we have an adequate number of credits to do so.
Now let's turn to Slide 23 and the controllable items in our operating plan whereas you've already heard we continue to make progress.
Our original goal this year was to reduce SG&amp;A and overall structural costs by $175 million.
We've already secured $236 million in savings.
So we remain on track to what we're delivering in this area.
What we're seeing now is with so many of our employees collocated on 1 campus there have been more opportunities for us to become leaner and more efficient.
Thus last week we took actions to further reduce headcount which we expect to generate an additional $50 million to $60 million in annual savings starting at the beginning of fiscal year 2014.
On the parts side of our business it continues to be a real success story again this quarter just like it's been all year.
Although sales were down year-over-year profit increased due to improvements in product mix as well as year-over-year cost improvements.
Another bright spot for us is material costs.
We continue to be on track to exceed our plans for year-over-year improvements.
In manufacturing our transition out of Garland is complete.
Products have migrated to Springfield and Escobedo.
And yes we did have some start-up issues at Springfield that added costs in the quarter but those are largely behind us and things are stabilizing.
Looking ahead.
As the ISB becomes part of our engine portfolio we will reassess our plans on how to best consolidate our engine manufacturing capacity.
Right now though it's too early to determine the impact.
And as we've stated before any decisions will be made in 2014.
The defense business is still feeling the impact of sequestration.
And consequently we continue to take costs out of this business in response.
As we indicated earlier our goal of business was challenged in the quarter.
MWM volumes were below our expectations due to the social situation in Brazil as well as unfavorable foreign exchange rates.
We've already implemented actions to reduce costs in these areas but will [ph] truck also has slowed more than we expected.
Latin America is our biggest global truck market and a recent scrappage law in Colombia has really had a direct impact on volumes.
In summary on Slide 24 we're encouraged by the reception we're getting in the marketplace for our Class 8 products.
It's based on the quality improvements the strength of our new offerings and our great distribution network.
Frankly we expect our medium-duty products to follow suit with the addition of the ISB.
We remain committed to doing whatever it takes to return to profitability and we've taken very strong actions this quarter to drive us in that direction.
As both Troy and Walter have said we are not satisfied with our performance but we are building momentum to enter 2014 on a positive trajectory.
As we said earlier we have all the right building blocks in place to achieve our 8% to 10% EBITDA goal run rate by the end of 2015.
With that let me turn it back over to Troy for some closing comments.
Okay.
Hey thanks Jack.
Hey as you can tell we're still working hard on 2013.
It's still our turnaround year.
And although we're not providing specific guidance for 2014 at this time some areas of continuing improvement for '14 are as follows: On the fixed cost front we see lower 2014 spend in product development and SG&amp;A given the benefits of consolidating our engineering facilities organizational realignment and headcount reduction.
We believe manufacturing costs will be lower driven by higher capacity utilization facility productivity enhancements and the continued implementation of our lean manufacturing and quality initiatives.
In the area of variable costs we believe we can lower our material costs meaningfully through a combination of make-or-buy decisions supply base consolidation footprint and logistic optimization and design cost reductions.
And last but not least we anticipate improved market share with our complete portfolio of Class 8 products and targeting new customers with the introduction of the Cummins ISB.
So in closing we laid out our Drive to Deliver plan about a year ago at the time of a lot of uncertainty.
It included a major technology change we executed in record time.
It included significant cost reductions and rightsizing activities.
These continue today.
We changed our organizational structure to a leaner simpler-to-run business focused on functional excellence.
Supported by an outside consultant we've benchmarked many pieces of our company and have road maps to become absolute best-in-class.
And last but not least we spent countless hours and miles restoring our relationships with dealers customers and suppliers.
And this continues as well.
We have made a lot of progress and our momentum is building and we have more to do and we're excited about the headway that we're making and we're confident that the results are on the way.
We're in good position for a much better 2014 as well as on the path to achieve our 8% to 10% EBITDA run rate goal by the end of 2015.
I'd like to thank you for your time this morning.
And I'd like to turn it back over to Heather for our question-and-answer period.
That concludes our prepared remarks.
[Operator Instructions].
So operator we're ready to open the lines.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question is from David Leiker of Baird.
Research Division</strong> I want to start with a question.
Troy as you ended with the class actions both the structural and the variable costs going into '14 you get the market share recovery and the revenue from that.
This is a different business model than what we've seen in the past with rising revenues.
What do you think your contribution margin is going to be on that revenue as you see that ramp up? Well David thanks for the question.
And interesting -- that's exactly kind of how we look at it.
We're trying to establish a very positive trend rate with regards to contribution margin.
And then it kind of becomes pretty straightforward just to make sure that all our cost package underneath of that.
So we're not giving any guidance on this but obviously a substantial improvement in our contribution margin in the range over 30%.
But we're not going to give you some specific guidance on that right yet and we're trending that way very very quickly.
Research Division</strong> All right great.
And then Walter just one question for you.
As you mentioned focus on the balance sheet and with your background I think you bring a different perspective on the balance sheet side.
Any thoughts you can share as it relates to a handful of things? You've got a convert that comes due next year you've got the pension liabilities and the health care liabilities and what your timing is going to be that you'll be in a position to be able to talk about those in more detail? Yes we obviously are taking a look at those.
And one of the things I've been focusing on since I got here with the team we're just completing our operating plan for next year.
So as part of that we'll take a look at the converts [ph] and what if any portion of that and when we might refinance that.
We're obviously happy with our cash position exiting the quarter so we're starting from a position of strength here so that's good.
On the pension side I would continue to expect us to make our minimum contributions but not more for the foreseeable future until we can get a better line of sight on some of our capital structure.
But we've started looking at it we'll continue to look at it and we'll address the capital and -- capital structure in due course as our operating plan for next year gets completed.
Research Division</strong> Oh yes and what about the health care liabilities? We'll continue to do what we've been doing there as well to meet our obligation.
Our next question is from Steve Volkmann of Jefferies.
Research Division</strong> My question is on market share maybe 2 parts medium and heavy.
On the heavy side I was encouraged there.
I guess I'm curious whether you think this can continue into the fourth quarter.
Specifically I'm wondering are we doing anything like filling some dealer inventories or something like that? Or are these really more customer orders? And what's pricing like on those orders as well? And I'll follow up on medium.
Steve this is Jack.
Good morning.
Our market share goals are to get us back to our historical levels like Class 8 in the 20% range.
Clearly what happened in the third quarter for us is encouraging.
The orders are a blend of dealer orders and customer orders most of whom are for very near-term fulfillment of those orders.
Very little dealer stock on the Class 8 side.
It's really -- it's sold order quarter driven.
So we're encouraged by that.
Certainly not declaring victory in any front but the -- we're encouraged by the quality of the new products.
We're encouraged by the repeat business.
We now have a full product line out there that's been a big plus for us.
And then we're also encouraged by the MaxxForce 13 and what the customers are seeing on the SCR side of that although it's quite early.
So all indicators are continuing to be positive for us on that front.
Research Division</strong> And any commentary on pricing in those orders? I would just say pricing is competitive.
I don't view any craziness going out there on the pricing side from us or any of our competitors.
But it's a tough market right now.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then on the medium-duty side do you have any indication from your customers that they're ready to sort of step up as you open this order book for the new engine now? And I guess what I'm trying to figure out is is this kind of the low point of the medium-duty? Should we expect the market share to be better in the fourth quarter? Well as Troy indicated any time you're going through a transition here you have a number of customers that are kind of on the sidelines.
They're seeing which way we're going and they want to fully understand it before they make decisions.
And that's really what we've experienced here in the last -- over the last number of months and quarters.
So we are very encouraged by the reception we received last night from the announcement on the ISB from our viewers and our customers.
And also a number of significant customers who have approached us over the last number of months and quarters really asking us to seriously consider doing this as part of our turnaround strategy.
So we're not ready to talk about orders or name names but we think that the impact here maybe contrary to Class 8 where in the Class 8 market is very fragmented there's a lot of customers.
In medium-duty there's a number of very large customers that move market share very quickly.
And we're very encouraged by the reception from them.
We think the impact of the ISB will be far more immediate.
On the market share side though I don't think our retail market share -- we're not planning an improvement in our retail market share here in the fourth quarter.
We're going to start deliveries of ISB-built products in December so that will -- that's in our first quarter of 2014.
Steve it's Troy.
Just couple of comments if I could maybe just to add some color on that.
As Jack indicated we're not kind of counting on any major market share benefit from this in the fourth quarter at this point in time.
But certainly we're going to work hard to try to make that happen okay? I think we've allowed ourselves that opportunity.
And much different -- I mean I was around here obviously what we announced that we were going to do SCR and even the Cummins ISX into the ProStar about a year ago maybe actually earlier than a year ago.
And at that point in time anecdotally the response we got that's nice we'll wait and see.
Because obviously the challenge that we were taking on was a pretty stiff one.
I think we have developed some credibility.
And in fact the customer response has been much different this time.
It's great.
Glad you're doing that.
As Jack indicated we've been hoping for that to come along.
So just anecdotally the customer response seems warmer and I think part of that is the credibility that we may have developed with regards to managing this type of program in the ISX and the 13-liter SCR.
And then last but not the least I think we still have a great -- we got a great chassis and a great truck and a great distribution system that I think this engine will really play to our strengths and additional product offering.
Maybe just one last point here Steve.
We will -- we won't wait until our next quarterly call to give the market an update on how the reception has been for the ISB engine.
Good point.
Our next question is from Brian Sponheimer of Gabelli &amp; Company.
Inc.</strong> Just want to talk a little bit about 2014.
And I know you're not giving guidance but one of the things that you touched on is the variable cost improvement.
And as we get into 2014 the idea that you guys are going to be able to take out some EGR content on your engines you think you're able to quantify that by -- or at least put brackets around it and say $3 000 an engine something along those lines? Hey Brian this is Troy and we have Denny Mooney in the room too our -- the Head of our Product Development activity.
What I'd like you to think about is there's kind of 2 tranches of that cost reduction and we're going to get them both done in the course of 2014 one sooner than later okay.
One is just hardware on the engine and think about that as between $1 000 and $2 000; and one is hardware that's on the chassis okay.
For instance the EGR engine has a second radiator that we no longer will need.
Denny is nodding his head here okay.
And think of that as in the neighborhood -- or the hardware and the chassis kind of in the range of another $1 000 okay.
So somewhere over the course of the year a very important part of our variable cost reduction is to get at that.
I don't know Denny have I characterized that correctly? You hit it right.
Does that help you Brian? Inc.</strong> Right.
So I mean if I'm thinking about this right let's say you sell 30 000 trucks next year similar to say 2012.
And -- this is applicable to all of your Class 8 truck sales correct? Just the ones with our 13-liter SCR engine.
Remember we've replaced a portion of the volume.
And we think that eventually that normalizes 50-50 between ISX -- between 15-liter and 13-liter.
So it will really only apply to that.
Inc.</strong> All right.
So if it's 15 000 trucks times $3 000 engine you're talking about a $45 million improvement next year? Yes well -- yes.
And again I'd ask you we haven't pulled through all of those costs so I talk in terms of a range okay a range that could go lower that could be in the $2 000 to 3 000 range.
But how you're thinking about the math I think is the right way.
Inc.</strong> All right.
And just on the medium side do you think that the share that effectively was seeded in the quarter do you think that's gone somewhere else and it's going to need to be regained from another truck manufacturer? Or do think that this is just a delay? Are you speaking of medium-duty specifically? Inc.</strong> Yes specifically on the medium side.
Well we think it's probably both that there are customers here that have traditionally bought our products and competitor's products that have shifted the purchases more towards competitors.
On the other hand there are customers at the dealer level that we think we can recapture back here with a broader product offering fairly quickly.
Inc.</strong> All right.
And just one more please.
Just as far as the fourth quarter cash guidance you usually get a very good cash collection quarter in the fourth quarter.
If I'm thinking about the first quarter -- I mean part of that's a working capital component.
Should I think about the first quarter you think having the negative working capital reversal being a little bit smoother than your assessed? I think as it relates to working capital that's a good assumption.
We've tended to -- as I've looked at it we've tended to do better in the fourth quarter and then give some of that back in the first quarter.
Without volumes expected to go up in the fourth quarter we wouldn't expect to give as much back in the first quarter on working capital specifically.
But the first quarter has fewer working days and the payable start to run off a little bit in that time frame.
Hey Brian before you leave I do want to mention one thing.
On that cost savings in terms of the components on the engine and the truck yes that's not going to be a full year savings.
Inc.</strong> All right of course.
Okay yes.
I just want to make sure.
I don't want to get [indiscernible] And Heather that rolls out over time too.
It rolls out over time.
Inc.</strong> It was more a run rate question by the end of the year.
Our next question is from Andrew Kaplowitz of Barclays.
Research Division</strong> So looking at your warranty reserve your accruals they were down sequentially as you mentioned.
But you still recorded $0.60 of charges in the quarter.
So maybe Troy you can talk about your confidence level that you're getting closer to the end of this sort of reserve cycle? I know you talked about it in past quarters.
And again it's a little better this quarter but it's still up there.
So maybe you can talk about that? Yes for sure Andrew.
Thanks for the question because it does give us an opportunity I think to highlight a couple of things.
First off so much of our focus I think over the course of the last 1.5 years basically has been around our big bore engine and the issues related to that.
And that's the one obviously we've worked very very hard on.
And the magnitude of those numbers are very high given the cost of the components and the fixes that we have to do.
So if there's a silver lining to the cloud all the energy that we've put in it there was no prior period adjustments related to the big bore engines in this quarter.
And this would be the first quarter for a long time that there had been kind of -- we're not claiming victory but it does give us confidence that we are wrestling those issues to the ground.
And more importantly I think confidence that is the field campaign the fixes which we have been putting in in production for some time and now the field campaign's in the field that they're having the proper effect on the big bore engines.
What you saw in the quarter here was really similar but it was -- for the big bore issues but now it's related to our medium-duty engines and the V8 engines.
The issues are kind of similar.
They're with basic components of the EGR systems and these are engines that don't accumulate miles as quickly and -- as the big bore engines do because they're just different applications.
In addition there -- the magnitude of the cost of the fixes is less.
But because we've kind of seen this cycle already on the big bore engines we kind of know what to anticipate we know what to expect.
I think we're a little bit smarter on what those numbers look like and how to get at -- and again we have a lot of fixes that we're doing in the meantime.
So yes I'm kind of comfortable that we're getting our arms around that.
Again we -- there is the possibility that something pops up that we don't know about but this has been the focus of a lot of effort and energy.
And I hope we're going to be able to look back a couple of quarters from now and continue to see improvements that are directly reflected in our -- in our results.
That's the goal okay.
And one rose does not make the spring but we do have some progress we can point to on that.
Research Division</strong> Troy is it safe to say that you're making more conservative assumptions when you're looking at medium-duty given your experience on heavy-duty or -- just curious about that.
Yes -- I would say I don't know if conservative is the -- you may -- Andrew you may interpret it as conservative.
We have worked a lot to try to be more accurate and precise for sure.
Others -- our warranty accrual process obviously is something that is heavily scrutinized and we believe we're making better use of the data today and we're tracking it on a daily basis.
So we're far more conversant in it and we are not making any assumptions let me put it that way that things are magically going to get better just because time has passed.
We're really all from Missouri right now and we're holding ourselves to the show me kind of standard that in fact technical actions and other things that we might do will in fact result in it.
So I guess a way to think about that is yes we're being prudent and biased to being conservative.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
Maybe you can talk a little bit more about your South American business your engine business down there.
You've talked about MWM going back to profitability this year but obviously there were some issues in the quarter.
Is there a way to quantify what happened or sort of give us more color? Because in the first half of the year Brazil was doing well and of course it hit a speed bump here.
So maybe you could give us a little more color? Yes.
Andrew let me lead off and maybe Jack could contribute here.
But actually MWM will be profitable this year.
And as you noted it was kind of -- Brazil is a very cyclical market and as the year started off we had some conservative assumptions in what we would earn in Brazil this year.
And in fact the first quarter we did very very well.
So what we ended up doing was we recalibrated our plans predicated upon that and had that baked into the balance of the forecast for the rest of the year.
With the social unrest what happened is we began falling short of our revised goals.
In any operations like ours we're always looking to add to good news to compensate for some of the bad news that you might get in some other part of the business.
And Brazil was definitely a good news -- a good news operation for us early in the year and that's what we had planned on taking advantage of the whole year.
The reversal that we saw doesn't drive MWM to be unprofitable.
It just takes them back to more the original operating plan that was established for the year.
So it's part -- it's kind of a disappointment thing there.
I don't know Jack...
Well the only other piece around that is around the exchange rate.
Yes well that is truly so right? So the impact in the quarter for FX between Brazil and South Africa was $11 million.
So that was clearly unexpected for us.
And it's all in combination with everything that's going on in that country that the volumes and then the FX is really what hurt us in the quarter.
Our next question is from Jerry Revich of Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Troy I'm wondering if you could talk about where the 13-liter engine will be towards the end of next year as you deliver on the cost-out engineering programs that you outlined.
Where will it be on your return on invested capital framework? Will it be returns accretive at that point? And if you could just help us understand how you're thinking about the path for the medium-duty engine as well as the idea to get through all of these actions taken on the 13-liter and then apply the learning curve in medium-duty and potentially consolidate production lines? I'm wondering if you'd just step us through how you're thinking about those items? Yes.
Jerry great questions.
I don't know that I've ever heard anybody ask so many questions in one question before but I'm going to do my best and kind of get at those if I could okay? Actually we're very pleased with how the 13-liter has unrolled for us or evolved for us: first from a performance standpoint; second from our own ability to economize so to speak the costs that it takes to keep that engine in the portfolio; and a really detailed plan to be able to put that thing in the right kind of cost basis.
We're not going to provide this guidance to you guys.
But we've talked in the past I think it's a very legitimate question to say gee you ought to be able to produce your 13-liter for less than what you're buying a Cummins ISX for.
And that is really what we anticipate being able to do or what we are doing okay? And we anticipate that that margin of difference there will continue to make sense for us in this business.
And the 13-liter will be a part of our portfolio for a long time for a good reason.
And I don't know Jack if you wanted to comment on kind of what you see in the order rates for this engine which I think tells you that this is still going to be an important part of our portfolio and I think a very good business component for us.
Yes if you look at -- as we look forward at our order board right now so the orders that we received over the last number of months and quarters about -- of the trucks that are in our order board about 46% of them are ISXs.
We still have a number of EGR 13-liter engines although obviously that number is declining.
But today 34% of all the trucks in our order board are 13-liters with SCR.
So we're pleased with the market acceptance of it.
And on the cost front as Troy said we continue to work on economizing this.
And the engine -- the fundamentals of the engine from the CGI block to the power density ratios the weight of the engine and the overall horsepower and torque the customers love this engine and addition to have SCR to it is even improving the performance further.
Yes so we're not in a position on the 13-liter.
Jack and I were kind of talking anecdotally a little bit earlier to remind people why we added the product to our portfolio to begin with.
There really is a segment out there for a 13-liter engine and there's a segment for a 15-liter engine.
And our 13-liter engine has some really good bones.
It has great characteristics.
And with the SCR on it the kind of tuning we've been able to do for torque rise throttle response and things like that it is the superior 13-liter engine in the market.
We're convinced that we're going to continue to demonstrate that.
But certainly a key to this success has been there has always been a 15-liter market and a 13-liter market.
And so one of the things that in having both of those engines in the portfolio in some cases people may choose between one or the other but there's an ample market we think to be able to work on through both.
The second question is okay how do you apply that thought process to the medium-duty? And I would say in answer to that exactly.
The big part of that does depend on the fact that over time and we hope it won't be a long time we'll actually be able to market medium-duty engines to a broader market as well.
At least that's what our insight to the market is able to tell.
And hopefully we're able to develop the exact same kind of energy and momentum around our medium-duty engine strategy.
But I do have to ask you to stay tuned here.
We are kind of making a bet.
We think it's the right bet.
We're getting a lot of encouraging feedback and let the numbers tell us kind of where we need to go as we go forward.
Your last point great point with regards to manufacturing capacity.
I've kind of highlighted -- I have highlighted in the past very specifically we have too much engine manufacturing capacity and we need to do something about that.
We have a handful of different alternatives that we can act on fairly quickly to consolidate our engine manufacturing into fewer manufacturing facilities than we have today.
We fully expect to be able to act on that in 2014.
We need to kind of see the take rate of the ISB in order for us to select among the options that we have.
So we are counting on that manufacturing increased capacity utilization lower cost -- manufacturing cost per engine reduction in fixed costs.
It is part of our 2014 plan and so we're planning on reaping that by the end of the year next year and we actually have now a couple of months to be able to sort through that kind of in response again to the ISB take rate.
So I would ask you Jerry great questions.
It's exactly what we're thinking about and talking about all the time right now and it will evolve or roll out here between now and the end of the calendar year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Just a clarification when you mentioned the 13-liter cost curve will be lower than what you're buying 15-liter engines at today when do you get to that point? Is it that by year-end 2014 on a run rate basis? Can you just frame that out for us? This is one where I don't want to get kind of left footed on myself because I'm not so sure that we're not already there today okay.
So let's suffice to say that it's -- as the volume continues to come up we continue to move to an even more favorable position okay.
So without giving cost data away it's not something I'm losing sleep over right now because the number's moving in the right direction and I think we may have already crossed over into the right place.
Our next question is from Ann Duignan of JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Can you talk a little bit about just your service segment what you're seeing in that market particularly construction-related business? And is there any risk that your market share will continue to suffer in that segment just because we're seeing so much of that segment convert to natural gas? If you could just talk about what you're seeing out there it would be helpful.
Well maybe the -- I'll start with the latter part of your question then move forward.
The natural gas piece of the severe service market today is really focused on the refuse segment of the market.
And that's a piece of the market that as I recall is about 10% or 12% of the overall market.
It's very stable and we really don't participate in it at all.
We don't have a product there.
So that piece of -- we weren't going to get that market whether it was natural gas or whether it was diesel.
So relative to our overall market share in severe service we've traditionally done well there.
We do well in the municipalities.
And obviously the municipalities with the state budgeting is not very robust right now.
The market is improving on the construction side.
We do well there although some of our competitors do better.
So the mix is kind of hurting us on severe service.
But going forward here as we've continued to enhance our product line of engines and as we continue to move into 2014 with our SCR strategy I think we'll be fine in the severe service market.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just on engine profitability that was probably the biggest variance versus our forecast.
Could you just help us bridge the difference between what was weaker end market like MWM and what was structural? I'm trying to figure out as I model going forward how to model profitability on the engine side.
Okay.
We probably need to do a walk for you on that Ann.
Could we -- can we get that to you -- can we talk to you a little bit and point to one of the guys around here to put a little a walk together for you so that we can give you the right magnitude okay? Research Division</strong> Yes that's perfectly fine.
I'm not taking a pass at all.
Understand the question and I want to give you the information that helps you rationalize your model the best we can.
Our next question is from Eric Crawford of UBS.
Research Division</strong> It looks like your actions to improve the quality are gaining some traction with customers.
Was just wondering if you could speak to your 3 months in service repair rates how those have trended since October and maybe what measures you highlight when you meet with customers to win the sale? Well I don't have the statistics in front of me but the trends I know.
And the trends on both the vehicle side as well as in the engine side continue to improve month-to-month and quarter-to-quarter.
So we do share that with customers.
But frankly it's usually the other way around.
The customers are sharing that with us.
The customers today have a level of sophistication on repairs and downtime that is far better than what they've had in the past.
So usually we're sharing information with the customers on our fleet and our business in total and they're sharing the specifics with us.
But the trends continue to be positive on all fronts.
Specific to the engines on the SCR as I indicated it's just still a little too early.
We shipped our first 13-liter SCR engine in May.
So by the time it gets -- really starts hauling freight and sludges in the June time period so the information we have today is very immature.
But anecdotally it's very positive.
Hey Eric this is Troy if I can just add a little bit to that.
As I had indicated we're spending a lot of time in the field talking to customers looking at their data.
And quite frankly as Jack indicated many fleets are very sophisticated in how they view this.
Most recently I did a swing through the southern part of the United States and talked to 5 different major fleet companies and it was very interesting.
Their data would indicate that the units in their hands which are units that are -- have been in the field for a year and/or 2 years the incidence of breakdown or warranty maintenance-type incidents something we call our per thousands is actually in line very close to all the competitor products that they have in their fleets.
So the complaint with at least these 5 companies were -- or 3 out of the 5 wasn't that the trucks break down more frequently.
It was the time to repair because of the nature of the repair tends to be a little bit -- tended to be a little bit higher although they admitted that that was improving as well.
And so I think this is really evidence that the field campaigns that we have been managing were having the right effect.
And then the 3 months in service data that Jack is referencing leads us to believe that actually the products we're producing today are even better than that.
And so that we are walking around here believing that the repair incidents are competitive and trending to be even better.
But as our -- because of the nature of the components that have been breaking down our costs our warranty costs have been higher and that's kind of what's been reflected in our warranty charges.
Research Division</strong> Right.
Okay -- no that's helpful.
And then just real quick.
I think you quantified the impact start-up issues in Springfield had on EBITDA but I didn't quite catch it.
And then what were those issues specifically.
I think you said most of them were behind you? Yes so what we did was -- is again to capture some fixed cost savings and logistics savings by the way.
We made the decision to close our Garland facility and we won't see that savings this year.
We see it basically for next year but we closed the Garland facility.
So the Garland facility had a high mix of severe service products.
And the Springfield facility although a flexible facility and capable of building severe service products really had a high mix of medium-duty products.
So as we begin bringing more severe service in there medium-duty products are built in fewer varieties and combinations.
Severe service products are built in a lot of different varieties and combinations.
So there is a learning curve for our folks there.
And quite frankly we were very aggressive on doing it and we've made a lot of progress that we incurred over time and premium transportation-type expenses to the tune of about $12 million.
But now the system is operating much more in control and coming closer to shipping everything off the end of the line that it's building and we're seeing the same kind of goodness that we saw in our Escobedo facility earlier in the year from the implementation of our manufacturing systems and our quality practices.
It was just kind of disruptive.
But those are overtime costs primarily some premium transportation as we had to move some stuff around.
And it was really due to the learning curve effects of severe service products into a system that was really calibrated to build a higher percentage of medium-duty products.
Make sense? Our next question is from Andy Casey of Wells Fargo Securities.
LLC Research Division</strong> I wanted to first go back to a previous profitability question.
In short term we're hearing some chatter about targeted actions aimed at market share improvement on top of which over the next few quarters you're going to be changing the long -- how you address some of your truck production with the insertion of the Cummins engine.
And I'm just wondering about the impact of that on longer-term margin potential.
So just to properly line up the goal post for the end of 2015 8% to 10% EBITDA run rate goal what really has to happen to achieve that goal? I mean do you need better industry volumes in addition to market share reversal? Or can you get there just on the internal actions aimed at improved customer confidence cost reduction and then a mix shift in favor of medium? Yes.
So there's a couple -- Andy again this is Troy.
Good -- great question.
Gives us an opportunity to I think illustrate a couple more things.
We've talked in the past we're making these cost reductions both at a fixed and a variable cost level with the intention of allowing us to be profitable and -- far more profitable in different areas of the cycle.
Our kind of target in that 2015 time frame that run rate that we're saying the model we've done about that really is an industry that's between 240 000 and 250 000 okay.
And it's a market share that is slightly north of 20%.
So we would anticipate a market share between 20% and 25% and an industry of 250 000 to -- or 240 000 to 250 000 really gives us the opportunity and that's a Class 8 industry of 240 000 to 250 000 because the industry today for instance is over 300 000 when you add the medium-duty -- when you add the medium-duty in it.
And that's kind of the market conditions which we think would be the new norm okay.
Now again 8% to 10% EBITDA margin if the market is a little bit less than that that doesn't mean we're throwing in the losses okay.
It just means that the margins are going to be less.
So our break-even point would be -- is actually resulting into a lower number a lower number.
That's kind of how we're aiming at that.
And as we made these decisions with regards to the medium-duty product and it's tough to be profitable on medium-duty if your market share's in the teens okay just to be honest with you.
I won't give you the specific guidance but we're anticipating with these changes that we've made our market share is going to go back up to more traditional levels which is higher than -- certainly I'm looking to project here.
30 plus.
And certainly 30 -- over 30%.
And look we -- I mean I think Navistar going back decades and decades cut their teeth in the medium-duty market.
We know a lot about it.
We have a great distribution system which is tailored to take advantage of that kind of stuff.
There are no structural reasons for us not to get back to that kind of share.
Hey we got great competitors and it's going to be a dogfight but we don't enter into that fight without advantages that we've enjoyed in the past and we'll enjoy in the future.
And I would highlight here our previous success wasn't a profitless success.
Our previous success in the segment was actually very important to the previous earnings at Navistar and will be going forward.
I hope to give the impression I'm kind of bullish on this.
LLC Research Division</strong> That comes through Troy.
Just back on the medium-duty just on a clarification.
As you pointed out the traditional share has been considerably higher than what your order rate was in the quarter.
And it's traditionally been one of the key profit drivers of the company at least the way I look at it.
When you introduced an external engine into that mix that also gets back to a prior question.
You have an awful lot of manufacturing capacity devoted to internal engine manufacturing.
At what point do you potentially consider adjusting that capacity beyond what you're already anticipating? Andy as we've indicated here even going back to March at the Mid-America Truck (sic) [Trucking] Show we acknowledge that our engine manufacturing footprint is not ideal for the structure of the company today.
But before we move forward with anything what we really want to do is assess how the ISB and our product is performing and what's the take rate and where does our medium-duty market share get to.
With that piece of information we think we can make a better more comprehensive sustaining long-term decision for what our engine manufacturing capacity will be.
So we're going to take the next number of months to do that.
As we indicated we'll make a decision in 2014.
We've baked savings into our plan for 2014.
We just have a number of alternative scenarios that have been put in front of us and we're going to take a few months to evaluate what those -- what the best one might be.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then a question for Walter and add my welcome.
When looking at Navistar from the outside it's pretty difficult to predict performance on a quarterly basis.
And I'm wondering from your perspective coming in with fresh eyes how much work really needs to be done if any on the financial systems? Or is it more a function of just choppiness of the turnaround? Our financial systems are not the most advanced but they do the job I guess is what I would say.
And when you do have movements like we've seen it's a little bit more difficult to make the forecast.
So if we get a little less choppiness to use your word that would help us out.
So we continue to make incremental improvements to our financial systems as well.
We really haven't been in the position to make a wholesale change there.
So we'll work with what we have and fortunately we have great people that operate those systems for us.
That helps us to do a good job.
Our last question is from Joel Tiss of BMO Capital Markets.
I just wondered if you're updating -- you said earlier that you were hoping to end 2013 with roughly an 18% market share.
And is your 20% market share in the third quarter is that incremental to that 18% or does that just keep us on track with that? Well it's certainly a bullish indicator towards us being able to grow our market share and exit 2013 enter 2014 on a positive front.
So it would certainly be very positive for us if we could end at 18%.
But don't interpret the order intake rate Joel as incremental to the market share right.
So retail market share versus order rate there tends to be a little bit of lag there so you can't draw a line between them and say 20% order share translates into 20% retail share in that time frame.
What Jack is indicating it makes us more bullish on the fact that that's doable for us.
I would not construe it as it's incremental.
Now we're working on that next sale tomorrow that is so -- and the one after that and the one after that.
So we're going to get to that point here soon.
But right now I would just interpret it as it is cementing the foundation a little bit underneath the numbers that we've talked about previously.
And then the 18% to 20% market share I mean it's sort of -- maybe it's just me inferring that was sort of the breakeven in heavy-duty? And is your focus on incremental cost savings more of a comment that the turnaround is slower than expected or you're just trying to add a little more cushion to that breakeven? Well I would say 2 things.
One the turnaround has been slower than we expected and we have not -- kind of -- we haven't tried to hide that.
We made some strategies in an effort to avoid our market share falling as it did to be very honest with you.
And now that market share is beginning to increase.
And so we did not believe our market share would fall as far as it did and -- but it did.
And we're glad to report that if we believe that we're on the mend and that it has started to rise again.
So that said the cost reductions are really a function of coming together in a central campus where almost all of our people work and all of our functions are and the benchmarking activity we've done to find ways and then the restructuring as well right to find ways to take further costs out of the company I would say not -- it's not like we're not doing things right? It's when we were in many locations we would run as many different companies that we were kind of adding the results together.
There were pieces of HR and communications and marketing all over in support of these business units.
Now that we're kind of all in the same buildings we have a HR function who brings a level of efficiency and therefore the HR cost per unit is a lot less.
And that's the savings -- I'm not taking on the HR guys because it's really the same in marketing it's the same in communications.
Heck it's the same in engineering one of our core activities.
We are spending less and getting more and better engineering done from these -- the consolidation and benchmarking activities.
And in the manufacturing vernacular which I'm familiar with you would just call that lean right? We're just becoming a leaner organization by eliminating non -- repetitive duplicative non-value-added type of activities and just doing those in a more efficient fashion.
And so I would tell you without the market share pressure or without the fact that the plan didn't accelerate as fast as we had thought we would still be doing these things because they're just the right things to do for making a better running and more efficient operation.
And we're enthused about it.
I mean this is -- we're not doing it because we feel we're in the penalty box as much as we're doing it because we want to be the best-run truck company in North America.
And we're getting there.
We're getting there.
And the cost savings are excellent I mean with 80 million shares outstanding that 200-and-almost 40 million adds up to a lot.
Can I just be a little bit of a pig because there's nobody behind me? I just wanted to ask Walter quickly if he has any early reads on the level of warranty reserves? Whether he feels like it's too much or too little or just about right or just any early color? By definition just about right.
Thank you.
I would now like to turn the conference back over to Heather Kos for closing remarks.
I want to thank everybody for participating today.
If you have any follow-up questions Randy Diaz and myself will be available.
Thanks again.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes today's conference.
Thank you for your participation and have a wonderful day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Navistar's Fourth Quarter 2013 Earnings Results Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference call is being recorded.
I would now like to introduce your host for today's conference Miss Heather Kos Vice President of Investor Relations.
Ma'am you may begin.
Good morning everyone and happy holidays.
Thank you for joining us for Navistar's Fourth Quarter 2013 Conference Call.
With me today are Troy Clarke our President and Chief Executive Officer; Jack Allen our Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer; and Walter Borst our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Before we begin I'd like to cover a few items.
A copy of this morning's press release and the presentation slides that we'll be using today have been posted on our Investor Relations website for your reference.
The non-GAAP financial measures discussed in this call are reconciled to the U.S.
GAAP equivalent as part of the Appendix in the slide deck.
Finally today's presentation includes some forward-looking statements about our expectations for future performance.
Actual results could differ materially from those suggested by our comments made here.
For additional information concerning factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected in today's presentation please refer to our most recent reports on Forms 10-K and 10-Q and our other SEC filings.
We would also refer you to the Safe Harbor statement and Other Cautionary Notes disclaimer presented in today's material for more information on the subject.
With that I'll turn the call over to Troy Clarke for his opening remarks.
Okay.
Thanks Heather and good morning everyone.
This morning Walter Jack and I will review our results for the quarter we'll recap our full year performance we'll provide 2014 cash guidance and perspective on the full year and we'll update the path to our 2015 end of year 8% to 10% EBITDA margin goal.
Turning to Slide 6 you'll see there our Drive to Deliver roadmap.
We've launched this turnaround effort in the fourth quarter of 2012.
At the time we said that we thought it would take us up to 18 months to execute the plan that we have put in place.
Our fourth quarter financial results reflect some of this progress.
Once again we hit our cash guidance and continue to lower our structural and operating costs.
But we also fell short of the EBITDA target.
This was primarily due to unanticipated pre-existing warranty adjustments for our EPA '10 EGR-only engines and the North American asset impairment charge.
Walter and Jack will provide more detail on these later in the call.
However encouraging to us is that when you set aside the pre-existing warranty adjustments and asset impairment operating performance fell within our targeted range and year-over-year we improved EBITDA by $210 million in the quarter.
Regardless missing our EBITDA range is something you've seen before it's not acceptable.
It's an area where we recognize the need to improve going forward and we are now in a much better position to make that happen.
These adjustments mask the fact that Navistar is a much better company today than we were a year ago based on the important progress that we made in 2013.
At a high level for this year here's a list of major accomplishments.
We rebuilt the senior leadership team.
We met or beat all the product launch dates related to our big bore emissions strategy change from EGR to SCR.
We received EPA certification for our proprietary 13-liter engine with SCR and in the process we repaired our relationship with that agency.
We expanded our engine portfolio by adding both the Cummins ISX and the ISB to our product offerings both have expanded the market for us and gave us access to a much larger customer base.
As you know the ISX was in the plan.
The ISB was added as a midcourse adjustment to stop the erosion of our medium-duty market share.
We rebuilt and reinforced our quality processes which means we're launching our new SCR products only after appropriate validation which means we're not adding to the issues that drive higher warranty spend and adjustment.
And it's important to note that early results shows significant quality and fuel economy improvement.
We made great strides in better understanding the scope of our EPA 2010 EGR-only engine warranty issues from identifying the technical problems and pinpointing those vehicle applications with the most prominent issues to better understanding frequency and failure rates repair costs help us to fix them with the goal of eliminating repeat failures in the future.
We reduced material costs to help offset the addition of the SCR hardware.
We executed a number of ROIC actions: we fix close or sell parts of our business that detracted from our renewed focus on the North American truck market.
And we exceeded our structural cost reduction targets by nearly twice our stated goal.
And we significantly reduced working capital and effectively managed cash throughout the year.
Some might question whether we could do this all in just 1 year.
Well we did and I'm very proud of our team and their accomplishments.
Yes we entered 2014 with more work to do including the areas of warranty and market share.
Admittedly pre-existing warranty adjustments have been difficult for us to forecast.
And shortly you will hear from Walter that he is already implementing actions to strengthen our warranty forecasting capability.
He will also explain that we are halfway through our maximum warranty exposure of the EGR engines in terms of units under standard and extended warranty.
These costs will be with us for a little while longer.
The encouraging news this is a defined population and an elevated level of spend is on the horizon.
The majority of the units will exit warranty by the end of 2015 which is key to achieving our EBITDA target.
Our goal is to lower warranty expense to 2% to 2.5% of revenue which is the industry norm.
And we're confident that the SCR units we're producing today are in that range.
Incidentally Navistar is close to that range as recently as 2010 at 2.7% of revenue.
In 2012 it shot up as high as 7% but we believe we are headed back in the right direction this issue will eventually be behind us.
As for our market share we see promising signs.
It took us a little longer to get traction with market share at Class 8 products as planned but we finally got it.
And Jack will show you that we finished the year with Class 8 order and retail share trending in the right direction.
As for medium-duty we hadn't anticipated the rapid share decline we experienced in 2013 which we now attribute to our July 2012 decision to switch to SCR.
We demonstrated the agility however of our new organization by pulling forward our plan to introduce an SCR product into the midrange chassis by announcing in September the addition of the Cummins ISB to our portfolio.
And you'll hear from Jack the market has responded well.
Our sales are gaining momentum and we are entering 2014 with a significantly better order backlog than we did entering 2013.
So with that let me turn the call over to Walter and Jack and I'll come back in a little bit to wrap up with some comments on 2014 and 2015 before we go into questions and answers.
Walter? Thank you Troy and good morning everyone.
Before we begin I'd like to briefly mention the realignment of our business segments and organizational reporting structures that took place in the fourth quarter.
The principal change is to combine our North American truck and engine operations into one segment called North America truck and to combine our Blue Diamond parts operations with the balance of the North America parts segment.
We've also created a global operational segment consisting largely of our MWM engine operations in South America and our traditional export truck and parts businesses.
These changes allow us to run the business more efficiently in a more integrated manner and provide better transparency of the performance of our operating segments.
The impact of these changes on our segments is detailed further in the appendix to this presentation.
Now let's turn to the financial results for the quarter on Slide 11.
Revenue for the quarter was $2.8 billion down $428 million or 13% from 2012.
The decrease was reflective of lower sales across all business segments primarily due to weaker industry conditions and lower market share during the company's emission strategy transition.
Worldwide truck charge-outs and revenues were in line with our overall expectations.
We continue to make excellent progress in our cost reduction efforts.
For the quarter SG&amp;A and engineering and product development costs showed a year-over-year reduction of $94 million.
EBITDA for the quarter was a loss of $227 million an improvement of $210 million over last year.
Similarly loss from continuing operations before income taxes was better by $200 million versus a year ago due to improvements throughout our businesses.
North America truck improved by $41 million due primarily to structural cost reductions despite lower charge-outs of 1 000 units versus last year.
North America parts improved by $44 million.
Commercial growth offset military sales declines and lower SG&amp;A expenses contributed to overall margin expansion.
Global operations improved by $67 million on higher margins primarily related to the company's South American engine business as well as benefits realized from prior year structural cost reduction actions.
Financial services results were up marginally driven by reductions in operating expenses that more than offset lower net income -- lower net interest margin from lower average assets.
Corporate items improved by $50 million due to our structural cost reduction efforts.
In addition we recorded a $220 million tax benefit to continuing operations due to a technical tax accounting rule and offsetting tax expense was recorded in other comprehensive income.
Turning to Slide 12.
Excluding asset impairment and pre-existing warranty adjustments in the quarter from consolidated EBITDA of negative $227 million adjusted EBITDA from our continuing operations would have been positive in the fourth quarter and in the 0 to $50 million range excluding one-time items that management communicated on its third quarter call.
As I previously mentioned we changed our reporting segments in the fourth quarter.
In conjunction with this change we reviewed the recoverability of goodwill from prior acquisitions in the North America truck segment.
After factoring into the analysis the significant value of intangible assets not on our balance sheet we needed to impair $77 million of goodwill during the quarter.
Importantly this is a non-cash charge and does not reflect the change in the outlook for our North American business.
Pre-existing warranty adjustments of $152 million were driven by 2 principal items: first additional accruals for our medium-duty EPA 2010 EGR-only engines; and second a significant incremental accrual for extended warranty costs related to our big bore engines.
As more of the EPA 2010 EGR-only engines begin to enter the extended warranty period we were able to revise our prior estimates using a third-party actuary hired specifically to review our claims experience.
Importantly for the second quarter in a row warranty accruals for our big bore engines base warranties were not material in the quarter.
I'll come back to warranty a little later.
On Slide 13 please find our full year 2013 results compared to 2012.
It highlights that a lot has been accomplished in a relatively short period of time.
Structural costs improved by $330 million which far exceeded our original goal of $175 million.
Volume adjusted material and manufacturing costs improved by $150 million net of incremental costs related to the addition of SCR on our big bore engines.
So we've made substantial progress on the cost side of our Drive to Deliver initiative making improvements of approximately $450 million year-over-year.
This more than offset an 8% decline in Class 8 industry volumes and a 17% decline in Navistar worldwide truck charge-outs.
Turning to Slide 14.
We reconciled our actual ending manufacturing cash balance against the guidance provided on the company's last call.
We ended the quarter with manufacturing cash of approximately $1.52 billion which includes net proceeds of $196 million from the issuance of new convertible notes as well as intercompany loan of $270 million from Navistar Financial Corporation our captive finance subsidiary.
Excluding these amounts manufacturing cash would have been $1.06 billion in the middle of our guidance range.
The goodwill impairment and additional pre-existing warranty accruals did not negatively impact cash flow in the quarter and other cash items in the quarter were in line or ahead of expectations.
Several factors contributes to the strong manufacturing cash balance.
Most importantly our employees have done a great job throughout the year focusing on improving working capital in particular by reducing inventory.
Working capital decreased by $300 million year-over-year a 44% improvement over Q4 2012.
Additionally capital expenditures decreased by $140 million or almost half versus 2012 as a result of higher return thresholds our ROIC initiatives and fewer engine programs.
Looking at Slide 15.
Please note our historical manufacturing cash balances.
This is the most manufacturing cash we've had in any recent period.
In fact it's the highest cash level we've had in at least the last 30 years.
Turning to Slide 16 please find our manufacturing cash outlook for the first quarter.
We expect manufacturing cash at the end of the first quarter to be in the range of $1 billion to $1.1 billion.
Consolidated EBITDA for the first quarter is expected to be a loss in the range of $50 million to $100 million.
This excludes any onetime items as well as any pre-existing warranty accruals that may arise in the quarter.
Quite frankly our actual financial results continue to be hampered by pre-existing warranty accruals related to our EPA 2010 EGR-only engines.
But these accruals have not tended to impact our ability to meet our manufacturing cash guidance in the quarter as demonstrated again by our Q4 2013 cash performance.
The change on a sequential basis versus adjusted EBITDA in Q4 2013 reflects the following: seasonality in our North America truck parts and global operations and lower traditional units as we transition to the Cummins ISB engine.
It also includes certain impacts that are typical in the first quarter.
In this regard working capital is expected to again increase during the first quarter as we rebuild inventory following a strong finish in October.
Moreover we'll pay suppliers for previously shipped materials while working fewer days in the quarter due to the holiday shutdown.
As our share grows with re-conquest of larger customers our used truck inventory balance is expected to grow as well.
We're also planning for continued required debt service payments ongoing capital investments in our business as well as pension and OPEB funding significantly in excess of expense.
Similarly warranty cash payments are expected to be greater than expense.
Turning to Slide 17 we've included some additional fiscal year information for our investors.
The funded status of our postretirement plans improved by approximately $860 million in fiscal year 2013 due to an improvement in the discount rate of more than 80 basis points and returns that exceeded our expected return on asset projections for both pension and OPEB-related assets.
2014 postretirement expense is expected to improve by $30 million to $40 million driven mainly by this improvement in funded status.
Pension cash contributions are expected to be in the $180 million -- is expected to be $180 million in 2014 slightly higher than in 2013.
We expect capital expenditures to be about $150 million in 2014 consistent with actual spending in 2013.
Now let's turn our attention back to warranty.
On Slide 18 you'll see a chart that shows the number of EPA 2010 EGR-only engines in warranty for all types of engines.
We continue to gain experience and understanding of how this defined population of engines impacts both the base and extended warranty periods.
As you can see we are now largely through the base warranty period of our population of big bore engines.
However these engines have now entered the extended warranty period.
Additionally our medium-duty ISX and light-duty V8 engines often have longer base warranty periods.
Nevertheless looking at the population as a whole we're halfway through the maximum warranty exposure for these EGR engines and the majority of these units will exit warranty by the end of 2015.
As such the potential risk of significant additional accruals in future periods should become much smaller for these engines over the next couple of years.
I want to pause here to briefly comment on the number of pre-existing warranty adjustments Navistar has had to take over the last 2 years and the material weaknesses we identified in our 2013 10-K today related to the completeness and accuracy of underlying data for significant estimates in warranty and other areas of the business.
The topic of pre-existing warranty adjustments has been a cloud over the financial results of the company and we need to get our arms around it.
We will get our arms around it.
It is overshadowing the significant improvements that are taking place in the other parts of the business.
I wasn't brought into the company to sit idly by to watch this play out.
Therefore I was pleased to find that the company has supplemented our existing model with an actuarial model from a respected accounting firm that was validating our own base warranty projections.
Additionally we made the transition in Q4 to use this firm to estimate our big bore extended warranty liability.
Similarly we will be looking to strengthen our forecasting capabilities and internal controls in other parts of the business.
Turning to Slide 19.
A lot has been accomplished in 2013 to position us for a successful 2014.
We made significant progress aggressively reducing costs which lowers our breakeven point.
But for pre-existing warranty expense and goodwill impairments we would have had positive EBITDA in the fourth quarter.
This is the fifth straight quarter that we have met or exceeded our manufacturing cash guidance and the fourth quarter cash balance is the highest cash level we've had in at least the last 30 years.
In part this was accomplished by a keen focus on reducing the working capital tied up on our business.
And finally our new segments allow us to run the business more efficiently with greater transparency.
Finally turning to Slide 20.
A number of you have queried how we plan to deliver our longer-term EBITDA goal of 8% to 10% margins.
This breaks down into 4 primary categories.
Number 1 volume improvements.
We expect the Class 6 to 8 and bus industry to show a modest increase in both 2014 and 2015.
Additionally we have assumed our combined market share for the class 6 to 8 and school bus markets recovers to 22% to 24% by the end of 2015.
Secondly materials.
Our benchmarking would suggest we should be able to realize an incremental 5% improvement in material and freight costs over the next few years through design cost reductions strategic sourcing and footprint optimization.
We have spoken publicly previously about the extra content in our engines that can be removed as part of our transition from EGR to SCR engines.
Third structural costs.
We expect to realize an incremental $175 million in 2014 through additional SG&amp;A and product development opportunities building on our previously announced Q4 reduction of force actions.
Over time we plan to reduce our structural costs below 10% of sales.
And fourth warranty.
As discussed earlier we still need to work through warranty related to our legacy EPA 2010 EGR-only engines for a few more years.
Our target is to reduce warranty cost by approximately 4% of sales over that period of time.
To summarize we are focused on the key drivers to deliver our longer-term goals.
An improving economy truck industry and improving market share as well as our continued cost reduction initiative and cash focus across the enterprise should position Navistar well for success in the future.
I will stop here and let Jack provide more insights on our Drive to Deliver plan.
Jack? Thank you Walter and good morning everyone.
As Walter indicated I'm going to provide more details on the items that were talked about earlier.
Specifically I'll give you some perspectives on warranty and quality.
I'll talk about the industry our products and sales and I'll bring you up to speed on the operational progress we've made on our 2013 Drive to Deliver plan.
So turning to Slide 22.
As discussed earlier we continue to work through the warranty issues on our EPA 2010 EGR-only medium and big bore engines.
It's very frustrating that this issue has overshadowed our progress because a lot of good work has been done this year all across our business and particularly in the quality area.
2013 was better than 2012 and '14 will be even better than 2013.
But the good news is that we are not seeing these issues with our new SCR emissions products.
This is primarily driven by our new robust design and quality tools.
And we believe the high levels of initial quality that we're seeing with today's SCR engines will equate to higher levels of quality throughout their life cycle and the warranty spend levels will reflect industry norms.
I'll come back and talk about products more in a moment.
But first let me give you some perspectives on the industry.
On Slide 23 you can see that the Class 8 industry retails for our fiscal year 2013 were 211 000.
It's down from 230 000 in 2012.
We believe 2014 will be a year of modest growth and we're forecasting a Class 8 U.S.
and Canada industry of 220 000 to 230 000 retail sales.
Similarly to our view last quarter the industry is still experiencing both headwinds and tailwinds.
Tonnage and freight rates do continue to be good.
And some sectors of the economy housing and automotive for example are showing improvement.
Used truck values remain strong but the need for more freight capacity is still being impacted by an ongoing driver shortage.
But as we said last quarter we continue to believe there is a fundamental need for replacement vehicles due to vehicle age especially given the economics associated with older vehicles that are less fuel-efficient and more costly to maintain.
Shifting to Slide 24 let's take a look at Navistar's orders for the quarter.
We continue to make progress and we see increasing order intake.
Class 6 to 8 North American truck orders were up 12% from the third quarter and 34% from Q4 of 2012.
And we expect that these improvements in our retail market share will follow this improvement in order intake.
Meanwhile our backlog is up 26% year-over-year.
The biggest improvement to this backlog is in Class 8 which is up by 1/3 compared to this time last year.
Our market share performance is where we indicated it would be on our Q3 call.
Class 8 market share was 16% in Q4 which is our highest level of any quarter this year.
Our medium share declined to 20% in the quarter as we saw a falloff in business in anticipation of the announcement of the ISB engine in our medium-duty trucks.
We announced this offering in September the market reaction has gone extremely well.
In fact we've already secured over 6 000 truck and bus orders.
And our Class 6 7 order intake percentage in Q4 was 27% our highest level in the year.
So we're quite pleased with the direction so far On Slide 25 these numbers indicate that our products with SCR engines continue to gain traction with customers.
So far we've secured more than 16 000 orders for Class 8 vehicles with the ISX 15 and fleets are seeing improvements in fuel economy and uptime.
Our Class 8 vehicles with the MaxxForce 13 SCR engines are also off to a great start.
We've continued to accumulate miles in testing and are now over 4 million miles in on-road testing with no major issues.
And we have more than 7 500 orders to date and fleets are experiencing fuel economy and uptime improvements here as well.
In addition we reached another milestone this quarter.
We completed the transition of our on-highway Class 8 products to SCR with the launch of the LoneStar with the ISX and we now offer a full lineup of on-highway SCR products for our Class 8 customers and we completed each launch on time with the highest level of quality.
In regard to the ISB we started production and shipments in December.
By the end of this month we would have built and shipped about 500 trucks and buses with the ISB.
Now let's turn to our operating performance.
We made tremendous strides in our Drive to Deliver turnaround plan over the last year and the fourth quarter was no exception.
Turning to Page 26.
As you heard earlier for the quarter we reported an EBITDA loss of $227 million versus our EBITDA target range of 0 to $50 million.
However if you take out the asset impairments and prior period warranty this quarter our operating performance fell within the target.
Let me break it down for you what are our many positives in the quarter.
We achieved our volume targets for truck and parts.
Our North American parts segment in particular had a very good quarter and a very good year.
Although sales were relatively flat profit improved by 49% from Q3 to Q4 and 39% year-over-year.
Used trucks finished the quarter strong also.
Retail sales hit a record for the year.
And on a year-over-year basis our inventory declined by 7% and is in good shape.
We do expect the inventory to increase in early 2014 as our Class 8 market share grows.
Material cost reductions exceeded our internal targets.
In manufacturing our closure of Garland is complete.
We've transitioned the products to other facilities.
At Escobedo they've done a great job with improving first-time quality and the plant's running very well.
Meanwhile after some startup issues and some onetime costs in the third quarter at Springfield their performance met expectations in Q4.
Mexico had a very good year in truck parts and financing.
However like others we're experiencing a slowdown here in early 2014 as a result of the economic impacts that have been driven by a tax change in Mexico.
We continue to benefit from this quarter for the SG&amp;A and structural cost reductions we made earlier.
We have far exceeded our goals in this area as you heard earlier.
But you know there are a few areas where I really wish we could've done better.
Declining government spending had a big impact on our defense business.
And in response we made significant adjustments to rightsize this business in this quarter.
Similarly in Brazil volumes were impacted by the economic volatility there in 2013.
And as a result we took significant actions to restructure this business to return it to profitability.
And finally we had anticipated faster market share recovery in North America and which is now just materializing for us.
So on Slide 27 let me wrap up my comments for the quarter and for the year by first expressing my pride in the many accomplishments our employees made in fiscal year 2013.
We made difficult decisions to turn around this historic company and we worked with a sense of urgency to create a path to profitability.
As a result we're a much different and a much better company than we were a year ago and we positioned ourselves for the future and our momentum reflects that.
So now I'll turn it back to Troy who will give you the high-level outlook for 2014.
Thanks Jack.
Let me start my wrap-up by saying that 2014 will be a better year for Navistar and hopefully the reason for our belief is obvious given our accomplishments this past year and the additional color that Walter and Jack provided.
But let me add my summary if I could.
Regarding the first quarter of 2014.
Q1 will be the softest quarter of the year for us.
Charge-outs will be similar to 2013 Q1 given the industry trends and slightly down from Q4 given the fact that we are ramping up the ISB engine in medium-duty trucks and buses in particular.
This will be corrected late in the first quarter.
Manufacturing cash is expected to finish the quarter in the range of $1 billion to $1.1 billion.
We anticipate Q2 will better represent the true progress of our Drive to Deliver plan.
Volumes in trucks parts and our global operations will be higher.
Furthermore our structural costs will be lower in Q2 given the actions that we took in Q4 and our material performance in pricing will also show improvement over the first quarter.
Regarding the full year 2014 we are forecasting a Class 8 industry of 220 000 to 230 000 retail sales.
We project our Class 6 through 8 and bus share to be approximately 21%.
We expect our pricing to improve slightly given our new products.
We expect to reduce our structural costs by an additional $175 million.
We anticipate material cost reductions will more than fully offset the added cost of SCR.
And entering 2015 we plan to reduce another $1 200 $1 400 in cost from our 13-liter SCR engines.
We expect $50 million to $60 million in year-over-year manufacturing cost savings not including the impact of any engine manufacturing consolidation actions that we have referenced in the past.
And lastly capital expenditures will be similar to 2013.
These accomplishments will be significant steps towards achieving our goal of an 8% to 10% EBITDA run rate exiting 2015.
2013 has been a challenging year.
We changed our products we changed our leadership.
We changed the organization and we've created a central focus with clear goals and objectives.
We've done a lot to rightsize our cost structure.
We repaired relationships that are so important in our business.
And now our sales are increasing.
We made a lot of progress and our momentum is building.
We got more to do but we're optimistic about the headway we're making and we're confident more positive financial results are on the way.
We're excited about 2014.
Thanks for your time this morning.
And now let me turn it back to Heather and we'll open the call for your questions.
That concludes our prepared remarks.
[Operator Instructions] Operator we're ready to open the lines.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Andrew Kaplowitz of Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Troy or Jack maybe you can -- actually this might be for Walter.
Maybe you can talk a little more about cash after 1Q.
In other words 1Q usually is a seasonally weak quarter we all know that around working capital.
As you go forward how should we look at cash given productions' going up which should help? But you do have these warranty reserves that you've been accruing over the last couple of years.
So how do we think about cash after 1Q? Yes it's Walter Andrew.
I think you should think about it not dissimilar to what you saw last year.
When the group was sitting on the call last year we were also expecting cash outflows in the first quarter and that improved significantly over the balance of the year.
So we're not in a position to provide guidance beyond the first quarter today.
But the first quarter is clearly a cash use for us typically.
But you wouldn't expect that to repeat quarter after quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful Walter.
And I guess my second question is for you too.
Like I think these warranty issues will again we've seen them for a while.
Is this some fresh set of eyes coming in? And looking at the extended warranties and so maybe we really can say we're getting over the hump after this quarter.
And how do you view that Walter? Do you have decent -- I mean when we see the chart that you've given us now we know that you're halfway through this period.
But how should we look at warranty expense going forward? Do we think it can now be on a declining scale and then how much of the 152 is medium-duty? Well I mean obviously there are some new eyes that have come into the company including my own.
The company's also put more resources into this area because we've got to get our arms around this.
So there's a number of people working on within the company to reduce the cost going forward as well as to do a better job of forecasting it.
And quite frankly every quarter we look at it and we accrue where we need to.
But as we try to do our cash guidance going forward I still feel we're in a good position to be including any additional pre-existing warranty amount that we might have as part of that guidance.
But the reason we included the information we did on the EGR engines is to show you what we're looking at which is that we're halfway through and that this is going to be improving going forward.
So the risk is smaller.
These engines as we go through time will obviously have to make payments for what we've accrued over time and that will play its way out over a few more years.
So we would anticipate that our cash outflows for warranty will be higher than expense over the next few years given the accrual that we now have on our books.
So we are focused on it.
We're bringing in additional experts to look at it as well.
And you can rest assured that I and the rest of the organization are very focused on this topic because we need to do better here.
Research Division</strong> Walter just out of that 152 how much was medium-duty approximately was it like a quarter or something like that? Yes.
Let me answer the question a different way.
The extended warranty item was more than 2/3 of the total of the 152.
Our next question comes from Andy Casey of Wells Fargo Securities.
LLC Research Division</strong> On medium trucks can you discuss what the order books suggest your engine mix looks like meaning internal versus Cummins ISB? Andy this is Jack.
There has been a surge here of ISB orders as I indicated.
We have secured over 6 000 of those.
So right now the --our medium-duty orders that we'll be building are primarily the ISB.
It's the highest proportion.
But as time goes on I'm not sure that it will stay that way.
This reflects a big initial pent-up demand for that order.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay thanks Jack.
And then getting to the core of the question we've been looking at the impact of introduction of Cummins on the Class 8 business.
You're changing the internal engine to include SCR.
Can you kind of describe the milestones that Navistar's looking for to try to determine what the best -- well said differently the optimal cost of the internal engine facilities should be going forward? Good question Andy.
Maybe I'll start on that this is Troy and then I'll put Jack to give any additional perspective.
So I think the path that we established on the big bore we brought the ISX in and we put the SCR in our 13-liter.
And initially we saw -- I mean all the orders are ISX.
It's kind of all we had for a while.
And then quite frankly now the 13-liter orders are coming back in.
So we're going to take a while here yet to figure out what that mix looks like it is going forward in that engine.
We think quite frankly it's going to be in that 50-50 kind of range okay? And then what that allows us to do is that now we can look at total costs of our 13-liter engine.
We have the opportunity to think about how we manage capacity and resources to support it to make sure that we have the right internal business case for providing that offering into the market.
We think that's what we're doing and we're optimistic and confident that that's the right play.
We're going to play in the same thing now on the medium-duty to be very honest.
As Jack indicated we've brought the ISB out.
And it isn't -- what we really -- we don't have the SCR on our own DT yet so that's kind of a stranded technology.
So it's going to take a little bit longer for this to play out.
But ultimately we see the same thing.
We're going to get a feel here in the next couple of quarters on what that mix is going to be between an ISB and between an internal option that we can provide.
And then at that point in time we're going to have to make some calls with regards to the cost structure that we can afford to allocate to have that entry in our portfolio.
We haven't made those calls today.
And quite frankly we don't have enough data to make that analysis.
But in the spirit of the way you asked the question I wanted to be very open with you as to how we're looking at it.
It's a great question.
I'm sure it's going to come up every quarter for a couple of quarters.
And we're going to try to be just as open in answering it.
And when we have an answer we're going to move forward with that.
That said I referenced in my comments in either case we know we have too much manufacturing capacity today and we will take steps to rationalize that throughout the year.
We haven't announced those plans yet and they will be out there a little bit.
But we are moving forward with our plans in that regard to limiting some fixed costs from that type of business.
Jack do you want to add anything to that or? No I think that covers it Troy.
Our next question comes from Stephen Volkmann of Jefferies.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to just go back to the cash for a second if we could.
And Walter it sounded like you were saying that the cash balance should sort of bottom out or at least sort of be flat from the end of Q1 going forward.
But I don't want to put words in your mouth today.
Did I read that right? I think what you should assume is that we're not going to have a repeat of the kind of outflows in subsequent quarters that we're going to see in the first quarter.
And much of this is really driven in the first quarter by 2 items.
One is working capital which tends to increase in the quarter for us as I alluded to in my remarks.
And the second is our profitability which should be lower in the first quarter than where we need it or where we plan for it to be over the balance of the year.
So again I can't make any predictions today for cash balances beyond Q1.
But we're obviously looking at that internally and planning our cash for the year including the maturity on the convert that we have coming up in the fourth quarter of 2014.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
How much visibility do you have into the warranty cash outflows? Is that something that's pretty forecastable? Or is that sort of dependent on when people bring things in? Yes it's a good question actually.
As we've looked at that that data is actually quite stable.
And so while we haven't done a great job in terms of forecasting pre-existing warranty accruals that we might need to take we do have a very good line of sight on spending and that's included in our cash projections for 2014.
As a matter of fact I would add that spending is fairly stable which again gives us some confidence that we're kind of at the peak of this cycle.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Thanks for that.
And then just quickly Troy on your long-term EBITDA goals where you sort of sketched out the 5% benefit on material costs and 4% on warranty.
I guess theoretically that's around 9% of EBITDA margin.
And then I guess you have some other cost saves potentially the engine the $1 200 to $1 400 per engine as you go forward and take cost out.
Am I kind of repeating that the right way? Is that how we're supposed to kind of build the bridge here? Yes yes.
I think the engine cost by the way is in -- average out on the total material cost so you can't kind of count those numbers twice that you noted.
And then like most things we have some -- I don't want to say contingency but the plans would allow us to overshoot a little bit because not everything happens sometimes the way we want or in the timeframe that we wanted.
But those basically are the 2 big building blocks as we go forward along with the warranty runoff right getting back down to a reasonable percentage.
In order to get to the goal we don't have to go all the way back down to the industry standard for warranty as a percentage of revenue but we've got to get a lot better than the 7% that I referenced in my comments.
Research Division</strong> So that was my final just follow-up.
So the warranty sort of falloff looks pretty linear between now and the end of 2015.
Can you just give us a sense of the cadence of these other benefits? Is it sort of a 2015 second-half hockey stick with the rest of it? Or would you expect it to be somewhat linear? No truthfully I mean the data that I'm looking at tells me it's kind of linear right? I mean we're looking to make a big step here in 2014 pluses and minuses.
And we get a little bit of industry behind us and we get a little bit of share behind us.
I think that's going to give us even more opportunities.
But we're not -- we're trying to avoid the hockey stick.
At least the management's efforts are focused on that and then obviously our results will be the judge.
Our next question comes from David Leiker of Robert W.
Baird.
Research Division</strong> This is Joe on the line for David.
It looks like you booked around 8 900 medium-duty truck and bus orders during the quarter.
And just considering the ISB was available in the order book for 2 months it basically implies every order since the ISB became available has basically been on that engine.
And in that context how does this reception and feedback from the market kind of accelerate moves you might make such as winding down medium-duty platforms or accelerating plant closures? Well we talked -- we kind of referenced that in the earlier question okay? Obviously this is the kind of thing that will have an influence on that and it's just a little premature for us right now to make those decisions.
But they are the type of decisions that I think we'll be addressing throughout the course of the year as the volumes will -- as the volumes will basically stabilize.
But I would say again we referenced in the past we will take steps this year to consolidate our manufacturing capacity.
We have 3 manufacturing facilities for engines today.
We don't need 3.
And so we have a couple of options as to how to get at that.
I personally would like a little more insight as to the mix between ISB and our own engines because I think it will allow us to make a better decision.
It is on our radar screen.
We have no announcements to make today.
And we realized that that's a topic that we need to talk to as we go forward.
But I want you to have confidence that we're thinking about it probably the same way that you guys are.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then switching gears a bit.
But on the structural costs commentary and targeting that to be under 10% of sales just wondering where does that stand as a level of sales today? That's in excess of 11% today.
So the steps -- so we've kind of commented on the steps in structural costs we're making this year.
So you guys can kind of do the math.
And we believe that's walking us right to the spot where our benchmarks tell us we need to be.
Our next question comes from Ann Duignan of JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> It's Ann Duignan.
Can we just get -- a point of clarification.
I just want to take a step back on the warranty accruals.
Are we not to believe that there was no change or no increase in warranty accruals back when these extended warranties were provided? No.
No Ann.
As a matter of fact every time we took an accrual in the base warranty we took an accrual in the extended warranty as well okay in the course of last year.
However the model we used to do that was really a very simple model that did not reflect -- didn't have any intelligence so to speak as to what those claims might be.
I mean this is a -- an extended warranty on big bore is kind of a product that really just came about right when we introduced the big bore engines so we didn't have a lot of experience on it.
As a matter of fact our experience was on a small set of DT-type engines.
So Walter referenced we basically got an actuary to come in and say okay even though it's very early claims data what is the algorithm? I mean what's the actuarial model look like? And so the difference is not that we didn't accrue in the past -- we have been -- but is what does it show when you use a different and probably model that's more reflective of the kind of spend pattern that we might experience? I don't know if that answers your question or not.
And Walter do you want to add anything to that? Thanks Ann.
And again I thought it would helpful to all of you to include this chart that we had on Page 18.
If you look at that and if you look at the dark blue sliver there which is the extended warranty for the big bore you can see we're just coming into that.
So we're only now getting claims experience that we can analyze and the actuaries can use to refine our estimates in that area.
So as Troy indicated we had accrued amounts there as we got more fidelity on that now and looked at it more closely with external help and more eyes.
We thought we needed to top that out.
I mean I think extended warranties apply to about 85% of the big bore engines we sold.
I'm looking over for Jack to nod his head.
And it extends warranty up to 3 years past the base warranty period.
The standard warranty period is 2 years and the extended warranty typically goes 2 or 3 further years.
Research Division</strong> Right.
But it just raises one of the reasons why people do not give extended warranties doesn't it? Extended warranties are pretty common in the industry these days Ann.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
I want to switch gears now because that does lead me to the second question.
One of the common things we hear from truck owners is that there is the low residual values of used equipment.
Can you just talk about your used truck inventory talk about who's going to end up responsible if there's a write-down on residuals? Is it the dealer? Is it GE because they finance the trucks is it Navistar? Talk a little bit about is that another brewing problem that we could have out there that we've got all these used trucks that nobody wants? Well there's some interesting phenomenon that's going on in the marketplace today.
And clearly with the improved fuel economy and uptime of our new trucks we have a number of customers that we're talking to about trades.
So the way we approach this is we do our best to trade for used trucks at the market value and always at the time of a new truck sale.
We're not buying used trucks.
In the event that as part of that new truck transaction we put an above-market value on the trade we record that inventory write-down right then and whether that's all us or whether that's shared with a dealer or shared with GE or any other third-party that kind of depends on the circumstance.
But we do it right then.
We do it at the time of a new truck transaction so that our inventory is valued properly.
A piece of challenge here though Ann is our data does not indicate that the market value of the MaxxForce 13 engines is depressed in the marketplace.
And our data shows that these values are holding up and our inventory levels are down on a year-over-year basis within our used truck inventory.
So I understand what you're saying.
I hear the same thing in the marketplace.
We're keenly focused on used trucks and what that means to us as a company and how that can help further our market share goes.
But we're not seeing the phenomenon you're describing right now.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Well that's good to hear.
We're probably giving the outliers just something else [ph] they're not happy about it.
So it's good to hear.
Our next question comes from Steven Fisher of UBS.
Research Division</strong> I'm wondering if you could just talk about what's in the $175 million of structural cost savings in 2014 and what some of the opportunities are for beyond 2014.
Sure I'll start.
This is Troy speaking I'll start.
So we have mentioned -- we mentioned that in Q4 we took some actions to basically reduce our staffing by about 500 people.
And that should deliver in the range of -- and a couple of other things and that should deliver in the range of $50 million to $60 million improvement.
And we'll see -- on an annual basis and we'll see that improvement in the first quarter.
Okay we are seeing that okay.
That's one part of it.
The second part of it is we have put in place some system upgrades to give us better visibility on indirect spend in all areas.
And so we've benchmarked our indirect spend.
I referenced earlier our benchmarking activity with our competitors.
And that has kind of pointed us into hundreds of savings opportunities.
Most of them are small but they're all interesting okay that these will accumulate throughout the year as well.
And then the third item really has to do -- because we say kind of structural costs it's not just SG&amp;A.
It's SG&amp;A and some stuff that you call fixed or maybe even in cost of goods sold.
But the other area is continued improvements in efficiency of engineering okay.
A couple of years ago I mean we were managing an engineering factory that was working on Workhorse chassis and Monaco motorhomes and even a 15-liter engine.
So we have rationalized all those programs and chose to do our engineering in a different way.
And part of what we've talked about this like Project Horizon.
So Project Horizon is really an engineering program that we'd lay over the next couple of years that brings to market the next generation of our ProStar products okay.
So we may be able to take a lot of the engineering expense that you're kind of -- I don't want to say it's waste but you're just kind of grinding it up all the time trying to make improvements to the product.
Focus that around really quality today but then additional capabilities in line with our Horizon projects.
So those are kind of the pieces that you see.
Once we get down to that kind of below 10% kind of range though I think that's where the business kind of needs to be.
We are really into lean and we're having a lot of progress.
Jack talked about it on Escobedo and we're getting up speed in Springfield.
And we're also using it in our enterprise.
So they will always be continuous improvement opportunities.
But I think kind of once we get past this 2014 kind of 2015 kind of timeframe those additional improvements are the kind of things we want to take and reinvest in our business for the benefit of our customers and our shareholders going forward.
So that's kind of how we think about it.
And I think unless I missed on something Walter or Jack those are kind of the pieces of it that I described.
Research Division</strong> Great.
That's helpful.
And then on the 8% to 10% EBITDA exit range do you guys have any visibility to hitting at least maybe the low end of the range at some point during the first few quarters of fiscal '15 versus that exit range rate? We're really not going to try to provide guidance on that right now.
But I'm sure Steven you'll bring that question up in succeeding quarters and we'll let more information out at that time.
Our next question comes from Jerry Revich of Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Troy can you talk about any organizational structural changes to go along within your reporting and indirect cost structure work that you're doing? And also can you just touch on how you're thinking about performance metrics for your direct reports in '14 and how that's different versus '13 just to give a sense where we are in that turnaround process? Yes.
Yes Jerry.
Happy to do so.
Thanks.
So one of the things that Walter announced in his comments was this change in our segment reporting structure.
And that really does reflect how we're looking at the business today.
It wasn't so long ago Navistar was a company that was made up of its own kind of internal divisions to include a very strong engine division which had all the attributes of the business right? I mean it had an external sales arm its own HR group its own engineering group its own PR group et cetera et cetera and a truck group which basically duplicated all those expenses.
Today that's really not how we're running the business.
We're running the business as a North American entity.
So as you might take away they's kind of the need for one organizational infrastructure to support that one HR group one product engineering activity.
And so just very simple as we've taken -- have basically created this North American entity we don't need this duplicate structure that supported an engine business.
We really only ship engines today if they go out the doors in a truck.
And so we've taken those savings opportunities.
And I just used that as an example throughout the course of the year and that's part of the SG&amp;A saving that you've already seen or as we shed Monaco or sold Workhorse or those kind of things okay.
So we've continued to modify the organization in that regard.
So the organization today is kind of lean.
I mean this time last year or just a little bit before this time last year we had 60 -- a little bit over 60 people walking around Navistar with the title of Vice President.
Today we have less than 40 people.
And even this month there's additional changes being made where as we continue to streamline our organization we just need -- we need less leaders of that level.
Getting to the next thing and say you talked about performance metrics and Navistar was a company kind of it was organized around a whole bunch of little P&amp;Ls okay so that you were kind of adding up the P&amp;Ls of these kind of divisional structure.
And that caused a lot of issues to be very honest because it was hard to make -- to allocate fix and figure out how you got into -- and what share of the engineering program.
And everybody was competing for these critical resources and there was always something kind of left over which is really hard to allocate.
Today we're pretty much a straight functional organization right? We have an engineering function that designs everything with one person accountable for the output of that factory and the budget.
We have a purchasing activity responsible for every bit of material purchased for this company be it pencils to SCR systems.
They're accountable for that and they budget that.
They measure that and they forecast that and we track that religiously.
And this is something that's taking place.
We have a single manufacturing organization that runs engines and trucks in Mexico in the United States and again with the same kind of accountability.
And we have a sales organization and the sales organization's mission is to sell -- is to sell and they have retained price retained margin okay.
And those are the type of metrics kind of we look at.
And that's kind of the North American entity.
We have a global entity which is small a lot smaller scale but similar levels of accountability.
And we have a parts activity that includes all parts now that is the same way.
So it's a simpler more streamlined more functionally organized organization.
At the end of the month now at the end of the quarter there's no funds that are left unallocated.
Every dollar is owned by a senior leader in the organization and that's how we talk to each other and that's how we create expectations and forecasts of improvement.
Research Division</strong> That's a helpful context.
On a different note on medium-duty market share obviously that's the legacy of the international brand historically.
Now that you have the ISB I guess how quickly do you think you can regain that market share based on inquiries that you're seeing? Maybe if you could touch on what your order share will be in November and December if you have a rough sense.
Well.
We had a real good September and October in both our orders and retails -- both us and our dealers closed out the fiscal year.
So it's not surprising we did see a little decline in November.
But also remember our competitors are pushing here towards the end of the calendar year which is the end of their fiscal year.
But we're already seeing recovery in December.
10 days to go left in the month albeit some holidays in here.
We already have more orders for Class 6 7 and Class 8 than we had in November.
We'll show an increase in December '13 versus December '12.
And the medium duty side of that is very strong also.
Research Division</strong> And just the last clarification if I may.
Walter the warranty expense that you're quoting on Slide 20 of a 400 basis point decrease does that take you 4 points of sales in '15? Just make sure we are looking at it apples-to-apples.
I guess that I'd say consistent with Troy's comments.
I'm a little -- I would like to be a little careful in terms of the percentages because different people calculate them different ways.
So I guess you'd have to take a look at your model and see how your calculating and subtract 4% off of that.
Our next question comes from Jeff Kauffman of Buckingham Research.
A couple of questions.
I just want to clarify a little bit more on the warranty and the goals here.
If I take a look at that chart that you gave us which is extremely helpful in terms of the number of units subject to warranty at different stages the Class 8 and the Class 8 extended warranty are about 40% of the total units; the 1 to 6 a little over 50%; and the light duty a little less than 10%.
But how does the dollars that we should think about being classified in the warranty match up? Would you say that the Class 8's are probably 65% to 70% of the warranty dollars at this point? So I'm trying to do some math in my head.
On a per-unit basis warranty is more expensive on the big bore engines than it is on the medium duty and more expensive than it is on the light-duty engines.
Standard and extended.
Yes in both standard and extended.
I mean they're just more expensive components that you put on the engine and the warranty of the standard repair types tend to be longer.
Right.
And the half-life of the Class 8 is going to go away a lot faster than the medium and light duty so I'm trying to take your unit exposure and turn it into a dollar exposure.
Yes you're right.
Yes because I think what happens is on the big bores right I mean they accumulate miles relatively fast and the medium duties and the light duties they accumulate mileage slower because they're in more regional applications.
Mixed in there by the way in both the light duty and in the DT the midrange engine are some school buses.
And school buses are basically sold with 5-year warranties so that's a face warranty for those.
But that is out of that number yes it's a smaller proportion of that less than 25% right? Right.
So if I was going to ballpark the dollars if your heavy duties are 40% of your units today would that represent say 60% to 70% of the dollars in the pre-existing warranty reserve? We'll have to circle back to you.
Your assumption that it's more than the 40% is accurate but we won't be able to do the math in here.
We don't have it.
We'll have Heather and company follow-up with you okay? I don't want to give a number for everybody to hear that turns out to be wrong.
I'm just kind doing this in my head.
I could possibly do that.
Okay.
And then a hypothetical question.
Let's say I'm a big customer and I was an early-launch customer on the big bore.
And I've made a decision you know what? I'm going to trade back in my big bore and I'm going to take say the Cummins 15-liter and you guys are taking that big bore in as a trade.
What happens to the extended warranty when you take it in as a trade? Does that extended warranty no longer exist when you take that engine back and then put it in your retail system? And then I think you mentioned if you were to buy back something in the market and you bought it back and you happen to pay a price higher than market that you would take the write-down to your inventory can you explain to me how the accounting of that work if I was a customer and say I'm trading those trucks back to you.
How would you handle the warranty reserve and the inventory would play out? Well maybe I'll start with how this transaction in the marketplace and maybe Walter could pipe in on the accounting.
But today the used trucks that we're selling in the marketplace also have a warranty on them.
So it may not reflect the same extended warranty that came from the factory depending on where the truck is going and what the application is in the used side.
And we take a fresh look at the used truck to make sure that the application is the same.
But today the used trucks being sold in the marketplace they also have a warranty on them.
But if you have an extended warranty on a vehicle you would take in a reserve against that warranty and it was traded into you.
You would put out a new warranty on the new truck sold but the extended warranty reserve would that go away as these trucks came back? Well depending on what the new warranty is right? So if they're turning it into you after the base warranty period they're in extended and then you were to provide an additional warranty on that used unit you have to look at what that warranty looks like relative to what you had on the prior vehicle.
And so theoretically the difference between the 2 you'd be able to release the accrual for.
Okay and then one last question.
Troy when you give that 8% to 10% EBITDA goal is that taking into account anything you might potentially do on the engine footprint? Yes yes yes.
Let me say yes.
I am counting on some fixed cost savings from fewer engine manufacturing plants in that.
Our next question comes from Brian Sponheimer of Gabelli and Company.
Inc.</strong> My question is for Walter.
If you take a look at the balance sheet you've got $1.5 billion of cash with approximately 570 you've spoken for and you're going to have about $400 million burn in the first quarter.
What's your confidence that the balance sheet is in a position where you can operate with some flexibility on a go forward basis? Flexibility in terms of what Brian? Inc.</strong> Yes.
Just as far as running the business and not leaving any pieces of capital allocation a little more starved than you would like.
Oh I see.
I mean we start up by taking a look at how much do we need per product because that's what you always do.
So CapEx expenditures are at the top of our list.
We obviously need to meet all of our required payments whether it's the suppliers or to debt service and the like.
So if we exit the first quarter on $1 billion $1.1 billion range that's where we kind of like to be.
We obviously have this maturity at the end of the year so we will either need to build our cash balances organically or we do have the opportunity under our covenants and the like to refinance that debt when it comes due.
We demonstrate our ability to enter the capital markets here in October with the transaction that we did.
So if that comes necessary we don't have any plans to go to market today.
We think the market is open to us.
And if we see any opportunities to do something significant strategically then presumably we'd make our case at that time.
And if we needed to raise some additional funds we'll do that at that time.
Inc.</strong> What's the flexibility in either an intercompany loan -- another intercompany loan or a dividend up from the parent co at this point? We did $270 million there.
There's some additional capacity.
It doesn't factor prominently in our plans.
Our next question comes from Patrick Nolan of Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Just one last quick one.
Most of my other questions have been answered.
Troy just on a high level how do you think about your current level of CapEx spending? I mean do we have a pure maintenance level CapEx then over time this is going to start to go higher? When you look at that kind of $150-ish million number it's pretty close to what's kind of the 2009 kind of crisis spending CapEx.
Or is this just the level with where we're sizing this business where we're going to be close to be going forward? No I [indiscernible] think about it.
This is kind of maintenance CapEx okay.
And we're basically been able to take advantage of the fact that we had fewer engine platforms and fewer engine programs that we're investing in and with kind of a spinoff of some of these other businesses in our fixed close or sell kind of approach we've taken full advantage of that.
But I think in the kind of range we are spending is our maintenance CapEx.
We do have -- obviously we are still investing in future truck programs but that investment tends to be lumpy.
So I think in the course of the next couple of years our CapEx will rise okay to reflect those programs and potentially other strategic initiatives that we might entertain.
But I don't think we're starving the business today.
But we probably can't stay at these levels for another 3 years.
We will have to start to spend a little bit more to make sure that our programs are timed out appropriately.
I hope that gives you a reflection as to how I'm looking at it and that's probably subject to change.
But I think we're being pretty thoughtful at this time.
And our final question comes from Ted Grace of Susquehanna.
LLLP Research Division</strong> The first question is something -- just quickly on the orders.
I was wondering if you could just characterize how the order book kind of stacked up from fleets versus dealers.
And then kind of similarly you referenced the traditional market being up 26.
When you look at the export markets they obviously had a tough time.
I think Jack referred to Mexico as a challenge given some tax-related factors.
But could you just kind of speak to how we should think about the export market? And I guess from the standpoint of margin mix I would have thought that the export market is pretty healthy profit margins so maybe just start there.
That would be great.
Okay.
So from an order book standpoint I guess the way to think about this is when we announced the ISB in our product line we saw 2 phenomenons.
We saw our dealers place some real significant orders for their stock inventory.
And then we saw a number of very significant fleets also place orders for delivery starting primarily in our second quarter and going out through the rest of the year.
And that's what's built up our order bank.
So we're just starting to ship these products now so really the dealers don't have them yet.
But I know from conversations with them many of those are presold.
So we expect those medium-duty products get out there with our dealers.
We'll see the dealer percentage of the total start to ramp back up to a more normalized percentage between fleet and dealer.
But today it is certainly fleet oriented in our order book.
Relative to export our largest export market is certainly what we would call is Mexico as well as Colombia.
And Colombia was off dramatically.
I don't have the exact numbers in front of me but it was off dramatically in 2013 as a result of some government policies down there relative to scrapping.
So we really haven't seen the Colombian market come back quite yet but there are signs -- more positive signs.
Mexico it's coming off a very good 2013.
The initial part of 2014 is off because of this tax change that was made.
But it will get better.
The real dip in Mexico was due to the uncertainty and the customers didn't really understand what the tax changes were going to be and how they were going to impact them.
Now that's becoming more clear.
In many cases it's not quite as onerous as what of some of the expectations were so we do see the Mexican business coming back here and we'll have another good year in Mexico.
It will be just more back-end loaded.
LLLP Research Division</strong> So the 80% decline in that market how much would be attributable to Colombia versus Mexico? I'm not sure I have that breakdown right here.
We can get back to you through Heather.
LLLP Research Division</strong> The second thing I just wanted to ask is the parts businesses obviously saw a very nice uptick in profitability and you referenced some of the structural changes.
I think operating margins are up 730 basis points.
I'm just wondering if you could help us understand what would have been the structural benefits what might have been Blue Diamond parts doing a lot better.
Just kind of walk through what that bridge might have looked like.
The primary drivers of the parts profit improvement is really on the cost side.
It's not on the revenue side in either Blue Diamond Parts or our traditional North American business.
We're just far more efficient very aggressive on the structural side some improvements in price some improvements in product mix.
Those 3 elements are really what drove the improvement in our parts business.
A lot of benchmarking in our distribution activities and our warehouses.
I mean I think there are probably benchmarks for implementation of lean practices and productivity measures for distribution.
Those really came to fruition throughout the year and it's a really really well-run part of our business.
LLLP Research Division</strong> I know it has been.
And that's why the improvement is so impressive.
Should we think about a 20% operating margin as sustainable? They're certainly going to work hard to continue to do what they're doing.
Well they're not out of ideas and initiatives yet so we're counting on them.
Thank you.
That does end the Q&amp;A session for today's conference.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for participating in today's call.
You may all disconnect and everyone have a wonderful day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to Navistar's First Quarter 2014 Earnings Results Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
I will now turn the call over to your host Heather Kos Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us for Navistar's First Quarter 2014 Conference Call.
With me today are Troy Clarke our President and Chief Executive Officer; Jack Allen our Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer; and Walter Borst our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Before we begin I'd like to cover a few items.
A copy of this morning's press release and the presentation slides that we will be using today have been posted on our Investor Relations website for your reference.
The non-GAAP financial measures discussed in this call are reconciled to the U.S.
GAAP equivalent as part of the Appendix in the slide deck.
Finally today's presentation includes some forward-looking statements about our expectations for future performance.
Actual results could differ materially from those suggested by our comments made here.
For additional information concerning factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected in today's presentation please refer to our most recent reports on Forms 10-K and 10-Q and our other SEC filings.
We would also refer you to the Safe Harbor statement and other cautionary disclaimers presented in today's material for more information on the subject.
With that I'll turn the call over to Troy Clarke for his opening remarks.
Okay.
Thanks Heather.
And good morning everyone and thanks for joining us.
This morning Walter Jack and I will walk you through the progress we're making on Navistar's Drive to Deliver.
We signaled to you last quarter that we faced some challenges in Q1 as we launched the Cummins ISB in our medium-duty trucks and as military sales unwind and that was the case yet we continue to make progress.
So let me start by highlighting what we'll talk about today.
First cash.
Cash is an area where we have continued to meet or beat expectations.
In Q1 we hit the high end of our cash guidance our sixth consecutive quarter of meeting or exceeding this goal.
Next EBITDA.
We reported an adjusted $37 million EBITDA loss for Q1 better than our predicted guidance range.
This reflects a number of items that Walter will touch upon in more detail.
We took additional actions to restructure our engine business by announcing that we are consolidating our mid-range engine manufacturing operations into 1 facility.
We have noted in the past that we have excess engine manufacturing capacity and now we have taken an important step to further reduce cost and improve manufacturing utilization.
The restructuring of our engine business really began in 2012 when we announced the transition to SCR emission systems.
We immediately began the engineering program to convert to Navistar 13 liter and moved quickly to introduce the Cummins ISX SCR engine in the Class 8 product line to cover more of the market and provide more choice to our customers.
In 2013 we announced the inclusion of the Cummins ISB with SCR in the Class 6/7 product line.
This was the fastest way to introduce SCR and regain market share in the medium duty segment.
And 2 weeks ago we announced these manufacturing efficiency and consolidation plans.
Jack will actually talk more about our mid-range engine plans on this call.
As we look forward you can anticipate additional actions with regard to engine platforms engineering and fixed cost.
Next our product and quality focus is paying off.
We're building the best highest-quality trucks we've built in years.
We've said that we have great new product and now the industry says so too.
The American Truck Dealers association awarded us the 2014 Heavy-Duty and Medium-Duty Commercial Truck of the Year honors.
Our sales are turning upward and our production and backlog continue to grow stronger.
And while Q1 share dipped slightly because of our medium-duty engine transition and strong deliveries by our competitors we're encouraged by stronger Class 6 to 8 retail share in January as well as the preliminary figures we're seeing in February.
An important goal for this year will be to increase our market share in Class 6/7 medium duty and bus.
We've been strong in these markets in the past.
With our new powertrain offerings and the help of our dealers we're putting the pieces into place to recover our traditional share of these segments.
And lastly spending.
We continue to make significant progress in our efforts to lower our structural costs.
We achieved $330 million in structural cost savings in 2013.
And for 2014 we are ahead of pace on our $175 million target.
Based on our lean initiatives and engine restructuring we believe that there are more opportunities.
We've made a lot of changes in the last 18 months and for the better.
Over the past 1.5 years we have demonstrated we are an agile company one that can move fast and has been willing to make tough choices to restore our margin performance while still investing in products that keep us competitive in the marketplace.
You'll see that today.
And now that we have products to sell the pace of change will accelerate and you're going to see more from us as we move forward.
So with that let me turn the call over to Walter and Jack and I'll be back later to wrap up with some comments on the remainder of 2014 and 2015.
Walter? Thank you Troy and good morning everyone.
Now let's turn to the financial results for the quarter on Slide 9.
Revenue for the quarter was $2.2 billion down $429 million or 16% from Q1 2013.
The decrease was reflective of lower sales across our business segments.
In our traditional markets chargeouts declined year-over-year by 1 600 units.
In large part this reflects the impact of the transition to our new mid-range engines as anticipated.
Additionally total military sales decreased $144 million from the prior year due to reduced spending in the tactical wheeled vehicle segment.
EBITDA for the quarter was a loss of $110 million compared to positive $57 million in Q1 2013.
As I'll discuss later excluding prior period warranty and onetime items adjusted EBITDA was negative $37 million in Q1 better than the company's first quarter estimate.
Nevertheless we are not pleased with the absolute operating results and there's more hard work to do to rebuild our market share and further reduce our costs.
Loss from continuing operations net of tax was $249 million in the quarter compared to a loss of $114 million in Q1 2013.
The results declined primarily due to lower sales.
However the results were also negatively impacted by the incremental cost of adding SCR after-treatment systems to our products and asset impairment charges to be discussed later.
Turning to Slide 10.
We will begin to discuss our business segments as revised last quarter.
The North American truck segment loss of $207 million increased over the prior year's loss of $101 million due to the mid-range engine emissions strategy transition and lower military sales.
This resulted in lower volume and margins.
Reduced SG&amp;A expenses in engineering and product development costs helped partially offset the impact of lower revenues while asset impairment charges diminished results.
The North American parts segment profit decrease of $13 million to $104 million in the quarter of -- first quarter of 2014 was primarily driven by decreased military sales partially offset by lower SG&amp;A expenses.
The global operations segment loss increased by $23 million year-over-year in the first quarter of 2014 to negative $33 million.
This was driven by lower volumes in our South American engine operations and unfavorable currency tied to exchange rate fluctuations in the Brazilian real as well as lower export truck sales.
Financial services segment profit increased slightly to $23 million in the first quarter of 2014 versus 2013.
NFC's debt-to-equity ratio stood at 2.4:1 at the end of the first quarter of 2014.
Turning to Slide 11.
First quarter 2014 EBITDA was a loss of $110 million which included $52 million in preexisting warranty adjustments $18 million related to impairments on potential sales of assets in the North American truck segment and $3 million in the quarter for charges related to the company's announcement regarding the consolidation of our mid-range engine manufacturing facilities.
We will also incur accelerated depreciation for machinery and equipment related to these facilities over the balance of the year.
As a result adjusted EBITDA was a loss of $37 million for the first quarter which was better than the company's first quarter estimated loss of between $50 million and $100 million.
The $52 million in preexisting warranty adjustments for the first quarter are higher than the $40 million incurred last year but down substantially from the additional accrual of $152 million taken in the fourth quarter of 2013.
Prior period adjustments were weighted fairly equally between our medium and big bore engines.
Turning to Slide 12.
We have reconciled our actual ending manufacturing cash balance against the guidance provided on the company's last earnings call.
We ended the quarter with manufacturing cash and marketable securities of approximately $1.1 billion at the high end of our guidance.
We had lower capital expenditures than forecast in the quarter.
However we still expect full year capital spend to be approximately $150 million.
Additionally net working capital was stronger than expected as certain payables that we anticipated to be paid in the end of Q1 ultimately were paid in early Q2.
Looking at Slide 13.
The Q1 2014 manufacturing cash balance of $1.1 billion continues to be strong as seen in historical context.
We will continue to monitor our cash balances closely with an eye toward our convertible debt maturity later in the year and we'll look to improve our capital structure over time as cash flow improves.
Turning to Slide 14.
We expect manufacturing cash at the end of the second quarter to be in the range of $1 billion to $1.1 billion consistent with guidance for the first quarter.
Consolidated EBITDA for the second quarter is expected to be positive in the range of $25 million to $75 million.
This excludes preexisting warranty accruals and onetime items consistent with how we provided the estimated range last quarter as preexisting warranty accruals and onetime items usually do not have a significant impact on cash in the quarter.
CapEx cash interest pension and OPEB funding in combination are expected to have similar cash flows in Q2 to those we provided for Q1.
On the other hand the change in net working capital is expected to be positive as volumes build during the quarter even after as I mentioned earlier we paid certain payables in Q2 that were originally forecast in Q1.
Slide 15 shows our long-term goals as we discussed last quarter.
As we continue to execute on our strategy we should expect to deliver improved performance as the year progresses towards our longer-term EBITDA goal of 8% to 10% margin exiting 2015.
Let me provide some additional color on the individual line items.
One there's no change to our current fiscal year industry or market share forecast.
However we are encouraged by higher recent industry orders as well as the improvement in our backlog as Jack will discuss.
Two we continue to drive material and design cost reductions to offset the cost of adding SCR after-treatment to our products.
Three as Troy mentioned earlier we continue to make significant progress in our efforts to lower our structural costs.
And we're off to a great start towards achieving our 2014 structural cost reduction goal of $175 million.
For the quarter structural costs showed a year-over-year reduction of $67 million.
These savings were achieved by making tough but necessary decisions to reduce headcount rationalize certain engineering programs and increase our focus on controlling spending.
And four while it's difficult to forecast our warranty expenses should decline on a full year basis from high levels in 2013 as a the number of EPA 2010 EGR engines in the base and extended warranty periods begin to decline over the year; b we continue to roll out our SCR engines on our heavy and medium trucks; and c we increase our engine offerings from Cummins who in turn bears the warranty risk on these engines.
Finally on Slide 16 we're pleased that the first quarter results are consistent with our commitment to meet our long-term EBITDA goals.
Adjusted EBITDA beat guidance despite lower anticipated revenue year-over-year as aggressive structural cost reductions continue.
And manufacturing cash in Q1 was at the upper end of guidance and has met or exceeded guidance for the last 6 quarters.
In closing as I said in the last quarter we are focused on the key drivers to deliver on our long-term goals.
Positive signs on an improving economy truck industry and market share coupled with our continued cost reduction initiatives and cash focus across the enterprise should position Navistar for success in the future.
I will stop here and let Jack provide more insights on our Drive to Deliver plan.
Jack? Thanks Walter and good morning everyone.
Today I'll cover Navistar's operational progress in the quarter.
As both Troy and Walter indicated this is a quarter where we continued to make progress and we expect you'll see more of that from us going forward.
If you turn to Page 18.
For the past few quarters I've started with an overview of what's happening with quality and warranty.
And I'm pleased to say that the performance and the quality of our new SCR-based products continues to be very good and that's reflected in the backlog and production figures that I'll share with you shortly.
And as Walter indicated there's really no new news on the warranty front.
So let me start with the industry.
We're not going to change our forecast here.
We're just continuing to forecast 2014 Class 8 sales from an industry of 220 000 to 230 000 retail sales.
But we're going to continue to monitor this closely as freight volumes fleet profitability and recent order intake indicates there could be some upside here.
On Slide 19 our retail market share goal for 2014 remains at 21%.
This figure includes U.S.
and Canada Class 6 to 8 trucks and buses.
Our combined market share for the first quarter was 16% so we have some work to do.
And we're not satisfied with the rate of our progress.
Our Q1 didn't meet our internal goals primarily because of the end-of-the-year competitive activities.
However we're encouraged by our strong bounce-back in the month of January.
That's when we saw our highest Class 6/7 and Class 8 retail market share in the last 6 months 22% and 18% respectively.
This led to a combined share of close to 20% for the month.
Rebuilding our market share is one of our highest priorities and we're doing everything we can to win customers and reestablish our position in the market.
Our competitors have been aggressive in the past few months closing deals and providing year-end financial incentives to their dealers.
So along with our dealers we have responded in a like manner and our determination to grow our share is unwavering.
Let me share some figures that give us confidence in our progress.
Our February orders were 67% above our average monthly level in Q1 and margin is off to a very similar start for us.
At the end of Q1 our truck and bus backlog was up 56% year-over-year and up 10% from the end of our fiscal year.
In addition we expect North America production for us in Q2 to be up 20% to -- 25% to 30% from Q1 and 20% to 25% compared to Q2 of last year so this is very encouraging for us.
On Slide 20.
We've said all along that we have excellent products and the industry agrees.
And proof of that just came a few weeks ago when we swept the 2014 American Truck Dealer of the Year honors.
Our ProStar with the ISX engine and our TerraStar 4x4 were named the Heavy-Duty and Medium-Duty Commercial Trucks of the Year.
These awards were based on innovation and design safety and driver and owner satisfaction.
Now these market trends and the product awards give us confidence that we're on the right track and we're gaining momentum in the marketplace.
We have the products the dealers and the customer relationships to win.
We just have to go faster.
On Slide 21 let me now turn to our restructuring efforts on the engine side of our business.
We've taken numerous steps to improve our product line and our cost structure over recent months.
We've introduced the Cummins ISX and the MaxxForce 13 SCR in all of our Class 8 trucks and the ISB in our Class 6/7 trucks and our school buses.
These launches have gone extremely well and they're an important part of our marketplace momentum.
On the cost side we announced 2 weeks ago that we would idle one of our Alabama engine plants and consolidate mid-range engine production at Melrose Park.
This will save us more than $22 million per year.
This is very similar to the actions we took a year ago at our Garland truck plant which is saving us $35 million annually.
On the engine product front we told you in September that we would keep you updated on our engine strategy.
Since then we've made some important decisions that I'll share with you today.
These decisions position us well in the market and allow us to maximize our investments with the best returns.
Our ISX platform to date which includes the MaxxForce DT and the MaxxForce 9/10 spans from 215 to 350 horsepower.
The high end of this range serves a very specialized vocational market: construction trucks snowplows utility vehicles for example.
Our engine is uniquely suited to these products and it's critical to our value proposition.
Thus we will add SCR to the MaxxForce 9/10 engine that serves this market.
We're taking orders now and will begin production this summer.
The DT engine that serves the low end of this market is a fantastic engine with a great reputation for reliability and durability in the market but the market for this engine has shifted.
Vehicles in this segment incur low annual mileage and a lighter duty cycle.
And as such the market has gravitated to lighter-weight smaller-displacement engines that more adequately address the needs of this segment.
Over the past several months our customers and dealers have overwhelmingly selected Cummins ISB when ordering trucks and engines for this market.
So our strategy for the engine business continues to be to offer the right blend of proprietary and purchased engines which we will believe is integral to our success.
Our product line will include a complete line of SCR engines with the MaxxForce 9/10 and the 13 liter and the Cummins ISB and ISX and we'll continue to offer the EGR versions of the MaxxForce DT and the V8 with credits while they are available for the next few years.
This will -- this approach will provide us the broadest and strongest lineup in the market and avoid substantial product development costs which part of can be redeployed to truck product investments.
These decisions demonstrate our continued resolve to do what it takes to return Navistar to profitability.
So let's turn to Slide 22 and I'll make a couple of additional points about the quarter.
Used trucks performed very well and the market is very good today for used trucks.
We delivered the best first quarter sales volume that we've ever reported.
As anticipated ending inventory grew in the quarter but it was lower than what we had expected.
However as we have stated we do expect the inventory to rise in Q2 and Q3 due to both large customer deliveries and Class 8 market share growth.
In manufacturing our efforts to improve efficiencies across all our plants continue thanks to our lean initiatives.
But lean is not just limited to our truck and engine operations.
We're also rolling out initiatives enterprise-wide within our corporate functions.
Globally our results continue to be impacted by lower volumes in Brazil due to the economic uncertainty in that country as well as exchange rate fluctuations.
We've also had lower export sales and lower sales in Mexico primarily as a result of the continued weak industry conditions one market in particular Colombia where we've traditionally owned a good portion of that market and have had great strength.
So in summary we continue to fight to improve our marketplace position.
We have great product offerings and the industry agrees.
And the customers are taking notice.
Our sales efforts are beginning to pay off as evidenced by our January and February performance and this gives us confidence that we're gaining momentum and we have what it takes to win.
Our engine restructuring efforts and our other cost measures put us on a positive trajectory towards our 8% to 10% EBITDA run rate exiting 2015.
So now let me turn it back to Troy for some closing remarks.
Okay.
Many thanks Jack.
All right.
A loss of $37 million EBITDA after adjustment isn't where we want to be.
However from where I sit I am encouraged given the challenges that we faced.
Last quarter we looked at our Q1 forecast and we told you what we could do and we did it.
We believe our performance will improve from here.
We got a lot done in 2013 and we're entering 2014 as a much better company than we were just this time last year.
However we do recognize there is more work to do and we're getting it done.
Regarding the second quarter 2014 we believe Q2 chargeouts will continue to improve given the introduction of the ISB in our medium-duty trucks and buses and the growing acceptance of our ProStar with ISX and our 13 liter.
Mix will begin to shift in the quarter to shift more to medium-duty and bus products.
Volumes in our parts segment are expected to be higher.
Manufacturing cash is expected to be in the range of $1 billion to $1.1 billion.
Q2 EBITDA guidance is $25 million to $75 million.
We project continued progress on our structural costs and better material performance over the first quarter.
Our full year 2014 forecast largely remains unchanged.
We're forecasting a combined Class 8 industry of 220 000 to 230 000 retail sales.
Although the market seems poised for more the next few months will tell.
And we project our Class 6 through 8 bus -- truck and bus share to be 21%.
Our year-over-year structural cost savings target remains at $175 million and we will continue to drive lean initiatives across all areas of our organization to further drive costs down.
We are driving material cost reductions to offset the added cost of SCR.
And entering 2015 we still plan to reduce another $1 400 in cost from our 13 liter SCR engines.
We expect $50 million to $60 million in year-over-year manufacturing cost savings from our Garland plant closure and other lean initiatives we instituted at our manufacturing facilities in the course of 2013.
This year's engine consolidation efforts will save greater than $22 million in 2015.
We will continue to strengthen our international brand to position Navistar for return to profitability.
Our customers are excited about our new trucks and we're seeing an increase in repeat orders.
Reclaiming our position in the marketplace remains our top priority.
And our goal of an 8% to 10% EBITDA run rate exiting 2015 remains on track.
So with that I'd like to thank you for your time this morning.
I'll turn it back to Heather.
Let's open it -- let's open the call to some of your question.
[Operator Instructions] So operator we're ready to open the lines.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from David Leiker with Baird.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to talk about these incoming orders.
And I know you left your numbers where they are.
We've had 4 out of 6 months here with very strong orders better than -- above the 300 000 annualized number.
What's the reason for not starting to bump your full year estimates up of what you think the market is going to do? Well David this is Jack.
I guess for right now we are bumping our production as we indicated in the second quarter.
So I mean we're taking the actions based on the incoming orders.
We're really just trying to give it a little more time to understand the delivery schedule for these orders.
Not every order is the same.
Some of them are for immediate delivery.
Some are for spread-out delivery throughout the year.
So we're very encouraged by what we're seeing from an order intake standpoint and we do think the industry is poised to be -- poised to be higher than maybe what we had estimated.
Research Division</strong> And I don't think I heard you put a number on what your market share was of orders for the quarter that just finished.
I don't think I did that either.
Research Division</strong> Can you share that? What's heavy duty and medium duty? If you look at Class 6 to 8 so the number I have here doesn't have bus in front our orders for the quarter were 12.5%.
Research Division</strong> That was for the January quarter? That was the January quarter.
So as I indicated here there was a lot of competitive activity in the quarter and a lot of year end -- for competitors their year end and their fiscal year end.
And we responded in kind primarily with a program with our dealers and with end users that was in the month of February.
And consequently our order intake in February was very encouraging.
As I indicated it was almost 70% above what we saw in the first quarter.
Our next question comes from Andrew Kaplowitz with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Jack or Troy can I follow up on that question? You obviously had a better February in terms of orders.
Do you think you've now gotten over the hump on your market share trend? And how should we look at the increased competitive behavior of your competitors? Is it just end of the year or are they responding to you actually trying to go get share? We know you have a stated goal.
So how do you think about that? Andrew this is Troy.
Thanks for asking the question because I guess I would kind of -- let me just take it in the series that you asked it.
Are we over the hump? The fact of the matter is is this is a great market the truck market is and there's great competitors in the market.
And we're going to be fighting back and forth with each other I think for market share every day basically of the year.
So we're not at this point in time claiming victory.
But we are -- we have established we believe a positive trend that we're going to continue throughout the year and move back to -- and we're certainly going to move to our target but on top of that we have aspirations to go even higher as we speak.
So no we're not claiming victory yet with regards to all the work we've done.
We make these sales kind of one at a time and we're really focused on doing that and doing that well and we think we have the opportunity to do that.
Clearly there's no doubt.
I mean back to your point there's a lot happening at the end of the year.
We did have some success as we got -- at the end of September we had the entire portfolio of Class 8 products launched with our ISX and our 13-liter engine.
And we went out in a big way and the market responded very favorably to us in the months of October and November for sales.
And no doubt in my mind that the competition kind of responded in time for the end of their fiscal year which is at the end of the calendar year.
So I think there was a little bit of tit for tat there.
And -- but that said I think there's some upward pressure on the market personally.
I think we need to kind of let the water -- the choppy water kind of play out.
And as the choppy water kind of plays out I think the market is coming up a little bit.
And I think that that's good for all of us right everybody who participates in the industry.
And we don't feel bad at all quite frankly about our ability to compete.
We think we got the products.
They perform.
We got customers that like them.
And so this is one of those times where you can't wait to get to work every day because we're finding another customer who wants to talk about some of the products we have to sell.
Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
Just shifting gears and thinking about your global operations business.
Jack mentioned weakness in Colombia.
Brazil has its issues.
How do we think about that business in 2014 and beyond? And do you need to do more in that particular business? You've talked about sort of strategic possibilities for that business too.
So how do we -- what should we think about the global operations business in terms of profitability going forward? So the global for us -- this is just Troy.
I'll start and then I'm going to toss it over to Jack because Jack has some direct experience with some of these markets.
The basis of the most profitable piece of our global business outside of the engine business in Brazil was really exporting U.S.-style trucks right the trucks that got a nose on them and -- into markets like the Andean countries of South America and Central America.
And that's a good business for us.
And we do well in those markets.
We have a pretty good market share.
I think in many of those countries we are in fact the leader.
And that's a position that we intend to maintain.
Unfortunately those markets are oftentimes commodity-driven markets and so as commodity goes -- commodities go so goes their economy.
And I think at this particular point in time given that and some other things that we're kind of in a little trough there but they're still good businesses for us.
And they don't take a lot of investment but they do take a dedication of time and effort to maintain those customer relationships and that's what we're going to do.
We need another growth opportunity however outside of those markets.
There's no doubt those markets will respond to us but we need another growth initiative.
And I would highlight something that we did here recently that maybe flew under the radar screen.
But in Mexico we very recently just last year at the Guadalajara Auto Show introduced a new 3/4 5/6 cab-over product that is actually a result of our relationship with JAC in China.
JAC is in fact the leader of that type of product in China.
They make a very good product.
They sell a bunch of them over there.
And in fact we used that product base to replace an aging product line.
Now it's not a huge segment in Mexico.
It's kind of a segment that's in the couple of thousand kind of range.
But we believe that that demonstrates the kind of opportunities we have to begin on the fringes in niche markets maybe a little small basically leveraging a whole different type of product architecture that should give us opportunities in some of those countries where we already have a footprint.
I don't know Jack if you wanted to add anything.
We're very pleased with our overall market presence in Mexico.
The market in Mexico is typically about 10% of the overall U.S.
and Canadian market.
We have a great dealer network and a good product line there but the first quarter of this year the market has been very soft just due to the economic situation in Mexico.
But it's cyclical but it will bounce back and we're positioned very well.
Research Division</strong> Guys is it fair to say that you need the economies to turn around in those key countries first? Or can you do it with these initiatives that Troy had talked about when it comes down to it to get back to breakeven? Yes.
I mean I think we will -- the turnaround of the North American operations does not depend on strong contributions from the global side of the business.
Let me put it that way.
But like a lot of businesses that export it does help cover the fixed.
So every incremental sale doesn't -- every incremental sale that we have isn't a fully burdened sale for lack of a better term.
So it's just all upside.
So the more that we can explore these export markets based on largely the stuff that we do well quite frankly it's just good stuff.
Our next question comes from Jerry Revich with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Troy can you talk about on the engine cost structure now that you've reached the -- these decisions over what time period do you expect to scale the cost structure according to the core SCR product lines that you're moving forward with? Obviously you've been carrying a lot of overhead to support the other product lines.
And what's the timing of when we start to see those costs roll off related to the products that are going to be less of a focus going forward in engines? Yes.
Jerry I think I'd kind of like to respond to that.
I can answer try to answer anything more specifically you might ask.
But it's -- let me say that it's a kind of a constant drumbeat.
We're trying to get that stuff done as quickly as we can.
But it pretty well will be done by the time we get to the end of 2015 in that it is a portion of that 8% to 10% EBITDA.
Getting those margins normalized and those contributions to our business normalized is something we have a clear line of sight on between now and the end of 2015.
As you can imagine though it does take some study.
It does take some preparation and we have to be thoughtful about how we do that.
So I think we've kind of had a drumbeat of those kind of announcements here and I think you can kind of expect those -- some more of those announcements going forward again in a pretty steady drumbeat but on a path that says by the end of 2015 we should have the restructuring initiative behind us.
Research Division</strong> And Troy I think in the past you've said on the 13 liter platform on a standalone basis relative to market pricing you were pretty close to profitability on the product on a standalone basis.
Can you just give us an update now that you're going to be getting the material cost reductions how much confidence do you have that the underlying margin profile if we could -- just about the engine is net additive heading into '15? Hey Jerry could you state that again? Because I thought I understood the question you asked and I was working my mind down one way and I think I ended up in the wrong spot.
So just please ask that again please.
Research Division</strong> I apologize.
So the question was Troy I think in the past you have said that the 13-liter engine platform on its own was pretty close to profitable.
I think you said that a couple of quarters ago and I'm wondering can you just give us an update as we head closer to '15 and you continue down the path of getting the manufacturing footprint adjusted do you expect relative to market pricing for similar engines the 13 liter platform to be earnings additive in '15? Got it got it Jerry.
Thank you for raising that because there are 3 important points that we were going to make there and I'll just go back to those that I have referenced previously.
The first is is we have some EGR hardware that we need to take off of the engine okay? And in my comments I referenced a $1 400 number that comes off by the end of the year.
It's just EGR hardware that we don't need anymore for the SCR because of the function of the SCR system.
That really does bring a piece of cost off of the engine and we're able to take that as a material cost savings to the bottom line.
The second piece is is there are some other ancillary systems on the truck itself that once you get that hardware off it allows us -- so there's another tranche of cost savings.
And I think in the past we have said it's kind of in the neighborhood -- it's similar maybe $1 000-ish that comes off.
That kind of comes off by the end of 2015 in our current plans okay? So we wouldn't see the benefit of that probably until 2016.
And then the third piece of this is really the warranty winding down right? I mean now we're accruing warranty I think at a higher rate today because of the way we do it than what we will need to do okay as we go through the year and certainly into 2015.
And when you take those 3 pieces we believe that we have a competitively cost-performing 13-liter engine which contributes value to not only the business but certainly to the portfolio.
Our next question comes from Ann Duignan with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to take a step back.
Did you say that you pushed back payments to suppliers from out of Q1 into Q2? If that's true why would you be doing that? I did indicate -- Ann it's Walter -- that we had some payments that moved to Q2 from Q1.
Those are not our normal supplier payments.
They're certain onetime items that we thought were going to hit in the quarter that hit in Q2.
So payment terms of suppliers haven't changed per se.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's good good good to hear.
And then my follow-up question was around the whole pricing and the aggressiveness of your competitors.
I think that's just a characteristic of the truck industry.
And should we be concerned going forward that -- one of the big risks all along has been that Navistar would have to periodically buy market share.
Is that what you just did to get the share back in February? And just help us alleviate that concern a little bit going forward.
Yes.
So Ann this is Troy.
So I'm kind of smiling here because as we prepare our notes for this and in my own experience we always want to say "Hey it's a really competitive market out there." And one day we finally ask ourselves "When has it never been a competitive market?" So I think you've really hit something that is key right? It is just the nature of the beast and we're certainly capable and prepared to perform in the market.
One of the reasons why we have pushed so hard on our cost profile and our cost structure is because we don't know what we don't know but we need to be prepared for -- to participate in the market whatever the market pricing might be.
And you know how trucks are sold.
Trucks are sold in packages to customers.
And we work very hard to get the deals that we think are fair value for the services that we're -- the services and functionality we're rendering.
And sometimes we do better and sometimes we don't do better.
But there's a very positive pressure so to speak now that we have great products to sell to make sure that we have market prices around those products.
And maybe it's a judgment call and some people would view the data maybe a little bit different than we do but I wouldn't put a wholesale banner on it to say that we're out there buying market share.
We are using some of the reduced cost opportunities that we've identified to be aggressive in the market.
But I'll just tell you we don't win every deal that we're on.
And so that's kind of the index to me that we're not kind of -- we're not giving trucks away at any cost.
We are attempting to be smart and we're attempting to be aggressive.
And those are -- like you say it is a competitive market and we want to be competitive and aggressive as well.
And so everything we do is really in line with our financial goals.
And I think overall we're making the right judgment the right calls there.
Jack I don't know if you'd put a different spin on that but...
I think -- no I think that's exactly right.
And you're right it is a competitive market.
There -- in spite of where we are there continues to be excess capacity at every truck manufacturer on the market.
So every deal is negotiated very hard and every competitor is on every significant transaction that we are.
Our next question comes from Andrew Casey with Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> On the engine strategy Jack I just wanted to go back and make sure I am interpreting the comments correctly.
Is it fair to say that you're going to produce the lower-end MaxxForce DT until the credits run out? And after that occurs is it also fair to suggest that Shenten D [ph] is an external supplier for a replacement engine? Well Andy over the last number of months our dealers and customers have had the opportunity to choose for that light end of this argument either the DT engine or the ISB engine.
And based on the order rate that we're getting that we're satisfied with and that mix the market is clearly shifting to that lighter-weight power density engine of the ISB.
So our current plan here is to put the SCR on the MaxxForce 9/10 continue to sell DTs with EGR and at least at this time not plan to put SCR on the DT -- on the light end of the DT.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I'm just trying to understand the longer-term implications.
I know we're all focused on this year next year.
But if you exited that portion of the engine manufacturing segment does that impact your parts business in a significant fashion let's say 5 years from now? The -- certainly we enjoy the parts business from the proprietary engines.
But the position that we've taken here with external suppliers is that we need to participate in that also going forward.
Our next question comes from Brian Sponheimer with Gabelli &amp; Company.
Inc.</strong> Not to look backwards but just the $52 million accrual in the quarter you said that was split between the EGR and mid-range engines.
Was there anything different about these particular accruals relative to what we've seen over the course of the last 6 quarters? No.
I mean there's -- as Jack indicated there's really no new news there.
They're the same type of items we've seen before.
The weather has been pretty tough in the North so that's probably speeded up some of those accruals versus what we might have otherwise seen over time.
But as we're looking at it really there's no new news there.
Inc.</strong> Any idea on how far you are through the addressable market of the medium-duty engine? I would just probably refer you back to the chart we showed on our last quarterly call which has gotten a lot of publicity as kind of the best indication of where we are there.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
And cash out for warranty in the quarter versus expense? Trying to remember what the amount was versus expense.
Looked like a little over $60 million is that -- yes I guess it's $30 million Brian versus expense.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
And Jack just a question on what's driving the performance in used vehicles in the quarter? You mentioned you had a really nice quarter from a sales perspective.
How is pricing holding up? Pricing is fine.
Again there's -- the market for used is strong for a number of reasons.
I think one is the economic -- the economy is helping that part of the market.
The fact that there wasn't a lot of new trucks built 3 4 years ago when we were in the throes of the recession so consequently the supply of late-model used trucks is pretty low right now.
So the overall supply-demand economics are pretty good for used trucks.
So sales are good and values are good also.
Our next question comes from Steven Fisher with UBS.
Research Division</strong> In a previous question you mentioned that on the warranty expense it's really just kind of more of the same issues that you've been experiencing.
So I guess just to clarify is this just for trucks that have not come in with issues before and now are -- have to be addressed on these kind of same issues? Yes.
I guess that's right.
And kind of as we run it through our models what we projected to be over time so if you see some more activity in the quarter that probably also drives additional accruals in our models of what we would expect over time just as we run that through there.
But my comment about no new issues is kind of what types of failures are we seeing and I don't think there's been any new learnings there in terms of new problems that we haven't seen before.
It's just a function of what we think those are going to cost us over time.
And historically even before some of the EGR-related issues that we've had we would tend to have preexisting warranty adjustments in the quarter on average.
So we shouldn't expect that necessarily to be 0 in the quarter.
And then that's why we've kind of called out -- we've given our guidance on cash and included a piece in there related to EBITDA but we really provide the EBITDA information as a guide to how it would impact cash in the quarter not necessarily what overall profitability is going to be including all items.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
And then just on the parts when do you think you can start to see some year-over-year growth in that segment returning? We do expect here in the second quarter to see the parts business continue.
I think Walter mentioned and Troy mentioned that.
So the first quarter was somewhat impacted by what happened in our fourth quarter.
But we are seeing here in the second quarter a more normalized sales level and we are seeing some nominal growth on a year-over-year basis.
Our next question comes from Joel Tiss with BMO.
Just one clarification.
The triggering event on the asset impairment is that closing the factories on the engine side? That is the idling of the Huntsville facilities.
So there was $3 million of that in the quarter.
But perhaps you're asking about the additional asset sales that we've kind of signaled in the quarter where there was $18 million related to that.
That is part of our ROIC initiatives.
Nothing to announce today.
But as we took a look at that in the quarter I guess we're signaling there's some activity there that we'll probably be talking to you about in the future probably on the next call.
Okay good.
And then on the Class 5 to 7 and Class 8 I don't know if you can break it out for us but can you just remind me again what market share correlates with the 8% to -- or even 8% to 10% exiting EBITDA margin? Yes.
What we have said is we said an industry that is between -- we said 22% to 24% that range of a market that's a little bit higher I think that's -- total Class 6 through 8 would be at 325 000 to 350 000 unit market.
So 22% to 24% of 325 000 to 350 000 that's the -- kind of what's baked into the exit run rate for 2015.
And then would you be nice enough to give us a breakdown between the Class 8 and the 5 to 7? We -- I'll tell you what why don't we just -- why don't you call -- Heather why don't you just arrange a follow-up.
We'll find out what we won on that.
We typically don't give that kind of detail but we're leaning to giving you as much detail as we can.
Let me ask Heather to follow up on that.
We'll follow up with you Joel.
And we just don't clarify -- just so you know we don't typically clarify this question.
Our next question comes from Ted Grace with SIG.
LLLP Research Division</strong> I was hoping to circle back on the parts side of the business.
Could you just maybe expand a little bit more on Military over the course of 2014 and then speak to profitability at Blue Diamond? Okay.
So I'll just lead off there.
I'll get my colleagues here join in.
And so we have seen a significant reduction in -- I think I referenced in my remarks reduced sales or something to that effect.
So with the wind-down of the conflict and the retrenchment of the U.S.
Military strategy with regards to wheeled tactical vehicles we have seen a significant decline in spending for full vehicles which pretty well worked their way out I think through the system into early 2013.
And then we've basically been in an asset sustainment mode for the fleet of wheeled vehicles that exists.
So as we've made like I think a little bit over 8 800 of these vehicles and we're working with the military currently to determine what portion of that becomes part of the permanent fleet and then where are those vehicles disposed the initial information we have is that it's a much lower number than 8 800 but it's still a substantial number.
And then because there were so many parts in the system basically in these 8 800 vehicles what we have seen is we have seen some retiming of planned parts and upgrade kit purchases and we've seen some of that retiming out of the last part of last year and out of the first part of this year.
We are expecting some of that revenue to flow by the end of the year but we are not expecting a lot of -- we aren't expecting new vehicle sales basically to take place between now and then.
So we have a revenue estimate we believe for the calendar year for the fiscal year for us in the Military business that's between $200 million and $300 million.
And as you know if you've been following us you know that that's significantly lower than how we've been previously.
In that I mean the great thing about our Military business is we don't have a large fixed cost structure.
I mean I think part of the case study around the Military business of Navistar was how agile the company could kind of ramp up with very nominal incremental costs and how we've been able to flex our cost structure to be able to have a profitable and a business that I think that has sustainable returns even at those levels of revenue.
But at least in its current form the growth prospects this year are different than they were just a couple of years ago.
That's what I can talk to you about in Military.
If there's a more specific question we can try to answer that.
With regards to Blue Diamond Parts Blue Diamond Parts is a very interesting business for us very -- shares some of the same characteristics.
It's largely a revenue business that has a very controlled cost stream but it does service a fleet of vehicles which declines over time.
Now that's a large fleet of vehicles but that vehicle part begins to decline.
And as it gets older one of the challenges for Blue Diamond Parts is is that in fact you begin to compete against non-OEM sources of the very replacement parts that we sell.
So Blue Diamond Parts is an excellent example I think of a marketing initiative where we not only sell to kind of first owners through the OEM structure but also to second and third owners of products which tend to have -- which basically tend to have a long life -- a long useful useful life.
So Blue Diamond Parts is something that eventually that population wears through but it's a sustainable piece of the business for many years for us.
I don't know if that's getting to the question.
We typically don't break out the Blue Diamond Parts results for everybody to see but it is not a drag on our business.
It's in fact something we think we do pretty well.
LLLP Research Division</strong> I guess what I was curious about Troy was just was there anything in the quarter itself that drove at least a market shift down -- a shift in -- change in profitability at Blue Diamond? No there was nothing unexpected with regard to the quarter.
There were some seasonality with sales of Blue Diamond Parts just like there is in many parts of the business but nothing out of line with last year or what we've seen in the past.
LLLP Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then the second question I was hoping to ask is you talked about the bit of a nice uptick in February orders.
Could you just characterize in light of how competitive the environment is what the unit margins might look like on those orders kind of relative to the uptick in 1Q? No we...
We all looked at Heather.
No that's just not something that we typically share in our results.
LLLP Research Division</strong> But would it be fair to assume that your comments on the challenging competitive nature have some reflection of what margins are likely to look like for everybody because it's -- if it's getting tougher and tougher and people are competing on pricing terms should we just build that in the expectation I guess to ask differently? Yes.
I don't think that we're trying to indicate to you that people are competing any differently than they ever have in the past.
We don't believe that we see a major shift in pricing the wrong way.
I think it's really just a continuation of the competitive dynamic in the market that has existed for basically for quite some time.
As Jack indicated it's more of a phenomenon that all -- there's 4 major players in the market.
All 4 of us are typically on all the major deals and it's basically a competitive -- it's a competitive bid.
And last year I think pricing held rather firm.
This year it's our expectation that it will I think do the same.
Yes.
Hold on just a second.
Walter is going to...
Yes.
I was just going to say I mean it's really a function of how much price can we get in the market and we don't necessarily see that improving significantly given the competitive dynamics.
But I think you also need to see against that on the cost side we're continuing to take actions which are going to make us more competitive in those discussions going forward.
So there's 2 parts to that equation: where's the pricing dynamic and then on the other hand what's our -- what do our costs look like relative to prices we can get in the market? Our next question comes from Rob Wertheimer from Vertical Research.
LLC</strong> Just one quick question.
On the 13 liter the mix has shifted.
It sort of plateaued maybe shifted a little bit more towards the common 15 liter in the last couple of months.
Are you holding back on pushing the 13 until you decontent it or do you have any comment you can make on what it looks like in the order book? Maybe people are trying to come on late.
I'm just curious about what you think about that trend and whether it will reverse.
We think the overall market for 13 liters and 15 liters will normalize at about 50-50.
That's kind of where it's been.
It's kind of what our expectation is.
Within Navistar right now it's a little more weighted towards the ISX I think closer to 60% and that's primarily just based on the reputation of the ISX and its familiarity with the customers in the marketplace today.
And the 13 liter with SCR is a new product.
It's performing exceptionally well in the customers that have it.
So over time we do expect that ratio to more normalize at 50-50.
But I think Rob it's more like you said.
The fact that the 13-liter SCR is a new product in the market and our fleet customers -- our customers in general are very sophisticated.
So kind of everybody who's bought an ISX has also most -- has also bought a 13-liter SCR and has them on test in their fleets and the results we're getting back are very encouraging.
So we have a lot of customers who have a preference for 13 liters or certainly want an appropriate mix of 13 liters in their fleet and as they accumulate more mileage on our 13 liters we are seeing what I referenced in my comments repeat orders.
The guy that took 10 of them now they're coming back and taking a couple of hundred of them.
So we would anticipate that that would -- that this order intake will shift back towards that 50-50 over time.
It will take -- we'll -- the trend will just continue I think throughout the end of the year and maybe even into next year a little bit given the choppiness of some of those purchasing decisions.
But it has already begun to shift and we're quite encouraged.
But we're not holding back on the [indiscernible].
Ladies and gentlemen in the interest of time that concludes the Q&amp;A session.
I will now turn the call back over to management for closing remarks.
We'd like to thank everybody for participating today.
If you have any follow-up questions please contact myself or Randy Diaz at (331) 332-2337.
Thanks.
Ladies and gentlemen that does conclude today's conference.
You may all disconnect and everyone have a great day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Navistar second quarter 2014 earnings results conference call.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to introduce your host for todays conference Heather Kos Vice President of Investor Relations.
You may begin.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us for Navistar's second quarter 2014 conference call.
With me today are Troy Clarke our President and Chief Executive Officer; Jack Allen our Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer; and Walter Borst our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Before we begin I'd like to cover a few items.
A copy of this morning's press release and the presentation slides that we will be using today have been posted on our Investor Relations website for your reference.
The non-GAAP financial measures discussed in this call are reconciled to the U.S.
GAAP equivalent as part of the appendix in the slide deck.
Finally today's presentation includes some forward-looking statements about our expectations for future performance.
Actual results could differ materially from those suggested by our comments made here.
For additional information concerning factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected in today's presentation please refer to our most recent reports on Forms 10-K and 10-Q and our other SEC filings.
We would also refer you to the Safe Harbor statement and other cautionary disclaimers presented in today's material for more information on the subject.
With that I'll turn the call over to Troy Clarke for his opening remarks.
Thanks Heather.
Good morning everyone and thanks for joining us.
This morning Walter Jack and I will review our Q2 financial results and other progress on our [unintelligible].
We advised you on our first quarter earnings call that going forward we would demonstrate meaningful quarter over quarter improvement and we clearly did that in our second quarter.
Let me highlight what well talk about today.
First EBITDA.
We reported $82 million of adjusted EBITDA for Q2 which was better than our projected guidance range.
The most significant adjustment was an intangible asset impairment related to Brazil.
We also had a substantially reduced preexisting warranty adjustment when compared to previous quarters and some miscellaneous restructuring charges.
Walter will touch upon all of these items in more detail.
Second we continued to meet our expectations on cash in Q2.
We once again hit our cash guidance.
This is our seventh consecutive quarter of cash management to meet or exceed our goals.
Next industry and share.
The North American traditional industry has grown beyond our initial forecast for the year.
We would now call the class 6 through 8 truck and bus market for 2014 between 317 000 and 335 000 units.
Our orders and retail market share grew both sequentially and year over year.
Our production and backlog continued to strengthen and preliminary May orders look strong.
We will finish this year with year over year market share gain and significant volume increases.
However the strong performance of the industry in Q1 coupled with market growth will make it difficult to average 21% market share for the year.
We are pleased with the response to our new products in the market.
Our customers recognize and appreciate improved quality and performance of our new products.
Our ProStar is being noticed for all the right reasons.
One of our major fleet customers just recently shared data from their pre-delivery inspections with ProStars receiving the highest scores among all the competitors for which they received units.
Another customer recently shared data that the percentage of ProStar vehicles with zero defects in the first 90 days in service is at least 50% higher than any other competitor.
This is a testament to our commitment to quality and we believe it will bring customers back to our brand.
In our class 6 and 7 and bus products the recently launched ISB powered medium duty trucks are gaining momentum in the marketplace and the launch of our 9/10 liter engine with SCR is on track and progressing well.
Well start deliveries of DuraStar and WorkStar trucks powered with the 9/10 liter with SCR in mid-July with about 60% of the high-volume applications covered at the initial launch.
We will continue to launch the remaining product configurations in July and August.
This sets us up for orders in the second half of the year that will translate into key share growth next year.
Next we will report reduced spending in the quarter.
Our Lean initiatives engine restructuring and previous reduction in force actions have helped us further lower our structural costs.
In the quarter we achieved $92 million of structural cost savings.
Year to date we are at $159 million.
Given this performance we are raising our year over year target to $250 million and we continue to take aggressive actions to optimize our cost structure.
The last major item impacting our results in the quarter is Brazil.
The economic situation there continues to challenge the entire industry.
Year over year our MWM business is projecting a 17% decline in demand for our engines.
We are responding by implementing cost reductions and restructuring actions to further lower our breakeven point.
2014 started with a difficult quarter due to a lull in sales because of the transition to the Cummins ISB in our class 6/7 product and a large warranty true-up associated with extended service contracts.
These issues are now behind us and we are seeing good progress every day.
There will continue to be bumps in the road but weve become a more capable team in responding to the challenges that crop up.
We are progressing and we are building momentum.
Youll see more good things as we move forward.
On the whole Im pleased with the progress weve made towards exiting 2015 at our 8% to 10% EBITDA goal.
So with that let me turn it over to Walter and Jack and Ill be back to wrap up with some comments on the remainder of 2014 and 2015.
Walter? Thank you Troy and good morning everyone.
Id like to turn your attention to the financial results for the quarter on slide nine.
Building on our first quarter call we continue to see benefits from our drive to deliver plan.
Revenue for the quarter was $2.7 billion up 9% compared to the second quarter of 2013.
As you may recall last years second quarter results included an adjustment for lease transactions relating to prior periods which lowered our sales and cost of sales by approximately $125 million.
Excluding this item sales were up 4%.
The revenue growth is due in part to a 25% increase in traditional chargeouts reflecting a 49% increase in class 8 heavy duty trucks and a 20% increase in class 6/7 medium duty trucks.
Adjusted EBITDA for the quarter was $82 million after adjusting EBITDA of negative $119 million for certain one-time items in the quarter.
This is the third consecutive quarter we met or exceeded our EBITDA guidance and were pleased with the nearly $120 million absolute improvement in adjusted EBITDA for the first quarter of 2014.
Loss from continuing operations net of tax was negative $298 million in the quarter compared to a loss of $353 million in the second quarter of 2013 reflecting improvements in our structural cost and lower adjustments to prior period warranty expense.
Second quarter 2014 results include $151 million in asset impairment charges and a $29 million tax valuation allowance primarily related to our Brazilian operations.
Turning to slide 10 lets discuss our business segment results for the quarter.
The North American truck segment reported a loss of $134 million less than half the loss in the second quarter of 2013.
Truck volumes were higher both sequentially versus the first quarter and year over year.
In addition we continued to lower our structural costs reflecting excellent progress on our cost reduction initiatives.
However the earnings improvement was principally driven by lower warranty expense including a $122 million decrease in preexisting warranty charges versus the same quarter last year.
Warranty expense as a percent of revenue was 4.6% for the quarter.
While were not fully out of the woods yet warranty expense is starting to come down driven by lower year over year warranty cash spend of 13% in the quarter.
The North America parts segment reported profits of $126 million reflecting stronger performance in our commercial markets and lower SG&amp;A expenses which led to an increase of 11% in segment profit.
Parts sales in the commercial markets continued to improve quarter over quarter but the growth was unable to offset the decline in the military business.
The loss of $150 million in the global operations segment was principally driven by a $149 million intangible asset impairment charge relating to the South American engine operations.
The economic downturn in Brazil continues to challenge our operations in the region and it was determined in the quarter that the carrying value of the operations including goodwill exceeded fair value.
The year over year comparison was also impacted by a gain of $28 million in the second quarter of 2013 resulting from the sale of the companys interest in the Mahindra joint ventures.
The financial services segment continues to performance in line with our expectations.
Profit increased to $24 million in the second quarter of 2014.
Despite lower overall retail balances financial results improved due to lower structural cost and interest income on an intercompany loan.
The financing capacity and funding maturity profile of our captive finance operations are well-positioned to support our drive to deliver plans.
NFCs debt-to-equity ratio stood at 2.7:1 at the end of the second quarter of 2014.
As I indicated earlier adjusted EBITDA for the quarter was $82 million.
As shown on slide 11 during the quarter we incurred $42 million in prior period warranty approvals principally related to extended warranty as we continue to refine our estimates for these contracts.
We also incurred one-time charges of $159 million which consisted of the previously mentioned $151 million in intangible asset impairments and $8 million in restructuring costs for additional cost reduction actions the company initiated recently.
Turning to slide 12 we have reconciled our actual ending manufacturing cash balance against the guidance provided on the companys last earnings call.
We ended the quarter with manufacturing cash cash equivalents and marketable securities of $1.06 billion slightly above the midpoint of our guidance.
During the first half of the year we had lower capital expenditures than previously expected as we focus our activities to refresh our products with the SCR engine technology and cost reduction projects with a quick payback.
We now expect full year 2014 capital spending to be less than $150 million.
However we expect capital expenditures to increase again as we introduce new products over time.
As you can see in the chart on slide 13 weve maintained a cash balance above $1 billion for the last seven quarters.
This balance is higher than historical levels and well above minimum required cash levels to run the business but gives us more flexibility to take the actions necessary to complete our turnaround.
During the quarter we proactively addressed a large portion of the convertible notes due later in the year.
As shown on slide 14 we completed the sale of $411 million of new convertible notes due in April 2019.
We used the proceeds from this issuance as well as a modest amount of cash on hand to repurchase the majority of the convertible notes that come due in October of this year.
As a result there was little net impact on liquidity in the quarter from this issuance.
However these actions did extend our debt maturity schedule and after paying off the $166 million balance of the convertible notes in October we wont have any major debt coming due until 2017 when our term loan matures.
Turning to slide 15 we expect manufacturing cash at the end of the third quarter to be in the range of $950 million to $1.05 billion.
As you can see in the chart at the bottom of the slide we are projecting our ending manufacturing cash balance to be at the higher end of historical Q3 ending manufacturing cash balances.
Consolidated EBITDA for the third quarter is expected to be $75 million to $125 million.
Consistent with prior quarters this excludes preexisting warranty accruals and one-time items.
Our guidance reflects the positive momentum in our core North America operations that I alluded to earlier.
Cash used for capex cash interest pension and OPEB funding is expected to increase in Q3 compared to Q2 primarily due to higher cash interest payments.
The increase is due to the timing of interest payments on our outstanding debt principally the 8.25% senior notes where we make semiannual interest payments in November and May.
Lastly the change in net working capital is expected to be relatively flat versus Q2 even though we have fewer operating days in the third quarter and expect somewhat higher used truck inventories.
Slide 16 puts a few of our key operating metrics in historical context and shows our progress against them in the second quarter.
All of these metrics are trending in the right direction some meaningfully.
Second quarter manufacturing revenue was up 25% from the first quarter and 9% from the second quarter of last year.
As we continue to transition our product portfolio we believe revenue will grow further throughout fiscal 2014.
We have made the most progress in the area of structural costs.
For the quarter structural costs as a percentage of manufacturing revenue were 11.8%.
This is an improvement of over 3 percentage points versus the first quarter of this year and nearly 5 percentage points versus the second quarter of 2013.
The trend in this area is favorable for us to achieve our structural cost goal of less than 10% of manufacturing revenue.
As I mentioned earlier warranty expense as a percentage of manufacturing revenue is improving.
During the first half of this year warranty expense as a percent of manufacturing revenue was 5.3% compared to 7.7% for all of last year.
The 2.4 percentage point improvement positions us to achieve our goal of decreasing warranty as a percent of manufacturing revenue by 4 percentage points.
The adjusted EBITDA margin for the quarter was 3% versus 1% in the second quarter of 2013.
Although we million more work to do the positive trend in these metrics is very encouraging.
Slide 17 shows our goals for 2014 and beyond that we introduced in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2013.
Let me provide you some additional perspective on a few of the targets for fiscal year 2014.
As Troy previously mentioned we now expect industry volumes of 317 000 to 335 000 units for 2014 including class 6 to 8 and bus reflecting a shift toward the upper end of our previously stated range.
Second traditional market share has not recovered as quickly as we had anticipated.
However we still expect a 2014 year-end run rate around the 21% market share goal.
Jack will elaborate further on industry volumes and market share shortly.
And third we continue to make significant progress toward our structural cost savings goals.
In the first six months weve realized $159 million of savings compared to the same period last year.
In May we initiated new cost reduction actions to be completed by the end of this fiscal year.
As a result we are raising our full year 2014 structural cost savings goal to $250 million.
Importantly this is in addition to the $330 million of structural cost savings we realized in 2013.
Summing it up our business continues to improve as we execute our drive to deliver plan.
In the second quarter we reported positive adjusted EBITDA.
Our guidance for the third quarter is similar or better EBITDA on an adjusted basis and we expect quarter over quarter improvement in the fourth quarter as well.
We continue to believe were on the course to achieve our long term EBITDA goal of 8% to 10% margins exiting 2015.
In closing we expect the positive signs experienced in the second quarter which include an improving economy and truck industry together with our improving market share additional cost reduction initiatives and continued focus on cash to position Navistar for success in the future.
Ill stop here and let Jack provide more insight on our drive to deliver plan.
Jack? Thanks Walter and good morning everyone.
My remarks today will center on our operational progress in Q2.
On our last call we said we would build on our progress every quarter and weve done that in Q2.
On slide 20 over the past several quarters warranty has been a topic of these calls so let me start with some significant and positive progress on the warranty front.
Our warranty spend is coming down.
In fact second quarter spending was down $23 million or 13% on a year over year basis.
This is being driven by lower costs for repair.
There are slightly fewer EGR engines in the warranty period but the big driver is the SCR engine as the EGR engines that remain under warranty and the SCR engines that were currently building have much better quality.
We believe this declining trend is sustainable going forward.
Let me talk for a moment about the industry.
Our original class 8 forecast for the U.S.
and Canada retail sales was 220 000 to 230 000 an increase of 7% over last fiscal year.
So the industry continues to struggle with driver shortages but customer sentiment is increasingly positive on a number of fronts: freight levels rates and profitability.
This has spurred an increase in new orders and we believe retail sales in the second half of the year will be stronger than we had planned and thus were revising our forecast to 225 000 to 235 000 for class 8.
Moving to slide 21 that being said the North American market is still very competitive.
We hear lots of speculation that were being aggressive on price but let me tell you we compete for deals on price just as much as our competitors do and believe me we dont win them all.
Theres excess capacity in this industry and a desire of our competitors to not yield on market share continues.
In spite of that our sales momentum continued in the second quarter with retail market share gains in every segment.
Medium grew from 17% in Q1 to 26% class 8 from 14% to 15% combined class 6 to 8 plus bus grew from 16% to 19%.
Our order share is up in all segments.
Our backlog is up 82% versus year ago level and weve increased production schedules at Tulsa and Escobedo as we previously announced.
This kind of response from our customers to our product offerings is encouraging.
Rebuilding our market share continues to be one of our highest priorities and were working hard to win customers and reestablish our position in the market.
In class 8 we now have a complete portfolio of on-highway SCR vehicles that deliver the uptime fuel economy and driver satisfaction our customers demand.
Were also seeing strong interest from our customers for the Cummins ISB engine and our medium duty trucks and school buses.
As slide 21 indicates we have demonstrated market share growth with each of these launches so theres great anticipation for our third and final SCR group our vocational trucks powered by our 9 and 10 liter SCR engines.
Theyre going to launch this month and theyll help us increase our market share in late 2014 and into 2015.
As far as projecting our market share for the full year the slow Q1 start during the ISB transition and the higher industry will mean that we will likely fall short of our 21% goal for class 6 to 8 including bus.
But our internal projections indicate well continue the quarter to quarter growth that weve been experiencing as well as a year-end run rate at or above the 21% goal.
We anticipate that share will continue to grow as we launch vocational trucks with SCR engines and we secure repeat medium bus and class 8 business due to the quality of our recent product launches.
Moving to slide 22 Ill now cover some additional points about the quarter.
Were really excited about our OnCommand Connection offering which weve been highlighting at major trade shows this year.
Its a remote diagnostic system designed to increase vehicle up time and provide increased fleet management efficiency by supporting quicker repairs and controlling maintenance and repair costs.
OnCommand Connection currently supports more than 40 000 vehicles across 45 customers and we can demonstrate uptime improvements for these customers and warranty savings for Navistar.
We think its one of the most important developments in trucking and Heavy Duty Trucking Magazine agrees.
It named OnCommand Connection one of the top 20 products of 2014.
And theres a nice article in yesterdays Commercial Carrier Journal on our competitive advantage with this product.
These trucks performed well in this quarter.
Sales were robust at $94 million a record sales quarter.
And as we had indicated on our last call incoming receipts grew to $113 million.
These trucks continue to be a big focal point for us and as previously stated we expected inventory to rise in Q2 as well as in Q3 due to large customer deliveries and class 8 market share growth.
Weve opened a reconditioning center in Indianapolis where we ensure all vehicles have the latest quality features.
The EGR engines that weve built in the last couple of years are performing well.
This process brings all vehicles up to this level of performance.
We market the vehicles as Diamond Renewed with a used truck warranty to certify our commitment to their quality.
Diamond Renewed is more than just a certified program.
Theyre complete factory reconditioned trucks featuring updated EGR componentry and calibrations and our OnCommand Connection system is standard on these used trucks.
Let me talk a moment about the parts business.
In North America were very encouraged by commercial revenue being up 7% in the quarter.
Lower military sales however resulted in overall parts revenue for the segment being down 2% but strong cost controls boosted our profitability by 11%.
In engineering the efficiency and productivity continues with year over year savings of $17 million in the quarter and we continue to make progress with our medium and severe service SCR product launches that are on schedule our quality test data continues to be positive and coupled with the SCR emissions technology [unintelligible] are showing improved fuel economy performance and outstanding uptime.
Our manufacturing operations continue to get better from both a cost and quality standpoint.
We have initiated Lean initiatives in our plants and corporate-wide to accelerate our ability to achieve our business objectives.
And this is reflected in our working capital improvements.
We continue to shed noncore assets.
The latest example of that is our divestiture of E-Z Pack which manufactures refuse truck bodies.
Year to date our SG&amp;A savings are well ahead of plan and expenses in the quarter decreased $75 million year over year which reflects our intense focus on cost reduction.
As has been mentioned in our global markets our results continue to be impacted by the economic downturn in Brazil.
Weak economic factors mean our customers are not selling as many trucks and that has led us to lower our engine volumes.
As a result we are also implementing additional cost reduction initiatives to lower our breakeven point in our MWM operations.
So in summary we have been aggressively focused on improving our financial and business performance and were seeing positive results of these efforts.
Well win back customers with our product offerings our quality which has never been better and the great service and support of our dealer network.
Were encouraged by our progress and we expect this trend to continue.
Let me turn it back to Troy to wrap things up.
As Walter and Jack just shared our financial and operational performance demonstrates the momentum we are building.
These trends will continue throughout the remainder of our fiscal year.
Regarding the third quarter 2014 let me summarize the points related to our guidance which drives our belief in the continued progress to come.
We believe Q3 chargeoffs will be flat versus Q2 given our normal summer shutdown and fewer operating days at our manufacturing facilities.
Volumes in our parts segment are expected to be higher.
Brazil continues to be a drag but we think most of the bad news is behind us.
Manufacturing cash is expected to be in a range of $950 million to $1.05 billion.
Q3 EBITDA guidance is $75 million to $125 million.
We project continued progress on our structural cost and improving material performance in the second half of the year.
Our full year 2014 forecast has changed slightly.
We raised our combined class 8 industry range to 225 000 to 235 000 and we project exiting Q4 with a market share run rate of 21%.
We raised our year over year structural cost savings target from $175 million to $250 million and we will continue to drive Lean initiatives across all areas of our organization to optimize our cost structure.
With our manufacturing consolidation efforts and adoption of Lean practices we expect to lower our 2014 manufacturing cost by $50 million to $60 million year over year further driving material cost reductions to offset the added cost of SCR.
And entering 2015 we still plan to reduce another $1 400 in cost of our 13 liter SCR engine.
We remain focused on returning to profitability with our drive to deliver.
Taking care of our customers while costly is key to reclaiming our position in the marketplace with quality vehicles and remains our top priority.
Were great feedback from our dealers and customers that reflects our progress.
Theyre seeing first hand our commitment to quality the excellent performance great fuel economy and outstanding uptime of our trucks.
And most importantly they believe we have the products to compete strongly in the marketplace.
The momentum is building and every quarter we expect to build on our success.
Let me reiterate one last time our goal of an 8% to 10% EBITDA run rate exiting 2015 remains on track.
Thank you for your time this morning.
Let me turn it back to Heather and open the call up for your questions.
That concludes our prepared remarks but before we go to questions to be fair we ask that each of you limit yourself to one question including an optional follow up.
So operator were now ready to open the lines.
[Operator instructions.] Our first question comes from the line of David Leiker of Robert W.
Baird.
Just wondered if you could maybe provide some color on order trends during the quarter and then even into the May timeframe.
If my math is correct it seems like your 6 through 8 share is being booked at the high teens right now.
And just wondering if that provides you with the right trajectory to exit the year at the 21% mark.
Our order intake supports the statement we made about how we do expect quarter to quarter improvement in our retail market share and we expect to exit the year at or above the 21% mark.
So were comfortable with where our receipts are coming and trending.
Its a tough competitive market but as weve introduced new products and the customers have experience with them thats when we see an uptick in our order rates.
So even as the markets strengthened in May we got a good order number the other day I would imagine your order share is actually going to start moving higher to support the higher retail share.
Our orders in May were consistent with where they had been the last number of months.
And then just one follow up.
In thinking about the 8% to 10% profit target it looks like the share trajectory coming out of this year might be a bit lower but youre offsetting that with good cost and warranty performance.
What sort of sensitivity is there around volume and hitting the 8% to 10%? What is the lowest chargeout level or utilization you might need to support the 8% to 10% mark? What we have said previously was an industry thats running about where the industry is running today what was in our calculation was a market share number somewhere between 22% and 24%.
So we thought at the time that we were being fairly conservative.
So far our internal projections of where were going to be in market share doesnt threaten those results.
Let me just state it that way.
On the other hand we are also counting on favorable warranty performance over time and were seeing that now.
Were counting on continued cost reduction initiatives from the implementation of Lean.
Were seeing that now as well.
So inside the company anyway as much as you may perceive theres external pressure on the pieces that get us to those results internal to the company were seeing favorable variances as well.
So we believe firmly that were still on track.
Our next question comes from the line of Stephen Volkmann of Jefferies.
I have a detailed question on slide 16 and 17 and so maybe this is for Walter.
I dont know.
But I guess Im looking at the charts you provided on slide 16 which show your warranty expense down by 500 basis points maybe something like that since the fourth quarter.
And it looks like the structural costs are down by a few points already which is great to see.
And I guess Im just trying to figure out how should I square that up with the fact that the margins theyve improved but they certainly havent improved as much as it might be implied by the various things that have happened here in your favor.
And I guess theres probably timing issues with warranty and all that kind of stuff and maybe thats not the full picture.
But Im just curious Walter how you think we should think about this because it looks like youve gotten a lot of the benefits already and yet theres still obviously a lot of work to do to get to that 8% to 10%.
We have made good progress first of all.
I guess it kind of depends on whether you want to look at adjusted or unadjusted EBITDA results.
So on the warranty side in particular we did have a significant improvement of $122 million year over year related to preexisting warranties.
So if youre looking at the amounts on chart 16 thats embedded in there and thats hopefully not going to be repeating itself.
So I think one probably needs to look at more on an adjusted EBITDA basis which is why we report our numbers that way as well.
On that basis we probably have a couple of percentage point improvement year on year quarter to quarter second quarter to second quarter.
So some of the warranty is flowing into that because of the progress weve made there so on the structural cost.
We do have some headwinds though on the materials side related to the extra SCR costs that weve added to our engines this year which weve been public about previously.
So thats offsetting that to some degree.
As I look at the numbers maybe similar to you Im looking for all this goodness to start flowing down through.
I think Walters point is one we are seeing that flowing through especially when you take out the one-time adjustments for the quarter.
But youre not seeing as much of it flow through - neither am I - as we want right yet.
And part of that has to do with the fact that were selling year over year a higher percentage obviously of these SCR engines which have higher material costs for us.
And thus the importance of us continuing to drive our material cos activities pulling off some of the EGR cost still which I referenced in my comments.
But just a dollars a dollar.
We need to save cost any place we can on the material cost of the truck.
Thats still a pretty big influence for us or an influence of a couple of percentage points anyway.
And the second thing is sales mix in the quarter.
Sales comes at us kind of lumpy.
Sales mix in this particular quarter there were as you probably would note with the used truck inventory went up which kind of implies that we are driving in the quarter a lot of sales to very very large customers which have different margin structure than when we sell through dealers into small customers.
So theres two pieces of that and I would say that as I look at the numbers those are the two most significant pieces that will be corrected as we go forward.
So well see the full Ben of the savings that weve created both in warranty and our SG&amp;A savings.
And then I guess just maybe a quick follow up on the warranty.
Jack I think you mentioned that a lot of the indicators that youre looking at in terms of the more recent engines are operating better.
And I guess Im curious warranty accounting is always somewhat arcane but I sort of thought that the step up accruals that you would need to do would be if things were getting worse and that you might not need to do those if things were actually getting better.
And maybe Im just not fully versed in warranty accounting but I guess I would expect maybe not to have any of those step up charges if the populations actually performing better.
Maybe just set me straight on that? Maybe Ill try to answer that.
Jack gives me the same question all the time actually and Troy too.
[laughter] Hopefully well see the warranty accruals reflect more of this over time but we follow warranty cash expenditures as an early indicator of whats happening in warranty.
You will have noticed and its shown on that chart that we just talked about on 16 in the presentation you know warranty expense as a percent of revenues is coming down.
So we still had some preexisting charges in the quarter.
Those were related to extended warranty where we had some bigger charges a couple of quarters ago.
So we do still need to look at that every time.
But if these results continue to come through on the cash spend side for warranty then we would ultimately expect that to also hit our accruals favorably.
Kind of how the warranty accrual process works as you probably know is youre relying on a forecast model that basically projects a range.
The range indicates some statistical significance with a lower and an upper bounds and one point or two points even below that range isnt enough to trigger us revising an accrual lets say.
So theres kind of these rules in that process that say on any particular vintage of product when 25% of that product becomes mature through its warranty cycle then that becomes statistically significant and then you can then go through the math to make the proper adjustments.
So all these roses that are now blooming on the subject of warranty you know dont quite make the garden but if we keep them month after month after month they will in fact as Walter has indicated begin to tug that down.
And as youve noted the first thing we see Walter said leading indicator lower cash spend per month we need to keep that up.
Next thing youll see is lower prior period warranty adjustments and then again well see all that flow to the bottom line.
So on page 16 Walter the chart you provided is that cash warranty expense? Its expense.
Its not cash and it includes preexisting.
Our next question comes from the line of Andrew Kaplowitz of Barclays.
Troy can we talk a little bit more about the Brazilian business and global operations in general? We all have seen the data in Brazil getting worse and you talked about that in your forecast going forward.
But can you offset some of that with your JV in Mexico and cost cutting? Or should we expect a loss here going forward? You were about breakeven ex impairments.
So maybe a little more color about sort of what you expect here over the next 6 to 12 months in global operations.
Id like you to think about our global operations as really three pieces.
One is Brazil one is an export business that primarily serves the Andean countries the Spanish-speaking countries of Latin America.
And then the third one is the JV we have in China actually with a company called JAC.
Our Mexico operations are actually included in our North America results.
They are not JV.
Its a wholly owned subsidiary of ours.
In that business portfolio of three pieces Ill work backwards from JAC it is a joint venture that is very nascent.
And although its not losing any money its not making any money either at this point in time.
Its actually in within its first 12 months of operation and were very pleased with the prospects that we see over there especially in the case of China where there seems to be a clamor for engine technology to meet the more stringent emission requirements.
So were really pleased with how that venture is proceeding.
Typically a venture like this would be kind of a sinkhole that youre filling in with money and in fact we and our partners have been able to manage it so that is not the case.
We have this truck export business which is a fairly constant business for us.
The markets in that area of the world kind of consume trucks at a certain rate.
We happen to have a very privileged market position over 20% market share position.
And it tends to be a profitable business for us by and large because they take the same type of trucks that we build that are in North America.
But the largest piece the largest portion of that pie chart is in fact our Brazil operations largely the MWM engine operations which basically serves the whole market down there.
So its kind of hard.
Its hard for the balance of our global operations to offset the kind of reductions that that industry in Brazil has seen.
So is it feasible for us to reduce costs? Yes.
Can we restructure? Yes.
Were doing that.
Brazil like a lot of foreign countries have labor and other laws that restructuring isnt something you do in 30 days its something you do over the course of six months.
Those actions have all started for us so we will make some significant reductions in our operating costs.
But in the meantime its not feasible for us to offset those losses with gains in the other two major pieces of our global.
Someday it will be by the way.
As our joint venture in China matures and grows and we reestablish a bigger presence over there thats the goal but today that is not the case.
Brazil is still the biggest piece of the puzzle there and it takes some time actually six months from when you start to when you can really execute significant cost savings that kind of require basic [unintelligible] down there.
And youve had nice improvement in your class 6/7 share but not as much movement in class 8.
How much more difficult is it to repenetrate the class 8 market? And is there anything you can do more to help you get share? And then have you seen any improvement in pricing in that class 8 market for you guys? If you look at the chart on page 21 the biggest thing thats going to happen here to our class 8 share going forward will be the introduction into the vocational markets of the SCR product.
So weve been able to demonstrate in all other segments share growth as weve introduced the SCR product.
So one of the things thats happened here so far this year is weve seen our share in the [severe] service or vocational market weve really seen that fall off as our customer base and our dealers have anticipated the introduction of SCR into this segment.
So thats been a drag on us and thats why you really havent seen the overall class 8 accelerate as much as we had hoped it would by now also.
So thats why were encouraged by whats coming forward.
And what we have done Id maybe ask Jack to comment the selling process in even the traditional class 8 tractor for us has been somewhat driven by thank heavens we kind of started this a demo program.
You know getting units into our customers hands and letting them test them.
And obviously they want to test them for some period of time.
So although a little slower than we thought I think every place weve provided the demo fleet or the demo units we are turning those into sales.
And those sales by the way are more meaningful for us because in the sales proposition were debating the relative merits of the units versus the competition which is exactly where we want to be.
The process here for us throughout this year and the end of last year was really a seeding process the ability for us to get in front of customers to provide our ProStar with an [ISX] engine or a ProStar with our MaxxForce 13 SCR engine really do a head-to-head comparison on really three factors one being fuel economy another being uptime and another being how the drivers are reacting to the various vehicles.
And in the areas where we can have that kind of a fair-based comparison we fare very well and weve been able to demonstrate that success.
But its a tough competitive market.
Our competitors are good and customers are very demanding.
So this is a process thats just going to take time.
Our next question comes from Jerry Revich of Goldman Sachs.
Can you just talk a little bit about what youre seeing on the pricing side now that industry lead times are rising? And then on margins specifically can you touch on what the impact of trade-ins has been on margin how youre thinking about that going forward? As I said in my comments the market is competitive from a price standpoint.
Im not sure that I would describe it as more competitive than its been or less.
This market has always been competitive from a price standpoint.
And consequently when you have excess capacity in the marketplace and you have a desire from the competitive set to not yield on market share there are price pressures in the marketplace.
So every deal is different every deal is negotiated individually but overall we do not take into our financial expectations that theres going to be a windfall from price.
I think to emphasize something that Jack said there the assumption that the market is increasing and therefore delivery times are extending which then might provide the opportunity for some price taking at present I dont think we have seen that in the market.
The market has not expanded at a rate that as of yet fully utilizes the available capacity between us and our competitors.
And so we have not seen the ability to compete per se on shorter delivery times which might give us the opportunity to mine that as pricing.
If the market continues to recover and continues to grow certainly thats a reasonable expectation but the growth that the market has experienced so far has not really resulted in that phenomenon.
And the second part was just wondering if you could touch on any impact trade-ins may have had on margins in the quarter and how youre thinking about that as we progress over the course of the year.
I guess Im not sure that it really sticks out in our financials.
The impact of used trucks on our business is something were very focused on.
As we said we had a very good sales quarter but receipts came in also.
We work very closely with our dealers and with our customers on maximizing the value of our used trucks in the marketplace through our reconditioning center.
Yeah I think thats just going to be something thats on us to manage as we go forward.
We have - as do all of our competitors - every reason in the world to be interested in the value of our used trucks.
Thats why we created Diamond Renewed.
Thats why we have OnCommand Connect as a standard feature in the Diamond Renewed products.
Thats why we have the reconditioning center.
We believe that we have a very competitive used truck product in the market and the prices that we get for those trucks seem to reflect that and have not created a significant drag on our earnings at this point in time.
Our next question comes from the line of Ann Duignan with JP Morgan.
Just back on the used equipment can you talk a little bit about your inventory of remanufactured used trucks? And given everything were hearing out there about demand for used equipment and the value of used equipment what is your current inventory of the [remanned] trucks? Do you have excess or none? Or do you have about what you expected? Im just trying to get a sense of whether the marketplace is accepting of those remanned or whether were putting all this cost into these vehicles and still cant find a home for them.
Well I think weve actually sold 5 600 of those units into the market.
Last month was a record sales month for us.
The month before was a record sales month for us.
So with this Diamond Renewed effort its really an entire used truck strategy that we have.
We recognize the need to turn these units.
We did take in more units than we sold in the quarter but we kind of highlighted that all to you guys last quarter I believe where given the timing of some of the sales and trade-ins that we took that our used truck inventory would go up.
But it actually went up a little bit actually it was a little bit less than we had thought in the quarter.
But it did go up.
Thats actually the piece of data that I was looking for and I dont want to quote a number to you without looking at that.
But were certainly willing to share that with you but I cant put my fingers on it right now.
Ill get you that.
We have cranked up our ability to sell used trucks the [unintelligible] processing center is a part of that effort.
We are working hard to preserve price and turn those trucks faster.
So far our tactics we believe are working.
Used truck inventory went up in the quarter but not out of line with our forecast given the trades we had lined up from our sales activity.
So something weve got to watch all the time.
Im not trying to indicate to anybody on the call that this is like falling off a log.
No this is something we work at every day and I would tell you that the level of intensity and focus within the organization on making this work for us is very high.
And just on the $1 400 [unintelligible] on the [unintelligible] SCR whats holding that up? Why cant we with the click of a finger get those costs out? What has to happen? Help us understand the process youre going through in order to achieve that $1 400 cost reduction.
The components that were talking about are considered components of the emissions system.
When you change the emissions system on a vehicle you actually have to revalidate the vehicle with the EPA.
You have to recert that engine not the vehicle in the truck business its recert the engine with the EPA.
To recert the engine theres certain requirements.
Youre actually certifying an engine that would have up to 430 000 miles on it or something to that effect.
So youre developing aged components or youre going to the field and pulling off components that are high mileage and youre physically putting those on engines running them on dynos getting the data submitting it to the EPA answering their questions and then theyll do that.
So were well into that process.
But thats the reason why it takes that time.
Typically we did it in record time I think when we brought SCR onto our 13 liter engine but still its like an 11 month process I think.
And so thats the reason why it takes so long.
Its not a technical solution.
We have dozens of these engines.
Were running the daylights out of them.
We understand the performance were running field testing as we speak - our head of engineering is just across the table from me.
Its really just getting through the recert process.
We dont anticipate any difficulties on that by the way.
And thats what I was getting at I guess.
I just wanted to understand that there were no real technical complexities there that its just a timing issue.
Were kind of excited about it to be very honest.
Our next question comes from the line of Steven Fisher with UBS.
Really encouraging progress on the structural cost savings.
But could you speak a bit more on the Lean initiatives? Maybe just what inning the Lean implementation is in and not to get into 2015 guidance yet but maybe high level how youre thinking about your ability to continue finding additional cost to take out next year.
If you are a real Lean adherent and were very fortunate to have a number of those people in our organization they would tell you that we are like at best in our manufacturing operations in the second inning of a four inning game that there are lots of opportunities for us going forward as we increase the knowledge level and as people go through cycles of learning and as were able to actually invest in our facilities to be able to implement some technology that supports Lean concepts like [unintelligible] and decoupling.
For those of you who follow manufacturing youll kind of know what that means.
In our headquarters operations I would say we have pockets of excellence but realistically were probably still in the first inning of that four inning game and still in the process of increasing the knowledge base.
I would tell you its the kind of thing though that if this time last year you had said from your Lean implementation would you have expected to overachieve your SG&amp;A as much as we have this year? I would have said no.
Quite frankly its one of those things that the more you do it the more opportunities you find to eliminate waste and improve processes.
And its not a management initiative.
Its obviously a management led initiative but its really about getting a couple of thousand people grinding every day picking up a dollar here and a hundred dollars there and you kind of add it all up and you find your processes get better your quality gets better and the costs kind of fall out of the bottom.
So having been in my personal career through this type of Lean transformation in the past Im very optimistic that theres a lot more to be had here.
Its difficult for us to probably see some of it yet but it is one of those things the good news continues to happen every day.
I guess for a follow up shifting over to OnCommand first I missed some of the metrics you gave how many customers and trucks are using the systems today but I guess my bigger question is do you know what percent of the trucks using the system are your own? And I guess Im curious if you can see how your uptime compares to competitors and maybe if your engineers can use some of that data to tweak design.
Were currently monitoring about 45 000 vehicles today.
I dont have the exact numbers but the majority of those are our vehicles because clearly we can provide a much better diagnostic solution to our vehicles.
We do monitor competitive vehicles but from a population or trying to do statistical analysis thats pretty difficult.
What were really trying to do here is provide the customer better information to be able to improve their overall uptime of their vehicle.
For our vehicles we can do the diagnosis much faster we can communicate with the dealer we can see the parts availability we can see what the repair times are.
And all of that is really a Lean initiative.
We are taking waste out of the overall system with OnCommand Connect.
So weve got a number of evolutionary type enhancements to this coming forward.
Were learning more every day as our customers but were very excited about it.
Our next question comes from the line of Andy Casey with Wells Fargo.
First I wanted to go back to a comment I believe Jack made and better understand the customer mix shift to larger customers.
Do you think thats an industry trend or is it just normal quarter to quarter variance? And then are you starting to see more of your share regain at large fleets including leasing fleets that may be offsetting some volatility elsewhere? Let me answer it a couple of ways.
Relative to the quarter we did have for us an abnormally high level of fleet mix within the quarters as Troy had indicated.
From a broader general statement about the overall industry we do believe that there will be in the industry an overall higher mix of large customers.
And its really just driven by the economics of the market today and the ability for smaller customers to be able to compete its going to be more and more difficult with the level of cost and regulations that are being put on the fleets.
But thats kind of more of a longer term trend that weve seen and we do think well continue to experience.
The other piece that has impacted us here is you know when you look at class 8 you have two components of it.
You have the on-highway segment and you have the vocational segment.
The vocational tends to be much smaller customers even in many cases one at a time or three trucks at a time where the on-highway segment is far more concentrated toward larger customers.
And with us just introducing now the SCR versions on our vocational products we saw that mix change for us within the quarter also that we just had a higher portion of on-highway trucks versus vocational trucks.
And well see that again in the third quarter but that will normalize over time.
And if I could probe a little bit on the medium duty the class 6 and 7 are you seeing a shift to regaining share in some of the large leasing fleets? Our share growth is really across the board.
Were doing well with large customers with leasing fleets but also our dealers are having success in their individual markets also.
And then if I could sneak another one in its kind of a longer-term question about the 8% to 10% EBITDA margin.
My guess is when you laid that out the exit rate now of fiscal 2015 some of the South American issues that the business global operations is encountering probably werent totally anticipated.
How important is global operation improvement to hitting that exit rate meaning can you get there without higher volumes in Brazil? Thats why were very anxious to get through the restructuring and drive our breakeven point down as quickly as we can so that hopefully Brazils performance is not a negative factor as we run to the end of 2015.
I think theres time for us to do that.
The second point that I would make for this type of thing not that we were clairvoyant is why we suggested its a range of 8% to 10% as opposed to a point performance.
We know that there are things like this that will come up.
And the comment that I had made I think we certainly have the leadership capabilities I think to be more agile more responsive very fast in how we think through these things.
And so these kind of aw shucks one-time kind of things they just need to be behind us by the end of 2015.
And so I dont anticipate the Brazil thing is going to be a big drag or present a big risk to us at this point in time.
But that somewhat depends on our ability to go down there and get stuff sorted out.
I mean the people who analyze the Brazilian market to include our own people down there I think the majority of people think this is kind of a one-year phenomenon and then well begin to see some improvement.
And at worst its been reported that its maybe kind of a two-year phenomenon.
Theres an election that takes place later this year and typically after an election theres some forms of economic stimulus in markets like Brazil.
But Brazil for a long time is up and down and up and down.
And its really just part of the challenge of being involved in the global business.
So yeah I dont think it is a big threat to the results that were pointing to at the end of 2015.
Our next question comes from the line of Joel Tiss of BMO.
Just kind of a clarification on the free cash flow.
Its about $175 million lower in this six months versus a year ago.
Is that mostly working capital buildup? Or is there something else in there? Its mostly as a result of more than negative cash flow than that in the first quarter.
So the first quarter we had lower volumes as we had highlighted I think already in our fourth quarter call that that would be the case.
So were kind of digging out of that over the balance of the year now.
And maybe theres enough information here.
Youre probably not going to answer this but the backlogs building the cost cuts are accelerating youve got better visibility today than a couple of months ago.
I wonder if you could give us any color or any idea if you think the 2015 free cash flow can be pretty close to breakeven.
It seems like were getting really in that direction but I just wondered if theres anything you can give us in that area.
That would be helpful.
Not today.
Maybe well think about that fourth quarter as we start looking at 2015.
Our next question comes from the line of Jeff Kauffman of Buckingham Research.
I want to follow this theme of 2015 and Ill do my best to ask just one question.
As we look to 2015 most truck fleets kind of decide what theyre going to order in the fall and then put those orders in the winter or the spring.
So Im thinking more of our market share gains are more likely to be seen in the 2015 budgets than the 2014 budgets.
And have you thought at all about plans for the Blue Diamond related assets post the wind down of that? That was two questions Jeff.
[laughter] We have put in 22% to 24% market share in the way weve laid out 2015 in our chart here.
And thats really reflective of what youre saying.
Its progressive growth.
Throughout the end of 2013 and into 2014 weve seeded a lot of trucks with a lot of different fleets and its our expectation as we move into 2015 that we will garner a larger share of each individual customer that we do business with of their business based on the results theyve seen in 2014 with our vehicles.
And the fall selling season we are planning for that as we speak because youre exactly right.
Its a very critical time for us from an order intake standpoint.
Ill let Troy talk about Blue Diamond.
Well with regard to the Blue Diamond Jeffs reference for the other folks on the call is to the you probably saw the Wall Street Journal article here a couple of weeks ago with regards to Ford starting up their medium duty truck activity in the U.S.
Those trucks had previously been produced in a joint venture between Ford and ourselves that existed in our Escabedo Mexico plant called Blue Diamond Truck.
And weve had a line of sight on this and actually a lot of dialogue with our partners at Ford for over a two year period of time.
So this is not something thats been unexpected and not something we have not been able to plan around.
That line in Mexico builds not only medium duty trucks for Ford but also builds medium duty trucks for Navistar.
And so we do have plans for how to use those assets going forward and quite frankly it provides additional production capacity for us going forward as well and gives us the opportunity to rationalize where we build certain products to reduce our logistics costs so we can ship from different sites.
So yeah we do have plans on that.
Theyre the types of plans I think you would expect.
Hard to describe in a couple of minutes but the capacity will be well utilized and its been a good venture for us by the way.
And I think its been a good venture for our Ford partners and I think weve had a really good line of sight on this for a while.
Please dont confuse this with the other piece of the joint venture we have with Ford which is called Blue Diamond Parts.
Blue Diamond Parts which largely provides service parts to the power stroke engine series continues as a joint venture between the two of us.
And that income is largely I think accounted for in our parts business.
Its not a separate business.
Our next question comes from the line of Adam Uhlman with Cleveland Research.
Just a couple of clarifications first.
Jack I might have missed it but what was your share of combined class 8 orders in the second quarter? I dont think I said it.
I can tell you what it is.
For the second quarter theyre telling me it was 15.9%.
That was retail business.
16.1% was the orders.
And then when we think about the 9/10 engine that starts to be introduced over the next couple of months how much of the class 8 business do you think that that can represent and how much have we lost up into the 13 later or into the smaller engine? As I recall the vocational piece of class 8 is about 30%.
So two-thirds of the market is on highway and about a third of the market is severe service.
And within the severe service or the vocational market the 9/10 is the predominant engine.
Virtually all of that market is that size that engine.
So that should give you some feel for what the impact can be.
And then just lastly as youve been taking up the build rates Im wondering what kind of supply chain constraints if any youve been seeing yet or any anecdotal evidence of that down the road.
We monitor this very closely.
We expected this increase.
We have a very tight group of key suppliers that we work with all the time.
Fortunately weve not seen anything that is constraining production.
We have spot shortages but its things that are overcome.
But were watching a handful of components here but we dont think its going to have any impact on industry levels where we are now.
I mean think about it.
Were really just going to build this year at 2012 levels.
You know 2012 the industry was about 230 000.
It came down in 2013 and now were just going back to 2012 levels.
Ann if youre still on the phone I did find the number I was looking for and I just wanted to share it for everybody.
At the end of Q1 we had $199 million worth of used truck inventory.
We had indicated that that would rise and at the end of Q2 it rose to $210 million.
Its actually a couple million less than actually what we had originally forecast.
Im not sure we shared the forecast with you but well in line with the planned activity in that segment that we took.
<sub></sub> The second thing Id like to just say to everybody on I apologize for during the question and answers if you heard some papers rustling.
As your questions have become better and more focused we strongly believe we owe you better and more focused answers.
And so we are taking that opportunity to reach back and try to give you as many meaningful numbers as we can.
That helps you do your job.
So I apologize for the papers rustling but I hope that some of the data weve provided is helpful.
Operator I think were ready to conclude the call.
Great.
Id like to hand the call back over to Heather Kos for any closing remarks.
Thank you everybody for joining us today.
If you have any follow up questions you can get ahold of Randy [unintelligible] and myself.
We look forward to talking to you.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Navistar's Third Quarter 2014 Earnings Results Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session and instructions will follow at that time.
(Operator Instructions).
As a reminder this conference call is being recorded.
I would now like to introduce your host for today's conference Heather Kos Vice President of Investor Relations.
Ma'am you may begin.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us for Navistar's third quarter 2014 conference call.
With me today are Troy Clarke our President and Chief Executive Officer; Jack Allen our Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer; and Walter Borst our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Before we begin I'd like to cover a few items.
A copy of this morning's press release and the presentation slides that we will be using today have been posted on our Investor Relations web site for your reference.
The non-GAAP financial measures discussed in this call are reconciled to the U.S.
GAAP equivalent as part of the appendix in the slide deck.
Finally today's presentation includes some forward-looking statements about our expectations for future performance.
Actual results could differ materially from those suggested by our comments made here.
For additional information concerning factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected in today's presentation please refer to our most recent reports on Forms 10-K and 10-Q and our other SEC filings.
We would also refer you to the Safe Harbor statement and other cautionary notes disclaimer presented in today's material for more information on the subject.
With that I'll turn the call over to Troy Clarke for his opening remarks.
Thank you Heather and good morning everyone and thank you for joining us.
This morning Walter Jack and I are pleased to review our Q3 financial results and update the progress of our Drive to Deliver.
On our first quarter earnings call we indicated we would demonstrate meaningful quarter-over-quarter improvement.
We continue to make such progress and achieve significant milestones this quarter.
Let me highlight what we are going to talk about today.
First income from continuing operations before income taxes of $21 million; for the first time since 2011 this was positive for the quarter.
Second EBITDA we reported $133 million of adjusted EBITDA for Q3 which was better than our projected guidance range; and third we continue to meet our targets on cash.
In Q3 we once again hit our cash guidance and this is our eighth consecutive quarter of cash management to meet or exceed our goal.
Next we will talk about industry and share.
The North America traditional industry continues to grow beyond our forecast for the year.
We anticipate the Class 6-8 truck and bus market to reach between 330 000 and 340 000 units during our 2014 fiscal year.
Backlog; production and charge-outs were up year-over-year.
We continue to receive very positive feedback from our dealers and customers and our commitment to quality the excellent performance of our products great fuel economy and outstanding uptime.
Also we are reporting reduced spending in the quarter our lean initiatives engine restructuring and previous reduction in core [ph] sanctions have helped us further lower our structural costs; and in the quarter we achieved $86 million of structural cost savings.
Given this performance we are raising our year-over-year target to $300 million.
We continue to take aggressive actions and implement lean principles as we optimize our cost structure.
And finally Brazil; Brazil's economic situation continues to challenge the entire industry.
We expect an 18% decline in engine volume versus last year and we have dealt with this headwind all year and we have made significant progress lowering our fixed costs.
We expect improved profitability as we the economy recovers.
The slower than expected market share gain in the last two quarters is behind plan and our results demonstrate that we are more flexible agile and lean than many may think.
We continue to drive our breakeven point even lower; and as time progresses we are recovering marketing share as more customers experience our new SCR product.
We are making significant progress and we are building the right kind of momentum for the future and you will see more good things as we move forward.
On the whole I am pleased with the progress we have made towards the goal of exiting 2015 at our 8% to 10% EBITDA run rate.
And with that let me turn the call over to Walter and Jack and I will be back to wrap up with some comments on the remainder of 2014 and 2015.
Walter? Thank you Troy.
Good morning everyone.
I'd like to turn your attention to the financial results for the quarter on slide 9.
We continue to see benefits from our Drive to Deliver plan.
Revenue for the quarter was $2.8 billion essentially flat compared to the third quarter of 2013.
Year-over-year revenues from our North America truck segment were also flat reflecting 10% higher sales in our traditional markets offset by lower military revenues.
North America products segment reported a 4% year-over-year increase in revenues reflecting higher volumes in our commercial markets.
These increases were more than offset by lower revenues in our global operations segment primarily due to lower engine volumes reflecting the economic downturn in Brazil.
For the third quarter EBITDA was $142 million growing considerably both sequentially and year-over-year.
Income from continuing operations before tax was $21 million compared to a loss of $211 million in the third quarter of 2013.
The improvement reflects continued reductions in structural costs as well as lower warranty expense.
The testament of our strong quality and focus on costs to show this type of earnings improvement with relatively flat sales.
The reduction in warranty expense speaks volumes on the improved performance in quality of our products and the continued reduction in structural costs reflects the team's dedication to our new lean culture and focus on lowering the business's breakeven point.
As shown on slide 10 adjusted EBITDA for the quarter was $133 million beating our guidance of $75 million to $125 million.
This is the fourth consecutive quarter we have met or exceeded our guidance.
There are two adjustments that I'd like to point out.
First we reversed $29 million in prior period warranty approvals primarily related to extended service contracts reflecting lower costs for repair.
Also the standard warranty claim data on our newer products are trending favorably; and second we incurred $20 million of restructuring and asset impairment charges which principally included incremental pension related reserves stemming from a recent governmental ruling in Canada which we have appealed relating to the 2011 closure of the Chatham Ontario plant.
On slide 11 you can see the quarterly results for our business segments.
The North America Truck segment reported a loss of $12 million compared to a loss of $143 million in the third quarter of 2013.
The improvement in the segments results reflects higher truck volumes lower warranty expense and lower structural costs.
And North America Parts segment reported profit of $127 million up 30% reflecting stronger performance in our commercial markets.
The global operations segment was close to breakeven this quarter versus the loss of $22 million in the year ago quarter.
This reflects improved geographic mix and lower structural costs.
On the other hand the economic downturn in Brazil continues to challenge our operations in the region.
Financial services segment continues to perform in line with our expectations.
Segment profit in the third quarter was $24 million.
Despite lower overall retail balances financial results improved due to lower structural costs and the interest income from an intercompany loan.
Turning to slide 12 we ended the quarter with manufacturing cash cash equivalents and marketable securities of $1.1 billion.
During the quarter adjusted EBITDA more than offset the cash used for capital investments interest payments and pension and OPEB contributions.
Additionally warranty cash payments exceeded warranty expense which is expected to continue in the near term.
Also this quarter the manufacturing operations established a new $90 million intercompany loan from our captive finance subsidiary NSC which was not included in our cash guidance.
After adjusting for this loan manufacturing cash came in at the midpoint of guidance.
Turning to slide 13 we expect manufacturing cash at the end of the fourth quarter to be in the range of $1 billion to $1.1 billion after repaying the remaining $166 million of our 3% convertible notes that come due next month.
For the fourth quarter we expect operating cash flow to be positive.
Expectations driving this include $115 million to $165 million of consolidated adjusted EBITDA which excludes preexisting warranty accruals and onetime items consistent with prior quarters and a favorable change in net working capital due to increased volume and the higher number of operating days in the fourth quarter.
We also expect cash used for capital expenditures and pension and OPEB funding to be lower than in the fourth quarter of 2013.
This reflects the benefit from the recent passage of the pension funding stabilization legislation which has lowered our funding requirements to $66 million for the fourth quarter and $164 million for this fiscal year.
Slide 14 puts a few of our key operating metrics into historical context.
Manufacturing revenue in the third quarter was up 4% compared to last quarter and flat year-over-year.
We believe revenue will continue to grow in the fourth quarter of 2014 as we continue to transition our product portfolio and roll out derivative models.
Structural costs continue to come down year-over-year.
For the quarter structural costs as a percent of manufacturing revenue was 11.4% three percentage points lower than in the third quarter of 2013.
We are trending favorably as we work towards our structural cost bowl of less than 10% of manufacturing revenue.
Warranty expense is also improving.
During the first nine months of this year warranty expense as a percent of manufacturing revenue was 4.2% compared to 7.7% for all of last year.
We are on course to achieve our goal of decreasing warranty as a percent of manufacturing revenue by four percentage points.
The adjusted EBITDA margin for the quarter was 4.7% versus 3% in the second quarter of 2014 and nearly breakeven in the third quarter of 2013.
Slide 15 shows the progress on our goals for 2014 and beyond.
As Troy previously mentioned we now expect industry volumes of 330 000 to 340 000 units for 2014 including Class 6-8 and bus.
Traditional market share has not recovered as quickly as anticipated but we expect the gradual improvement over time.
Jack will elaborate further on industry volumes and market share shortly.
We continue to outpace our goals for structural cost savings.
Through the first nine months of this year we have realized $245 million of year-over-year savings.
As a result we are raising our full year 2014 structural cost savings target to $300 million.
Our business continues to improve as we execute our Drive to Deliver plan.
In the third quarter we reported income from continued operations before tax and adjusted EBITDA that beat our guidance.
For the fourth quarter our adjusted EBITDA and cash guidance build upon these results; and we remain on-track to achieve our EBITDA margin target of 8% to 10% exiting 2015.
August 1st marked my one year anniversary with the company.
As I look back on that first year the company has made significant progress on the operating side of the business by introducing new products improving quality and reducing costs.
At the same time our effective cash management and balance sheet activities have allowed us to maintain a strong liquidity position while extending our debt maturity profile.
After generating income from continuing operations before tax and close to breakeven net income this quarter the next steps from a financial perspective are to continue to improve on these quarterly results year-over-year and to generate positive cash flow so that we can further improve our capital structure.
As you can see we are progressing in the right direction and I am extremely proud of our team.
I will stop here and let jack provide more insight on our Drive to Deliver plan.
Jack? Thanks Walter and good morning everyone.
My remarks today will center around our operational progress in Q3.
To be successful this quarter we needed to address three important areas that were dragging down our financial results and I am pleased that we are able to accomplish it.
First is the quality of our products and warranty expenses and we are ahead of where we thought we'd be at this point in the quarter.
Second is our cost structure and breakeven point and we are ahead here also.
Our final hurdle is to improve sales.
Here we have made significant strides in rebuilding relationships with customers.
It started by taking care of the trucks in the field and then getting our customers the right products to run their business.
With the introduction of the severe service SCR in July all of our major SCR products are now in production and we will continue to introduce more applications and variations throughout 2015.
So let me start with warranty on slide 18; its a good news headline for the quarter.
Our warranty spend and our expense continue to come down.
Q3 warranty spend was down 22% year-over-year and 14% since the last quarter and the spend is coming down for three reasons; the cost of each repair is declining due to better repair practices; the improved quality of the new SCR engines is driving a lower warranty spend on these engines and to a lesser impact fewer ETR engines are in the warranty period.
We believe this lower warranty spend rate is sustainable and will result in spend and expense at levels consistent with industry norms.
In addition our new remote diagnostics product OnCommand Connection will enable us to further decrease our warranty expense.
It helps to increase vehicle uptime and supports quicker repairs and helps to control maintenance and repair costs.
Turning to slide 19 the second area where we overperformed in the quarter was in delivering the cost improvements mainly to lower our breakeven point.
We saw excellent results in material manufacturing SG&amp;A and engineering in addition to the lower warranty expense we have already highlighted these improvements were made by applying the lean principles of continuous improvement and waste elimination.
Our overall lower cost structure will improve profit leverage as volumes improve.
The foundation of our business has improved dramatically.
We have the right lineup of SCR-based Class 6-8 trucks and buses product warranty is declining uptime is improving order backlog production and quoting levels are all up year-over-year the quality fuel economy and driver acceptance of our new trucks is improving and our dealer body is healthy and investing in the future.
These are all indicators of improving performance and we are encouraged about the upcoming 2015 buying season.
On slide 20 chargeouts in the quarter were up year-over-year in medium by 6% and heavy on the highway by 24% where we have had SCR products in the market the longest.
But down in severe service by 18% where as I mentioned SCR is just now being launched.
Its important to note that the product line where we have had SCR products the longest Class 8 on highway with the ISX and with the MaxxForce 13 SCR is growing the fastest.
Our market share for Class 8 in the quarter was 14% and therefore we expect to see a similar growth story in medium and severe service in coming quarters.
We are also encouraged by the recovery we see in school bus with charge-outs up 15% year-over-year and we expect that to continue with the announcement we made yesterday to add propane engines to our product line and time for the 2015 school year.
On slide 21 our North America Parts business continues to be a good news story delivering strong performance in the quarter with sales up 4% year-over-year.
North America Commercial led the way with sales up 9% the second highest quarter on record.
Q3 was another good quarter for used truck sales with sales up 29% year-over-year.
Our Diamond Renewed program which we launched in the third quarter has created a lot of interest in the marketplace.
We are raising the bar by providing our used truck customers with a new truck experience.
It includes a comprehensive inspection mechanical reconditioning process and up to a two year 200 000 mile warranty.
We believe Diamond Renewed is an industry game changer and will set us apart from the competition.
On slide 22 another point of our differentiation is OnCommand Connection which I mentioned earlier.
More than 50 000 vehicles across 75 customers are now supported by OnCommand Connection.
One of our fleet customers who has used the diagnostic data for six months experienced a 28% reduction in down days and 31% reduction in repairs.
These are all leading indicators of improved performance and we have also launched a standard offering of OnCommand Connection on all Diamond Renewed used trucks.
So to sum it up we have made good operational progress on our Drive to Deliver in Q3.
Our trucks are performing well our breakeven is lower and our foundation is strong for improved sales in Q4 and into 2015.
Now I will turn it over to Troy for some closing remarks.
Thanks Jack.
As Walter and Jack just shared our financial and operational performance demonstrates the momentum we are building.
These trends will continue throughout the remainder of Q4 and 2015.
Regarding the fourth quarter 2014 let me summarize the points related to our guidance which drives our belief and the continued progress to come.
We believe Q4 chargeouts will be up year-over-year.
Manufacturing cash is expected to be in the range of $1 billion to $1.1 billion.
Q4 EBITDA guidance is $115 million to $165 million excluding prior period warranty and significant onetime items.
We project continued progress on our structural costs and improving material cost performance in Q4.
Our full year 2014 forecast has changed slightly.
We raised our combined Class 8 industry average to 235 000 to 240 000 and we project the more gradual improvement in our market share.
Our structural cost savings target is $300 million with our manufacturing and consolidation efforts and adoption of lean practices we have increased our plant first line quality and lowered inventory.
Our $50 million to $60 million of year-over-year manufacturing cost savings remains on track and more opportunities for cost reductions remain.
Entering calendar year 2015 we will reduce another $1 400 in cost from our 13 liter SCR engine.
Let me reiterate our goal of an 8% to 10% EBITDA run rate exiting 2015 remains on track.
That brings me to my final comments on the sustainability of our results.
Two years ago Navistar began the Drive to Deliver plan of rapid and profound change.
We have significantly improved the quality of our products we have reduced our warranty expense we have restructured our business lowered our structural costs and improved the uptime of our vehicles with offerings like OnCommand Connection.
These accomplishments also reflect significant ongoing changes in the Navistar team at all levels.
Together we have strengthened our customer focus and committed ourselves to continuous improvement although we are pleased with this quarter's progress we now believe that we are entering the next phase of our journey.
Be assured we will continue to accelerate this progress.
Thanks for your time this morning.
Let me turn it back over to Heather and let's open this up for any questions or comments that you might have.
That concludes our prepared remarks.
But before we go to questions to be fair we ask that each of our limit yourself to one question including an optional follow-up.
SO operator we are now ready to open the line.
(Operator Instructions).
Our first question comes from Jerry Revich of Goldman Sachs.
Your line is now open.
Good morning.
Hey Jerry.
Walter I am wondering if you could just comment on the warranty process now that you have been on board for over a year? I know you have been dealing with the material weakness that you have been reporting and your out-of-period warranty reduction would have been even more significant without mark-to-market on some of the out of period errors.
So can you just update us on where you're on in the process and then from a quality standpoint I am wondering if either you or Troy can just touch on whether the type of warranty accrual performance we saw this quarter for the base business excluding out of period is sustainable heading into 4Q? Yeah it's Walter.
We are making good progress I think on the warranty side on a number of fronts.
As you alluded to we have a material weakness in that area and we continue to clean that up.
We did find a few items that we needed to correct and we did so in the quarter.
We will call that out in our Q to provide additional disclosure around that.
But we are making good progress in that area there are still little ways to go there though we are not declaring victory on that front year.
As it relates to the performance though as Jack and I both alluded to we are seeing good progress in terms of reduced spend per unit and so the quality actions I think that the company has taken and the efforts in this area are really starting to pay off.
And we have really put a lot of effort into this area over the last year stood by our customers but also worked very hard internally to reduce the spend which as we have indicated before ultimately is precursor to what might ultimately happen on the expense side as well; and we are fortunate this quarter as we kind of looked at everything that we were able to reverse some of the accruals that we had taken in previous quarters and we will continue to do that in every quarter going forward.
But really this is a function of our focus on quality and perhaps Troy or Jack would want to comment on that.
No look I mean -- so the question whether its sustainable or not I mean I think buried in there is an accounting question do we anticipate future reversals that's not the kind of thing I think that we forecast to be very honest.
That's not how the process works.
What Walter did comment on that I think is worth to note is that warranty spend is coming down and it is coming down for the right reasons.
The trucks we have fixed are staying fixed.
So the repairs and kind of reengineering that we have put into making the EGR product better has worked.
Our cost of repairs is coming down is coming down because we have engineered better processes better times to be able to fix these products to be faster and more efficient.
And then last but not least the newer trucks even the newer EGR trucks just from the get-go don't have the same kind of warranty spend early in their life that the older trucks do and then certainly the SCR products are another step better than those as well as now that we do have a percentage of purchased engines in the portfolio we have a mix issue that starts to work in our favor.
So all of these things are driving the spend number that Walter referenced in the right direction.
And I again can't comment on how the accrual works but with regards to the spend; I think we have a laser-like focus on managing this spend and continuing to improve it.
I don't know Jack if you'd add anything? Jerry I would just add these are all positive indicators or how we view sales prospects going into 2015 early as we have mentioned we are not where we had anticipated being and I think a lot of that has to do with customers really wanting to gain experience with our new products before they increase their percentage of their buy [ph] in our favor.
And as we see these indicators and its manifesting itself in warranty spend that's another sign of encouragement.
And Jack my follow-up would be just on that last point the buying cycles tend to be pretty lumpy on the medium duty side; wondering if you'd just comment on how the customer discussions are headed versus your initial expectations and can you update us on when do you expect to have the full product range with the ISP available as well? True.
If you look at medium duty we go back a little bit into late last year; we had a very good initial surge in fleet orders when we announced the ISP last fall and also -- from our dealer channel also.
So we've built today over 7 000 vehicles with ISPs and about 5 000 of them are currently in service.
The fleet business is -- those trucks are in service and a lot of the dealer trucks are working their way through body companies and into deliveries.
So the customers are gaining experience the data that we are getting back is very positive on fuel economy on performance on uptime.
So we do expect repeat business but as importantly we expect a greater portion of existing customer business and our boarding activity would indicate that.
Jerry there is about a 10 or 12 customers on medium duty that make up over half the sales and we know exactly who they are.
We meet with them often they all have vehicles new vehicles of ours running in their fleet.
We monitor their performance constantly and we expect that going into 2015 we will garner a greater share of their business.
Thank you.
Sure.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from David Leiker of Baird.
Your line is now open.
Hi.
Good morning everyone.
This is Joe Vruwink on the line for David.
Hi Joe.
Hi Joe.
Wondering if we can start on just your order development during the quarter? It looks like you saw a 5% decline in intake and what looked like a pretty strong industry environment during July.
Wondering is this is a function of just customer timing is it competitive development is it as you alluded to some of the introduction of your new product just anything you can say there? I think its a little bit like the question I just tried to answer.
A lot of this in the quarter is really built on the customers that have taken delivery of our products early in the year.
Working their way through the experience providing us feedback providing them information about how the vehicles are performing through our OnCommand Connection system and so that's the essence of it.
I think what is important is if you look at Class 8 on highway where we have had the vehicles the longest the SCR vehicles the longest in production.
This is where we continue to see a positive trendline in terms of our sales increase.
Our retail sales in the third quarter for on-highway were up 20% some and the area that continues to drag us down is the severe service where until just in July we hadn't had any SCR products in our pipeline [ph].
Maybe on that point when you look at the nine to 10 liter products and these two segments sort of 6-7 truck and Class 8 straights any sense of what pieces of those market are typically buyers in that engine displacement size that you now have a product directly for? Well medium duty its in the 10% to 15% range but in the severe service market the 9-10 makes up over 60 -- looking at another guide 60% to 70% of that segment with the remainder being 13 liters.
Okay.
So maybe the read here is its not so much on the near term market share figures inflecting meaningfully higher but when you look into next year in the 22% to 24% targets do you still feel good about those? We will continue to make gradual progress as we mentioned in our market share front.
Clearly it has come back a lower than what we had thought.
We had indicated that we thought we could end this year with 21% run rate with the higher industry its likely to be a point or two less than that but we will continue to see progress.
As we look at our Q4 order board we will build over 20% more trucks in the fourth quarter than we did in the fourth quarter of last year.
So for us that's continual progress.
Hey Joe this is Troy I would just make reference to Jack's prepared remarks; when we launched the Class 8 product certainly we wanted it to be kind of a snapback in terms of demand but what we really saw was a lull there while people worked the demos through and got their head around what the new product offering was.
When we decided the launch of the ISP into the medium duty as a shorter route to SCR for us of course we did that a little bit different with the thought that we need to kind of stimulate demand in the shorter term but actually we have kind of seen the same thing and I think what we are seeing on that is we are kind of exiting that lull in terms of medium duty orders and I think the quoting activity that we see would indicate that its a very similar phenomenon to what we experience in the Class 8 on highway.
And I think that's kind of what we will expect and experience on the 9-10 as well.
We certainly would love these recoveries in market share to come out of the gate a little bit faster but I think we understand that phenomenon better now after having gone through two of these major launches.
Those are the comments that Jack was really making in his comments.
The good thing is it gives us confidence we know what's happening and we know that those orders are coming and we see that in our quoting activity already.
The bad news is its never fast enough.
I think it was also encouraging Joe is that when you look at what we have done on the cost structure side and where we have been able to over deliver here.
So if you look at the quarter as Walter said for us to essentially breakeven in the quarter at volumes that were below our expectations that's encouraging to us because we do have a lot of confidence that the volume will come.
That all makes sense and the cost performance clearly has been great.
That's like you said it never comes quickly but having the revenues fall in place will be the final stuff.
I will leave it there and thanks very much.
Thank you Joe.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Jeff Kauffman of Buckingham Research.
Your line is now open.
Thank you very much and congratulations guys.
Question probably more for Walter Jack; the chart that you show I think its on slide 20 of your presentation which -- or 18 where we have seen kind of the ageing of the vehicles subject to the warranty reserve.
Its kind of hard to read the numbers but could you give us an idea of what the 2010 to 2012 heavy duty units you expect as of November 2014 according to those charts and kind of as the follow-up you have also been actively repurchasing some of these units regearing them reselling them back into the used network.
I am assuming that that is also taking that population of 2010 to 2012 EGR engines down at a faster pace.
So can you give us an idea of realistically where these numbers could be at the end of this year say relative to the end of the last fiscal year and update us on the success of that repurchase program? Well the chart does reflect what we expect to happen in this year and basically what this chart is intending to do is to demonstrate that the -- we are past the peak of what we view as being our warranty expense period.
But we still have a vast majority of the EGR big bore engines that we built are in warranty.
I think it's -- over 90% remain in either their standard or their extended warranty period.
Okay.
So if that number was peaking around 60 000 during the calendar year 2013 where do you expect that number to be towards the end of this fiscal year including some of those engines that you're repurchasing and repurposing? Well that's not -- I mean we are going to have to get back to you and then answer on that question because that's not what this chart is intending to depict is.
This chart doesn't show how many vehicles are coming out of the warranty period.
Right and that's why I am asking the question.
Okay well I will just get back to you offline with that.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Stephen Volkmann of Jefferies.
Your line is now open.
Great.
Good morning everybody.
Hey how are you? Great.
So I am wondering if we can just look at the fourth quarter a little bit.
I think Jack you said something about your build plan year-over-year was up.
Is it up sequentially and if so can you give us a sense of that? Its up slightly sequentially.
Up slightly.
Okay.
And how do you -- based on the backlog or the build orders that you have is the mix sort of up down or sideways in the fourth quarter? I am not sure I have that.
Okay fair enough.
I guess what I am trying to think about is based on your adjusted EBITDA target for the fourth quarter like almost the bottom half of that range is sort of down quarter-over-quarter and I guess I am trying to figure out if there is something happening that would cause that or as you are just sort of trying to be a little bit conservative or why we would have a flat or even down EBITDA sequentially? Yeah its Walter.
We hope that will be up sequentially but there is a number of moving parts with Navistar as you know and we do have some -- in some areas for example in SG&amp;A we do have some expenses that we have once a year that typically fall in the fourth quarter.
So while we hope to make progress in -- continue to make progress in most of the areas there are some areas that are working against us a little bit as well.
Military has been down this year as well.
So those would be two areas that we are watching even though on the SG&amp;A side we still expect to be up year-over-year in terms of our savings.
I think that's what you should look at but we have given you a $50 million range there in terms of our EBITDA guidance.
Right.
Is military going to be down sequentially again? I might have to take a look at that.
It's another [ph] level? And then a quick follow-up if you could just comment on your used equipment inventories and how that progressed sequentially and what pricing was looking like in that market and I will pass it on? Walter is going to look up to the exact numbers for you.
But in our -- our used truck inventory didn't go up in the quarter as we had indicated that it would.
But the market continues to be very strong for you as truck sales is indicated by our sales being up 29% year-over-year I would described pricing as being firm during the quarter.
But with our new SCR units that are performing well in the market customers are getting improved quality and fuel economy and as a result we are working with a lot of customers to transition them to this new product and that's resulting in this temporary increase in our used truck inventory.
We manage this very closely as you can imagine but the timing really is good because the market is still strong and the Diamond Renewed program that we launched has got a lot of interest in the market and we are using our own used truck reconditioning center to make sure that these vehicles are right we are putting a very logical warranty associated with them and we are very encouraged that we will move through this used truck bubble in a very efficient manner.
The number at the end of July and inventory was $265 million.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Joel Tiss of BMO.
Your line is now open.
Hey guys.
How is it going? Hey Joe.
I just wonder if the parts margin improvement are we getting to near where that is going to settle down a little bit or do you think there is a visibility to get into the mid-20s over time? That would be nice.
That area is working extremely hard and like every other part of the business they have really been working to take structural costs out of the business.
So if we can keep doing that margins will continue to improve in this area.
I think the other thing as we look forward to that is -- this is Troy by the way is we really haven't because of the warranty activity we really haven't seen the parts sales related to our big bore engines.
And the 13-liter is kind of still a relatively new product I think for the company so I think we would anticipate beginning to see that effect as the engines fall out of warranty and our thought is that that could have some upward pressure as well.
Okay.
Great.
And just a quick one maybe for Walter that the other assets and liabilities had a $650 million negative swing I just wonder if you can highlight a couple of the bigger chunks in there just to get an idea what's in that category? Yeah that's principally inventory related and parts I mean that's the whole $600 million but the kind of the year-to-date change which I think was in the order of $290 million if I am looking at the same line or thinking about the same line you are -- Right.
We did see used inventory increase about $100 million versus the end of last year in follow-up to the prior question that we'd had.
So I think that's what's principally driving that line item.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Ann Duignan of JP Morgan.
Your line is now open.
Hi good morning.
Hi Ann.
Good morning Ann.
Most of my questions have been answered but I just wanted to circle back on the market share question as I wander around different places around the United States I am seeing more and more medium duty cab-over trucks particularly some of the Paccar ones from their Dutch unit in Europe.
Just curious if you're worried at all that your medium duty marker terminates the -- held back a little bit by this development and the trend towards more cab-over in driving? Ann this is Jack.
I haven't looked at the data probably as close as you have but cab-overs in the Class 6 and 7 market continue to be a single digit piece of the market.
Certainly there is a lot more cab-overs as you go down into the Class 3 and even Class 4 area.
So I don't believe that that's a trend that's going to become more prevalent in the marketplace.
I think its still just a good niche for intercity pickup and delivery.
I would say and this is Troy an interesting note just an anecdote over the course of this year working with JAC our Chinese partner we have introduced Class 3 4 and 5 cab-over trucks into the Mexican market where there does appear to be more demand and we have met with some success on it.
I think this does create options for us in the future if in fact that trend starts to spread or comes to path.
Okay.
So you could take that joint venture -- those joint venture vehicles into the North America that you needed to or wanted to? Well they wouldn't currently pass I think the -- some of the regulatory requirements.
But we have a very clear line of sight on what it would take to make that take place.
Yes.
Okay.
My other questions have been mostly answered so I will leave it there.
Thanks.
Thanks Ann.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Andy Casey of Wells Fargo Securities.
Your line is now open.
Thanks a lot.
Good morning everyone.
Hey Andy.
Looking at North American truck segment you had a substantial improvement in Q3 versus Q2 on the EBIT line and then if I look sequentially you had roughly 93% incremental margin on a sequential $121 million revenue improvement.
If I assume all of the warranty improvement occurred in that segment it still drove around a 43% adjusted incremental.
Can you talk about some of the subcomponents that changed outside maybe the warranty in Q3 from Q2? Yeah one of the big ones continues to be structural costs both in the SG&amp;A area and in engineering; and most of that would be for the North America truck segment; but we did have higher volume as well and I guess one that we sometimes don't talk about is the improvements we have been making on the manufacturing side and they continue to be on track versus our $50 million to $60 million target for the year.
Purchasing you know material savings is another area where we have been working hard to reduce our costs and this year in particular to a [indiscernible] the incremental costs we had related to adding SCR to our engines.
So there is probably three four five areas where we are seeing improvements in the North American segments.
Okay.
Thanks Walter.
And if I -- and just back on the structural costs if I try to back in to the absolute dollar number seemed like it stayed around $200 million in Q3 from Q2.
So were there any offsets in other segments that may be mask the overall improvement just on the North American truck? I am not sure I am following your question.
Okay I can follow-up with Heather offline on that.
If we then turn to your performance in the quarter versus your longer term goals and somebody had a cast-off comment and I just want to come back to it.
Your progress on warranty has been very good and your -- in the quarter you were below the 4% longer term goal and then on the structural costs you are getting within that 10% upper end of your longer term goal relative to sales.
Is the bulk of the gap the EBITDA goal of 8% to 10% exiting next year really now dependent on volume or is there further cost reduction that you can do? One of the areas that we hope to do quite a bit better on is in material costs over time.
So one of the targets we have set out there is to improve that by five points over time and we are only part of the way through that journey at the current time.
On top of that we had previously announced the adjustment to our production capacity relative to the Huntsville plant.
So we have referenced openly I think in the past there is a $22 million kind of running start at the manufacturing savings that we get.
Then Jack I don't know if you want to comment but I think on the sales thing its just not units its kind of the mix of sales and I don't know if you'd like to -- Just the severe service market because of the uniqueness of the vehicles and the complexity of those vehicles traditionally have a higher margin.
So as we do better in the severe service market it will certainly -- the mix element of that will certainly help the overall EBITDA also.
t those are kind of the components between what Walter commented and Jack did if you kind of put those together material costs structural costs big part of that is manufacturing and then improved mix those are kind of the three or four areas almost equal I think in their weight as we look forward to 2015.
All have some upside obviously all have some risks but I think those are -- that's kind of at a 30 000 [indiscernible] we are looking at it.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
All right.
Thank you Andy.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Andrew Kaplowitz of Barclays.
Your line is now open.
Good morning guys.
Hi Andy.
Troy can you update us on the Brazilian market a little bit more and maybe talk about the progress that you've made so far on taking costs out of the MWM Engine business.
What do you need to see to get your overall global operations business to return to profitability and how are you thinking about the business versus your ability to achieve the 8% to 10% EBITDA margin run rate that you've talked about? Yeah Andrew good question.
So I think in the past we have referred to we kind of have three pieces right now of your global enterprise.
One of them is a very joint venture that we have in China around building engines right now with a company called JAC.
The good news there is that's certainly not a drag I think quite frankly -- and my hats off to our team over there working with the JAC guys because it is very typical for a venture like this to lose money and absorb cash or consume cash for a period of time before it becomes positive; and I think Drew the way we have approached that over there we are really not experiencing that.
So that's really not a drag and I think as we go forward not next year but probably the next year we will start to see some meaningful contributions; especially in light of the fact that this is a joint venture designed to make advanced emission requirement engines and there is this huge push in China at this particular point of time to get those engines into the field given some of the issues and concerns that they have over there with regards to air pollution and contamination.
So that's kind of neutral to positive I think certainly going forward.
The second piece of our business is a pretty robust export business primarily to Central America and Andean Countries of Latin America.
That actually kind of stalled a little bit on us earlier in the year but seems to have picked up and I think in fact strength in that area has offset some of the weakness that we have experienced in Brazil which has taken us basically to kind of this breakeven-ish performance in the global side of our business which is an improvement year-over-year.
So that's the kind of thing that I think with emissions regulations coming in and certainly the reactivation of commodity-based economies in some of those Andean countries we are optimistic we have really good share down there we are a market leader and I think we have the opportunity to look forward to more growth there.
Brazil really what we have is this engine business and its a very well positioned engine business.
We are kind of number one.
We have a large market share.
We are in a great position.
The fact of the matter is the whole economy is down okay and so what we have been forced to do there is to maybe take a longer view and say we need to implement some rather major restructuring and that it would significantly lower our breakeven point.
We are in the process of doing that okay and we will wrestle that business to breakeven over the course of the next six months or so.
So I don't anticipate that it will be a drag on our efforts to get to the 8% to 10% EBITDA next year.
When the market starts to come back in Brazil this is a business that is very well positioned to -- because of the restructuring effort that we have done down there I think to contribute and if it comes back next year and there is some anticipation that it will after they get past their political season which takes place -- their election season little bit later this year then I think that this could be a little bit of insurance policy for us and a contributor to the 8% to 10%.
We are not counting on it to contribute a lot as we put our numbers together at this point in time and we are working very hard to make sure that its not a drag.
But at the end of the day its a good business.
It has been a good business its well run got a great brand have a good cost structure we are making it even better.
Okay Troy that's helpful.
And then just -- looking at the 8% to 10% goal a little bit more at what point do you just adjust the pieces of your goal to what you actually see going in the market? For instance maybe you give us a more specific structural cost target considering how well you're doing there and maybe you changed your market share forecast or make it less specific because it seems like if you're going to make your goal maybe from my perspective it might be with a little less market share but a little bit better cost for instance? Well I think what we will do is give us a chance to get through to fourth quarter here then we will give you a good wrap-up for I think the 2014 -- through 2014 and then if there is any kind of -- I am sure there will be the need for clarification if we say maybe resetting some of those parameters and we have run sensitivities around those please be assured of that.
But I think at this point in time we are still very confident.
There is a lot of buttons we have yet to push.
We are making progress again as Jack indicated in some areas that exceed our expectations.
We are confident the market share is coming and the mix is improving.
So give us another quarter or so to finish up our -- executing the plan for this year and then we will give you guys some more insight into 2015 this week as we go forward.
Okay.
Thanks for that Troy.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Brian Sponheimer of Gabelli and Company.
Your line is now open.
Hey guys.
Thank you for having me on.
Hey Brian.
Just a few for me and I am trying to frame just this $1 300 per engine cost reduction if we are looking for the 2015 certified engines.
Let's say volume is neutral and you're shelling roughly 20 000 this year are you calling out at least $26 million opportunity next year on the material cost side? You're referring to the $1 400 that we plan to take out of the 13-liter I think that's directionally correct.
Right okay.
All right its $28 million on 20 000 engines give or take.
If I am thinking about your used inventory and your used prices how dependent are you on bonus depreciation in Section 179 getting renewed to kind of work some of that used inventory through the system in the last few months of the year? We are really not counting that.
That would be a -- in addition to probably have an end of the year sales surge.
But we haven't baked that into our plans.
All right.
And just -- Walter if I am thinking about some of the restructuring that you've done typically Navistar has had a significant cash outflow during the first and second quarters of your fiscal year.
Should there be any change maybe from a working capital basis given this renewed company with all of your structural changes and how cash burn takes place over -- from a seasonal perspective? I think you could still expect the first quarter to be from a cash flow perspective than let's say the fourth quarter just because of the number of operating days in our first quarter which kind of covers that November to January time period is lower.
So you should expect I think that that will impact our cash flow from a seasonal perspective but our obviously here is to improve our quarterly results and so if we can continue to do better year-over-year on EBITDA then the change in working capital in the first quarter won't be as significant as what you had seen before.
I am not sure whether the second quarter has historically been a significant negative cash quarter.
I kind of think it more as flattish is what I have seen in the time I have been here and again we hope to improve on that in the future.
All right.
How are you thinking about the balance sheet? You got about $2.1 billion in net debt and certainly the healthcare liability is out there and will likely continue to be so until we see some significant increases in rates? Yeah as I mentioned in my prepared remarks we are kind of moving through our financial milestones and ultimately we want to get to cash flow positive and then we will be able to delever the balance sheet.
But in the short term we continue to be focused on liquidity in minimizing the cash use and improving our year-on-year quarterly results.
So we have done a great job I think this year of maintaining our liquidity position while extending our maturity of our debt.
So those were our goals for this year and as we get to cash flow positive on a sustainable basis we will look to delever the balance sheet over time.
All right.
I agree with that.
Great job guys.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Adam Uhlman of Cleveland Research.
Your line is now open.
Hi guys.
Good morning.
Good morning.
I was wondering if you could talk about the pricing levels on trucks that you have in the backlog right now? Whether or not we should be expecting that to get better or worse relative to the shipments that we had this quarter? I know its tough with mix and everything else in there but -- actually how you're thinking about that its actually relative to your market share goals going forward? We don't see a significant change in the fourth quarter compared to what we have been experiencing.
Pricing in the market has been fairly firm.
Okay.
Got you.
Thanks very much.
Thank you.
Thank you.
And our final question comes from Steven Fisher of UBS.
Your line is now open.
Great.
Thanks very much.
You guys cited a 54% increase in your backlog year-over-year.
To what extent you have long-dated orders in that backlog that gives you some visibility out to 2015 already? We don't count orders in our backlog that would extend beyond 12 months.
So that's kind of our first general rule not sure if that's an industry rule but that's what we count.
So that would be one thing Steven.
So we do have orders that extend into next year but its a very past -- I am assuming you mean past January but its a very low percentage of what's in our overall order book.
Okay.
And then obviously some great progress there on the structural costs.
Now that we have had a couple of quarters where you've raised your targets there what would you say has been the biggest driver of the upside surprise there or is it maybe more timing dynamic where you're just getting the benefits faster than expected? I just think really everybody has rolled up their sleeves and embraced our lean culture here.
And we have asked the organization to think hard about spending money and not spending where its not needed and the organization has really responded.
We are improving our processes and implementing lean not only in the manufacturing environment but in the office environment as well and I think that has given us some good upside versus where we surely expected the year initially to fall out.
This is Troy I would agree with Walter.
I think its really a function of broad-based engagement on a handful of basic lean concepts.
The most basic of which is we have gone to great efforts in the last couple of years to make our -- all elements of performance in our operation far more visible to everybody and the things that we do to review performance and get people engaged in the forecasting process reaches really far down into the organization and we have got a couple of thousand people kind of all aligned around how we look at where we spend money and if it isn't satisfying a customer or satisfying a shareholder or investing in the future we are really just challenging ourselves and questioning if that's the kind of things that we should be doing.
Again the great thing is its just not myself or Walter Jack its a couple of thousand people who are doing that every day and have been invited into that process in a very motivating and positive way by the way.
You could be surprised if you visited our headquarters it doesn't feel like there is a Draconian effort to reduce costs.
There is a lot of energy and excitement around people finding new and better ways to do things and discovering waste as we have defined it in our lean process and taking it out.
So its one of those times in any effort but certainly some people experiencing in their career where you can't wait to get to work every day because there is just more good news coming at you and sometimes it's $100 sometimes it's $1 000.
We are fortunate sometimes when its several million dollars but everybody is engaged everybody is involved that's the Navistar that we have created and that we are all excited to be a part of.
Sounds good.
Thanks very much.
Thank you.
And at this time I'd like to turn the call back to management for any closing comments.
Hey I wanted to just thank everybody for your participation in today's call.
Certainly this is -- we are treating this as a milestone inside of our company.
Its the first time we have had this type of news to report since 2011 but certainly as a leadership group and I think the entire Navistar team recognizes this is just another step in the journey; a journey that we keep pushing forward and we look forward to sharing with you in the fourth quarter as it comes to us.
Thank you everybody and we are available for questions after the call.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for participating in today's conference.
This does conclude today's program.
You may all disconnect.
Everyone have a wonderful day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen.
And welcome to the Navistar's Fourth Quarter 2014 Earnings Results Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session and instructions will be given at that time.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference call is being recorded.
Id now introduce your host for today's conference Kevin Sadowski Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead sir.
Good morning everyone.
And thank you for joining us for Navistar's fourth quarter 2014 conference call.
With me today are Troy Clarke our President and Chief Executive Officer; and Walter Borst our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Before we begin today I'd like to cover a few items.
A copy of this morning's press release and the presentation slides that will be use today have been posted on our Investor Relations website for your reference.
The non-GAAP financial measures discussed in this call are reconciled to the U.S.
GAAP equivalent as part of the appendix in the slide deck.
Finally today's presentation includes some forward-looking statements about our expectations for future performance.
Actual results could differ materially from those suggested by our comments made here.
For additional information concerning factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected in today's presentation please refer to our most recent reports on Forms 10-K and 10-Q and our other SEC filings.
We would also refer you to the Safe Harbor statement and other cautionary notes disclaimer presented in today's material for more information on the subject.
With that I'll turn the call over to Troy Clarke for his opening remarks.
Okay.
Hey.
Thank you Kevin and good morning everyone.
I hope most of you have had a chance to meet Kevin Sadowski.
He replaces Heather Kos as our Vice President of Investor Relations your new point of contact.
On slide five since our last call we have had some other important leadership changes at the executive level here at Navistar.
Last month we announced that Jack Allen our Chief Operating Officer is retiring.
With Jacks departure Walter Borst our CFO is taking on broader responsibilities.
His portfolio now includes business development strategic planning and merger and acquisition activity.
We also elevated two proven leaders Persio Lisboa Navistar veteran who previously was our Chief Procurement Officer.
He is now President of Operations.
His key areas of responsibility include product development procurement manufacturing and global operations.
He will also lead our enterprise-wide lean effort.
In addition Bill Kozek has been promoted to President Truck and Parts.
For the past year and half Bill has led our North America truck activities including sales and marketing and during this time he has lead our efforts to go-to-market with our new SCR product.
Now Bills leadership has expanded to include customer service product planning Navistar defense and global export.
Actually I am thrilled to work with these three leaders as we continue our journey to return to profitability.
Lets take a look at our agenda on slide six.
This morning I'll start with an overview of our progress in the quarter.
Walter will go over our financial results with you.
Then I'll be back to summarize before we move into Q&amp;A.
Bill and Persio will join us for the Q&amp;A part of the call.
Turning to our results for Q4 on slide seven.
At high level I would summarize the quarter as one marked by continued progress.
We maintained the steady focus on improving our core North America Truck and Parts business.
Our performance is on track and trending in the right direction.
This has been all year.
Let me share some highlights.
For the fifth straight quarter we were within our adjusted EBITDA guidance range.
Truck sales were up quarter-over-quarter and they have been up sequentially each quarter of the fiscal year.
Q4 was also another good quarter for used truck sales.
All year sales were up 18% year-over-year.
This performance contributed to a record used truck sales for the year.
With higher new truck sales we have seen our used truck inventory increase as we work through some tridents related to our legacy product.
So increased used truck sales are important to manage the interest of many stakeholders.
In fact we believe Diamond renewed our used truck reconditioning program launched in the summer is a real game changer.
Its actually creating a lot of interest in the marketplace and has raise the bar by providing our used truck customers with many attributes of a new truck experience.
In addition we had record commercial parts sales for the quarter capping off another great year of parts performance.
Warranty spend continues to go down.
Its a result of declining cost of repair due to better repair practices newer EGR engines in the warranty period and the better quality of both the EGR engine that remained under warranty as well as outstanding new product quality.
In fact our ProStar quality is continuously improved.
The quality of our 2015 model year truck is improved 30% compared to our 2013 model year.
We continue to over perform in structural cost reduction.
Our Q4 cost reductions were consistent with Q3 and we beat our $300 million target for the year.
Significantly we have taken out nearly $650 million in structural costs over the past two year.
We achieved our manufacturing cost improvement goal of $50 million to $60 million.
Our vehicle assembly plants continue to improve their efficiency lower overtime and deliver better quality.
In addition we also announced yesterday that we are closing our Indianapolis foundry where we produce engine blocks and heads.
Buying these castings will reduce our engine costs improve our overall manufacturing capacity utilization and free up additional resources to invest in our core North America Truck and Parts businesses.
This action is another part of our efforts to eliminate non-core operations as we continue to improve our cost structure and return the company to profitability.
In addition we achieved significant year-over-year material cost savings.
As matter of fact we have largely offset the add-on cost of SCR through these actions going into 2015.
These savings were driven by outstanding cost functional collaboration between procurement engineering and manufacturing.
And under Persio leadership our goal has declined even more opportunities for these functions to improve our business results in the year ahead.
Many of these achievements can be attributed to the progress of our lean enterprise efforts.
Meanwhile the economic climate in Brazil remains weak.
MWM's performance was a drag on our Q4 results.
However our team in South America has restructured the business to reduce costs and resize our operations.
In China our engine joint venture with JAC began production this quarter and a new state-of-the-art facility in Hefei which also has a research and development center.
We are very excited to partner with JAC to bring clean engine technology to China.
As per cash we feel good about our performance in our overall cash position.
We had a number demand on cash in the quarter as we repay the remaining portion of the convertible debt that came due last year and as I mentioned earlier we have drove an increasing used truck inventory.
We cap further into our used truck facility available to us to NFC but we have maintained the billion dollars in cash for two years now as we went through our turnaround.
Given our progress and delivering improvements to our core business we believe that we can now run the company at more historical cash balance levels and Walter will touch on this subject in his remarks.
Now lets turn to the Industry on slide eight.
For our fiscal year just ended the Industry came in above the top of our range.
In 2014 Class 8 volumes reach the highest levels since 2006.
Improved new truck fuel economy combined with rising tonnage and improve transportation company profitability contributed to higher demand for Class 8 trucks.
Likewise modest expansion in consumer goods spending and steady gains in construction point to a favorable growth conditions in the medium truck market as well.
From a volume standpoint we benefited from a now complete line-up of SCR products and a strong market.
Our Class 8 chargeouts increased by 14% year-over-year in Q4 and they are up 12% for the year.
We saw a strong whole year performance in Class 8 because this is where weve had SCR products in customers hand for longest and our trucks continues to gain success.
In Class 6-7 chargeouts were up over 41% in Q4 year-over-year and up 9% fiscal year 14 compared to the previous year as we rolled out the various ISP configuration.
We expect medium-duty to follow the same trend as heavy as we continue to launch additional body in chassis configurations wholly completing this transition in the first half of 2015.
We also finished the year with a strong backlog of orders.
Our traditional markets were up 24% for the full year fiscal year 14 compared to fiscal year 13.
Rebuilding sales and market share continues to be one of our highest priority and in our world its about the customer.
Customers are focused on uptime fuel economy weight driver satisfaction and we think we have the right products to meet our customers needs.
Our quality is the best that it has been in a decade and our fuel economy is at or near the top in the industry in getting better.
Specifically on the product front we recently announced a new fuel efficiency package for the ProStar we call it the ProStar ES and it's available for order right now.
Our engineering team studied and tested hundreds of vehicle powertrain and component combinations to develop an integrated package that maximizes fuel efficiency.
And also this quarter we started taking orders for the propane version of the CE Series school bus.
And as we mentioned in our last call alternative fuels would become more important to this market.
And this is the first school bus specifically engineered to run on propane without sacrificing the power performance or durability that our customers have come to know with the diesel engine.
Bill and his team work hard to get on every deal every day every channel where we compete Class 8 leasing and rental vocational deal in bus.
And we've come a long way in strengthening customer relationship across these channels and were doing all of the right things to deliver value to our customers.
Were confident that these actions will drive higher volume and market share.
However we have realistic growth plan.
Even though share hasnt come back as quickly wed hope we lowered our breakeven points so that we remain on track to exit 2015 within our guidance of 8% to 10% EBITDA margin run rate.
Before turning it over to Walter let me say that Im part of the Navistar team.
Because of their hard work and commitment we have accomplished about 10 years of change over the course of the last two years.
Based on this I feel confident that well continue to deliver results needed to return Navistar to profitability.
Now let me turn it over to Walter.
Thank you Troy.
Good morning everyone.
Lets turn our attention now to the financial results.
Fourth quarter revenue grew to $3 billion up 9% compared to the fourth quarter of 2013 largely driven by the improvements in our core North America truck operations.
Revenues from our North America truck segment grew 16% reflecting a 23% increase in traditional truck chargeouts.
Sales from our North America commercial parts operation increased 3% in the quarter.
However this increase was more than offset by lower military and Blue Diamond parts sales.
As a result North America parts segment revenues increased 4% year-over-year.
Revenues from our global operations segment were essentially flat.
This reflects lower engine volumes due to the economic conditions in Brazil offset by higher truck volumes in Columbia.
EBITDA for the fourth quarter was $66 million as compared to a loss of $227 million in the fourth quarter of 2013.
The significant year-over-year improvement in our results reflects the increase in sales as well as the impact of lower warranty expense and reduced structural cost.
As shown on slide 11 adjusted EBITDA for the quarter was $116 million within our guidance range.
This is the fifth consecutive quarter weve met or exceeded our EBITDA guidance.
There are few adjustments that Id point out.
One we reversed $10 million of prior period warranty reserves primarily resulting from extended warranty improvement in our big bore engines.
And two we also had $60 million of one-time charges in the quarter including $29 million principally against inventory related to actions to right size the Brazil truck operations and $27 million of restructuring asset impairment and other charges related to yesterday's announcement of the closing of our Indianapolis foundry and other ROIC actions.
In addition in the first half of 2015 we would expect up to $40 million of additional charges for accelerated depreciation to flow through our results stemming from the exit of this facility and other related impact.
These actions are expected to generate annual operating savings of $13 million.
Turning to Slide 12 we continue to the improvements in our core North America truck business.
North America truck segment lowered its year-over-year loss by $300 million.
Contributing to the improvement in the segments results were higher truck sales reduced warranty expense and lower structural costs as well as the non-repeat of certain impairment charges.
The North America parts segment profit of $143 million was essentially flat compared to a year ago.
A loss of $33 million in the global operations segment was primarily due to the $29 million charge I mentioned earlier.
The financial services segment continues to show strong results.
Segment profit in the fourth quarter improved to $26 million reflecting an increase in the net financial margin from higher average finance receivables balances during the quarter and an increase in interest earned on an intercompany loan.
Slide 13 graphically depicts our key operating metrics.
As you can see all of the metrics continue to show strong year-over-year improvements.
Manufacturing revenue in the fourth quarter was up 10% compared to last year.
In fact revenue grew each consecutive quarter of 2014.
In 2015 we believe revenue will continue to improve as our new product gained traction in the market.
In the fourth quarter structural cost as a percent of manufacturing revenue were 11.4% compared to 15% in the fourth quarter of 2013.
In 2014 structural costs came down $311 million compared to a year ago.
Please keep in mind this in on top of the $330 million of structural cost we took out of the business last year.
Warranty expense continues to be a good story as our new products continued to trend favorably.
For the year warranty expense as a percent of manufacturing revenue was 3.7% achieving our targeted reduction of four percentage points versus 2013 ahead of schedule.
Importantly we were in a position to reverse $39 million of prior period warranty accruals during the second half of 2014 into more favorable warranty experience.
The adjusted EBITDA margin for the quarter was 3.9% versus nearly breakeven in the fourth quarter of 2013.
EBITDA margins were slightly lower than in the third quarter reflecting lower volumes and inventory adjustment at our Brazil engine operations as well as an increase in our used truck reserve at year end resulting from higher used truck inventory levels of $300 million.
Liquidity remained strong.
As shown on slide 14 we ended the quarter with manufacturing cash cash equivalents and marketable securities of $1 billion.
During the quarter adjusted EBITDA was more than offset by the cash used for capital expenditures interest payments and pension and OPEB contribution.
Also in the quarter warranty cash payments exceeded warranty expense.
And cash was negatively impacted by favorable foreign exchange rate fluctuations principally in Brazil.
Meanwhile net working capital was favorable with volumes.
In October we repaid the remaining $166 million of a 3% convertible notes that came due in the month and borrowed an additional $91 million from our captive finance subsidiary NFC to support our used truck activities.
Importantly free cash flow was flat in the quarter after adjusting for the repayment of the convertible notes and the incremental inter-company funding activity.
Slide 15 depicts our historical first quarter manufacturing cash level.
As we have previously stated during the transition of our engine strategy in the past two years we've been maintaining a cash balance well above the minimum level we feel as necessary to absorb quarterly and seasonal cash fluctuations and adequately run the business.
Now as we near the end of the turnaround and our company cash flow both Q1 will be stronger we no longer feel in any such high cash balances as necessary.
We also don't have significant short-term debt maturities for which we need to hold cash.
Therefore we would expect manufacturing cash to return to more normal levels in Q1.
As such we expect manufacturing cash at the end of the first quarter to be in the range of $700 million to $800 million.
Consolidated adjusted EBITDA is expected to be in the range of zero to $50 million which excludes pre-existing warranty accruals and one-time items consistent with prior quarters.
We expect cash used for capital expenditures interest and pension OPEB funding to be slightly lower than in the fourth quarter.
Net working capital is expected to be unfavorable in the first quarter due to lower volumes reflecting the lower number of operating days due to the winter shutdown as well as higher used truck inventory.
Cash flow is expected to improve by over $100 million in 2015 compared to the first quarter of 2014.
Slide 17 provides a report card and how we performed in 2014 on certain key metrics established a year ago to improve EBITDA.
As Troy previously mentioned industry volumes came in just above the top of our range and were 342 000 units in 2014.
We expect industry volumes to continue to grow to 350 000 to 380 000 units in 2015.
During 2014 additional market share came in at 17.5% not recovering as quickly as we had anticipated.
Going forward we expect continued market share improvements over time.
Material costs continue to track in the right direction.
After offsetting the majority of incremental SCR costs with prior year savings we anticipate material costs savings to favorably impact the bottomline in 2015.
We over delivered on our structural cost savings for the second year in a row and we continue to trend favorably towards our structural cost goal of less than 10% of manufacturing revenue exiting 2015.
As I mentioned earlier we hit our target warranty reduction this year with particularly strong performance in the last two quarters.
In aggregate these factors continue to trend favorably and adjusted EBITDA margin for the fourth quarter was almost 4 percentage points better than the fourth quarter of 2013.
Turning to slide 18 we've included some additional information for the upcoming fiscal year.
In 2014 the under-funded status of our OPEB plan increased by approximately $300 million reflecting higher claim experience while the funded status of our pension plans remained relatively flat.
The discount rate used to determine the value of our pension and OPEB obligations increased to 3.7% from 4.1% in 2013.
In 2015 we expect postretirement expense to be relatively flat compared to 2014 and pension cash contributions to be around $148 million lower than last year.
We are forecasting capital expenditures to be approximately $150 million in 2015.
While manufacturing interest expense is expect to be down about 5% compared to 2014.
To summarize our core operations continue to improve.
In 2014 we had a number of notable accomplishments which included growing revenue each consecutive quarter of the year lowering our breakeven point by reducing structural costs and warranty expense effectively managing our cash balances and extending our debt maturity profile.
And we remain on track to achieve our EBITDA margin target of 8% to 10% exiting 2015.
We look forward to sharing more specifics about our future plans at our Analyst Day in February.
For those who attend you will hear more about our actions to further improve our business.
You get the latest update of our product a chance to see examples of our material cost improvements a first-hand look at how we've improved quality and reduce warranty costs tours of our facilities and a demonstration of on command connection our remote diagnostic tool that is proving to be a real competitive advantage for us.
Ill stop here and turn it back to Troy.
Okay.
Hey.
Thanks.
As Walter just mentioned 2015 another important year for us.
We intend to continue our trajectory of performance improvement while maintaining more than sufficient liquidity to run our company day-to-day.
As we stated many times we expect our -- to exit 2015 within our guidance of 8% to 10% EBITDA margin run rate.
But let me make one thing clear thats not the stopping point for us rather it's just the beginning of the next phase of our journey to becoming a great truck company.
Our customer that means being the uptime leader and keeping their trucks on the road our shareholders just delivering a solid return on investment and for employees it's a place where they can be a part of a winning team.
So we really look forward to hosting you at our Analyst Day in February and give you more insights into our roadmap to achieve our goals for 2015.
With that let me turn it back to Kevin.
That concludes our prepared remarks.
Before we go to question I would like to let you know that in addition to Troy and Walter also joining us today is Persio Lisboa our President of Operations; and Bill Kozek our President of Truck and Parts.
To be fair we ask that each of you limit yourself to one question including an optional follow-up.
Operator were now ready to open the line.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Stephen Volkmann of Jefferies.
Your line is open.
Hi.
Good morning everybody.
Good morning.
I guess Ill take it off if its okay with the market share question and you talked about the fact that thats been a bit below your plan this year? And I guess Im just trying to get a little more color and is the full line of product that you think you need sort of available now and if so what are you hearing from your customers why is this kind of slower than we expected? Is it something to do with trying to get reduce trucks? Is there some pricing issues? Can you just try to give us a sense of what youre hearing out there because it seems like with full availability and with the coming engine that people should be willing to maybe move a little more strongly there? So whatever thought you might have would be great.
Sure.
This is Bill Kozek.
Excuse me profitable market share really is one of our most significant and important goals for 2014 and 2015 and beyond.
We saw last year in our -- in the heavy segment we were up 1.4% from 2013 to 2014 and this is the segment that weve had the SCR engine of the longest.
Severe medium duty and bus shares were down 2014 from 2013 and that was primarily due to the lack of the SCR offerings at the beginning of the year.
So throughout the year we continue to add SCR configuration to our product lines.
We are not done.
We are closer to being done but we are not done.
We still have some segments that we dont have an SCR product in that would be completed in 2015.
But really whats approved of our performance is going to be is the quality of the product and the product quality is extremely strong as both Troy and Walter said.
So weve seen increased uptime.
Weve seen increased fuel efficiency and our customers all we have to do is get the truck into our customers hands and we expect that our market share will increase.
And so again thats both Cummins product and our Navistar engine as well.
So maybe this is another way to look at it.
And I assume you guys have some sense of your market share in backlog the order number I guess is public.
And you guys know what your orders are.
So is your market share of the order book higher than todays retail share? Its hard to say from the order numbers because you dont know from the particular orders whether or not those are build immediately or those are build throughout 2015 and beyond.
So it's hard to make a correlation between those two numbers.
What I can say is that our share in the second half of 2014 was better than our share in the first half of 2014.
So well be able to increase our share as we continue to roll out our product -- our SCR product line.
Okay Steve this is Troy.
Let me just give you kind of how I look at it just real quickly.
I think the Class 8 on highway stuff those plans worked well for us.
And I think we see those orders kind of as we had forecast.
Now the market ran away from us a little bit as it was a little bit stronger.
So we may have to reindex ourselves there in specific with regards to the midrange product we are still launching configurations in particular the low cap version of that.
And those configurations will be finished launched through the first half of 2015.
So there is some additional market.
I think coverage there that we are looking to get and that particular type of product is very important in the leasing and rental fleets which is a real opportunity for us.
And also it's really important for our dealers.
On the bus stuff we are a little different than everybody else because we toss the bus numbers in with ours.
We did real well this year.
So we are very confident the bus stuff is moving in the right direction.
I don't see that we have a real issue with regards to pricing in the market.
It really is a function I think of just -- and then the other part is the severe service.
We did just launched the SCR product in the severe service just this past summer and those orders are starting to come.
But kind of like we experienced some of the clasping of immediate duty there seems to be a gap right there seems to be a gap but they are starting to come.
So I think from what I look beyond the board I think Id see some very encouraging signs and basically across all segments.
Okay.
And finally just because I asked it maybe [Technical Difficulty].
Is the used equipment a hurdle trying to find the new home for used equipment is that sort of naturally a headwind on market share do you think or not? This is Bill again Steve.
No I dont think so.
We do have conversations.
Weve been selling used truck from the mid-70s.
So with the EGR engines coming out it is part of the conversation.
But is it holding its back from market share I don't think so.
And we do expect -- as we improve our share we expect our trade receipt to go up and the use in inventory to grow.
But as Troy mentioned we had a record year and we expect 2015 to be a record year in terms of sales as well.
It helps that the used market is still very strong.
But weve taken actions to increase our capability increase the capability of our dealer network.
And that includes Diamond Renewed which is -- think about that as a certified pre-owned program.
And then adding on-command connection and the used truck warranty so we are doing all the right things to move our used truck inventory.
And I dont see that is a huge impediment to our market share.
Okay.
Thanks guys.
Ill pass it on.
Thank Steve.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Jerry Revich of Goldman Sachs.
Your line is open.
Good morning.
Good morning.
I know youll say more at the Analyst Day.
But I am wondering if you just give us a big picture overview just a bridge between 4% EBITDA margin this quarter versus 8% to 10% you expect at this point a year from now.
How much of that is manufacturing cost savings? How much of that is lower trading costs? Can you just give us broader buckets? Yeah Jerry let me do that and you're right.
We will talk more about it in February.
But the pieces are the same year we mentioned on the call a little earlier that wed hope to get more the material cost savings down at the bottom line as we complete our rollout of the SCR product that those costs were a headwind for us last year couple of years but were largely passed that now.
So we should be seeing more of the material cost performance falling to the bottom line.
Weve announced a couple of things on the manufacturing side including yesterday's announcement in Indi as what we've previously announced regarding the move of some of our Huntsville operations up to Melrose Park.
And so well see the benefits of that in 2015 and beyond.
Structural cost is still at 11.4% of sales.
We want to get that below 10 ultimately.
So there's no more work to be done there including getting our sales up which helps with the denominator of that equation.
So this is going to be both a sales and a cost led approach to get to that 8% to 10% margin by the end of 2015.
And we hope that some of our other operations will continue to do better as well.
Parts has been a real strong segment for us and well continue to do well there in 15 based on our plan.
And warranty continues to be a good story.
We've had a couple of really good quarters there.
So hopefully well be able to hold those kind of levels or continue to improve on them.
And Walter on the related note where are you folks now on the progress on the first trade-in cycle and how much of a tailwind are you counting on just in terms of different types of vehicles being traded and hopefully 12 months to 18 months from now versus today.
Can you just update us where you stand? Yeah this is Bill again.
About 20% of the MaxxForce 13.
There have been -- have changed stands into a second owner.
And now we have some in inventory as well.
So we are kind of through that -- through the initial number of trucks that we build in 2010 and early 2011.
And that puts us like I said about 20% through the issue.
And I think moving forward we are going continue in this year next year and really into 17 at least to make sure that we can sell those used truck and fix used trucks and then sell the used truck into the market.
Thank you.
Thanks Jerry.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from David Leiker of Baird.
Your line is open.
Hi.
Good morning.
This is Joe Veruwink in line for David.
Hey Joe.
Wanted to start on profitability this quarter.
So on sequentially higher revenues EBITDA declined.
Now it sounds like a lot of that and then beyond on the used inventory side.
So wondering maybe if you strip out that or you dont then just look at operationally truck revenue sequentially versus truck EBITDA sequentially.
What sort of contribution are you delivering on incremental revenue dollars at this point? Well I think you asking about kind of what are the margins on the trucks looking like maybe period-over-period is that the fact that what you are getting it.
Yeah.
Yeah.
So we did take additional reserve on used trucks at the end of the quarter as I mentioned in my remarks that brings down the overall margin for the quarter a little bit.
If we strip that out we probably would have run similar margins as in the third quarter.
The other piece that impacted our fourth quarter results is that we did do some inventory adjustments in Brazil as well as the economic situation there is continuing to impact volumes.
I think if you strip out those two elements Q4 would look pretty similar to Q3.
Okay.
That make sense and then clearly different OPEB.
If I look at your inner company engine sales it looks like Navistar engines are about 40% of your own volume right now.
Is there are a number that you think of either vertical integration share levels of utilization thats necessary for the engine operation to meet its targeted ROIC.
Thats -- this is Troy.
That -- we are going to probably talked to you guys more about that at our Analyst Day.
So I want to answer that with regards to a specific number but I will answer it with regards to what we expect.
We still sold a number of mid-range engines this past year with EGR and we see those mid-range engines continuing to diminish and drop-off eventually as the ISB fills a larger portion of the portfolio.
So that's on the mid-range.
So you will continue to see that mix drop.
On the other hand you'll see the mix of 13 liter versus 15 liter or our homemade engine versus the ISX made by Cummins continued to increase as we go through the year probably on a unit basis at we will give you more detail on how that worked out but thats what we expect to be able to see.
One other things that I have commented on in the past is that we really just made this investment to get the 13 liter at basically SCR and one of the things I think we highlighted is that we've now re-engineered the engine to take off lot of the EGR components with this reducing the cost of engine about $1400 a copy.
So weve kind of made all that investment and so we just need to write that for a while anyway until we see what the next major investment hurdle might be thats either driven by in a regulatory or performance improvement.
So we are in a good spot I think we are just in the good spot today we really dont have any announcements to make but certainly we are cognizant of what the variables are and what the root of the question you're asking is.
Okay.
Ill leave it there.
Thanks guys.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Andy Casey of Wells Fargo Securities.
Your line is open.
Thanks a lot.
Good morning and happy holidays everybody.
Hey Andy.
Couple of questions I guess around 8% to 10% EBITDA margin youve answered these I just want to make sure that my old brain is clear on these.
In order to hit the 8% to 10% EBITDA margin just again clarify the envision your breakeven work as likely to compensate for the slower NAFTA truck share gain in Brazil weakness or do you need some of that other stuff to kind of reverse meaning incremental NAFTA share gain or improve base Brazil activity? Yeah.
Well hope that Brazil would improve.
Thats been an up and down market over the years.
So it will come when it will come.
It will come some point again.
But weve really redoubled our efforts on the cost side as we saw the share improvements not coming as quickly as we had anticipated.
You may recall we started this year with the target of structural cost reduction I think it goes $175 million and we did over $300 million.
So we are not backing away from the 8% to 10%.
We will get there different way than what we had planned to do initially.
We do expect both sales and costs to contribute to that and really all of our operations to do a little bit better in 2015.
But we are surely not relying on a full recovery in Brazil to get there.
Yeah.
Andy we do count on some incremental volumes this year okay.
But thats not the main driver of the plan.
As Walter has indicated there is probably a couple of points of margin associated with structural costs and manufacturing variable costs like associated with the foundry closing and plus the engine plants that we announced closure of last year well get the full savings of that this year.
There is a couple of points with regard to material costs because now we can bring material costs to the bottomline because we were kind of just making up for SCR and we have the pipeline loaded with a lot of those but there is just -- there is some execution risk there but its the kind of thing that we've done very well.
And then with regards to how warranty trending certainly we anticipate a point or two now the point in that kind of range as well.
So when you start adding it up.
You can see the pickup of four or five the real question is with a little bit of tailwind from more volume that weve anticipated in the plan or a better turnaround in Brazil kind of to my mind makes a difference between do we come in in the lower range or do we come in the higher range of the plan for the year.
Okay.
Thanks for that Troy and Walter.
And then one additional question its with the orders strengthened particularly Class 8 NAFTA markets? Presumably we would start to see some pricing but it doesnt seem like there's a significant amount of pricing out there and does that have to do with the timing of the orders being put into the production slots or is there something else going on? I think Ill take that.
This is Bill.
I -- the market is extremely competitive.
I think I have been in the industry for 28 years and I will tell you there its a competitive today as its ever been.
The trucks are better.
You would think as we move forward and the growth in the industry really across the Board in heavy severe and medium that we would still -- we will start to see more pricing.
But again in the competitive nature thats can kind of hold it down and today the orders you see are some of the large customers large fleets putting in their orders and they typically have buying power so youre impacted by that.
But overall I agree with you we should see some improve pricing into 2015.
Yeah.
Okay.
Yeah Andy.
This is Troy.
I think the market didnt take a lot of price last year and I personally think it is just the timing think.
All of us have basically been in the market and weve kind of somewhat rewarded our customers for giving us orders that stretch out and help us fill our order boards for longer periods of time and there is real value in doing that.
And now I think order boards are returning to more normal flow rates not just for us but I think for everybody our normal backlogs I think it's just a timing issue.
I think we will see some positive movement on price over the course of 2015 top of the forecast what it is I know what we baked into our assumptions but I think that will some movement this year.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Jeff Kauffman of Buckingham Research.
Your line is open.
Thank you very much.
Hi guys.
Hi Jeff.
One detail question and kind of the broader question on the pre-existing warranties? The detail and I know Walter you were kind a hedging around this? But what was the amount of the increase in the used truck reserve? Of the I wasnt hedging around it the increase is from a little lower around $265 million to a little over $300 million is the used truck reserve at the end of the year.
Okay.
Thank you.
And..
Hold on hold on.
Thats the inventory right.
Yeah.
Right.
Okay.
Right.
Inventory.
And the little bit on pre-existing warranties I saw the $10 million reversal this quarter but I guess I was thinking it there might be a larger step down in that because the units in that population are down and the warranty experience is down? So can you help me through that calculation a little bit? Well the units are coming down.
Its far more precipitously over the balance of 2015 if you take a look at that warranty curve that we have provided you previously and thats still a good at the situation and the costs are coming down.
There is a lag a little bit on the expense side with cash so we tend to focus internally on how the cash levels moving first.
And so we have seen those come down really every month since the warranty cash levels have come down every month since the beginning of the year.
So hopefully that will continue to work for us overtime here.
Okay.
And one last question what was the amount of the foreign -- foreign currency translation hit in the quarter? I think it was somewhere between $10 million and $20 million.
$10 million $20 million.
Okay guys.
Thanks so much and good luck.
Thanks Jeff.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Ann Duignan of JP Morgan.
Your line is now open.
Hi.
Good morning everyone.
Hi.
First question just can we walk through the closure of the foundry business the total cost of that closure because I think you called out that $13 million annual savings rate but it seems like the cost to closure is going to be significantly higher than that? Can you just walk me through at the rationale for that closure? Yeah.
Ann its Walter.
We had a fair amount of excess capacity in that foundry.
We have other sources both from the -- from suppliers as well as machining tooling that we have in Brazil in-house and so we felt that was -- it was time to move forward on that.
The charges that we will see in the first half of 2015 are accelerated depreciation so those are really non-cash amounts.
So when you exclude the non-cash elements surely ten-folds well for us to take this action.
Okay.
Thats helpful to understand that.
And then since taking a step back there is a lot of controversy out there in terms of the North America heavy-duty market being at peak or past peak of the cycle? Could one of you just comment on what you are seeing out there? Whats your expectations are not just for 15 but going forward and what your customers are saying is this cycle sustainable for longer than prior cycles? Hey Ann.
This is Bill.
We think 2015 will -- there will be 5% to 10% growth in the market both heavy and severe service and medium.
Most of our customers are having very good years fuel is down rates are up their utilization is strong.
So they are expecting 2015 to be a good year and really it gets a little fuzzy after that but we anticipate 2016 to continue to be a pretty decent year.
We have get greenhouse in 2017 that not 100% sure what thats going to do to the market but we don't anticipated a huge increase in the costs of the vehicle.
So it probably isnt a lot of impact on 2017 greenhouse gas.
And frankly it might be a good thing because fuel economy will continue to get better.
So overall the markets we are pretty bullish on the market.
And are you seeing any or hearing anything in the oil and gas sector or you just didnt really participate in that sector and you made so maybe there is less downside risk there? Yeah.
From a heavy standpoint we dont really participate in the oil and gas sector and this whole reduction in oil is going to came on pretty quick and havent seen a whole lot of impact on at least our medium or severe business but certainly the price of oil good at the pump and exploring not as good.
Okay.
I will pass it on from there.
Thanks.
Appreciate it.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Ted Grace of Susquehanna.
Your line is open.
Good morning guys.
Hi Ted.
Firstly I was hoping to follow up on one Andy Caseys question on pricing and I guess anecdotally weve heard comments that even though pricing might not have improved as much as expected discounting has improved and it all thats to margin but could you just talk about kind of the discounting side of pricing was that -- were we talking about gross pricing before or net pricing? I was talking about net pricing.
Okay.
And so would you expect kind of the first thing to happen will be a reduction in the discounting or do you think I am just wondering how that dynamic works because it maybe doesnt matter kind of ultimately the net pricing that we want to gain margins? Ted I think thats it.
Ultimately its the net of that pricing.
Okay.
Thank you for that point of clarity.
And then the second thing I was hoping to ask is and I am sure you will talk about this at the Analyst Day? But if 2015 proves to be kind of a cyclical peak in the North American market? Could you give us at least some framework for how to think about margins in 2016 I know you havent given 2016 guidance but if we were to exit at the 8% to 10% target rate just any kind of framework you could at least kind of sketch out for us would be helpful at this point? Yeah.
Probably little early to be doing that Ted I guess that comes up between now and end of February.
But I think at a high level we want to make sure that we are making hay here when the industry is strong and lowering our breakeven point has been a real focus in internally because ultimately this industry does go through cycles.
We don't know where the end of that cycle is going to be but we need to be prepared for when ever it comes.
So maybe as we talk about the building blocks here in February we can try to lay a little bit more out around that.
Okay.
And I recognize a hard question.
I could just sneak a different one in because I would be.
Could you just walk through the restructuring actions in Brazil I know you highlighted the $29 million of costs you took it sound like most of that was inventory but there were actual changes in the operations we should think about or was it really just kind of inventory write-off or write-down? Yeah.
This quarter was principally inventory write-off particular in our truck operations.
We felt we had excess inventory there and needed to mark that down.
In prior quarters this year we had taken some actions around our engine operation in Brazil and there was cost-cutting associated with that to lower the breakeven point of those operations.
But year-end it was principally related to inventory levels in our truck operations there.
Okay.
So incrementally nothing really operational in 4Q just the inventory dynamic? Thats correct.
Okay.
Great.
Thanks a lot guys.
Good luck this quarter.
Thanks Ted.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Andrew Kaplowitz of Barclays.
Your line is open.
Good morning guys.
Good morning.
Troy can you step back and update us on what major structural changes that Navistar might still need to get done? Ultimately I guess what I'm trying to figure out is when you think the noise in each quarter might die down a little bit? Youve talked about some lasting into the first half of next year but you announced the closing of foundry yesterday? Ted asked the question about Brazil does -- do you still need to go through major structural changes there or anything else internationally when it comes down to it? Yeah.
Hey.
Great question Andrew and so let me answer it from an overall standpoint.
We anticipate that kind of background noise and allow the restructuring kind of stuff that youve seen with regards to impairments and write-downs and stuff like that will diminish as we go through the fiscal year of 2015 okay.
So yes there is more that we need to do in Brazil.
Were not announcing anything today.
We will talk to you more about that in our Analyst Day.
There is also some more that we need to do internal to North America with regards to capacity utilization.
We are not announcing any that -- of that yet today either.
But these things become smaller as we go forward.
I think we picked up all -- most of the big pieces have been picked up and worked through as we speak.
So companies get pretty lean companies get pretty simple companies get very straightforward and thats -- that kind of company we meet so that we can really point to these margin targets that weve established especially as we go pass the end of 15 and really move to the -- move up into the range that we really need to get the company.
So stay tuned.
I cant give you too much on the call but we rescheduled the Analyst Day for a reason.
We have an intention to share some more insight with you all.
And I think youd be satisfied with a better understanding of our direction.
Okay.
Thats helpful Troy.
Maybe if I could ask the 2% to 10% question in a different way.
Can you talk about your utilization across your businesses in FY 15 especially given the strength of the market here in North America.
You should experience better absorption.
So when do you think your North American truck business should be breakeven or better and stay breakeven or better.
Is that sort of second half or so for that particular part of the business? You should expect that for the truck business in the second half yes.
Yes.
Okay.
Its enough.
Thanks guys.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Nicole Deblase of Morgan Stanley.
Your line is open.
Yeah.
Good morning guys.
So just a question on 1Q.
Most of mine have been answered.
I dont think you have given it yet.
Can you just give us a sense of what you are baking in for Q-on-Q or year-on-year production chargeouts however you want to give it within your 1Q guidance? Dont know that we normally do that actually.
So stay tuned I guess.
Okay.
So no comment on whether sales will be up Q-on-Q within the guidance? Well we usually -- we have not at least for last couple of years provided a sales forecast as part of our guidance.
Okay.
Understood Ill pass it on then.
All right.
Thanks.
Thanks.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Alex Potter Piper Jaffray.
Your line is open.
Hi.
This is Winnie in for Alex.
I just want to touch upon your parts revenue and parts profit.
What are you expectations for I guess the parts revenue in 2015? There was a nice sequential uptick in Q4.
Do you think that revenue can continue at this run rate or even grow? And then just on the margin side we saw margin increasing over 20% for the past three quarters.
Can you comment on what drove the 100% -- 100 basis point Q-over-Q increase in 4Q and then is the margin level sustainable? Yes in terms of the market the parts business continues to be strong predominantly because overall the market is very good for our customers.
We anticipate next year to grow rate at double digits in terms of the revenue line.
Margins is really just kind of a lot of a hard work in blocking and tackling and making sure were doing the right things from our suppliers and for our customers that don't know that there's any magic to it.
We anticipate pricing to continue to be strong in 2015 and expect another record year.
Okay.
And then just a follow-up you gave a brief update on the Chinese JV with JAC.
Do you guys expect this JV to start ramping and have you seen good interest in the engines as a result of the new emission standard thats coming up? Yes.
This is Troy.
There has been an interest in the engines as a function of the new emission standards.
As you know in China they have some real needs over there in everything but it just seems we have the right product at that particular point in time.
We are in production today and will be in ramp-up over the next quarter or so.
And then well get a real good look at how that new engine does at the market.
In the mean time there is a smaller displacement engine that JA seek and attribute it to the joint venture as part of it.
That engine had in its Euro 4 version had very good sales this past year.
So this is a joint venture that is really getting off to a very very fast start.
And then there is -- as a byproduct of that you may have noted we didnt really make any money there but we havent lose any money there either.
So the fact that weve hit the timing just right.
This is a joint venture that does not place a drag while its -- basically while its accelerating on our results.
And do you guys have growth or volume expectations going forward in the immediate quarter? Im sorry I didnt hear the question.
Do you guys have visibility into the growth and volume expectations in the next few quarters? Yeah.
We certainly have volume projections the one engine or actually the engine weve already introduced certainly will grow in the market.
And then we have another engine that will introduce next year that we anticipate well have growth in the market as well.
Again well provide a sale forecast on that but since they are new engines they will grow.
And well take share away and plus we can grow or basically add some opportunities to the market.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Neil Frohnapple of Longbow Research.
Your line is open.
Hi guys.
Thank you.
Just another drilling on the first quarter EBITDA guidance $0 to $50 million.
Meaningful stuff consequentially just kind of wondering what the puts and takes we should be considering there? And is it just you guys being conservative yeah just any color you can provide that will be great? Thank you.
Yeah Neil.
Maybe Ill take that one.
It is down sequentially.
For the first quarter it tends to be lower EBITDA for us.
So that probably guides you take a look at how were doing year-over-year and our adjusted EBITDA basis in the first quarter of 2014 we actually have a loss.
So the sizes ranges probably two to three point higher EBITDA margin than we would have had a year ago in the first quarter.
So thats probably the more appropriate comparison for you to make to -- as you think about our performance over time.
Okay.
And then just I guess a follow-up to Nicoles question I understand you are not providing sales guidance.
But I believe last quarter you guys did provide vehicle shipments for traditional markets expectations on a year-over-year basis just wondering if you can provide any sort of color there? Dont have that at hand here right now.
You kind of stumped us on that one.
I didnt realize we did that.
That must have been -- was that in a question or was that in our comments? Yeah.
I think you guys had indicated that you expect the traditional markets to increase 20% year-over-year.
Cant remember if it was in the slide deck or if it was in Q&amp;A.
But yeah I believe Why dont we do this why dont you give us a chance to go back and check that and then maybe you can talk to Kevin.
Kevin you can reach out little bit later today to Neil and provide the clarification that he is looking for.
Again not trying to hide anything weve provided information in the past.
Were certainly happy to provide the similar type of information going forward.
Sure.
Thanks a lot guys.
Very good.
Thanks Neil.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Scott Group of Wolfe Research.
Your line is open.
Hi.
Good morning guys.
This is actually Reena Krishnan sitting in for Scott Group.
Hi Reena.
Hi.
So I know that this has been asked couple of times maybe just another way to ask it because not sure how the market dynamics might change that much between now and February.
But when you talk to your customers especially larger fleets here in looking at whats demand seems better but the utilization in rates have also induced devise some other events this year including the West Coast port situation in the [indiscernible] network.
But I guess again to kind of hone in on some of the other questions around the margin targets and the market share target.
Wouldnt it seem I guess from the customers from your large fleet perspective that they might have better sense of visibility on how much they would grow their fleet or what demand looks like at the end of first quarter or maybe 2Q kind of post-weather and seasonal issues and assuming the West Coast port situation comes to some resolution? I guess when would you guys maybe have better visibility on your margin or market share targets with that just assuming that February might be a tough time to kind of look at that given where we are just from a seasonal perspective with some of the larger fleet? Yeah.
Actually so we do have a lot of insight in that regard and we are kind of correlate that input and coming to conclusions.
And kind of how the market works is a lot of those decisions are especially with larger companies.
They make their capital decisions typically in the third and fourth quarter of the preceding year calendar year quarters of the preceding year.
So this is a season of that last into the month of January at least of the high degree of interaction between us and our best customers and our largest customers and even probable customers as we get a better idea as to that.
So we exit the first quarter with a pretty decent idea as to where those opportunities are and what the magnitude of some of those are.
And then the kind of things that we picked up already is there is maybe not in a wholesale way but there are people adding capacity which is different than what they can place in the past.
There is a substantial amount of replacement demand because the average age of the fleet are still kind of high and the new trucks both ours and even our competitors do provide lower operating costs partly to fuel economy and enhanced reliability over the trucks that they're replacing.
So as long as economic activity continues to be favorable theyre just seems to be this buoyancy in the market and even our largest customers are kind of sorting out still I think some of what that means for them.
But it becomes real clear for us I think between now or more clear let me put it that way between now and the end of the first quarter.
So when we come to that February kind of timeframe I think we will have insights that you'll find will be valuable and will be very directional not just for ourselves but for the industry as a whole.
I dont know Bill would you add to that or? No.
Nothing that was very well said.
Yeah.
We do expect the market to grow.
We do expect our share to grow and our plans are to grow in every segment that we participate in.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
And our final question comes from Rob Wertheimer of Vertical Research.
Your line is open.
Thanks.
Good morning everybody.
Could you help me just understand what the inventory charge in Brazil truck was? Maybe just what the vehicles were or does that an indication that you think the volume of inventory was less than selling price for truck.
Im just curious why it was an inventory charge? Yeah.
There is two elements to that one is we have -- we built up a fair amount of inventory there and secondly you indicated the holding value of that inventory we felt was too high relative to what it would bring in the market given the economic conditions there currently.
Yeah.
And to put color behind that by the way is effective issue recall by year ago.
Brazil went from year three markets to year five market and there was a way -- they allowed for a certain number of vehicles to be built if they were built or partially built they could be sold pass that time.
You get every year a three vehicle that would be sold pass that time.
So the industry itself kind of stocked up on inventory because there was a lot of demand from the customers that the economy kind of started to head down.
And so the industry was left with a bunch of inventory that just not turning okay.
Its because there is just not enough economic activity that generated.
In addition we all thought there would be higher activity for trucks because of the building around the World Cup and the Olympics and all that kind of stuff.
And quite frankly that demand just has not materialized.
And so that inventory just been sitting down there in various forms and there is some accounting guideline to say we really need to -- we need to really assess it for what it's probably worth and thats really what we did.
Okay.
Thats perfect.
So some of was not missions to your nothings discontinued particularly its just slow market and No.
Just a slow market that just didnt materialized like us and everybody else I think in Brazil had anticipated.
And given that we are relatively small player who had just reentered the market we had some pretty aspirational growth plan.
So I would say proportionately larger companies who have been established for a longer period of time.
Its done a better job or been able to work through their inventory and weve not been able to capture the growth that we originally anticipated during that timeframe with the pressures -- the economic pressures down there.
Got it.
Yeah.
Thank you very much.
Helpful.
Thank you.
Thank you.
That is all the time we have for questions today.
Id like to turn the call back over to Kevin Sadowski for any further remarks.
Okay.
If there any additional questions feel free to reach out to myself or Ryan Campbell for the rest of the day and have a great holiday everybody.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for participating in today's conference.
This concludes todays program.
You may all disconnect.
Everyone have a great day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen.
And welcome to the Navistar's First Quarter 2015 Earnings Results Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session and instructions will follow at that time.
[Operator Instructions].
As a reminder this conference call is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the call over to Kevin Sadowski Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please begin.
Good morning everyone.
And thank you for joining us for Navistar's first quarter 2015 conference call.
With me today are Troy Clarke our President and Chief Executive Officer; and Walter Borst our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Before we begin I'd like to cover a few items.
A copy of this morning's press release and the presentation slides that we will be using today have been posted on our Investor Relations website for your reference.
The non-GAAP financial measures discussed in this call are reconciled to the U.S.
GAAP equivalent as part of the appendix in the slide deck.
Finally today's presentation includes some forward-looking statements about our expectations for future performance.
Actual results could differ materially from those suggested by our comments made here.
For additional information concerning factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected in today's presentation please refer to our most recent reports on Forms 10-K and 10-Q and our other SEC filings.
We would also refer you to the Safe Harbor statement and other cautionary notes disclaimer presented in today's material for more information on the subject.
With that I'll turn the call over to Troy Clarke for his opening remarks.
Okay.
Hey thank you Kevin and good morning everyone.
Before we get started I want to thank those of you who took part in our Analyst Day last month.
I hope you walked away with a sense of our accomplishments over the past few years and how we are building on that progress to return this company to profitability.
As we outlined at the event its uptime at international.
Turning to side six we remain focused on finishing our turnaround but we have laid the foundation to lead the industry on our plans; products processes and services designed and validated to keep trucks on the road the mission is uptime.
We are not there yet but we are well underway and I am excited about our progress.
2015 is an important year for Navistar and our plans called for us to kick it off with a stronger first quarter which we did.
We delivered Q1 adjusted-EBITDA of $54 million up $91 million over the same period one year ago.
This performance reflects continued progress on both the revenue and cost sides of our business.
On the revenue side sales momentum is building across all of our core truck markets and continues in the parts business.
As for cost we achieved savings in all areas of spending material cost manufacturing structural cost and warranty.
But before I go into more detail on these points let me restated our revised view of the current industry that we shared during the Analyst Day.
On slide seven we see the U.S.
economy improving that has had a positive impact on our industry.
2015 continues the stronger sales trend that began in 2014.
We believe this is driven by improved new truck fuel economy rising tonnage improved transportation company profitability and the replacement of aging fleets.
The recent dip in oil prices also helps boost commercial vehicle sales and spending in most segments such as on highway while slowing sales in others particularly oil and gas applications where we dont have a strong presence.
We believe these conditions will remain favorable through 2015.
We also think the modest expansion in consumer spending and steady gains in construction will continue which is favorable for the medium truck market.
We maintain our industry retail forecast for class 6 through 8 including bus to be in the range of 350 000 to 380 000 units this year versus the 342 000 units last year.
Looking at our volumes we expect to be up in all segments in 2015 as we continue to grow with the market and importantly regaining market share loss during the changes of the last two years.
Turning to slide eight we saw this play out in the first quarter as chargeouts in our core markets were up 17% year-over-year.
This is highlighted by a 25% increase in Class 6 and 7 medium truck chargeouts and a 42% increase in school bus.
We also saw gains in heavy and severe service.
We are pleased with this performance as unit growth in core markets was inline with our full year forecast.
We are seeing increased sales for important parts of the market specifically in medium we are regaining sales with leasing and rental customers and also seeing increased sales through the very important dealer led channel.
We are confident sales will continue to grow and our backlog is up by 27% year-over-year.
Another positive in the quarter was our parts business.
This has been a consistent good news story.
This quarter parts sales improved by 7% year-over-year and EBIT improved by 34% compared to the first quarter last year.
We still face some headwinds in the marketplace.
However we are seeing great acceptance of our new products and customers are seeing excellent performance great fuel economy and outstanding uptime.
Our mission is uptime at international course [ph] supports sales efforts but uptime is more than a marketing campaign.
Uptime is about designing and building quality trucks that stay on the road longer and its also about our renewed commitment to deliver innovation tools and services that keep our customers moving.
Nowhere is that more evident than in the growth of on command connection our remote diagnostics offering.
On command connection helps to increase vehicle uptime supports quicker repairs and helps to control maintenance and repair cost.
Today we have more than 87 000 vehicles in the system.
Turning to cost were building on the significant progress we have made over the past two years and we still have opportunities to capture additional savings in 2015 and beyond.
Let me start with warranty which continues to move in a positive direction.
We are reducing our warranty spend thanks to the improved quality of our new products and lower cost of warranty for our legacy products.
Demonstrated improvements in campaign spending and repair costs have helped us to contain warranty expense.
Warranty as a percentage of sales excluding preexisting adjustments is now 2.9% and improving.
We also remain on track to meet our material cost savings target for the fiscal year an example of that is our 2016 model year 13 liter ProStar which we launched in January.
Youll remember that we set a target to reduce its cost by $1 400 per unit.
In fact we accomplished $1 650 per unit in cost reduction.
On the manufacturing front our goal this year is to deliver $40 million to $60 million in savings and we are on track to do that.
Key to hitting our full year target was securing a new agreement with our UAW represented employees.
It recently ratified a new four year labor agreement which will help our representative facilities further embrace lean principals that will lead to additional cost savings and improvements.
Our engineering expenses for Q1 were in line with our plan.
We continue to achieve efficiencies through a variety of initiatives that will enable us to control cost and become leaner while still delivering on the important product programs that we have in the pipeline.
We are also continuing to make progress in SG&amp;A spending.
For the balance of the year we have identified additional cost reductions in a number of areas that will yield benefits and create a leaner enterprise.
Now let me turn it over to Walter who will provide you with more details on our financial performance.
Thank you Troy and good morning everyone.
Before we begin I want to briefly address the realignment of our business segments inline with the charges in organizational structure that took place in the first quarter.
These changes reflect how we assess the performance of our operating segments.
And the principal change relates to our export truck and parts businesses moving from the global operation segment to the truck and parts segments respectively.
In addition defense parts will move from the parts segment to the truck segment and be combined with the rest of our defense operations.
These changes allow us to run the business in a more efficient and integrated manner as well as provide better transparency in the performance of our operations.
One other quick note we referred to core markets throughout our remarks and this refers to our sales of class 6 to 8 trucks and buses in the U.S.
and Canada and excludes Mexico export and Blue Diamond truck sales.
Now let's shift our focus to the results for the first quarter.
First quarter revenue grew almost 10% to $2.4 billion compared to the first quarter of 2014.
Revenues from truck segment grew 18% reflecting higher sales in our core and export markets.
Revenue growth is primarily due to a 2000 unit increase in core truck charge-outs compared to Q1 2014.
This growth is consistent with the full year plan we've previously communicated.
Sales from our parts segment increased by 7% in the quarter continuing our momentum in the North America commercial market.
Revenues in our Global Operation segment decreased 28% versus the same period a year ago reflecting 18% lower engine volumes due to challenging economic conditions in Brazil and a large government truck order in 2014.
EBITDA for the first quarter was $101 million a reversal of the loss of $110 million in the first quarter of 2014.
The significant year-over-year improvement in our results reflects the increase in sales and favorable product mix within our core markets as well as the continuation of lower warranty expense and reduced operational and structural cost.
As shown on slide 12 adjusted EBITDA for the quarter was $54 million which is above the high end of our guidance range.
There are few adjustments that I'd point out.
Number one we reversed $57 million of pre-existing warranty accruals primarily related to big bore engine reserves for both standard and extended warranty.
And two we had $10 million of one-time charges related to impairments and restructuring charges that are relatively small in comparison to what we have seen in prior quarters.
Turning to slide 13 let's take a look at the results for our realigned segments.
We continue to see improvements in our truck operations.
The truck segment lowered its year-over-year loss by $190 million to an $18 million loss.
Contributing to the improvement were higher truck sales in our North American and export markets declining warranty expense and lower material manufacturing and structural costs.
The parts segment profit of $145 million was significantly higher than a year ago.
The 34% increase in parts segment profit reflects increased sales and margin improvements in our commercial markets.
The Global Operation segment lost $15 million in Q1 2015 mainly due to lower volume.
This however is a $20 million improvement versus Q1 2014 reflecting the benefit of cost reduction initiatives we've implemented in South America.
We remain focus on returning these operations to profitability.
The Financial services segment continues to perform in line with our expectations.
Segment profit for the first quarter improved to $24 million reflecting an increase in average wholesale notes receivable balances.
Slide 14 graphically depicts our progress on certain key operating metrics.
As you can see all the metrics show strong improvements versus the first quarter of 2014.
For example charge-ups -- chargeouts are up 17% versus Q1 2014 and are up in each of our product segments as Troy pointed out earlier.
The growth in chargeouts in the first quarter is consistent with our 2015 full year expectations as our new products build traction in the market and we continue our focus on uptime.
Lower structural costs remain a priority.
In the first quarter of 2015 structural costs were 1.8 points lower as a percent of manufacturing revenue compared to the first quarter of 2014.
We continue to trend favorably towards our structural cost goal of less than 10% of revenues as additional cost initiatives take hold and quarterly revenues increase.
Warranty expense continues to be a good news story and the quality of our new products continues to trend favorably.
For the first quarter of 2015 current warranty expense as a percentage of manufacturing revenue was 2.9% compared to 3.7% in Q1 of 2014.
The decrease in warrant expense was largely due to a change to preexisting warranty.
In the first quarter of 2015 we've recorded a benefit of $57 million compared to charges of $52 million in the first quarter of 2014.
As we've previously indicated we've implemented engineering product redesigns on newer model years and improved manufacturing quality.
We've also been able to refine the design and manufacturing processes to reduce both the frequency and severity of warranty claims.
This has allowed us to lower repair cost which in turn has had a significant positive impact on warranty expense.
The adjusted EBITDA margin for the quarter was 2.2% versus negative 1.7% in the first quarter of 2014.
The nearly 400 basis point improvement reflects continued cost improvements and increased unit volume.
Turning to growth material savings we're looking to reduce costs by 1.5% to 1.8% of manufacturing sales in 2015.
Key initiatives that will get us there include further consolidating our supply base increasing spend in best cost countries and design cost reduction activities.
During the first quarter of 2015 we achieved a quarter of our annual savings target and we're on track towards the near-term material cost savings goal.
Manufacturing is another area where we expect to further performance.
We expect to benefit from continued manufacturing efficiency gains from our lean initiatives as well as the benefits of our capacity consolidation efforts.
And we're on track to reduce manufacturing cost by $40 million to $60 million in 2015.
Turning to slide 16 gross used truck inventory grew 14% compared to the prior quarter.
We finished Q1 with $365 million of gross used truck inventory including inventory held at our finance company versus $320 million at the end of Q4 2014.
This is the result of higher receipts of late model units moving through the trade cycle as we've indicated previously.
Additionally our used truck reserves increased by $25 million in the current quarter compared to Q4 2014.
We believe used trucks inventories will continue to increase in 2015 before they trend down as we increase used truck sales activities to address the elevated inventory levels.
As shown on slide 17 we ended the quarter with manufacturing cash cash equivalents and marketable securities of $733 million.
Adjusted EBITDA was more than offset by the cash used for capital expenditures interest payments and pension and OPAB contributions.
Moreover working capital was a use of cash in the quarter due to seasonality with lower production days in our fiscal year Q1 due to the holiday shutdown at year end.
Warranty cash payments continued to exceed warranty expense in the quarter.
However monthly warranty cash payments have continued to decline year-over-year for the last year and remain an early indicator for lower warranty expense as we've seen in the last three quarters.
Moving to slide 18 we expect manufacturing cash at the end of the second quarter to be in the range of $700 million to $800 million essentially around breakeven from a cash flow perspective.
Consolidated adjusted EBITDA is expected to be in the range of $100 million to $150 million which excludes preexisting warranty accruals and one-time items consistent with prior quarters.
We expect cash used for capital expenditures interest and pension and OPAB funding to be lower versus Q1 due to seasonally lower cash interest payments.
Net working capital is expect to be favorable in the second quarter to the higher volumes or higher used truck inventories and warranty cash payments greater than expense are expected to be a use of cash.
Slide 19 provides some perspective on our EBITDA goals for 2015.
As we stated at our analyst day we expect adjusted EBITDA margins to improve in each quarter of 2015.
In the first quarter our adjusted EBITDA margin was 2.2%.
In the second quarter we expect an adjusted EBITDA margin of 3% to 5% resulting from continued revenue growth favorable mix and lower operational and structural cost.
To summarize our results continue to improve.
In the first quarter of 2015 we had a number of notable accomplishments including increase core truck charge outs continued growth of our core North America parts business improved quality performance contributing to lower warranty expense and continued reduction of material manufacturing and structural costs.
Our progress this quarter demonstrates that we are headed in the right direction and we remain on track to achieve our EBITDA margin target of 8% to 10% exiting 2015.
Ill stop here and turn it back to Troy.
Okay.
Hey thank you Walter.
As I said earlier were off to a good start and well build on this momentum.
Turning to slide 22 we expect chargeouts in core markets to increase more than 20% in Q2.
In medium were expanding our ISB product offerings this year to include crew cabs beverage bodies and emergency vehicle ratings and four wheel drive.
We also continue to focus on leasing and dealer led sales as key enablers to our success in this segment.
In addition we anticipate incremental growth opportunities for our school bus business with the introduction of our purpose built propane buses which we will began deliveries in July in your service.
We recently announced the availability of the Cummins ISB engine in the WorkStar our leading severe service model.
This will generate incremental sales throughout the year and into next.
And in heavy our 2016 model year 13 leader ProStar has improvements over the 2015 model year including a 300 pound weight reduction and better fuel economy.
We also just announced that well offer the new Bendix next generation active safety system on our ProStars the first in the North American commercial vehicle industry.
This is an example of what we called best in class integration and youll hear more about that at the Mid-America Truck show in March.
We believe our Diamond renewed used truck reconditioning program is the leading certified used truck program in the industry.
It allows us to offer previously owned trucks that are refurbished to the operating standards of the best vehicles in the used truck marketplace providing like new truck benefits to the second owner.
On the cost side we continue to look harder at all discretionary spending and applying lean practices across the entire organization.
The new culture at NaviStar is to be leaner faster and more efficient.
Im both pleased and encouraged about how our employees are embracing these concepts and Im really proud of the team.
Let me conclude by saying our results this quarter show our progress is accelerating and I trust that our Q1 performance and the plans that we shared with you at Analyst Day give you confidence that we are on track to meet our 8% to 10% EBITDA margin run rate exiting 2015.
And with that let me turn it back over to Kevin.
Thank you Troy.
That concludes our prepared remarks.
As you heard today we realigned our business segments.
For additional information related to the recasted segment results please visit our investor website after the call.
And before we go to questions I would like to let you know that in addition to Troy and Walter also joining us today is Persio Lisboa our President of Operations; and Bill Kozek our President of Truck and Parts.
To be fair we ask that each of you limit yourself to one question including an optional follow-up.
Operator were now ready to open the lines for questions.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions].
The first question is from David Leiker of Baird.
Your line is open.
Good morning everyone.
Good morning David.
So I want to dig in on this 8% to 10% target margin for end of Q4.
And as we I know what you started 2015 but the question is where does that margin need to be in 2016 to hit 8% to 10% for full year 16.
Is there I know we cant get specific numbers but can you give some given the seasonality where do you need to see the Q4 16 number to get 8% to 10% for the full year? Q4 16 number David? Right.
If you want to have I mean say everyones kind of talking the 8% to 10% EBITDA margin for the full year which youre not going to hit this year but your target is for Q4.
But in a context of hitting that target range for the full year of 16 and the seasonality that Q4 number needs to be higher.
Is there a sense you could give us how much higher it would need to be to get the full year to that level? Yeah I think there is a couple of ways to get there David one would be to have a very strong Q4 16 the other would be to improve every quarter in 16.
And so we would anticipate that we would do better in the first quarter of 16 and of course first quarter 15 and obviously our 8% to 10% run rate exiting this year was not meant to just be for one quarter but something that wed like to achieve over the course of a year.
But I dont think were in a position today start giving you quarterly guidance for 16 and in particular Q4 of 16.
Were focused on the balance of 15 and improving our results every quarter here to put ourselves in good stead heading into 16.
And then just a follow up on that do you think as you exit this year at that 8% to 10% rate we would -- just lets say Q4 do you think thats consistent with an annualized rate at that level in 16 or do you need some additional volumes incrementally to get there or some additional cost actions? Yeah as we have indicated at our Analyst Day we would be looking to have full year EBITDA margins of 8% to 10% in 16 and 17 and our plan continues to have both revenue growth and cost reduction elements to it.
So when we get to the fourth quarter of this year there will be additional activities that we would expect both on the revenue and the cost side in 16 to help get to those margins on a full year basis.
Okay great.
Thanks so much.
Thank you.
Thank you.
The next question is from Stephen Volkmann of Jefferies.
Your line is open.
Good morning Steve.
Hi good morning gentlemen.
I'm wondering if we can look into the used situation just a little bit.
I think its said in the Q if I read that right that the used sales were actually down which surprised me a little bit.
Maybe you can just give us a little bit of an update of sort of what youre seeing in that end market and how things are kind of flushing through the system there? Hey Stephen this is Bill Kozek.
The used market we still anticipate 2015 to be a strong used truck market and really to exceed our 2014 which was a record for us.
Having said that the last quarter I think the whole market took a little bit of a breather.
So were in a position were taking a lot of action to move our which are like models used truck taking -- kind of looking at it from how do we get those trucks out into the market to be the best used trucks that the market can buy and that includes our diamond renewed which I talked about at our Analyst Day which is a certified pre-owned vehicle inspections and that includes the remote diagnostic system and then a menu of used trucks warrantee options.
So yeah while the first quarter was lighter than we anticipated we still expect a strong 2015.
And Bill can you comment on what youre seeing in pricing at all on your product specifically? Yes there is pressure on residuals mainly because our trucks tend to be early trade versus the competition but thats one of the reasons that were out there with diamond renewed looking at special lease plans for owner operators and what gives me confidence is that we sold a number to companies that then sold those into their operator division and those customers are coming back for more Maxxforce Engine ProStar and so thats pretty positive.
But I think youre right the residual value is going to be challenged for the short-term but we think we have ways to address that and were looking at a lot of other options for selling our used trucks.
Okay and Walter just the accounting here I think it said that you had a $300 million reserve against the 365 of warranty does that mean youd have to lose more than that before you have to take a write-off? We have $300 million reserves Steve? Maybe I read that wrong I'm trying to digest your whole 10-K in 30 minutes here.
I'm just trying to get a sense of how that pricing would have to be before we start to worry about write-offs on that product? Yes I'm not sure I'm following your question quite there but basically what we do is we take a look at our used inventory every quarter and we decide whether theres any write-offs necessary to that portfolio.
You would have seen here in Q1 that we did take a $25 million increase in the reserves and that is largely coming from the amount in inventory that we have and our look at how do we sell that efficiently back into the market overtime.
So we look at that every quarter and we did here at the end of Q1 is kind of our best look at it.
Okay thanks Ill pass it on.
Thank you.
The next question is from Ann Duignan of JPMorgan.
Your line is open.
Good morning Ann.
Hi good morning guys.
Hi Ann.
I just had a question more generally we saw cancellations like in January in the orders numbers to about 9.2% on the heavy duty side up from about 4.7% the month before.
What are you guys seeing out there in terms of I know you are focused more on medium duty but it would helpful to hear your perspective on what is going on out there? Are we beginning to say an increase in cancellations into the oil and gas sector or whats going on? Ann we are not seeing large cancellations for our vehicles and we still expect 2015 to be a strong year.
Yes there is some headwinds from oil and gas but as Troy mentioned thats an area that we dont participate as strongly in but if you look at the foreseeable future economic activity is still pretty strong unemployments low housing starts and automotive production is pretty strong and the ATD ATA truck tonnage is still at an old time high.
And so our customers trucks are operating at high utilization rates.
So we are not seeing the cancellations and we still anticipate a very strong 2015.
Okay thats helpful.
Thank you for the color I appreciate that.
And then in the Q a lot of the changes in the Q were in relation to [indiscernible] litigation would any of you care to just summarize where are we on the various lawsuits et cetera et cetera? Yes Ann we really dont -- cant provide much more clarification then really whats in the Q.
All those processes are proceeding and as we can we will make sure that everybody is advised of anything material that comes out of that.
Okay I will leave it there; I will get back in queue thanks.
All right thank you.
Thank you.
The next question is from Jeff Kauffman of Buckingham Research.
Your line is open.
Thank you very much.
Hi guys.
Hi Jeff.
Could you talk a little bit about what benefits you are expecting to see in the manufacturing operations as a result of the new labor contract and kind of how that helps get you to that $40 million to $60 million of manufacturing cost savings? Yeah this is Persio Jeff.
And what you are seeing today is really we part of the master agreement we agreed with the unions to get much more flexible conditions in our operations.
So as you have heard we have been deploying -- we increased the [indiscernible] our facilities.
We have been making significant progress in Mexico for instance in the last two years and that is going to be expanded right now to Springfield and our operation out there which is a key operation for us.
So we do believe that all the improvement we have made in working capital that you saw in the last year or so and also the material flow the ability to deploy lean principles in all our facilities is much better suited right now after the agreement.
Okay.
And then we are going to be looking at a pickup sequentially in CapEx for the next few quarters of the year.
Can you talk a little bit about where that capital is being deployed? Yes so its going to future product.
We have some plans in both the heavy and the severe segment as well as in bus.
So I think we have indicated previously that we are going to be bringing out propane in bus.
So that would be in one of those examples and as we have discussed at our Analyst Day we have some additional product initiatives one and two years out.
So thats where to go as well as you know we are starting to take a look at emissions for 2017 as well.
But I mean suffice it to say its primarily product spending and I think we have been fairly forthcoming with regards to the fact that we are kind of ending and have ended this cycle of spending a lot on our engine emissions programs and now we get back into spending on our trucks so that we dont get behind on that.
And so I would say that the CapEx spending that you see growing in the succeeding quarters are all related to new truck programs which we believe will come to fruition here over the course of next 24 to 36 months.
So more innovation-related.
Yes and upgrading and improving I would point to my comments related to the 2016 ProStar that we launched just in January significant wage savings significant fuel economy improved quality better cost attributes from contracting [ph] and design indicatives so a lot of stuff I think thats just going to benefit customer but also benefit the business as well.
Okay guys.
Thanks so much.
Congratulations.
We'll see you at the show.
Thanks.
Thank you.
The next question is from Andy Casey of Wells Fargo Securities.
Your line is open.
Thank you very much.
Good morning everybody.
Hi Andy.
First question on parts.
You had a really big margin improvement about 480 basis points year-over-year versus the restate.
I'm trying to understand how much of that is really driven by this change in access fee that you mentioned in the 10-Q or is it totally volume and mix? Yes a lot of this is due to volume as well as margins.
And the margin side we continue to work the cost side of equation as well as the pricing side where we can.
So that's where most of it's coming from.
I think if you look at it and if you can back-up the math you find out that the access fee is probably in the neighborhood of a point or so.
Just to give you some color on the size of that.
Okay thank you very much on that.
The rest of the impact as Walter indicated is revenue and margin based.
Okay great.
That's helpful.
And then separately we've -- in our channel work we've noticed one of your competitors seems to be realizing pretty substantial increase in their backlog.
Could you comment on whether you've noticed any aggressive marketing tactics particularly in the large fleet deals that have occurred in the beginning of the year? Yes I think there are some of our competitors -- their backlog they're a little bit larger than ours.
Ours is up 27% year-over-year.
It's tough to correlate the order intake because I think some of those order intake numbers relate to full year production or production into 2016 and 2017.
But I don't think there is anything of that other than to say the market is still very strong across the board medium heavy severe and even buses it's continues to be strong as ever.
Yes I think Andy this is Troy.
I mean on any deal we're winning deals which would imply to me that we're providing a better proposition in some cases and we're losing deals which would indicate that somebody else is providing a better proposition than ours.
So I think it is a market that's fairly mature and the product offerings are really well understood and we have some very good competitors.
So it's a good market for buyers right now.
I think they've never been able to get a better truck and quite frankly it's in all of our interests I think to serve this market well.
But I don't think we're not competitive.
That's the point that you're getting to that we don't have the ability to compete.
I think our ability to compete is enhanced even this year just over last year from some of the structural changes we've made to the business.
So we feel pretty good about it.
We feel pretty good about the offering that we got and the ability we've got to get the right kind of price and value into our customers hands.
Okay thank you.
And now it was more a kind of attempt to understand what's going on with your competitor not you product initiatives.
The last question the 20% chargeout growth in Q2 versus Q1 its splitting hairs a little bit but last year it was around the 28% increase.
Is that just the difference in the market environment right now were at a higher level or is there product transition that might be dampening that sequential growth rate.
It really isnt a product issue we do have some more expanded product into our SCR but I think it's just a situation of the profitable markets there issue continues to be significantly important to us and we see the market growing and we also see that our share certainly in medium and bus and severe those are the three we're concentrating on growing with that.
And Andy it's Walter again Id probably say maybe there is a little bit of splitting hairs there we booked over 20.
And we're coming off of a stronger Q1 here in '15 and we had a weak Q1 '14.
So I think that's you should factor that into your thinking as well.
Okay now that makes sense.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
Thank you.
The next question is from Jerry Revich of Goldman Sachs.
Your line is open.
Hi good morning.
Good morning Jerry.
I wonder if you can just provide more color behind the preexisting warranty adjustment was it the number of breakdowns that was lower or the cost per repair and can you just flesh out for us if there are any additional opportunities for pre-existing warranties to come down? Yes it was both frequency and severity so both I guess to your first part of your question and we're doing a great job on our new products.
The quality is excellent and as we shared with you at the Analyst Day we found ways to make high quality repairs for less money too.
So really doing very well in the warranty area to bring those down to levels that we can be more proud of.
In terms of going forward again just as in used we look at it every quarter and what we've been able to reverse on the accrual in the reserves here this quarter is our best look at it.
So we'll keep working on it and then I think if I were you I would continue to watch and ask us about is how's warranty spend moving and as I indicated in my prepared remarks that continues to come down here every month over the last year and that's not a perfect predictor but a very good predictor of where warranty expense might go in the future.
And Walter just to clarify can you just provide a number to the lower frequency what percent lower and the severity what percent lower just what our magnitude? Yes I think well probably have to follow-up with you on that I don't have that at my fingertips here.
Okay.
Thank you.
And then I am wondering if you could just talk about your progress on the trade-ins you gave us an update on the inventory side.
But how many trade-ins have you done to-date on the class A trucks that you're targeting.
I think getting a big chunk of the trade-ins done within the next call it 18 months or so and can you update us on how much progress you made on the quarter.
In the first quarter it was a little bit less than the prior quarter mainly because of the holidays.
But we've been through about 13 000 or I'd say mid-20% of the total MaxxForce 13 Leader EGRs and we expect based on Walter's comments we expect 2015 that number will grow.
But it's important to note that this isn't just a random situation.
This is a planned process of the trades we're taking back and it's a highly choreographed deal to make sure that we're taking them out.
And on the other side talking about selling and the Diamond Renewed we recently sensed -- recently introduced the Diamond Renewed program to our dealer bodies so they are now doing Diamond Renewed as well and we anticipate growth in that throughout 2015.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thank you.
The next question is from Brian Sponheimer of Gabelli &amp; Company.
Your line is open.
Hi.
Good morning.
Good morning Brian.
Just to add a point with Diamond Renewed now extending to the dealers what's the length of time for the re-certification process roughly speaking? You can completely Diamond Renew a truck a 180 point inspection in less than four hours.
Now that's kind of the inspection.
There may be some issues you may need to work on but it's a very quick inspection and just making sure that truck is the best truck on the road.
Then when you need to add on command connection it would take a little bit longer than that.
But we've got dealers that are doing that today and they're seeing significant improvement and once you do one you obviously get better after you do about 10 to 15 of them.
So it's a process that we'll gain a lot of momentum throughout 2015.
But I think if you think about it today its a couple of day type process on average probably decreasing from that as they get better at it.
And where you're having the most success in finding partners to take the Diamond Renewed trucks? That's probably our biggest success is in companies that have owner operator programs where they don't want to buy new and they've got I'll call it a pool of drivers that want to own their own vehicle that want a late model vehicle instead of a six and seven year old used truck that's where we're having the most success.
Is that limiting at all as you kind of go through the next 18 months with this process where does that demand really need to be coming from in order for you to fully work through this used truck problems? Yes I don't think the entire used truck that we have can be absorbed into I call it the United States.
So that's why we're looking at other areas thinking of exports the lease plan is another way that we're looking at it but I think the important thing is to give the customer the confidence of those vehicles and that will grow the demand for the vehicles as well.
Okay and just last one from me as we go through your appendix looks like on highway Class H here roughly speaking 10% for the quarter.
Do you support see an inflection point as far as when you think you've bottomed from a share perspective and if we are thinking about your Q4 for this year does that begin to bump up again.
Yeah the heavy share was down slightly first quarter over first quarter and we see -- we anticipate that growing throughout 2015.
So I'm not sure if that answers your question fully but we But I mean as you look at your on backlog is there a point in which both April and July et cetera were your chargeouts pick up materially where you can expect roughly speaking some pickup in share versus the rest of the market.
Yes we anticipate from this month forward really from February forward growth in the heavy segment throughout the rest of this year.
The way our year our fiscal year ends causes some numbers to be lower in the first quarter than our competitor.
Understood.
Thank you very much guys.
Thank you.
The next question is from Andrew Kaplowitz of Barclays.
Your line is open.
Good morning guys.
Good morning.
So in your parts business you continue to show very good momentum.
Can you guys talk about what's driving your success in parts.
And do you have a sense that you're taking market share and if so from whom do you think? Yes we had a very strong first quarter and especially in North America where we are up 13%.
And I think our strategy is on all mix growth and our private label brand growth which was double digits for the first quarter.
Also it's on aggressive cost management and lean processes to improve our margin.
We knew the Blue Diamond was going to be down but that's been more than offset by the revenue in other parts of the business.
And as we launch joint command connection that gives us an opportunity for related part sales as well and even the addition of the Cummins ISX and Cummins ISB that gets us opportunity to sell and service more competitive make vehicles in our dealership and gives our dealers access to greater population of the engine and offering.
So it's really not one thing the market is up.
Tough to tell if youve taken market share because the market is so enormous and there is a lot of players but I would tell you that our parts team had a really really strong first quarter and we anticipate that growing throughout the rest of the year.
Operations business.
How -- you guys have made very good progress there but how soon do you think business can get to breakeven and based on your current plans can that business be profitable at current market volumes or do you need market improvement there to get back to profitability? Hey Andrew could you do us a favor and just speak a little closer to the microphone.
We're having a hard time hearing it.
I want to make sure that we answer the right question not that.
Yes sure sorry about that.
In your global operations business how soon do you think that business can get back to breakeven and then based on your current plans can that business be profitable at current market volumes or do you need market improvement to get back to profitability in that business? Yes so couple of things what we -- I think you starting to see some of the cost actions that we've taken in South America helping our results here in Q1 versus Q1 of last year.
That really stems from efforts that's started last year to find a way to get to at least breakeven the volumes that we saw in the market last year.
Now the year started out a little softer than that.
So were going to have to redouble our efforts and Persio and his team are doing just that.
So ultimately we would expect the South America market and particularly Brazil to comeback some from these levels.
But its going to be a slog in 15 but our response to that is to focus on the cost side just as we did there last year and as we are doing in our North America markets as well but perhaps Persio would like to add something.
No I echo that.
We have a strong team leadership team down in South America and they are very sensitive to the market situation.
We monitor very closely the movements in the market and we are actually taking action right now in the next quarter in terms of better adjusting the structure there.
So faster initiatives the same lean principles that we are now implementing in the U.S.
is part of what they do down there.
So we will navigate to orders I think on the market size as is today but we are confident that we are going to keep the operation there healthy.
Yes I think if you look historically the second half of the year tends to be stronger in South America than the first half of the year.
Im not projecting anything for 15 but if you look at it typically that would be the case.
So while were not happy with the loss in that segment $50 million loss is a $20 million improvement versus last year and tends to be in one of the weaker quarters that we see.
Yes.
But I mean I think you appropriately noted.
I mean a big part of the earnings opportunity down there has a lot to do with the Brazilian market itself and the Brazilian economy.
So we can probably fight this thing back to a breakeven kind of basis and even maybe to some marginal profitability but its a cyclical market just like the U.S.
and basically this is a business that provides great returns when the market is functioning in a normal fashion and there just a little stress down there right now.
So better days are ahead I think.
Okay thats very helpful thank you.
Ill get back in queue.
Thank you.
The next question is from Adam Uhlman of Cleveland Research.
Your line is open.
Hi good morning.
Good morning.
Good morning Adam.
I was wondering if you could talk to the order trends that you saw as the quarter progressed.
And then maybe you could talk about what youre seeing so far in February orders were they better or worse than what you saw in January? Our orders were greater in February than they were in January in the market again its tough to tell when -- in industry report but I will say the order intake still very strong.
But its hard to tell if those orders are for build this year or 2016 or even beyond.
So I tell you certainly in medium our order intake is very strong in bus our order intake is strong and then in February we were strong across the board.
So were definitely trending in the right direction.
Thats good to hear Bill.
I guess related to that than when you in the back of the slide deck you have your reconciliation of your Class 8 forecast compared to ACTs forecast.
I guess where is the conservatism coming with your forecasting below what ACTs is for the year orders are still pretty strong? The only headwind we see is really oil and gas exploration and that from us thats not a big piece of our business.
So other than that we continue to see it be pretty strong throughout the year.
Im not a 100% sure what ACTs number is.
But in terms of Class 8 we see it is better than 2014.
Okay got you.
And then Walter just a clarification at what point does the truck business achieve profitability on like an adjusted basis before the warranty accruals as the year progresses.
Will we see that in second quarter is that more towards the back half of the year? Like you weve taken note that were getting pretty close.
And we cant wait to report out a quarter where its positive.
But I think well both have to wait to see exactly when thats going to be.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thank you.
And the next question is from Ted Grace of Susquehanna.
Your line is open.
So Im going to ask two kind of margin related questions.
The first is on structural costs and there were down about some $9 million year-on-year which is comes a smallest improvement weve seen I realize you're facing some really tough comps on the back of some pretty extraordinary achievements but just in terms of thinking about how structural cost should progress and incremental savings I know Walter alluded to more opportunity in the back half but could you just talk about kind of what happened in the first quarter and then how we should think about kind of the back of the year? Yes first of all I think on the engineering side we continue to do really well.
Costs were down about 12% in the quarter and in part that's due to the great work that Denny Mooney and his organization are doing to make sure we get high quality designed products while doing that more efficiently.
There is also an element of as we kind of move through some of our transition to the SCR-based product and we're buying some of our engines from Cummins now we don't need to spend as much in engineering.
So that trend has continued here in the first quarter.
On the SG&amp;A side it's relatively flattish as you indicated and there are some puts and takes there and so on one hand we do continue to have productivity in terms of reducing cost and SG&amp;A but there is some inflationary impacts there as well including on OPEB expense which runs through SG&amp;A for us where we have seen some higher expenses than what we had in '14 that we need to offset.
So we were able to do that in the first quarter and we hope to build through that and post more positive results on the SG&amp;A side over the balance of the year.
And then the other side of that is as revenues grow keeping that SG&amp;A expense in check and we plan to do that and so the way we tend to measure it as SG&amp;A as a percent of manufacturing revenues so that percentage will improve as our units continue to grow.
Yes so we had some inflationary pressure in the quarter and quite frankly the timing of our initiatives that will reduce SG&amp;A more are timed out later in the year.
We didn't have a lot of those land in the first quarter.
Okay.
That's helpful.
And then the second related question would be kind of the market share goals that you outlined and reaffirmed at the Analyst Day to kind of the exit rate or at least the absolute EBITDA generation for the fourth quarter I mean you talked about kind of 24% to 27% market share in class 6-7 I think which you exited 1Q at 21% the biggest gap was probably in class A heavy and I know Bill talked about that improving from February on and I think severe probably is closest but as we get to the second quarter and we're not either in line with those or within spitting distance does that put 8% to 10% at risk or do we see more cost-cutting and it's just dollar issue on lower sales volume I'm just trying to think through that kind of counterbalancing dynamics? Well no I mean I think so the one thing I think in your trailing comment there I think is part of it right.
So it certainly it is possible to have a circumstance where we don't hit the exited share target but we do hit the volume target because the market is strong.
So I think the absolute number is really a function of the volume that we get.
That said look we're in there fighting everyday for market share.
It is important to us it is a proof point I think on the quality and caliber of the products that we have and certainly the relationship that we've built with our customers.
So we anticipate making progress in every quarter and it'll be lumpy.
There'll be some fits and starts largely given the way our customers put orders into the system and when they're kind of in a buying mood.
But as Bill indicated February was better than January and we're going to fight this thing I think one inning at a time and we're pretty confident in the progress that we're seeing.
That will be in the right range to support the 8% to 10% EBITDA run rate at the end of year.
Now look we're -- we've been a part of this movie from the beginning and we're pressing every cost lever we have and the cost levers aren't just aimed at the 8% to 10% EBITDA in the spirit of the lean enterprise and we stated clearly in the past if we're spending money and it doesnt benefit the customer our shareholder or enhance our capability to do good things in the future that we just got to stop spending that kind of money and we're still finding those opportunities as we're actually finishing up I think the restructuring of our business.
That said I mean may be I'll turn it over to Walter if he has additional comments with regards to the math but we're still in line with I think what we shared with you at Analyst Day with regards to the expectation.
Yeah Ill just reiterate what Troy said.
We ultimately -- our bottom-line is a function of units and our share in -- the markets been stronger and so we've been able to get the units a different way.
So Bill and his team are really re-doubling their efforts to participate more on the share side even as the market is growing which could provide us some upside actually.
In terms of that final point and I'll get back in queue after this I mean you talked about chargeouts are most important and I think we all understand that.
Is there any chance you might be willing to give us at least for class 6-7 and class 8 heavy kind of some markers for what you think second quarter share should be just so we can see kind of a trajectory or a path to reaching those full year goals? Well I guess short of giving you an exact number I do expect growth across all four of the segments that we participate in.
So I hate to predict the number right now but you saw what we are predicting at the Analyst Day.
So I think the walk from first quarter to second quarter is going to be in line with our Analyst Day presentation and the walk there.
Okay.
Well thank you very much and best of luck this quarter guys.
Thanks.
Thank you.
Thank you.
And the next question is from Steven Fisher of UBS.
Your line is open.
Great.
Thanks.
Good morning.
For Bill do you have any more color on what drove that breather you mentioned in used sales in Q1? You know the market has been extremely hot obviously around the holidays things change weather typically impacts the first quarter although I would tell you at least around here November-December were pretty good January was a different animal but I think that has a slight degree to do with it.
So those are and I think it just will -- it kind of comes as a natural cycle that there is going to be some breathers.
But overall again like I said I think 2015 is going to be another record year on top of our 2014 record year in terms of used truck sales and our dealers inventory as well.
They expect record years in their used truck inventory operations.
Okay.
In the interest of time I'll leave it at one there.
Thanks.
Thank you.
And the next question is from Seth Weber of RBC Capital Markets.
Your line is open.
Hey thanks.
Good morning everybody.
Good morning.
Just a couple of quick clarifications.
Does Global Ops do you think that is profitable by the end of the year for the fourth quarter do you expect Global Ops to be positive margin I guess is my first clarification.
Yeah I think we're going to have to see how the Brazilian market develops and that's anybody's guess right now.
So tough to predict.
Okay.
Whether it will be profitable by the end of the year but we are putting the foundation in place so I think thats the point we're trying to make on the cost side so that when that market does start to recover that will hopefully be in your breakeven at the bottom of the cycle and making money as it improves.
Okay but you're Walther your margin guidance for the company is not predicated on that being profitable.
That's correct.
Okay.
Thank you.
And then just kind of a ticky-tack one but you actually took your CapEx number up a little bit from where it was at the Analyst Day was there anything that you could call out that you pulled forward there? Actually not following your question we took it up for the year or the quarter or what you mean? Yes for the year I think you had at the Analyst Day I think it was I think you raised it relative to where it was at the Analyst Day by maybe $25 million? Okay I don't think there is actually any change versus Analyst Day.
So let me take a look at that.
We had said I think $125 million to $150 million for the year probably focused more on the 125 at the Analyst Day.
No change in CapEx is the short answer.
Okay.
So nothing has changed.
Great.
Thank you very much guys.
Thank you.
Thank you.
And that's all the time that we have for questions for today.
I'll turn the call back over for closing remarks.
Okay as I indicated this is Troy again as I indicated we certainly appreciate your interest in the progress we are making here at Navistar.
We are really pleased to be able to share with you not just an accounting of our accomplishments but how we see the year unfolding.
Q1 I think performed there were puts and takes but performed very much in line with our expectations I think as Walther indicated we plan on building on that every quarter this year.
So we look forward to giving you an update on the progress that we will make in the course of the second quarter.
Thank you very much.
Thank you ladies and gentlemen this concludes todays conference.
You may now disconnect.
Good day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen.
And welcome to Navistar's Second Quarter 2015 Earnings Results Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session and instructions will follow at that time.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this call is being recorded.
I would now like to introduce your host for today's conference Kevin Sadowski Vice President of Investor Relations.
Sir you may begin.
Good morning everyone.
And thank you for joining us for Navistar's second quarter 2015 conference call.
With me today are Troy Clarke our President and Chief Executive Officer; and Walter Borst our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Before we begin I'd like to cover a few items.
A copy of this morning's press release and the presentation slides that we will be using today have been posted on our Investor Relations website for your reference.
The non-GAAP financial measures discussed in the call are reconciled to the U.S.
GAAP equivalent as part of the appendix in the slide deck.
Finally today's presentation includes some forward-looking statements about our expectations for future performance.
Actual results could differ materially from those suggested by our comments made here.
For additional information concerning factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected in today's presentation please refer to our most recent reports on Forms 10-K and 10-Q and our other SEC filings.
We would also refer you to the Safe Harbor statement and other cautionary notes disclaimer presented in today's material for more information on the subject.
With that I'll turn the call over to Troy Clarke for his opening remarks.
Okay.
Hey thank you Kevin and good morning everyone.
Today Walter and I are going to walk you through our results for the second quarter.
Let me start with the headlines though if I could.
First we achieved positive manufacturing cash flow this quarter and our liquidity is improving.
Next charge-outs are up for the quarter and our market share is also improving.
More importantly consideration of our new products continues to grow.
We are achieving our cost objective continue to take actions to improve capacity utilization and we also continue to invest in our core business.
We remain on track to hit our EBITDA margin run rate goal exiting 2015.
The good news in North America however was impacted by the business environment outside of the U.S.
and Canada.
I'll share some details on this point shortly but first lets just take a look at the industry.
On Page 7 U.S.
economic outlook remains optimistic so is the outlook for the transportation industry.
Improving freight rates lower engine costs favorable business conditions aging fleets and better new truck fuel economy and safety all translate into good demand for trucks.
On particular note medium duty sales have been the low replacement levels for several years.
And the good news is we are seeing growth in this important segment in 2015 due to increase in business investment and extension in the housing market.
We continue to believe that these conditions will remain favorable and we maintain our industry retail forecast for class 6 through 8 including bus to be in the range of 350 000 to 380 000 units this year.
These industry trends are evident in our numbers.
We're experiencing positive sales momentum across all product segments of our U.S.
and Canada trucks and bus business.
Last quarter we told you that we expected chargeouts in our core markets have increased by more than 20% in Q2.
In fact chargeouts were up nearly 40% versus Q1 and 10% year-over-year.
In addition our market share is up across the board versus Q1.
Market share is also up in medium and bus year-over-year.
In heavy our sales are increasing but share has not yet increased year-over-year.
Our order backlog for all products continues to improve.
Let me give you some more color.
In medium we're gaining share rapidly.
Our market share is up six percentage points over Q1.
We're up to 27% owing to deals in medium due to the strength of our product offering which includes the Cummins ISB and our industry leading chassis.
In fact one of our major leasing customers recently shared some data with us that shows that DuraStar chassis and ISB engine combination delivers the best fuel economy and lowest cost of ownership across their entire fleet.
Our leasing and rental customers are increasingly happy with our performance.
Our share is growing with these very important buyers.
Notably we've also seen a significant increase in dealer wide sales.
That's key to our success in the medium-duty segment.
In bus we're on track to hit our share target of 44% that we gave you on the Analyst Day.
That's a 9 point gain over 2014.
On the products side we'll begin delivering our purpose-built propane busses to customers this summer.
Our partnership with PSI is an example of what we mean when we say best-in-class technology integration.
PSI heavy-duty propane engine is a clean quiet user friendly alternative fuel engine that delivers great power performance and reliability.
Customer feedback on our propane bus has been positive.
We're already wining orders.
In the severe service segment we started production of the popular WorkStar model with the Cummins ISB.
This is our final severe service to get SCR and now that our SCR portfolio is complete we have the foundation in place to increase sales and build our market share.
And now let's go back to heavy for a minute.
We remain focused on building profitable market share.
We are rebuilding customer confidence and sales by delivering leading-edge technology and more choice for the broadest range of transmission offerings for the most advanced safety systems available today.
We've also launched the ProStar ES.
The ES features industry leading aerodynamic most fuel efficient powertrain transmission combinations available in the industry and a number of other advanced technologies.
Yet we have not recovered class A market share as quickly as we had planned.
We restored our products to best-in-class industry levels of quality and components.
And our warranty on used truck efforts along with other important initiatives reflects the extraordinary actions we've taken to better serve our customers.
We believe the approach we're taking balances the need to restore market share with profitability.
We think it is working.
Here's why.
The number of customers to whom we're selling heavy trucks to today has increased by over 50% year-over-year a level slightly greater than 2012.
Now that is in our smaller and medium-sized customers who have purchased only a few units giving us a chance to rerun their business in some cases.
And some are even conquest customers.
This is an important step of our confidence and performance of our products will lead to more sales and the result in the increase that we're looking for.
Dealer led sales of heavy are up 36% year-over-year and you may recall we talked about the importance of dealer engagement in moving our share forward.
And all of this corresponds to a 15% in heavy revenue year-to-date in North America.
No doubt our ability to take in used trucks has impacted our heavy orders.
We expect that we'll continue to manage our higher than normal used truck inventory over the next few years.
That said our used truck team continues to create opportunities to address the issue.
One way is through our Diamond Renewed program that provides a new truck experience to used truck buyer.
Diamond Renewed sales are growing and were up 150% in versus Q1.
In addition our dealers are increasing their activities in used trucks.
We've also been successful finding some new markets for these vehicles globally.
Its just a fact the faster we sell or turn our used truck inventory more used trucks we can take unlocking more market share and we're encouraged by our progress.
Our parts business remains healthy.
Sales and margins in our North America markets improved this quarter contributing to a strong first half run course to grow in all mixed parts as well including our Fleetrite private label which grew double-digits in the first half compared to last year.
In our global operations segment sales were negatively impacted by the continuing difficult economic environment in Brazil.
Nevertheless we report approximately breakeven results there by resizing the business at current industry condition.
Turning to Slide 8 since the beginning of the year we've talked a lot about uptime at International it's all about designing and building quality trucks to stay on the road longer and offering innovative tools and services that keep our customers moving.
And we're fulfilling our uptime promise.
Product quality continues to improve and we're getting a lot of good feedback from our customers.
Second we announced this quarter that we're making OnCommand Connection standard on every new international trucks and we're broadening the reach of OnCommand Connection outside of the U.S.
and Canada.
This summer we also will introduce a dedicated OnCommand Connection product for school bus.
Today the number of vehicles we're monitoring in North America has more than doubled since last August and we now have 130 connected vehicles.
And we're bringing more 130 000 connected vehicles and we've trained more than 100 dealer specialists on how to use OnCommand Connection to better serve customers.
Third we're working with some of the best suppliers in the industry to be first to introduce leading technologies.
This includes the Bendix Wingman Fusion the industry's most advanced safety plan.
This uses advanced safety software to enhance and merge three component technologies digital cameras RADAR and brakes providing electronic stability control collision mitigation and lane departure technologies to name a few.
Turning to cost as the beginning of our turnaround we have looked closely at all areas outside of our core North American business testing them both for their strategic fit and their current and anticipated returns.
As part of that ongoing process we completed the sale of our Waukesha Foundry business in Q2 and we're on track to wind down our Indianapolis Foundry this summer.
With those actions we will be out from the foundry business.
Material costs are on track to plan.
At the halfway mark we've achieved 50% of our targeted reduction and we feel confident we'll hit our full year plan.
In manufacturing we remain focused on taking waste out of the system by launching lean initiatives.
These are better quality and cost reduction.
In addition we're making investments to improve the capabilities of our manufacturing operations.
This is particularly true at our Tulsa bus plant where we have begun to increase daily production due to high demand.
We're reducing product development costs because our emissions transition is complete and we shift our focus to truck related technologies.
At the same time we are making products investments including new product platforms that are in the pipeline as well as projects related to 2017 Greenhouse Gas Regulation.
In addition we recently acquired a new test track that will enable us to further improve product quality and performance.
We maintain a steady focus on SG&amp;A and we expect the second half reductions based on recent cost reduction activity.
At the same time we are increasing spend on marketing initiatives that will bring our story to customers and help generate good sales.
In summary we continue to make progress this quarter and we acknowledge we have more work to do.
We are confident that we are going to stay the course on cost continue to improve sales and share profitably recent customer acceptance of our new products excellent performance great fuel economy and the outstanding uptime that we're delivering.
Now let me turn it to Walter who will provide you with more details on our financial performance for the quarter.
Thank you Troy good morning everyone.
Let's turn our attention to the results for Q2.
Consolidated revenue was $2.7 billion in the second quarter of 2015 slightly down year-over-year.
This reflects an increase in sales from our truck segment that were more than offset by 52% reduction of revenues from the Global Operations segment.
During the quarter we continue to demonstrate EBITDA growth both year-over-year and compared to last quarter.
Second quarter EBITDA was $85 million compared to a loss of $119 million in the second quarter of 2014.
The significant year-over-year improvement in our results reflects an increase in truck segment sales favorable product mix as well as the continuation of lower warranty expense and cost reduction.
Additionally the prior year results included $149 million of asset impairment charges related to our South American engine operations.
Adjusted EBITDA for the quarter as shown on Slide 11 was $102 million.
We had a few adjustments this quarter that included $80 million charge to preexisting warranty and merely composed of charges related to the recently announced field campaigns and other routine warranty expenses and $1 million net gain from one-time items.
Overall it was a relatively clean same the quarter from a one-time items perspective.
Turning to Slide 12 let's take a look at the results for our segments.
Revenues from the truck segment grew 4% compared to a year ago.
The growth was primarily driven by a 14% increase in our core truck markets which included a 1700 unit increase in chargeouts.
Upsetting the growth in the core markets were lower sales in our export and Mexico businesses.
Sales continue to remain strong in our North American commercial parts business and grew 2% year-over-year.
This improvement was more than offset by lower sales from export parts business in Blue Diamond Parts.
As a result our segment revenues decreased 3% in the quarter.
Revenue from our Global Operations segment decreased 52% compared to the second quarter of 2014 impacting lower engine volumes due to the challenging economic conditions in Brazil and the impact of a large government truck order placed in 2014.
Shifting our focus to segment profit the results of our truck segment improved by $78 million compared to last year.
Contributing to this improvement were higher truck sales in North America lower warranty expenses and cost reduction.
These improvements were partially offset by losses from our used truck operations.
The Parts segment profit was flat compared to a year ago.
The margin improvements from our commercial markets were offset by declines in Blue Diamond Parts and our export parts business.
The Global Operations segment reported a profit in the quarter affecting the actions to right-size the business in an environment of declining revenues.
Also contributing to the year-over-year improvement was the 2014 asset impairment charges that I mentioned earlier.
The Financial Services segment continues to perform in line with our expectations.
The slight year-over-year decline in the segments profit was primarily due to an increase in loan loss reserves in Mexico partially offset by an increase in segment revenue as average wholesale notes receivable balances increased.
As you can see on Slide 13 our key metrics continued to trend favorably.
Chargeouts were up 10% versus Q2 2014 reflecting increases of 1300 units in Class 6 to 7 and 800 units in the Class 8 truck segment.
The increase in medium-duty chargeouts reflects growth from dealer led sales activities as well as rental and leasing customers.
The increase in Class 8 reflects growth in the heavy market from dealer led sales activities and the introduction of focused Spec trucks such as the ProStar ES and the availability of additional applications for severe service customers.
The growth in chargeouts during the first half is consistent with our 2015 full year expectation.
We continue our focus on uptime and our customers are recognizing the excellent performance of our new products and services.
Our trucks are built to last built to perform and supported with best dealerships and after sales network in the industry.
Structural cost remained a priority as well.
During the first half of the year the continued benefits from cost savings activities have been offset by higher post retirement healthcare expenses.
In the second quarter of 2015 structural cost as a percent of manufacturing revenue were 12%.
We continue our effort to lower our structural cost towards our goal of 10% to 11% of revenues.
The quality of our new products has improved significantly and warrant expense continues to trend towards industry benchmarks.
For the second quarter of 2015 warrant expense excluding preexisting adjustments as a percentage of manufacturing revenue was 2.9% compared to 3.1% in 2014.
The decrease reflects quality improvements and more recent model years and continued efforts to reduce overall repair costs.
The adjusted EBITDA margin for the quarter was 3.8% versus 3% in the second quarter of 2014.
The improvement reflects increased unit volume better product mix related to increased medium and bus sales as well as continued cost improvements.
Turning to gross material savings we're looking to reduce costs by 1.5% to 1.8% of manufacturing sales in 2015.
The key initiatives that will get us here includes further consolidating our supply base increasing spend in best cost countries and design cost reduction activities.
During the first half of 2015 we achieved half of our annual savings target and we remain on track towards our material cost savings goal for the year.
We are further ahead of our annual plan and are identifying cost savings projects that we were at this time last year when we achieved 1.7% cost reduction.
Manufacturing is another area where we expect further improvements.
We expect to benefit from cash utilization efforts as in the recent announcements related to the discontinuation of our foundry operations as well as our continued focus on manufacturing efficiency gains with lean initiatives.
We're on track to reduce manufacturing cost by $40 million to $60 million in 2015.
Turning to Slide 15 gross used truck inventory at quarter end was slightly higher than at the end of the first quarter we ended the second quarter with $375 million of gross used truck inventory including inventory held at our finance company versus $365 million at the end of Q1 2015.
The slight uptick was due to higher receipts of late model units as we foreshadowed previously.
Additionally our used truck reserve increased $80 million as we mark-to-market the used truck inventory at the end of each quarter.
Higher reserve is the function of the length of time it will take to sell the higher level of used truck in inventory.
We believe used truck inventory will continue to increase peaking around $425 million before trending lower.
We able to pinpoint when the balance will peak in terms of used truck receipts and the timing of used truck sales.
Used truck sales increased 26% in the second quarter compared to the first quarter of the year were seeing traction in the market with our Diamond renewed program and finding success selling our used trucks in certain export markets.
Moving to cash we reported positive manufacturing cash flow from operating activity we ended the quarter with manufacturing cash cash equivalents and marketable securities of $784 million.
Adjusted EBITDA largely offset the cash used for capital expenditures interest payments and pension OPAB contribution.
Working capital turned positive this quarter due to the lower inventory balances in our efforts to manage our balance sheet.
Additionally warranty cash payments exceeded warranty expense but continue to decline year-over-year.
As shown on Slide 17 we expect manufacturing cash at the end of the third quarter to be in the range of $750 million to $850 million.
Consolidated adjusted EBITDA is expected to be in the range of $125 million to $175 million which excludes pre-existing warranty accruals and one-time items consistent with prior quarters.
We expect cash used for capital expenditures interest and pension OPAB funding to be higher versus Q2 the increase is primarily due to the timing of interest payments in our outstanding debt primarily the 8.25% senior notes while we make semi-annual interest payments in November and May.
We expect networking capital to be positive again next quarter despite higher used truck inventories and warranty cash payments being greater than expense.
Additionally in the third quarter of 2015 we expect capital expenditures in investments to be higher due in part to acquiring 25% ownership in Blue Diamond Truck joint venture as that joint venture comes to an end.
Now lets turn to our EBITDA goals for 2015 on Slide 18.
In the second quarter our adjusted EBITDA margin was 3.8% up 160 basis points from Q1.
In the third quarter we expect an adjusted EBITDA margin of 4.3% to 6.3%.
Looking ahead to the second half of 2015 we see higher margins coming from the combination of lower cost in higher revenue.
As previously communicated this years plan is more dependent on continued cost reductions than a large pick up in market share.
In order to achieve our Q4 2015 target EBITDA margin 60% of the improvements will come from continued cost reductions and 40% from increased volume price and mix in our truck and parts businesses.
A significant portion of the cost improvements will come from gross material and manufacturing cost saving initiatives.
As Ive stated earlier we plan to duplicate our material cost savings from the first half to the second half of the year we expect to recognize the benefits of our previously announced manufacturing rationalization plans as well.
Keep in mind that a majority of these savings will fall through the bottom line as the incremental material cost associated with implementing STR are largely behind us the other portion of the cost savings will come from structural cost reductions in our North America and global operations as our next set of cost cutting initiatives take hold stemming from further efforts to resize the business.
As for the revenue drivers of EBITDA growth they will be driven a large part by our core North America trucks and parts operation as we head into the second half of 2015 we expect additional EBITDA improvement from increased volume price and mix in our truck businesses as well as lower reserve adjustments for our used truck operations.
In the third quarter we expect charge outs to be up 88% compared to the same period a year ago even as charge outs are lower in absolute terms versus Q2 due to less operating days in Q3.
We also expect increased revenue favorable mix and pricing in the North American commercial parts business compared to the first half of the year.
The Blue Diamond Parts export parts business will pick up well as the fourth quarter in particular is typically stronger.
To summarize our results continue to improve in the second quarter of 2015 did a number of notable accomplishments including one increased core truck charge-outs two higher market share sequentially three additional cost reductions and four improve working capital and lastly we have positive manufacturing cash flow as well.
In closing we continue to demonstrate good progress towards our goal with the actions weve taken to improve the business and the continuation of a strong industry we plan to build upon our first half progress and the second half increase our EBITDA margin in excess of 8% actually in 2015.
Ill stop here and return the call back to Troy.
Okay.
Hey thanks Walter now.
Let me wrap up the former part of our remarks to look ahead.
Turning to Slide 22 our assumption is that the industry remains strong for the rest of 2015 and through 2016 in fact based on anticipated growth in medium and preliminary industry guidance for 2016 please add it will be similar to this year.
The second half of the year is typically stronger for us in terms of charge-outs and EBIT we expect that will be the case this year were also forecasting improved share in the second half we remain focused on increasing sales and are gaining market share.
To that end let me also tell you about a new addition to our team.
As we may have seen Jeff Sass as our new Senior Vice President of North America Truck Sales and Marketing Jeff joins us from PACCAR where he has spent the last 20 years in various roles of increasing responsibility in sales and marketing development customer service with the parent company as well as Kenworth Truck Company and Peterbilt Motors.
His experience and respective leader in the industry and has a strong track record in developing new business generating sales and supporting customers.
So bring new insight high energy and excellent leadership for our truck sales and marketing.
We will continue to invest in new products our manufacturing processes and our product development activities.
Cost improvement will remain a priority for us we expect the positive impact of reduced spending in engineering and SG&amp;A will continue to pay off through-out the year we also expect to achieve additional savings in material cost manufacturing in the second half.
Half the year is behind us as we take stock we find ourselves in a better position in terms of year-to- date accomplishments and performance to plan when compared to last year.
I think weve laid the foundation for the second half of the year as a result we remain on track to accomplish our EBITDA margin run rate goal everything for 2015.
With that let me turn over to Kevin and we will go ahead and get it opened up for questions.
Great that concludes our prepared remarks.
Before we go to questions I will like to let you know that in addition to Troy and Walter also joining us today is Persio Lisboa President of Operations and Bill Kozek President of Truck and Parts.
To be fair we ask that each of you limit yourself to one question including an optional follow-up.
Operator we are now read to open the line for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of David Leiker with Robert W.
Baird.
Your line is open.
Hi good morning this is Joe [indiscernible] for David.
If I go back to the chargeout guidance you provided at the Analyst Day and just kind of back into what Q3 and Q4 might be it kind of seems like April July and October are all going to be plus or minus 18 000 chargeouts levels if volumes are more or less flat.
I'm just wondering what some of the confidence I understand the cost sales and the material sales but kind of from a capacity utilization standpoint what are you seeing in the operations that's allowing you to drive margin improvement on what seems like flat volumes? I can take that I think what were seeing overall for operations weve been  this is Persio Lisboa by the way.
We've been improving our capacity and the movement that we made with the foundries for instance is a good example of that we are really not focusing on a core we have both lines in our Escondido plant being right now rebalanced.
We have ProStar operating at high level of capacity for next two quarters and we also see that our Springfield facility will be able to take more medium-duty trucks as we increase our share in medium-duty.
So we see the capacity utilization positive in the next two quarters.
Okay.
That makes sense and if I can just follow-up.
So it does seem like absolute volume leaving share aside volume is stabilizing here.
Do you think this is kind of a good run rate going forward and then when the new truck platforms get introduced maybe next year you see another step up in volumes you can realize? This is Bill Kozek.
I think as you look at volume certainly medium year heading in the right direction and positive year-over-year but the heavy were still in that earn the business through our product which have been operating very very strong and then having to deal with the used as well and we anticipate that situation will continue to be better quarter-over-quarter as we go through the rest of this year and certainly into 2015.
So yes I think heavy is where weve got the most opportunity and as Troy mentioned weve got a lot of good thing on the book and were preparing to grow were ready to grow.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Brian Sponheimer with Gabelli.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
Hi.
Good morning everyone.
Just talking about the used process during the quarter you obviously had to take a reserve adjustment there.
If youre kind of handicapping where you are now versus where you thought youd be at the start of the year? What have been the biggest changes? Well youre talking Brian in terms of the reserve adjustments or volumes or? The pricing of your equipment that youre taking back in along with secondary customers acceptance to take the product.
Yes this is Bill.
Ill take that.
You know the values obviously values are dependent on - expect in mileage and our volumes are little bit higher.
So if you look at pricing year-over-year were down slightly in heavy and then in terms of medium-duty size that were up our pricing is up year-over-year but our confidence level because of Diamond renewed and we add on maintenance and we add confidence warranty levels our numbers in the first quarter were I will call them sluggish but it really rebounded in the second quarter and about where we thought they would be for the full year at this point and we think theyre going to grow and were going to have a record 2015 in terms of sale.
All right.
And just thinking about the addressable market of vehicles still out there from a warranty perspective usually give that kind of bell curve which is in this deck.
Where you think we are in that? Are we past the peak? Yes.
This is Troy.
Certainly were past the peak.
Were about were on track with exactly where the bell curve we said would be so about in terms of volumes of units covered under warrant we are about the halfway point right about 50% of the total.
If you remember that curve where that point in first follow up little more steeply now.
Almost all of the big bore the 30 meter MaxxForce engines are out of base warranty until whats running off there is the extended warranty over this period of time and now were beginning to see the medium-duty engines start to run off at a quicker rate as well.
So we are actually on track with that.
We expect to end this year about 65 to 70 of that volume run off.
So and then it runs off rather quickly after that.
All right.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Jerry Revich with Goldman Sachs.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
Im wondering if you could just say more on the material cost out opportunity relative to the targets that you laid out.
How much of that is with material cost coming down versus the cost out that you highlighted at the Analyst Day and elsewhere.
And just help us understand the coverage on Telematics product that youll be offering.
Obviously that has a cost to it.
How do you offset that content? Are you able to change price realization at all? Jerry this is Persio.
Well as we mentioned in the Analyst Day we have several actions on the material side that now drive the improvement for 12th year.
As Walter mentioned we are well into half of that target for material right now.
And we have a pretty good line of sight.
Actually for the second half we are in much better position than where we were a year ago in the first half of 2014.
So we feel good about the material cost and we think that there is huge potential for us to hit the total number for the fiscal year so thats on a material specifically.
Then we have a strong action taking place on manufacturing as well as you know.
And the foundry business that we just - the announcement that we just made in Waukesha.
I think as I mentioned we are rebalancing our lines.
We are going more to a focused production of our platforms in our plants.
And we are just in the supply base a the same time.
So we feel good - very good about the manufacturing and adding that to the material.
And on top of that we have the structure of actions that Troy mentioned here that are also important for us for the second half.
But we feel now very confident in a plan that we shared with you during the Analyst Day.
And in regards to on command connection the cost is relatively minor but its certainly worth it to; one take care of customers; but two to have access to the data to allow us to make continues improvements on a product.
So were able to cover that and for us really.
Okay.
And then on the product breadth can you talk about where you stand now? Do you have the ISB rolled out across the bulk of applications or is there still an opportunity in front of us? And can you talk about the opportunity for additional may be one-off products any interest like the Eaton deal clutch AMT is that something that could increase the range of your products at all.
Is that under consideration? Can you just lay that out for us? This is Danny Oney by the way.
Relative to the ISB we are just completing the launch of the ISB in our work start our vocational trucks.
In fact that truck is launching this month.
So all models will have the ISB in them as of this month.
There are many many smaller configurations still to come but the majority are already launched.
And relative to the Eaton AMT more to come on that.
Were not ready to make an announcement today but more to come on that later this year.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Steven Fisher with UBS.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
Great.
Thanks.
Good morning.
Just curious to what are your expectations for trends and end market price for used Class 8 trucks over the next several months? I know you talked about it a little bit earlier on the call but I guess Im just wondering if the higher market tells that happened in 2011 and 12 might start to put more trucks in the market and pressure pricing further if thats already sort of baked into your expectation.
Yes.
We see the - going forward we anticipate slight increases in pricing in the use.
We dont think 2011 and 12 is as impacted as that - too much because while the markets were up they werent up at 2006 levels.
But yeah we anticipate things to continue to be strong in terms of the use.
And thats mainly because we see the economy continuing to be strong and the truck that were built in 2011 and 12 are - get better fuel economy so we think theres going to continue to be demand there.
Okay.
And then on the parts business can you just talk about the trajectory is being in part sales going forward.
I mean it was down little this quarter and youve got some cross currents in this segment with pure engines but would you have charge-offs growing and then on command helping.
Should there be a defined trajectory over the next year or two on that business? We anticipate growth.
We continue to anticipate growth into parts business certainly in North America like U.S.
Canada.
Yeah.
Its going to continue to be strong.
Rest of the world and the Blue Diamond part are both challenged right now.
But we anticipate that flat America and Mexico will have a better second half.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Stephen Volkmann with Jefferies.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
Hi.
Good morning guys.
Sorry if I missed this but did you say what the warrantee adjustment this quarter were for and how we should think about that going forward? Yeah.
We did mention it.
Steve its Walter.
A good part of it the majority of it actually was related to field campaigns in the quarter.
And we had one particular field campaign that accounted for half of the $18 million adjustment that we made in the quarter which was one-time item which we wouldnt expect to repeat and probably reserve for in the quarter.
So as I look at warrantee for the quarter its really pretty stable quarter and things have stabilized here in terms of our warrantee adjustments $8 million with more than half of that related to a few field campaigns doesnt leave much else left for warrantee adjustments in this.
Okay.
Great.
Thats helpful.
And then I wonder if I might just ask I dont know Bill or Troy or somebody your initial comments for 2016 sort of being flattish.
I guess Im just curious youre thinking behind that and whether you have any sort of visibility vis--vis discussions with customers or where you might sort of base that and any additional thoughts that would be great.
Yeah.
I mean I think let me just start.
This is Troy and Ill toss it over to Bill.
But its a little bit of all of the above.
What I think weve all seen here over the last several years is an extreme - I dont know extreme lumpiness right on how orders coming from the market.
I think one of the - through some of the marketing tactics that all of us now have began to use there is an extreme timing of the [indiscernible] begins here in second half of year which then typically culminates in what seems to be a very high order run rate in the last calendar quarter and the first calendar quarter of the coming year.
So a lot of that is associated with very specifically trucking companies that have their capital allocation plans and certainly like to lay that out for the entire year as they get their budgets approved closer to the end of the calendar.
So were already into that part of the cycle really having those discussion with large fleet that have large capital outlays who are really looking for that opportunity to reserve a portion of my or somebody elses capacity.
This year was kind of different because some of those discussions lead us to believe that not only is it - was it replacement volume but we began to see I think the first time this year in some time we began to have some companies have been able to do through I think some innovative tactics through drivers and increase durability to put truck on the road.
As we start those same discussions this year going in and build little closer to it than I am were seeing the same type of dialogue if not a little bit more than we experienced this time last year.
And so may be its a little anecdotal but there are significant inquiries that has significant impacts obviously to our backlog and Im sure by contemporaries as well that are already coming into play as we line up for 2016.
I dont know Bill if you want to add something there.
Sure.
If I look at it across the segment we anticipate medium duty is going to be up.
Thanks to pure medium duty as weve been asked for place the lower pace of demand.
So theres going to be growth there.
But we anticipate growth as school districts have flow to add vehicles or to replace it.
But here were thinking to grow as well and because municipalities are spending it need to spend for new vehicles.
On heavy duty we think its down slightly but again the conversations were having today with customers lead us to believe that it stay actually to be flat or up slightly because customers are talking adding versus the past at that risky place.
But right now our forecast is down slightly.
But overall we think that the forecast is relatively flat.
Is that helpful Steve? Yeah.
Thats great.
And I wonder if I can just sneak in a follow up here? If youre willing can you just give us any sense of how to think about the relative margin between medium and heavy that might be helpful.
Yeah.
Its Walter.
Glad you asked.
Because I think a lot of times we get questions about that and obviously for competitive reasons we cant provide too much on that.
But were bullish that medium and bus are going to do better because our margins are strong there.
And thats good for Navistar.
So with this part of the cycle moving to medium bus thats good for us.
We have more manufacturing type efficiency that we can bring to bear on medium and bus just given the fewer number of build combinations.
Thats more likelihood that its a more standard look for us from the rear to forward going out the door.
So us and for everybody who is in the medium truck business really like that.
Its easier to run that on a lower cost per unit basis because you really can leverage scale across smaller volumes through a more efficient manufacturing network.
So medium is good business for us and Im sure its good business for other folks as well.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Ann Duignan with JPMorgan.
Your line is open please go ahead.
You there Ann? Are you on hold? Sorry about that.
This is [Mike Koman] [ph] on for Ann.
Can you hear me now? Hello Mike.
Hi.
Just I wanted to quickly follow on those the preliminary view on 16.
Seen cancellation rates move higher in the last couple of months.
Is that affecting your backlog at all or your order rates? Our backlog is up year-over-year and we are not seeing a large number of cancellation.
Typically in our industry when we get in a cancellation is - they just cancel it and then they reorder what bus they really want.
So were not seeing any cancellation activity at all really.
And we always net any cancellations that we have in our reported numbers.
So it cant be for what others are doing but thats how we do it.
I think this is like - this is Bill.
This is like the second year in a row that what weve seen is weve seen an extremely high order intake rate for the first couple of quarters of year.
That would imply a huge market.
And then in the second half of the year there is - I think theres some timing rebalancing that takes place.
Thats what I think is reflected in.
I dont know for sure but I think reflected.
We dont do it that way but thats probably think I would give.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Neil Frohnapple of Longbow Research.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
Hi.
Good morning.
Troy you mentioned in your closing remarks that your forecast improved market share in the second half of the year.
Is this within all the businesses including the heavy duty and can you just comment on whether your confidence is based on recent order activity or anything else you can point to? Yeah.
Ill maybe flip it over to Bill but as we kind of look through the market were extremely confident in our bus share largely because weve built I think every production [indiscernible] very confident in our medium duty and largely because of what we see in back order and line of sight.
There is - were maybe a little less sure but were certainly optimistic now that we have a full product portfolio of severe service trucks but I think weve - lets say handicapped that conservative numbers into plan for the rest of the year and how long it takes some of that stuff to get traction.
Bill I dont know if you want to comment on heavy.
Heavy is always - but I think that were - we put our best planning efforts forward on that.
And again we do have a backlog so backlog is any indication thats what were basing our forecast on.
Great.
Thats helpful.
And then strong global operations profit performance in the quarter.
Just placed a large trucking revenue.
Can you just comment on what youre seeing on in Brazil from an order standpoint.
Is it your volumes are starting to stabilize there? Yeah.
This is Persio Neil.
And while we are unfortunately not seeing the economy really now getting back in the second half and we are planning for that.
So we see in all segments in the market there from trucks to agricultural tractors all the industry is significantly down in first half.
And the actions that we took really were meant to plan for that.
So we see that a second half is going to be probably in the same place where we are in the first half.
If there is some uptick its going to be just upside for us.
But right now we are not planning to have any recovery coming from Brazil at this point.
So just stable with no recovery planned in our outlook for the year.
Hopefully something does happen thats kind of part of the plan.
Great.
Thanks very much guys.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Jeff Kauffman with Buckingham Research.
Your line is open please go ahead.
Thank you.
Hi guys.
I wanted to dive a little deeper into whats going on in Mexico.
It seem like kind of relative to the progress you made.
That was the one area that was little more of a surprise of the downside.
Could you - you mentioned you expect Blue Diamond parts to be a little stronger in the second half.
And I think in financial services you mentioned higher loan losses that you took on the Mexican portfolio.
Could we dig a little deeper in both of those and help us understand kind of what was more transient or timing versus what may be more structural whether its currency related or otherwise? And again on the first part on the Blue Diamond parts anything that we anticipated at the beginning of the year as the population of vehicle gets more aged and the number comes down we anticipated Blue Diamond part to come down.
So from that standpoint that was anticipated.
And we dont know that - we dont see thats growing because of the population here in the short term.
But thats something that we have planned for and we are able to manage around.
Okay.
But you do anticipate that contribution to be hold stronger than second half.
I would say it would probably be flat.
Okay.
Theres seasonality to it but thats the only thing that you see.
Yeah the seasonality should help.
The seasonality helps a little bit.
We tend to sell more in the second half of the year into that same population as Bill said.
But year-over-year well see that population of vis--vis the old four power stroke engines and some of are very old in the market.
This is what the parts do to that population.
Okay.
And then the second half the loan losses in Mexico.
Yeah.
I mean Mexico generally has also has some economic headwinds the industries kind of been waiting for some incentives and so on from the government.
Those are picking up there.
But we do particularly well in the government segment and that hasnt picked up as much yet.
With respect to the loan losses thats just taking a look at how things are developing and I wouldnt anticipate that brand necessarily continuing to increase.
Okay guys.
Thank you very much and contributions.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Nicole Deblase with Morgan Stanley.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
Yeah.
Thanks.
Good morning guys.
So my first question is on dealer inventory.
It looks like from the slides that it did step up a bit during the second quarter.
Im just curious what was going on there and if you think dealer inventory levels are healthy or high.
How would you characterize those? I think dealer inventories are where they need to be.
We were a little bit low as we entered this year and we had a couple of programs out for our dealers to increase their inventory to levels that they can service the market.
And the other part of that is weve got a lot of new product and to sell those new products we have to have them on our dealers lot and they need to be showing them to our customers.
So thats been planned.
I always think dealer inventory is too low.
But yeah its certainly grown this quarter and we dont anticipate that growing the rest of this year though.
Okay.
Got it.
Thats helpful.
And then my follow-up is on the bus business.
Why were the charge out still weak this quarter? And is it just municipal spending a little bit slower than anticipated? And then whats the outlook for the rest of the year there? Well as you know the third and - our third and fourth quarter are the strongest time for charge out in the bus business because thats when the school districts want the busses.
So it was really just the timing issue.
We had extremely strong first quarter bus activity.
And it took a little bit of a pause in the second quarter just because of timing.
We planned for that.
We knew it was coming but we see as you see every year the third and fourth quarter will be extremely strong in terms of charge outs.
And municipalities and bus companies but municipalities in particularly well-time their orders so that they receive delivery in the summer just prior to the beginning of the school year.
So we know they are going to order.
They have kind of talked to us about it but wont submit order until they get the timing of their delivery.
So thats what we always see in second quarter.
Okay.
It makes sense.
Thanks.
Ill pass it on.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Michael Shlisky with Global Hunter.
Your line is open please go ahead.
Good morning guys.
I wanted to get your thoughts on margins after 2015.
Now this was touched on on last quarters conference call.
I know there is some seasonality between the first quarter and other quarters but is an 8% EBITDA margin range before we expect after the fourth quarter of this year into 2016? So directionally thats what we would want the full of year of 2016 to be our first quarter tends to be a little weaker so you shouldnt see us necessarily coming out of the gate with that kind of margin but as we had said back in our Analyst Day that directionally what well be looking for the full year.
Great and then secondly I want to ask about your propane bus business could you tell us broadly what kind of penetration that might have on this season business and are there any differences in propane and pricing versus diesel as well in margin versus diesel? Yes the propane is a slightly up charge versus standard diesel but certainly not out of range for our customers.
In the first part of that question how much was How much of  what do you say propane percent maybe as a percentage? It really depends on region of the country in the south in the south west its a little bit higher but were talking below 10% in total as we stand here today.
But we anticipate that growing but this year it will be for us 300 to 500 vehicles not a huge number.
Its kind of running in the 12% to 15% range in the Southern part of the United States so I dont know what that kind of averages across the portfolio we can get to that detail on follow up if you like this year I think the real factor to matter is that we are just launching the vehicle to date we will sell [indiscernible] and were looking to grow more capacity income.
Got it.
Thanks so much guys.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Ted Grace with Susquehanna.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
Good morning guys.
The first thing I was hoping to ask is a question that kind of bringing together bunch of the margin questions has been asked earlier so if you look at charge-outs increasing 8% year-on-year that implies charge-outs down by the 1000 sequentially if Im not mistaken.
And so I was just wondering can you bridge us I know EBITDA supposed to up $25 million to $75 million youve talked about some of the manufacturing initiatives weve talked about some of the recent initiatives should help SG&amp;A.
But can you just help bridge us sequentially how you get 25 to 75 more the million of EBITDA when charge-outs are down a 1000 is that lot of used truck kind of reversal or that global offs or just any handholding on the sequential progression would be helpful.
Okay.
Let me see if I can help when you hit the number of the pieces and theyre important pieces I talked about material performance and manufacturing performance of cost performance some of the things we have done I think a great job and repeatedly shown results on you touched on the volumes but parts results are big portion of our business and we expect parts to do better in the second half of the year as I alluded to in my remarks and as it relates to used truck reserves weve taken reserves there the last two quarters we wouldnt expect those to be as high in the balance of the year were taking up of our results.
Order of magnitude could you foresee what the biggest positive contributors will be sequentially? Materials are very large portion of our cost so you should expect that to be one of the bigger contributors not the biggest.
And then on a related basis and I dont want to get caught in Symantec but in the press release you talked about in excess of 8% operating margins on the exit rate basis so my recollection is the frame kind of 8% to 10% is there any change there youre signaling is at the lower end or is there anything just to interpret in that comment? Well we have discussed on Analyst Day kind of how we thought about the 8% to 10% and really we showed your plans if we go back to those presentations which are in line probably we would get to 8% and then we said that would be upside from there depending on how the markets develop and I guess that really stand by that it will be a function of first on the industry as second half of the year and whether our market share picked up from what weve seen we need a little bit of a tailwind there in order to get to the higher portion of that range.
But what we want to signal today is that were still on track to 6% to 8%.
Okay.
And the last thing if I could just squeeze it in you have given us 2015 targets for market share youve given us a pretty good framework from the macro perspective on how to think about 2016 relative to the 2015 market share targets you set for yourself could you just give us some handholding on how you think 2016 shapes up or what you are targeting? In terms of bus we think its obviously I will go ahead.
I mean I think at this point we that our 2015 targets and I dont know where youre ready to disclose specific share targets for 2016 so we think the industry is going to be flat and we are going to continue to move forward and try to grow share.
We recognize we have some headroom there.
So we will continue to push on market share.
Did you say headroom or headwind? Headroom.
Headroom okay.
Great.
Best of luck for the quarter guys.
But I said headroom.
Okay.
Thanks so much.
Good luck this quarter.
You bet.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Patrick Nolan with Deutsche Bank.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
Hi this is actually [indiscernible] for Patrick Nolan how are you? Good how are you.
Good.
Just wanted to ask broader question I dont think was really discussed yet how do you guys think about the minimum cash balance at this point in the cycle and more importantly what is the minimum cash balance should look like going forward to over the next five years in down cycle in the industry? Its Walter let me take a shot at that.
My answer is we are consistent with what we have said in the past we need about $500 million we think to run the business so that is kind of minimum cash level that we look to have globally and that we that kind of through up cycles and down cycles.
So well see how that develops over five years thats a long period of time but what weve discussed in the past is several uses of cash that we have that we plan for first and foremost obviously capital expenditures related to continuing to invest in the business and new technologies.
Secondly weve had higher warranty spend than expense we also have pension in OPAB expenditures or cash outlays that have been and expected to be higher than expense.
Used truck inventories are increasing we dont expect those to get higher than $425 million but that is something that we plan for and reserve some space for on our balance sheet as well.
I think those are the main items but as we kind of past forward a couple of years we wouldnt expect those outlays to be as significant.
Over time we wouldnt expect any incremental increases in our used truck inventories out there seeing a big year at some point warranty spending has continued to trend favorably every month this year versus last year and as we get through some of these EGR engine population that we cited earlier those expenditures should continue to come down over time.
So our kind of lead in terms of what EBITDA would need to be in order to break even will come down over the next couple of years versus levels that we would see this year and I think we had discussed previously something on the order of about 700 to 750 EBITDA to breakeven from a cash flow perspective that wants to be couple of hundred million dollars less in the couple of years out as we see it today and even two years out is long way away but hopefully that gives you some feel for what we need to run the business and how you would see our cash needs progressing over the next quarters.
Now thanks this is helpful.
And just on the cost savings kind of looking forward again through 2016 on lot volumes could you give us some more color on to opportunities for cost reduction in material manufacturing other areas as well.
Weve not done yet but we should expect us to continue to make progress on all of those brands but right now were focused on close not the second half of the year as strong as we can and so that will give us a good base to start-off New Year with.
Okay.
Got it.
All right thank you very much.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Joel Tiss with BMO.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
How are you guys? Good Joel.
So Ill just glue both of them together because there are more sort of nuances but I just wondered if you could talk a little bit about how all the changes at GE affect your financing business and then for Walter I just wondered if you could give us a quick sense of why the inventories are down going into what looks like a stronger second half? With respect to the first question GE based familiar on the call that GE is looking to sell off a good portion of the GE capital assets and we work closely with one part of that business on retail financing in the U.S.
in retail and wholesale financing up in Canada.
So we are in conversations with them as that sale progresses but we fully expect given that this is a very strong business that will be successful in factoring that to a new probably financial services partner that currently will have little impact on our liquidity competitive position or ability to support the sale our financing.
But we have to see how that goes and well stay in close contact with them.
We are large customer for that business.
And so were important customer to them and theyve given us as well as our dealer body the time that we deserve during this process and continue to fully support our activities as they go through this process.
With respect to the inventories what you're looking for there? I just wondered why they were down if the second half of the year looks like its going to strengthen a little bit it seems to put you in a little bit of a tougher spot unless youre just manufacturing more efficiently.
So I just wondered a color on that? This is the working capital the working capital question.
We see that as good news not bad news by the way.
Couple of years ago you might have looked at that and said well this is a kind of high number today the fact of the matter it is pretty just straightforward.
Everything we have build in the day by enlarge we are shipping in a day today.
I mean we dont run repairs a lot of repairs weve done a lot of lean project so that were transiting to write the TEMs right through our technical specialty centers.
We are really focused on throughput.
When I referenced in my comment that were continuing to see cost savings and benefits and goodness from lean projects its just that kind of stuff.
Right just that when you visit our plants today you wont see many truck sitting outside you wont see a lot of inventory screwed up because were not kind of selling out of inventory were selling every truck we build as a customer and we give it to customers as quickly as we can.
And hopefully you see more of that Im not thinking of it was anything special other than the combination of a lot of hard work by our manufacturing and operations folks.
We really feel good about that.
All right awesome.
Thank you so much.
Thank you.
And our last question comes from the line of Seth Weber with RBC Capital Markets.
Your line is open please go ahead.
Thanks.
Good morning and thanks for extending the call.
Thats the last here.
So as think about a flattish 2016 can you maybe just characterize what you think the pricing environment might be in a sustained strong truck cycle North America? I think everybody would agree pricing hasnt been as strong as we would might have thought at this point of the cycle? Right.
Its always a competitive industry.
Pricing is always one of those items that you work on every day and you just have to show the value of your vehicle to the customers but we anticipate in the next year that there is going to be an opportunity for improvements in pricing but again it is the competitive industry and thats always one of the struggles that us and all the OEMs have.
I think in years past right I mean why this question comes off I think the way that it does is that pricing was driven by capacity constraints.
Even though the market is running better its not running like it did back in 2006 let's say or prior to those emission breakpoints where there was actually shortage of capacity which is driving pricing and on top of that real emissions equipment hardware that you are adding that you had the whole industry had to take price for.
Today even though the industry is running at a higher level it is not running at capacity.
There is still additional capacity I think for most manufacturers even some supplier so that prefer has moved and there is not a lot of hardware than we are putting.
So emissions are regulatory requirement.
So the pricing that really is out there is based on the better performing truck and the better performing company.
We are bullish that it's out there but its not it's not that way to complete its something you got to go out and work for basically deal by deal.
And I think that's not a whole industry use at this point.
That is helpful thank you.
And just a clarification or follow-up on the Brazil the global ops business.
Do you expect that to be profitable in the second half of the year at kind of the current run rate? No we are considering profitability on this global operation right now Seth.
We are keeping at a level that we saw in the first half.
But we also then see that being a big drag on our results and that was our target for the year.
Right.
Okay great.
Thank you very much guys.
Thank you.
At this time Id like to turn the call back over to Kevin Sadowski for any closing remarks.
Great.
Thank you everyone and if there is additional questions feel free to reach out to myself or Ryan Campbell throughout the remainder of the day.
This is Troy.
Myself and my staff well make our self available if we can be helpful.
Thanks a lot everybody for tuning into the call today.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for participating in today's conference.
This concludes today's program you may all disconnect.
Everyone have a great day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen.
And welcome to Navistar Third Quarter 2015 Earnings Results Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session and instructions will follow at that time.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder today's program is being recorded.
I would now like to introduce your host for today's conference call Mr.
Kevin Sadowski.
You may begin Sir.
Good morning everyone.
And thank you for joining us for Navistar's third quarter 2015 conference call.
With me today are Troy Clarke our President and Chief Executive Officer; and Walter Borst our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Before we begin I'd like to cover a few items.
A copy of this morning's press release and the presentation slides that we will be using today have been posted on our Investor Relations website for your reference.
The non-GAAP financial measures discussed in the call are reconciled to the U.S.
GAAP equivalent as part of the appendix in the slide deck.
Finally today's presentation includes some forward-looking statements about our expectations for future performance.
Actual results could differ materially from those suggested by our comments made here.
For additional information concerning factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected in today's presentation please refer to our most recent reports on Form 10-K and 10-Q and our other SEC filings.
We would also refer you to the Safe Harbor statement and other cautionary notes disclaimer presented in today's material for more information on the subject.
With that I'll turn the call over to Troy Clarke for his opening remarks.
Okay.
Hey thank you Kevin and good morning everyone.
Beginning with Slide 5 this quarter we continued to make progress in our improvement efforts.
We were encouraged by the progress we see in our core truck business consisting of the U.S.
and Canada market.
In these markets revenue was up year-over-year but those gains were offset by lower revenues from foreign markets that include Brazil Mexico and export.
U.S.
and Canada core truck performance was driven by steady and improving sales in medium bus and severe service segments but we're on track to achieve our full year market share goals.
Our revenues in the quarter were $2.5 billion let me reference the major issues affecting revenue in the quarter.
The economic turmoil in Brazil continues to depress truck and engine sales in that market.
As a result sales at our MWM business in South America declined in the quarter.
Our Mexico truck business has struggled all year due to lower government spending and the devaluation of the peso.
We see signs that this trend may finally be improving in Q4 but we remain cautious regarding this part of our business.
And export sales to Central and South American markets continued to lag especially in Columbia which is our largest export market.
This is partly due to the ongoing truck scrappage issue which negatively impacts imported truck sales.
However turning to our core truck business on Slide 6 it's important to note that overall core U.S.
and Canada truck revenues have improved year-over-year.
We're seeing steady and improving performance in three of our four market segments; medium bus and severe service.
In our heavy class 8 over the road segment however we have not seen them breakthrough we expected as we continue to be affected by the overhang from our legacy EGR products.
These issues are also negatively impacting our used truck sales and pressure residual value which in turn impacted sales of new trucks and in spite of these issues we're still making progress in this segment.
Today we're entering the North America 2016 buying season with our strongest line of Class 6 through 8 trucks and buses in the last five-plus years including some of the best quality lowest cost to operate heavy trucks available in the market and Jeff Sass our new Vice President of truck sales has made an immediate impact.
Turning to Slide 7 over the past three years we've told you about the tremendous progress that we've achieved with our cost management efforts.
To build on that we recently launched the next phase of our cost alignment actions which will enable us to become a leaner company and more competitive in the marketplace.
It will also allow us to step up our investment in product and strategic initiatives that will make us stronger.
Before I turn it to Walter to give you further details on the financials it's important to note that we remain on track to achieve an EBITDA margin of 8% exiting 2015.
We expect to get there; thanks to the ongoing success we've had fixing fundamental cost issues across our enterprise.
They will offset some of the headwinds I described while we take the additional actions necessary to accelerate our progress on the revenue side.
I am going to tell you more about those actions in a few minutes.
Let me turn it over to Walter.
Thank you Troy.
Good morning everyone.
Now let's first turn our attention to the results for Q3 on Slide 9.
Our core North America truck and parts businesses continued to make progress but we face headwinds in some of our international markets as Troy mentioned.
Consolidated revenue was $2.5 billion in the third quarter of 2015.
Driven by an 800 unit increase in charge-outs to 17 100 units in the quarter core North America truck sales increased 3% year-over-year.
However this increase was more than offset by lower revenues from foreign markets that included our Brazilian Mexican and export businesses.
Also you'll remember we ended our Blue Diamond Truck joint venture with Ford earlier this year and that impacts year-over-year revenue comparisons.
EBITDA in the third quarter of 2015 was $106 million increasing sequentially as we execute on our cost reduction initiatives and see a favorable customer response towards our products particularly medium and bus thereby improving mix.
EBITDA for the third quarter was down compared to the prior year due in large part the significant warranty reversal in Q3 2014.
Additionally we continue to face headwinds from our used truck business which I will discuss in more detail shortly.
Adjusted EBITDA for the quarter as shown on Slide 10 was $129 million.
This quarter's adjustments included $20 million of one-time charges consisting of restructuring and asset impairments and $3 million of charges to pre-existing warranty.
Compared to our Q3 guidance adjusted EBITDA was at the lower end of our range.
During the third quarter we increased our used truck inventory reserve by $15 million.
Excluding this reserve adjustment we would have ended the quarter closer to the midpoint of our guidance range.
Now let's turn to revenues.
Slide 11 graphs the 12-month rolling average of revenues for a combined core North America truck and parts businesses and our global operations segment.
As you can see revenue from our core North America businesses is trending higher.
We're seeing benefits from a full product portfolio of SCR trucks and improved customer perception of the quality products we're producing.
Additionally the core North America commercial parts business continues to improve.
On the other hand the Global Operations segment continues to face challenging economic conditions especially in Brazil where heavy and light duty truck industry volumes have declined significantly.
In addition the Brazilian Real has weakened substantially versus the U.S.
dollar.
As a result the revenue for this segment decreased 53% compared to the same period last year.
Our Mexico and export truck and parts businesses are also facing challenges from the stronger U.S.
dollar and global economic headwinds and our Mexico truck sales have been impacted by lower government spending.
Turning to Slide 12 let's review the results of our operating segment.
First let's take a look at the truck segment.
As we discussed sales in our core markets were higher and we're seeing positive impacts from cost improvement actions.
These improvements are masked by a $29 million benefit for adjustments to preexisting warranties in Q3 2014.
The incremental used truck reserve adjustment this quarter pulled down the truck segments results as well and the segment recorded a $36 million loss.
The parts segment grew profits by 10% compared to a year ago to $151 million.
Results for the North America commercial operations continue to improve drive by margin improvements and cost reduction.
The global operation segment reported loss of $26 million in the third quarter of 2015.
This included $10 million of charges for restructuring and asset impairments related to our Brazilian operations.
Including restructuring and impairment charges in both 2015 and '14 the global operations segment results improved slightly year-over-year.
The global operations segment has expeditiously taken actions to realign the business.
This included reducing headcount by 20% over the last 12 months.
Also we've implemented mandatory vacation days and shifted to a four-day work week.
We anticipate additional actions that will further drive down costs.
Financial Services segment continues to perform well.
The year-over-year increase in the segment's profit was primarily due to the increase in average wholesale notes receivable balances and a decrease in the provisions for loan losses.
As you can see on Slide 13 our key metrics continue to trend favorably.
Charge-outs continue to grow and were up 5% versus Q3 2014.
We continue to focus on profitable market share growth.
In particular we've significantly improved heavy truck margins year-over-year as we've emphasized margin improvement over market share growth.
Nevertheless the combination of better heavy margins and higher customer consideration put us in a better competitive position as we enter the 2016 selling season.
Historically we've experienced good margins in medium severe and bus and these product segments remain on track to hit their market share expectations for the year.
We continue to do a good job of managing our structural cost lower.
This quarter structural cost declined $30 million year-over-year.
As a percentage of manufacturing revenue structural costs were 11.6% down from 12% in Q2 and 13.4% in Q1.
We continue to trend favorably towards our long-term structural cost goal of less than 10% of revenues now implementing a next wave of cost improvement initiatives to accelerate this progress.
While not on the chart we remain on track to achieve gross material savings of 1.5% to 1.8% of manufacturing sales this year and have achieved three quarter of our annual savings target through the first nine months of our fiscal year.
We've also achieved in excess of $40 million in manufacturing cost savings through the first nine months.
The improved quality of our SCR trucks and buses and lower repair costs has helped warrantee expense trend towards industry benchmarks.
For the third quarter of 2015 warrantee expense as a percentage of manufacturing revenue was 3% compared to 3.2% in Q3 of 2014.
Our EBITDA margins continue to grow.
The adjusted EBITDA margin for the quarter was 5.1% versus 4.7% in the third quarter of 2014.
The improvement reflects a lower costs base higher charge-outs better product mix and improvements in commercial parts.
Turning to Slide 14 let me update you on our used truck business.
Gross used truck inventory at the end of third quarter came down $25 million compared to the end of the second quarter.
We ended Q3 with $350 million of gross inventory.
Based on actions we're taking domestically and abroad it looks like the inventory balance of MaxxForce EGR units may have peaked in the second quarter.
In particular we're finding success selling a certain population of our used truck in export markets and we believe that these sales opportunities will continue.
However the price points for used trucks in these markets are lower than domestically.
While the pursuit of these sales resulted in a $50 million increase in our used truck reserve in the third quarter we felt on balance that it was the right thing to do for the business so that we could begin to reduce our used truck inventories and tie up less cash on our balance sheet going forward.
Moving to manufacturing cash we ended the quarter with $775 million.
Essentially broke even from a cash flow perspective when you consider we partially repaid $30 million of the used truck intercompany loan with NFC.
Adjusted EBITDA offset the cash used for capital expenditures interest payments and pension and OPEB contributions with higher seasonal interest payments in the third quarter as expected.
Warranty cash payments exceeded warranty expense but continue to decline year-over-year and we acquired Ford's 25% ownership and the Blue Diamond truck joint venture as the JV came to an end.
Turning to Slide 16 in August we completed the refinancing of our term loan which increased the facility to $1.04 billion.
The new term loan matures in August 2020.
As a result of the financing we added a net $330 million of liquidity to our balance sheet and expanded our debt maturity profile providing additional financial flexibility.
Our next significant debt maturities are not until October 2018 and April 2019 more than three years from now when our convertible notes come due.
We plan to use the additional cash to exchange to build upon our positive momentum and thats in our product and facilities to better position the company for future success.
Even though we do not anticipate a dramatic downturn in the industry in the near term additional liquidity and financial flexibility also positions us better as the current truck cycle comes off its peak.
Moving on to our guidance on Slide 17 we expect manufacturing cash at the end of the fourth quarter to be in the range of $950 million to $1.05 billion.
We expect to generate positive cash flow in Q4.
Consolidated adjusted EBITDA is expected to be in the range of $175 million to $225 million on revenue consistent with Q3.
As in prior quarters adjusted EBITDA excludes preexisting warranty approvals and other one-time items.
We also anticipate capital expenditures to be higher in the fourth quarter as we continue to fund engineering programs such as their premium vocational truck project Horizon and Greenhouse Gas Emission requirements.
Pension payments are also traditionally higher in the fourth quarter due to contributions to our benefit plans and PBGC payments.
The change in net working capital debt and warranty includes the additional cash borrowings from the term loan refinancing.
Partially offsetting this amount is the expectation of an additional repayment of the used truck intercompany loan with NFC and we again expect warranty cash payments to be greater than expense in the quarter.
Now lets turn our attention to EBITDA margins on Slide 18.
As you can see in the chart our core North American truck and parts adjusted EBITDA margin was 7.9% in Q3 2015 which is up 220 basis points from Q3 2014.
However our consolidated results have been way down by certain parts of the business namely the used truck global and Mexico and export operations which reduced our consolidated adjusted EBITDA margin to 5.1%.
This margin is up 130 basis points from Q2 and 290 basis points from Q1 of this year and we're not standing still.
As we move into Q4 we're taking actions to improve margins in both our domestic and international operations.
We expect core truck margins to continue to grow to improve mix in our truck business as well as from ongoing actions to improve our structural material and manufacturing cost.
We also foresee higher revenue favorable mix and pricing in our North America commercial parts business and as I mentioned last quarter we foresee seasonal improvement in Q4 coming from our Blue Diamond parts and exports parts businesses.
In our used truck business we anticipate reserve adjustments to trend lower and improved operating efficiencies.
In the Global Operation segment we should begin to see benefits from the restructuring actions initiated in the third quarter.
We also see improvements coming from higher sequential volumes in Mexico and the export truck business.
As a result we believe we've set the stage for us to achieve our adjusted EBITDA margin goal of 8% in the fourth quarter.
In closing we continue to demonstrate our ability to grow our EBITDA margins even with facing headwinds that are outside of our control.
Third quarter was no exception.
During the quarter we achieved a number of notable accomplishments including increased core truck charge-outs realized savings from cost improvement initiatives and lower used truck inventory balances and in August we strengthened our balance sheet by completing the term loan refinancing.
We remained focused on improving the overall health of our balance sheet.
Weve effectively managed our cash balances and we continue to lower the cash requirements to run the business.
Were making progress towards achieving our profitability goals.
We continue to take the tough actions to improve all of our operations including addressing the factors hampering our consolidated margins.
This coupled with the growth in our core truck and parts businesses will provide the foundation to further enhance shareholder value.
Ill stop here and return the call back to Troy.
Hey thanks Walter.
As I hope Walter and I have made clear were pleased with our progress but weve more to do before were satisfied in achieving our goals.
That being said Ill now provide you with a bit more color around the actions that were taking and why were confident that theyre going to yield the results were looking for.
These actions include continuing to improve our cost structure improving our market share thats growing revenue and investing in our future growth.
Ill start with cost on Slide 22.
As you know weve already made significant improvements across the Board including structural cost material cost and manufacturing cost.
There we have always planned to do more.
Weve taken decisive actions to restructure our MWM operations in Brazil in addition to a significant reduction in force we reduced the workweek to four days instituted forced vacation and reduced salary and we continue to work with our local team on additional opportunities related to capacity consolidation.
In North America we've completed a benchmarking study that demonstrates that even with the progress weve made to improve costs there is more we can do.
Our immediate objective is to be profitable and generate positive cash flow even at front revenue level.
Structural costs are a great example as you know our goal is to drive these cost below 10% of revenue.
As part of the next phase of this effort were conducting a function-by-function clean sheet review identifying how to further reduce ways and lower cost.
We also will pursue additional improvements in material costs based on competitive benchmark as well as manufacturing cost improvement.
Regarding the later were implementing a focused factory approach across our plans where each facility will be realigned to produce a specific platform more efficiently than the flexible capacity assignment we have employed for many years.
Were aggressively pulling forward this next phase of improvement activities which will pave the way for Navistar to be profitable and cash flow positive in 2016.
In addition we believe these rules will position the company to withstand any softening in the market.
This will also enable us to be more competitive in the marketplace and it will allow us to invest in the key growth areas of our business.
I'll get to those investment areas shortly.
In the meantime let me cover the improvements weve already seen in our product segments and parts business.
Lets start with medium duty on Slide 23 charge-outs are up 6% versus Q3 2014 and in fact our share is up four percentage points year-over-year.
Our customer's performance data indicates that our trucks fuel economy uptime and quality are better than the competition.
With this kind of performance were getting a bigger share of the important rental and leasing market than we have in the recent past as well as higher dealer led sales.
We expect this growth trend to continue.
Our bus business continues to be a bright spot.
Chargeouts are up 13% year-over-year.
Our CE Series bus with the Cummins ISB engine has been well received in the marketplace and its reflected in our market share which is on track to hit our goal of 40% to 45% this year.
To meet demand weve increased production at our Tulsa bus plant where we produce more busses in the month of July than in any other month ever.
As we enter the active bidding season for the 2016 school year there continues to be growing interest in our propane bus offering and were on track to ship our first propane buses to school districts this fall.
In addition weve expanded the availability of OnCommand Connection our open architecture of connected vehicle and remote diagnostic system to school bus customers and its generating some early interest.
In severe service chargeouts are up 22% versus the same period one year ago.
One reason is that new faster more customer centric engineering process to meet the unique needs of these customers.
Essentially every severe service order is custom tailored.
Large body builders are recognizing our quality and thats a good leading indicator of how we stack up versus our competitor.
Meanwhile weve built on our strong position in the municipal business by recently sweeping the bids on four large states.
This quarter we also confirmed that were launching a premium vocational truck in early 2016 its a brand new truck and its very important segment where we really havent had a strong entry for some time.
In heavy profitable growth continues to be our focus as we work to regain key large fleet customers weve been building dealer led sales which are up year-over-year.
Increasing dealer led sales will remain a priority while we continue to restore our position with the larger fleet.
The good news is were in a much better position with these important customers than we were just one year ago.
One example is our recent deal with Quality Companies a subsidiary of Celadon.
In July we finalized a multiyear agreement for about 9 000 heavy trucks.
According to their CEO Danny Williams international has moved back to the forefront as the lowest cost of ownership truck in their fleet.
As we enter the 2016 buying season were in conversations with the top 100 fleets and we feel encouraged by the responses were getting.
We have every reason to be optimistic about the future of our heavy business and were continuing to invest in this segment as with our next generation on-highway tractor our project horizon truck.
Youll hear more about the introduction of this product in coming months.
Navistar is having a strong year in parts with 5% revenue growth and 10% profit growth year-over-year in North America our largest parts business segment.
Now that our dealer service base have greater availability as a result of lower warranty claims we have more opportunities for part sales.
Dealers are also gaining new insights into additional part sales opportunities thanks to OnCommand Connection and the vehicle help metrics it provides.
And were on course with our plans for all makes growth including our private label brand Fleetrite which will have double-digits again in Q3 compared to last year.
Turning to Slide 24 were building on the strong emphasis weve already placed on customer uptime.
Some of the largest most daily driven fleets are telling us that our trucks have the highest uptime in their fleet hands down as well as the best fuel economy and lowest cost of ownership.
Were now making even bigger stride to meet customer's needs through our technology strategy of open integration.
This means using the best available technology to address our customer's needs regardless of that technology source.
Were working with best in class suppliers with global scale and reach Cummins Eaton Allison AmeriCorp and Vendex among others.
Our customers know and want these products and were often first to market with their latest innovations.
Turning to Slide 25 also setting us apart is our connected vehicle services starting with our OnCommand Connection Remote Diagnostic System.
We now have more than a 140 000 vehicles in this system.
The information were gathering is already driving real world results for our customers.
One of our school bus customers told us that during an exceptionally cold winter last year his team used this system to determine which bus has showed low voltage before they even went out to start them.
It was a long way towards meeting that customer's mission of keeping kids safe.
And a truckload carrier in Mississippi is another big believer using OnCommand Connection theyve seen a 25% improvement in their vehicle uptime in just six months.
And the data were able to generate through OnCommand Connection will be an enabler to additional advancements which well introduce later this year and in 2016.
On Slide 26 we just announced a brand new connected service called over-the-air reprogramming a revolutionary step in connectivity.
In its initial phase it will allow our customer to use a Wi-Fi connection to update an engine calibration in a simple 15-minute procedure.
Over-the-air reprogramming lays the groundwork for an entire pipeline of connected vehicle services.
Previously we were only reading and analyzing data from the truck.
Now we can send new data and programming to the vehicle in order to improve performance.
Building on the wealth of data were obtaining from OnCommand Connection weve also added strong and growing in-house capabilities in analytics.
We think this combination of open integration connectivity and analytics is very powerful and it will enable us to achieve an industry-leading focus on the customer secure real time data that will enable prognostics and improve customer uptime add new services that help make customers more productive and profitable and ultimately spec or match our product to customer's needs as never before.
Let me begin to wrap things up with our forecast of industry conditions.
Previously we stated that the 2015 Class 6 through 8 retail deliveries in the U.S.
and Canada would be in the range of 350 000 to 380 000 units and we believe it will come in at the high end of this range.
Last quarter we also said that 2016 would be in the same range as this year but with '15 coming in at the high end were maintaining our industry range but we do believe that retail deliveries will come in at the low end of the range next year with a stronger mix of school busses and medium trucks and certainly we're positioned to capitalize on that.
On Slide 27 in summary were committed to continued improvements on the cost side of our business as well as driving improved revenue and growth.
Our strategic direction is good.
We've put improvement plans and actions in place and were moving forward.
Im absolutely confident in our company's future and Im certain that well continue to do what weve been doing delivering high quality products meeting the needs of our customers increasing consideration for the international brand and rebuilding our market share and we expect that these efforts will result in improve financial performance.
And so with that we do have Persio Lisboa our President of Operations and Bill Kozek our President of North America who will join Walter and myself.
Operator please start the question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Joel Tiss with BMO Capital Markets.
Hey guys how is it going? Hey Joel.
I just wondered if you can give us a little sense on the military business is that going to help the profitability or is it too far out to matter? This is Bill.
Talking about from the revenue side of the equation we anticipate next year to be up compared to this year but again in terms of the total part of our business it's not a huge piece.
But we're definitely out there our defense team is doing a great job getting in front of those customers but again the defense piece of it isn't a huge part of what we do certainly not core North America.
Yeah Joel this is Troy.
We really haven't given you guys much color on that recently and we probably should.
The military business turns out to be a nice little business for us at this particular point in time.
We do have basically service type contracts service portions of the MRAP fleet that we provided during the Gulf and Afghanistan wars.
We do have the largest vehicle park of those vehicles and so those contracts are good contracts and they'll continue for a while.
With regards to selling new MRAPs into the market at this particular point in time we're prospecting largely for sales to allies of the United States and those sales are probably coming but they'll be in smaller quantities and over a longer period of time.
An important part of the military business; however that we really never let go of is really just selling we call it green trucks.
Basically these are trucks that are sold to military specs but they're basically commercial trucks that operate military bases and certainly services of foreign governments around the world.
And not huge but we have seen an uptick in those type of sales here recently.
So we do have a place in this market.
and I think nominally year-over-year we would anticipate that we'll be able to sustain the level of business if not grow it marginally.
We've gotten a couple recent contracts there including one here recently for Afghanistan.
So there is activity in that space and good activity that's going to provide us work there over the next few years.
Yeah good stuff happening there.
Great.
Okay I dont want to take up everyones time.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Steve Volkmann with Jefferies.
Hi good morning guys.
Good morning Steve.
I just wanted to drill into cash a little bit if it's all right.
I guess and just maybe start with Walter just to get a sense.
I guess we ended pro forma at $1088 in terms of cash post the refinancing that you did in August and then you're looking for things to end the quarter the fourth quarter at $950 to $1050 which would imply some cash burn in the fourth quarter but I think you had said that you would generate cash in the fourth quarter.
So I guess maybe just start with truing that up for us.
Yes sure.
I think the math is all right.
There's one additional component in the fourth quarter.
We do plan to pay down a portion of the used truck loan that we have from NFC that intercompany loan that we've talked about before which after we do that should put us -- when you make that adjustment would put you into positive cash flow for the quarter.
I guess I'm just trying to think through you should have if my math is right something like 300 basis points better EBITDA margin in the fourth quarter if you hit your numbers roughly.
And I guess I would have thought some of that would kind of come out as cash and obviously I'm trying to think forward to 2016 and if you do your 8% in 2016 I'm just trying to figure out whether that means you generate cash in any meaningful way in 2016.
Yes so a couple of things.
We do have some cash flows that are seasonal in nature and as I mentioned in my remarks we do tend to make more in the way of engine contributions in our fiscal fourth quarter than we do in the other three as we true up those amounts as well as pay our PBGC premiums for the year so that is a significant amount in Q4 that doesn't repeat itself in the other three quarters to the same degree.
So we're offsetting that and still plan to be positive and as we mentioned in our remarks we are looking to be positive cash flow for all of '16 as well which would be the first time in a little while that we've done that.
So we've got our sights set on that.
Okay.
That's helpful.
And then maybe just throwing one more here.
Your Slide 18 was helpful.
You showed the 280 basis points of headwinds to margin on used truck global operations Mexico export.
How do you think about that in 2016? Is that stuff that pretty much goes away in your plan or does that continue to be a headwind? A real function of how those economies do which is not exactly in our control.
So what we've tried to do on the global operations in particular is that we've moved very expeditiously to continue to take costs out there and that should put us in good stead when those markets ultimately rebound whenever that might be.
On the used truck side you've seen the incremental reserves that we've built have trended lower over the year and in this quarter we took some additional reserves that we hadn't planned on when we set the guidance as we saw some opportunities to sell some vehicles abroad.
So we've reset the reserve in anticipation of being able to continue to sell vehicles into the export markets for a portion of our used truck population as well.
So that should be reflected in our reserve at this point.
This is Troy.
I don't it's -- I look at it exactly like Walter said.
I think we're trying to offset the revenue type headwinds in the export and foreign markets through appropriate cost adjustments.
We'll see the full effect of those cost adjustments next year.
So from an earnings standpoint those results should be muted.
So it should have less of an impact.
With regards to the used truck stuff that just gets better as we walk through the year.
So I would anticipate that it will continue to improve throughout the year but realistically it's going to be around with us for I think we said at our Analyst Day kind of we were thinking about a 24-month time period to get the majority of it behind us and I think we're still on track with that.
So we've got about 18 months of that or so left.
So it will be with us if 2016 but it should be better and we're going to work hard to make it better as we progress throughout the year.
Okay.
Thanks.
Ill pass it on appreciate it.
Our next question comes from Ann Duignan with JPMorgan.
Hi good morning guys this is Ann Duignan Ann good morning.
Good morning.
On Brazil could you just tell us are you contractually obligated to produce engines? Is they any way that you could just shut the doors and close down the facility worst case? Well this is Persio.
We won't comment on specifics on contracts with customers.
But what we've done in Brazil is we have multiple contracts with several customers there and most of our customers are shutting down their doors because they have a lot of inventory on their lots.
So most of the actions that we're taking as Troy and Walter alluded are really related to rightsizing the business to the reality of the market.
We are confident that the actions that we are taking are preparing us for potential.
When the market comes back we'll be in a good place but we're taking actions in a proactive way versus what the market is today and I think that is reflected in the results.
Although the revenue went down dramatically the impact although important is not as impactful as it could have been had we not taken the actions that we took.
So we keep doing that.
We have more to do in terms of manufacturing consolidation and that's going to take place by early next year beginning of next year we'll be able to do that but we're making the transition right now.
Yes Ann this is Troy.
It would be very difficult if not impossible to do what you're mentioning given the nature of the contracts and the supply agreements that we have.
Okay.
That was exactly what I was looking for Troy because there isn't very much visibility down there to assure anyone that things will get better in the near term it's struggle for everyone.
Turning to North America maybe you could just comment on -- we've seen orders the last couple of months slow a little bit in North America and traditional markets.
We've seen cancellations pick up a little bit maybe related to a competitor in the severe service side.
What are you seeing and hearing from your customers out there just in general in the U.S.? Most of our customers -- this is Bill Ann.
Most of our customers are doing -- are still doing very well.
The oil and gas guys might be struggling a bit but for the most part our customer base is doing very well many having record years.
We're not seeing any cancellations really across the Board bus medium severe or heavy and as you saw last month we had a very strong order intake and I think we're going to have very strong order intake for the month of August as well.
So things are progressing very well in terms of order intake and really that's across the Board in every segment.
Ann this is Troy.
We're having those same kind of discussions with our customers trying to gain a line of sight on what does 2016 look like right.
Between replacement demand and/or added capacity and I think pretty solid out there still are the comments related to the fact there's still substantial replacement demand out there.
But we haven't heard a lot of comments here recently about the need to add capacity.
But that said it's still early in the 2016 buying season.
I would add that it's pretty similar to what we heard at the truck show last week.
So fingers crossed hopefully it's a good year again.
I'll leave it there and get back in the queue.
Thanks.
Thanks Ann.
Your next question comes from Jeff Kauffman with Buckingham Research.
Hey guys.
Hi Jeff? Can you hear me? Hi thank you.
I wanted to go a different direction.
I think something we've gotten some incoming emails about is the wells notice that was identified in the Q and it's really related more to I think claims that were made by former executives but I think some of the verbiage regarding potential actions that could be taken against the company.
I know you don't want to comment on lawsuits or what could happen but can you give us an idea of what range of exposures could be to the company if they were to proceed with this and understand kind of what you be insured against and just kind of put some boundaries around this? Yes that's probably pretty difficult for us to do I think and I apologize but we really can't comment on this as it may develop into pending litigation.
There is a process around this that you're probably aware of.
There's an opportunity for us to respond.
We're kind of in that process right now so it really wouldn't benefit us nor I think the process from really talking too much about it at this time.
Okay.
Well that was the only question.
Most of my others have been answered.
Thanks guys.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from David Leiker with Baird.
Good morning everybody.
Good morning David.
So I want to talk about the one part of your business that's lagging.
You've done a great job on the cost side and picking up volume in some of your particular segments but the over-the-road on-highway piece of the equation continues to be a laggard.
I think some of the discussions that came out at your Analyst Day and we've had subsequently is that that might be an issue that carries through until Project Horizon comes through? What's your thought about with the used truck inventory where it is and the 2017 changes that you're going to end up making that this ends up being an issue that drags all the way through next year? Yes David.
I don't think that that's something that's going to continue through next year.
Obviously the used truck situation is a challenge but we've got a good team spending a lot of time and resources and managing that focusing on it.
And the reason I say that is because in the last month we had really good order intake as I said earlier.
This month we've had really good order intake and the quoting activity on Class 8 over-the-road carriers is going very well this year compared to last year and we're in a much better competitive situation this year than we were last year.
So while Horizon I'm excited about it I don't think that's going to be something that is going to be the switch that turns us on and we start to gain market share.
I think we're going to gain market share next year and certainly my plan is that we'll do and we're in front of more customer today with products that are performing very well and in many cases better than the competition.
So while Horizon's going to be nice it's certainly not something that's going to -- that we're going to wait for to make the improvements we want to make.
Can you put any details on the order intake that last two months here it sounds like on the over-the-road side that improved that 100 basis points of market share a couple 100 basis points is there a way that you could characterize that at all? Well it's hard to tell when everybody else's are going to build when order intake is -- you can't tell if it's today or next year.
But I would tell you last month the month of July we had the highest Class 8 and this month those numbers aren't out yet from our competitors but we're pretty happy with our number and we see a lot of orders or a lot of quoting activity in the hopper right now for most of its 2016 builds.
But that's time of the year that we expect to see that.
So I will say this.
We're calling to have more quotes out to more customers today than we did a year ago at this time.
That's probably the best indication as I look at it.
Look this time last year there were some folks who just indicated that they needed another year basically to see how the demo products and how our products were performing the handful of products that they may have acquired from us were performing in their fleets.
So one thing is as they're kind of through that cycle of testing and they've convinced themselves now with over a year of these units on the road that they're everything we say they are and probably more and so we've got folks that we were selling handfuls to last year and we're quoting hundreds of units to those guys right now.
So that activity is up significantly.
I would just say the second thing is we had to pick our way through this used stuff and you may recall we had provided previous guidance which said we thought during the course of the year used trucks would peak out at $425.
We were realigning our algorithms there trying to figure out what our capability was for turning this truck making the right balance between write-downs losses in used trucks and over-allowance basically sacrificing margin.
We picked through that during the course of the year and I think what you see in the used truck inventory today and what you see in our more aggressive posture with regards to our quoting activity is an indication that we enter 2016 with a whole bunch more tools than we had and knowledge and I think confidence than we did this time last year.
So when I just look at the people who are quoting us and considering us I don't think the whole problem gets behind us next year but I think we take a pretty important step a pretty important step forward and I think hopefully we'll see that here in the next several months as we continue to talk and share our results.
Yes that's great to hear and with those orders you have when do you think they'll start to move the retail market share numbers? Is that before the end of the calendar year? Some of them do hit in our fourth quarter but the preponderance of what were selling today in those segments really start in the first quarter our first fiscal quarter and our spread -- and our spread out.
So well get some before the end of the calendar year and then of course the majority of them will go into the build I think Bill after the first of the year right and a lot of these when you think about it it's a handful.
The difference between where we're at today and where we had thought we would be is really a handful of large fleet accounts that for one reasons or other we werent considered didnt get to the volume levels that we had hoped.
Those accounts typically are delivered almost every month.
So they're really good for filling up your backlog and order board because you can count on those basically for the whole year.
So thats the nature of the orders that we're working hard to fill in today and I would be remiss if I just didnt have a shot out to our own dealers because our dealer sales in Class 8 is up year-over-year between 20% and 30% to be very honest with you which is probably higher than the market growth and they're doing a heck of a good job and thats been great for us.
Okay.
And then Just one quick question on Mexico when we look at the data the hard data coming out of there it looks like Mexico's running flattish.
You're talking about that being weak? Is that because of the Blue Diamond volume loss or is there something more there? No thats due to sales in Mexico that just have been depressed for the first three quarters of the year versus what we might have thought.
Yes we typically do very well in the Government segment in Mexico that's a good flow this year.
I think what weve seen there David is the phenomenon where most governments in Mexico Municipal or even the federal government because of that some of the economic arrest down there with the devaluation of the peso and the pressure in the energy sector is waiting to a much later in the year to place their orders and then deciding how many orders to place given how much pre-border money that they might have to spend.
So what weve really seen is not only some contraction but also some displacement in the timing of that.
Thats what I think the numbers dont help us.
For the Mexico team thought too in light of that they like all other parts of the company whether its domestically Brazil Mexico were all working on the cost side this is not just the U.S.
initiative and theyve been able to maintain some of their results and offset some of the headwinds theyve seen in the sales side of the business.
Okay.
Great.
Thank you very much.
Our next question comes from Neil Frohnapple with Longbow.
Hi good morning guys.
Hi.
So just taking a step back and thinking about FY'16 there's obviously a lot of concern over 2015 being the peak for Class 8 and how that would impact Navistar next year and your guys' ability to continue to improve profitability.
So are you able to talk about the EBITDA margin targets for FY'16 and FY'17 of 8% to 10% that you laid out back at the Analyst Day? Is this still attainable next year given all the cost initiative opportunities you've talked about? Or do you think the headwinds in global operations and used truck now you preclude you from hitting this margin target? Yes well first and foremost were focused on doing what weve said for the fourth quarter.
So thats key that we have the exit rate going into 2016 that weve been targeting and from there we want to continue to grow our EBITDA margins.
So from getting 8% in one quarter we would be looking to get that for the full year and to then grow for that EBITDA margin percentage even higher over time.
So the goals remain the same.
Were not providing any guidance today for 2016.
We'll probably do that when we come back in December with our fourth quarter results but the EBITDA margin exiting 2015 is just the way point and were looking to continue to grow those margins over time which is consistent with the commentary that we made at the Analyst day.
Okay.
And you think you could still do that even in the event of a Class 8 market downturn next year? Yes I think so.
This is Bill.
We expect downturn the reduction year-over-year we think its predominantly in Class 8 and we expect medium and faster growth but regarding numbers the reduction is from a very high number and so we expect next year to be the second highest year retail since 2006.
So while we think it might be down slightly so we will be doing a lot of stuff.
Okay.
That's helpful.
And then just one last one.
You mentioned the lower used truck prices for the export sales which is understandable.
But wondering if used truck prices have found the bottom and have stabilized here in the U.S.
and if that's helping move some of the overhang as well? Yes we were seeing -- we were a little low in the first quarter the industry as a whole second quarter things started to pick up third quarter things have picked up and even more as prices have stabilized domestically.
Okay.
And specific for the legacy MaxxForce engine as well? Yes both for trucks and for everybody in the industry.
Yes we're seeing our prices stabilize here certainly in the last four months.
Part of the reason why the export markets on used truck was attractive at this point in time is largely the fact that we had the risk of oversupplying the market with our product and so then it really just becomes a matter of supply and demand that could possibly influence -- you could possibly depress prices on our used trucks below where the industry trend was.
So with the adjustments we made here the exports that Walter talked about we think we brought supply more in line with demand and so our used truck values that should track.
I think trend wise at least the market.
I think they did in the third quarter -- it was good for us to see because we've been trailing.
Yeah thats much of technology difference as it was just we had a lot of trucks out of market.
All right sounds good.
Thanks so much guys.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Brian Sponheimer of Gabelli.
Hi guys just a couple from me -- on the warranty expense versus cash Walter can you give what it was in the third quarter and year-to-date? Warranty expense versus cash? Yes versus cash out.
Give me a second here.
So I think on the order for the year-to-date it's been on the order of $100 million in excess of expense.
All right.
And over the course of the next year everything still holding with directionally what you gave at your Analyst Day.
Yes those are the function of what is spend and what is expense.
So part of that that I focus on is how is the spend moving and that has continued to be lower over time due to the great actions our team has taken to reduce the cost of repairs and to improve the quality of our trucks so that there is less repairs period.
We do obviously include warranty expense adjustments positively or negatively that we have to preexisting warranties so the expense number can move around a little bit based on what we do and preexisting and we had a release in the first quarter with a small increase in Q2 and its really been stable over the last couple of quarters.
So I tend to follow the spend and spend has continued to be down I think every month versus the prior year since January of last year so thats really been a great leading indicator for us that weve now stabilized this and have this under control versus what we saw a couple of years ago.
Yes I think in the numbers Brian if you look at it you'll see spend down year-over-year in the quarter by about a 11% is the trend that Walter was referencing but if there is -- if you need more detail on the number we have talked about that in more detail on past calls well be happy to review the numbers with you.
Sure I'll follow-up on that and just Walter on the amount of the intercompany used truck loan that you plan to pay down in the fourth quarter can you just fully size that for us given or give or take $5 million or $10 million? About a $100 million.
Okay.
Thank you.
Youre welcome.
Our next question comes from Alex Potter with Piper Jaffray.
Yes hi guys.
Good morning.
Out of curiosity where are you finding a home in export markets or these used trucks which country specifically referring to? Theres been a lot of different places in the world that like in a free state to conventional truck and having an opportunity with the right amount of fuel the right quality of fuels to work them.
So I struggle to say there's only one place.
There is only one place throughout the world where these trucks sit actually into.
Okay.
And had you been considering selling into those markets for a long time and only recently got the comfort which starting to attack that market and kind of taking the pricing hit that goes along with that or was this an opportunity that suddenly came up and you decided to pursue.
There is something that we've been working out for a long time and there has been smaller amount of activity really for the last couple of years and it seem like that opportunity just seems to hit and there's other places in the world where we think are in the same area to do that moving forward.
By and large these are markets where weve had relationships in the past around either new or used vehicles.
Okay.
Very good.
And then last question here.
You talk about the next leg of cost cutting in the cost cutting plan.
I guess was wondering what prompted you to move to the next leg and why the cuts that are affiliated with the next leg weren't included in the first leg? Well so first off I think as we have always talked about this before we believe we had a number -- we did a benchmarking study in 2012 to give us the initial direction let's say of what we might say are gaps that need to be closed to bring our costs in line with either industry standards or the best in the industry.
That was the plan we call drive to deliver.
It had always been our plan to update those benchmarks once we had executed the majority of that plan and refine those just to see where other people had moved and in fact we can recalibrate ourselves to best performance targets in functional areas of the business.
I would also take you back to the fact that in 2012 or 2013 actually is where we reorganized to a more functional organization.
So as these organizations have gotten better basically at understanding these things we knew there would be more opportunity.
And as we talked in the past we gave a rather broad earning or broad EBITDA margin and as Walter said it was really just kind of a way point.
We kind of know where the rest of the industry is performing and so to get there was going to require even more that's why we dont just call it cost cutting this is alignment this is refinement.
The functional organization which has largely been in effect for only a couple of years is not just that much smarter as to where those targets might be.
We had always anticipated this and probably even had made previous references to it as we have just updated that benchmarking and are really pending those plans we thought it appropriate to mention were very excited about the opportunities that we have discovered and getting about them.
So I dont look at this as an oversight but quite frankly something very virtuous with regards to this is what I think you would expect big companies to do.
Okay.
Very good.
Thats very helpful.
Thanks a lot guys.
The next question comes from Nicole DeBlase with Morgan Stanley.
Yes thanks.
Good morning guys.
Good morning.
So my question is around one comment that you made in your prepared remarks I think you said that part of the cost cutting the justification or the reason for the cost cutting plan is that you want to be more competitive in the marketplace.
So Im curious if you see the potential to take some pricing action to try to accelerate some of the market share regain or if Im reading incorrectly into that statement? No I think I'll let Bill I'll let Bill talk about it but certainly we had a tremendous focus this year on improving our margin on margin growth per unit to give us the very latitude to do the right thing in the market with the customers where we want to play.
That said we look at every deal independently and I'll flip it over to Bill.
Its a competitive market.
We try to say we want to be competitive with the competition.
Were not going to do deals that dont make financial sense.
I will say that but is there a situation where we might want to go after something that we might not have been at 2015.
Yes there is going to be those situations.
Okay.
That's helpful.
Thanks.
And then my second question is on a different topic.
So you guys launched the Eaton Precision transmission.
I know its early days but I'm just curious what the dealer response has been if there's excitement in the field about that product? The dealers have been very excited about having the product and yes its not really in the market yet in terms of operating with customers but certainly the test vehicles we've had out there have done very well.
Okay.
Thanks Ill pass it on.
The last question comes from Seth Weber with RBC Capital.
Hi this is Emily McLaughlin filling in for Seth this morning.
Just wondering what has been the dealer reaction to the over-the-air engine reprogramming? Is there any concern as to will it reduce their service opportunity? No the dealers are excited about it because it helps improve well time which is one of the items that weve been working on extremely hard at the last couple of years.
The downtime is the enemy for our customers and our goal is to help those customers have the best uptime in the industry.
This is just one of the ways that will allow us to do that.
So this is just one piece of a number of other initiatives were doing.
So no the dealers are all for it.
If the customers are happy thats going to bring more business.
Got it.
Okay.
And then also do you have any updates on how you're going to use some of the idle medium duty capacity you have out there? Yes some more medium trucks.
No I do think you've struck on something that's important and as we go through this next level of cost alignment capacity utilization is something that you'll hear more from us on that subject let me leave it at that.
So you've actually struck on a great topic and you'll hear more from us in future calls and certainly our Analyst Day which we plan on having early next year.
Okay.
Great.
Thanks a lot guys.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude today's question-and-answer session.
I would like to turn the call back over to our host.
Okay.
This is Troy.
Let me just thank you very much for your interest in the company and our story and if we haven't provided you with all the information that you think you require please feel free to call Kevin.
Most of us are available and we can make arrangements for us to chat with you in more detail on subjects of interest.
Kevin? Thanks.
Feel free to reach out if you have additional questions.
Appreciate your time.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude today's presentation.
You may now disconnect and have a wonderful day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Navistars Fourth Quarter 2015 Earnings Results Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session and instructions will follow at that time.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this call is being recorded.
I would now like to introduce your host for today's conference Kevin Sadowski Vice President of Investor Relations.
You may begin.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us for Navistar's fourth quarter 2015 conference call.
With me today are Troy Clarke our President and Chief Executive Officer; and Walter Borst our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Before we begin I'd like to cover a few items.
A copy of this morning's press release and the presentation slides that well be using today have been posted on our Investor Relation website for your reference.
The non-GAAP financial measures discussed in the call are reconciled to the U.S.
GAAP equivalents as part of the appendix in the slide deck.
Finally today's presentations include some forward-looking statements about our expectations for future performance.
Actual results could differ materially from those suggested by our comments made here.
For additional information concerning factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected in today's presentation please refer to our most recent reports on Form 10-K and 10-Q and our other SEC filings.
We would also refer you to the Safe Harbor statement and other cautionary notes disclaimer presented in today's material for more information on the subject.
With that I'll turn the call over to Troy Clarke for his opening remarks.
Okay.
Hey thank you Kevin and good morning everyone.
2015 is in the books and it has been a year of continuous and consistent progress setting the stage for what we expect to be profit and positive free cash flow in 2016.
Our 2015 progress included the following: charge outs in our core U.S.
and Canadian markets increased by 3 500 units or 6%.
Core truck revenue increased 3%.
We grew volumes and share in the medium and bus segments.
Our Parts business delivered record profitability.
We grew our OnCommand Connection vehicle park to more than 160 000 trucks and buses.
Warranty related repair times or what we call dwell times were cut in half resulting in improved uptime for international truck owners.
Warranty expense continued to decline to 3% of manufacturing revenues.
We generated more than $300 million in operational savings by meeting and in some cases exceeding our plans for reducing structural costs delivering manufacturing savings material and logistics cost savings and we exited the foundry business this year which was no longer a core activity.
All of this contributed to Navistar achieving our adjusted EBITDA margin end-of-year exit rate goal of 8% or better.
We finished Q4 at 8.4%.
We ended the year strong and while we did not hit all of our 2015 performance targets we are satisfied with our progress and how we finished the year.
Q4 required us to execute in the face of revenue headwinds which Walter will cover in more detail shortly.
Despite this there was a lot of good news.
Our chargeouts in Class 6/7 were up 13% year-over-year in the fourth quarter and school bus chargeouts were up 10%.
This favorable product mix in improved trucks and parts margins coupled with $74 million in year-on-year structural cost improvements helped us deliver strong bottom line year-over-year progress for the quarter.
Our global operations while better year-over-year operated at a loss as they have most of the year.
Our MWM operations in Brazil continue to struggle in a difficult local economy.
When we set our goals a few years ago we certainly thought our global operations would have contributed more.
Yes we still view them as having the potential to contribute or add to our core North America results in the future.
We finished the year with 16% total market share in the U.S.
and Canada.
We had hoped to do better yet this was not without the progress we can build on.
This included a 20% increase in Class 6/7 sales and 15% increase in bus sale.
Class 8 share was moderated by our efforts to manage used truck inventories we have noted all year.
The good thing is we produced our last EGR Big Bore truck in the first half of 2013 so we are at the peak of this legacy issue and we continue to work through it in a prudent manner.
Encouragingly we are off to a good start on orders to be delivered in 2016 and I will give you a little bit more on that later.
Right now let me pause and turn it over to Walter who will provide further details on the financials.
Thank you Troy.
Good morning everyone.
Now lets turn our attention to the financial results for Q4.
Consolidated revenue was $2.5 billion and core chargeouts were 15 800 units.
Adjusted EBITDA margin in the fourth quarter of 2015 was 8.4% reflecting $209 million of adjusted EBITDA increasing $93 million year-over-year driven largely by lower costs favorable product mix and record commercial parts profits compared to last year our loss from continuing operations net of tax improved by $21 million.
As shown on Slide 8 the results for the quarter included certain adjustments including an adjustment to pre-existing warranty.
Pre-existing warranty adjustments in the quarter can be broken into three pieces.
First a warranty issue related to certain engines surfaced in the quarter.
The issue primarily relates to a supplier-provided part and we believe this issue has been contained.
We are working with the supplier to recover costs associated with this warranty item.
Second we determined that we had been misclassifying certain warranty claims.
The claims were paid but not properly classified in all instances between our standard and extended warranty pools.
The warranty accrual model process differs between standard and extended warranties.
We made the necessary adjustments which are reflected in the warranty entries.
We conducted an internal controls assessment at the end of the quarter and determined we have a material weakness in this area of our financial reporting process for warranties and are implementing the appropriate remediation actions.
Third we have favorable performance related to Big Bore engines and other warranty-related claims.
Taken together we recorded a net adjustment to pre-existing warranty of $40 million in the quarter.
Even with the Q4 adjustments we only had $4 million of net adjustments to pre-existing warranty for the year a dramatic improvement over recent years and a testament to the improved quality of our products.
We also had a few one-time charges in the quarter.
$54 million of restructuring charges related to cost reduction actions as we drive our breakeven point lower.
$50 million of charges related to the impairment of certain intangible and long-lived assets primarily related to our Brazil truck operations and $14 million of charges related to fees and costs associated with the refinancing of the term loan in August.
The adjusted EBITDA margin for the quarter was 8.4% achieving the target of more than 8% of the Company laid out three years ago for the fourth quarter of 2015.
This margin is up 330 basis points from Q3 and 450 basis points from Q4 of last year.
The EBITDA margin growth is evidence that our plans to improve the business are working.
Our results in the fourth quarter as well as during the past few years reflect the hard work and dedication of our employees to think differently eliminate waste and deliver high quality products to our customers.
And this is not the end just another milestone that demonstrates our ability to do what we say we will do.
We expect EBITDA to continue to grow in 2016 and we remain committed to take the actions necessary to further improve our results.
Now lets turn to Slide 10 and review the Q4 results for our operating segments.
The Truck segment improved $4 million for the quarter despite lower chargeouts.
Excluding the impact of pre-existing warranty and one-time charges Truck segment results improved more than $54 million year-over-year and would have been profitable for the quarter.
This improvement reflects improved product margins the impact from our cost reduction actions and increased profitability in the defense business.
The Part segment profit grew to $163 million a record quarter increasing 9% compared to a year ago.
Results continue to reflect margin improvements and savings from our cost reduction actions.
Weve taken a number of actions to lower the cost structure of our global operations.
As a result the segment loss was halved versus last year despite the poor economic conditions in Brazil and [$17] [ph] million of charges in the quarter related to restructuring actions and asset impairments.
The Financial Services segment continues to perform well and Q4 profits were flat compared to last year.
As you can see on Slide 11 our cost reduction metrics continue to trend favorably.
Structural cost continues to track lower declining $140 million year-over-year.
In addition to the structural action taken over the last few years we kicked off a zero-based budgeting initiative last quarter that will take our cost performance to the next level.
In combination gross material and manufacturing saving came in better than expected with material cost savings of 2.2% of manufacturing revenue rather and $44 million of manufacturing cost savings.
Warranty expense continued to decline year-over-year.
For 2015 warranty expense as a percentage of manufacturing revenue was 3% compared to 3.7% in 2014.
Throughout the year we continue to experience lower warranty costs related to our Big Bore engine products and the quality of our new SCR products continues to track favorably.
Turning to Slide 12 let me update you on our used truck business.
During Q4 we saw our gross used truck inventory increase.
We ended the period with an inventory balance of $390 million up $40 million from the end of Q3.
The increase in the quarter is partly driven by higher used truck receipts and the slowing of export markets where we had been finding recent success.
Also this quarter the used truck inventory reserve increased $50 million as we mark-to-market our used truck inventory for expected lower sales prices related to longer holding periods.
The used truck inventory reserve adjustment has continue to trend lower compared to the first half of 2015 and weve recorded a reserve of 28% against these assets.
Liquidity as shown on Slide 13 remains strong.
We ended the quarter with over $1 billion of manufacturing cash.
Adjusted EBITDA more than offset the cash used for capital expenditures interest payments pension and OPEB contributions and warranty payments.
Warranty cash payments continue to exceed warranty expense as both declined year-over-year.
And as we discussed in the last call we completed the refinancing of our term loan in August which added a net $340 million of liquidity to our balance sheet and extended the debt maturity to August 2020.
In turn we repaid $91 million against the used truck intercompany loan with NFC.
If one excludes the term loan refinancing and intercompany loan repayment we still had positive net cash flow of $60 million in the quarter.
Now lets shift our focus to 2016 and our expectations for the year ahead.
As the year progresses we will provide progress towards our annual targets and less quarterly guidance.
First let's look at revenues.
We believe 2016 revenues will be consistent with 2015 after adjusting for the termination of the Blue Diamond Truck JV and our exit from the foundry operations.
Despite a lower Class 8 industry forecast in North America as well as continued economic headwinds in Brazil and other export markets.
We project 2016 Class 8 industry volumes to range between 240 000 and 270 000 trucks and have factored lower production volumes into our forecast.
We do however see Class 6/7 and bus industry volumes increasing in 2016.
We see our overall market share growing next year due to our strong position in Class 6/7 and bus and continuing customer receptivity to our new Class 8 products.
We also forecast another strong year in parts revenues notably via increases coming from Fleetrite our all-makes brand.
Taken together we forecast revenues in 2016 to be $9.5 billion to $10 billion.
Near-term we face the softer market with higher stock inventories.
We also foresee lower year-over-year revenues from parts Brazil and export.
As a result were expecting consolidated revenues in Q1 of around $2 billion.
Turning to costs we have significantly improved our cost structure and believe these cost savings will continue in 2016.
We expect to take more than $200 million of additional costs out of our operations.
The majority of the cost savings are expected to come from further actions to reduce material costs and improve manufacturing efficiencies.
Additionally we remain focused on driving structural cost lower.
During the fourth quarter we undertook actions to reduce our salaried headcount further that will yield additional savings once complete.
However we expect these savings will partially offset by strategic investments in the business and higher pension and OPEB related legacy costs.
Finally with efforts related to our SCR engine transition coming to a close we will have less associated engine related product development activities.
As a result we foresee lower engineering spend in 2016.
As you can see on Slide 16 over the past three years we have increased our annual adjusted EBITDA by roughly $200 million each year.
We expect this positive trend to continue in 2016.
Similar to 2015 our plan is primarily based on the execution of cost reduction initiatives.
However we also expect higher market share and see another strong year in our North America commercial parts business.
We expect Q1 2016 adjusted EBITDA to be consistent with Q1 2015 results due to lower revenue year-over-year offset by improved margins.
Thereafter improving market share together with a lower cost base should allow us to grow profitably over the balance of 2016 to improve adjusted EBITDA to $600 million to $700 million for the year as a whole.
Turning to Slide 17 we expect improved adjusted EBITDA to allow us to generate positive free cash flow for the year based on our current industry projections.
Let me elaborate on some of our major uses of manufacturing cash in 2016.
We expect pension contributions to exceed expense by $50 million.
Capital expenditures are forecast to be $125 million.
Manufacturing interest expense and cash taxes are expected to be approximately $240 million and $335 million respectively.
Warranty cash payments should exceed warranty expense by $150 million and used truck inventory should remain around current levels.
Taken together these cash uses total approximately $600 million in 2016.
Quarterly we expect our manufacturing cash balances to reflect seasonal fluctuations.
The business tends to consume cash in our fiscal first quarter due to unfavorable changes in working capital resulting from less production days as well as seasonally higher cash interest payments.
Historically Q1 [ending] manufacturing cash balances have tended to be approximately $300 million to $400 million lower than fiscal year end.
Directionally we would expect this to occur again this year.
And we would also expect to rebuild our cash balance during the remainder of 2016 and end the year with nearly $1 billion of manufacturing cash.
As I reflect back on 2015 we achieved a lot.
We achieved approximately $200 million of adjusted EBITDA growth.
We increased our core North America truck and parts sales.
We delivered over $300 million of savings from cost reduction actions and we remained focused on improving the overall health of our balance sheet ending the year with over $1 billion in manufacturing cash.
We continue to make great progress on our journey to create a great America truck company.
I'll stop here and return the call back to Troy.
Okay.
Thanks Walter.
Okay in 2015 we demonstrated were taking the actions that we need to succeed and in 2016 we are going to build on that progress.
On the revenue side were set to grow volumes and gain market share.
We believe this will be the case for several reasons.
First both our quality metrics and customer responses confirm we are making the best trucks ever.
We have made strong inroads with important fleet customers truck equipment manufacturers and critical leasing and rental customers.
For the last six months our order share has been greater than our market share for Class 6/7 and 8.
Simply we are quoting and winning more deals than we were this time last year.
We now have the right products to win.
Last year we completed the launch of SCR across our entire truck portfolio.
We expanded our bus portfolio with a propane fuel offering and our plan is to continue this new product cadence into 2016 with the launch of our new premium severe service product.
We will roll out our OnCommand Connection over-the-air product in the first half of the New Year and we will introduce more new products in the second half of the year.
With regard to the market we see the market in 2016 lower than 2015.
Our planning is based on a Class 6 through 8 including bus market of between 350 000 and 380 000 units.
Specifically to Class 8 we are forecasting a market between 240 000 and 270 000 units.
Given the finished inventory condition of the industry we think our first quarter will be slower as the trucking industry works through the capacity added in 2015.
The recent ACT market forecast is basically in line with ours we expect 2016 to be as good as or better than 2014 which I think most will agree was a good year.
On our way to profitability I also expect to see another strong year from our parts business.
We will continue to improve uptime which is differentiating the international brand in the marketplace.
We will continue to right size costs and as Walter noted our goal is to deliver an additional $200 million in 2016.
We expect to achieve net material cost savings again in 2016.
And our strategy of open technology integration is enabling us to work even closer with our supplier.
And we anticipate the economic headwinds will continue in Brazil and our export markets but we have taken additional restructuring actions to reduce the impact of these operations on our 2016 results.
In closing for the third straight year we have made the strong progress in virtually every area of our business.
We are building the best products weve ever built and they are winning back customers.
Its going to require some more hard work but I believe we are well-positioned to deliver on our 2016 business goals and guidance.
And I expect given our current assumptions about the market that this will be the year we become profitable and free cash flow positive setting the stage for an even better future.
Let me turn it back over to Kevin and we will entertain some of your questions.
Thanks Troy.
That concludes our prepared remarks.
Before we go to questions I would like to let you know that in addition to Troy and Walter also joining us today is Persio Lisboa our President of Operations and Bill Kozek our President of Truck and Parts.
To be fair we ask that each of you limit yourself to one question including an optional follow-up.
Operator we are now ready to open the lines for questions.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Jeff Kauffman with Buckingham Research.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
Thank you very much.
Congratulations guys.
I know it's been a tough battling to get the margins to these levels.
Walter could you talk a little bit  you gave us a good idea of the cash dip in 1Q and then getting better the rest of the year.
You mentioned renegotiating your credit line.
How much additional liquidity is out there? And are you comfortable if cash comes in at $650 million to $700 million in the first quarter? Yes.
So historically weve said that we need about $500 million to run the business.
Our biggest dip is in the first quarter and so were in the $600 million to $700 million range coming out of the quarter were in great shape because the biggest drain on our cash actually would then be behind us for the year.
We did do the term loan back in August and that's propped up our liquidity balances here and that gives us additional comfort that we have the cash balances that we need to reinvest in the business and to get us through any downturn that we might face.
Okay.
And then one follow-up and I'll let it go.
If I heard your commentary correctly on the warranty reserve were it not for the adjustment for the weakness in the reporting that you identified were you saying that that balance would have actually been better in terms of your experience on what was there previously? And does this adjustment take into account most of the issues you identified? Yes.
So the items that I mentioned all included in the pre-existing warranty amount of $40 million for the quarter without the misclassification issue that would've been lower and we would've net-net for the year had a release of our pre-existing warranty reserves versus the flattish number $4 million that I mentioned.
Okay.
And then going forward? Going forward its like I say every quarter its properly reserved at the end of the quarter.
So I'm very proud of the team in terms of the progress we've made on quality improvements and that has allowed us to get our warranty costs as a percentage of revenue down to where they are much closer to industry now versus where they were a couple of years ago as you see in the graphics that we provided to you.
So just tremendous progress on quality by the company warranty spend continues to track down.
Expense continues to track down warranty cash continues to be an excessive expense because both are tracking down but its been a great year on warranty improvements for the Company.
All right guys.
Well congratulations.
I know it's a tough environment out there.
Thank you.
Thanks Jeff.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of David Leiker with Robert W.
Baird.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
Hi good morning everyone.
Good morning Dave.
Good morning.
I wanted to start and talk a little bit on the market share.
I don't think I heard you put a target out on where you think your market share can go during the year.
And then secondly within that if Troy you do a great job of kind of talking about where you have incremental wins or where you are still lagging on wins.
If you could just give us an update in terms of the recent order pace what youre seeing in terms of your win activity? Hi David this is Bill Kozek.
On the medium duty side the last  as Troy mentioned in the last six months weve had increased order intake and weve been over 25% and for Class 8 weve been above 16% which as you know that portends well for retail here in the next couple of months.
As Troy said market share is strategically important to us and we are out in front of customers every day to improve the market share numbers.
I dont know that we give a target for market share but we anticipate growth in both volume and growth in market share in all segments for 2016.
And our dealers are engaged and the customer conversations are very different today than they were two years ago Hey David I know what you're referencing you and I talked about this couple of times.
So Ill just put the same thing that Bill said to you and the color that I usually add medium bus and dealer led sales all gained significant traction dealer led sales six through eight not just in the Class 6 and 7 categories.
Two things feel different to us as weve been active in the selling season as have our competitors have been.
One is an uptake or an uptake on those accounts that we sell to directly and part of that is whereas last year we might have sold somebody 25 units this year were selling that same customer 300 units or 400 units.
So we call it share of wallet so I think what we see  Im looking to Bill for the right nod here but look I think what we see is a higher share of wallet on the customer targets that we identified.
And then the last thing is and I may be you know Bill I may be premature but a lot of the math around where were at on our Class 8 or our heavy market share can be attributed to a couple of deals and also the penetration of the 13-liter in the heavy portfolio.
And I think there is - I think I believe the numbers that I'm looking at tells us that there's a pickup in interest on our 13-liter engine in the orders that weve been collecting since the July and August timeframe.
Thats right.
And in the quoting activity as well.
Great.
And then Walter just one quick follow-up here on the cash flow.
Manufacturing cash flow positive for the year.
If you look at non-operating non-manufacturing items that $1 billion of cash liquidity you have right now does that mean that's where you think that number is a year from now or are there some non-manufacturing things that we need to be aware of? No we expect cash to be at about $1 billion at the end of the year as well we may take the opportunity to repay back some of the intercompany debt that we have with NFC but that's more intercompany you know we probably get some dividends from them as well as we do typically year-over-year but in terms of external maturities we just don't have much for the next few years.
So were in great position on our debt stack the first real maturity there is in 2018 and that's $200 million as one of our converts comes due then.
Not a lot on the debt side that we need to attend to in terms of maturities here in the short-term.
What about cash restructuring? Well see how that goes.
We've had some restructuring charges you saw those in the fourth quarter we still think that there is more cost that we can take out of the business and if we do that then well have  well take the charges for that if you are referring to the charges that we took in the quarter and the cash related to them you know I think the fourth quarter action that we took here was a charge of $37 million and so that would be a cash outflow over time for us most of that would occur in 2016.
Okay great.
Thank you much.
Thats kind of all embedded in our overall numbers of where we would plan to end year end and that's still going to be in that billion dollar range as I see it today.
Okay.
Thank you much.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Brian Sponheimer with Gabelli.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
Hi good morning guys.
Good morning.
Congratulations on hitting the 8% target.
Can you hear me? Yes we can Brian go ahead.
Just as far as thinking about the 60 000 used truck population on the EGR side if you are 30 000 32 000 through it right now Troy where would you expect to be 12 months from now on that? Yes somewhere between I mean right now were kind of predicting that we may process about half of that 60 000 so about 30 000 of that.
We are kind of at the peak of it right now so I would say a year from now we should be about two-thirds lets just say more than halfway through it certainly in the neighborhood of two-thirds of the way through it.
I think we have discussed previously and we look at this all the time.
We think the major impacts of this start to significantly diminished 15 months to 20 months thats a little bit different I think when we probably referenced you in the past - about 15 months to 20 months or 21 months from today.
So were getting up on this and were getting over it.
One of the things that Walter noted is that the adjustments that we make for reserves is less than the second half than in the first half of the year part of that is just the fact that as the trucks get older they just work closer  the values just work closer to where theyll transact in used market and at some point in time six or seven-year old truck is kind of a six or seven-year old used truck and so even though at the end of that 15 month to 20 month period of time that I referenced to you we may still have inventory in terms of number of trucks that were still trying to dispose of.
The value of that inventory and the impact that it has on our earnings will be significantly diminished from where its at today.
Understood and just two real quick ones.
Any conversation with used truck customers about the impact of reimplementation of bonus depreciation if that comes back? And then finally I noticed in the footnotes on the K that you are at least down the line of ending the Wells notice issue with the SEC.
Can you comment on that? Bill you want to talk about the used trucks? Sure.
Yes in terms of the used truck I mean its a benefit to the customers.
We havent had a whole lot of conversation about that to date but with the used truck market it could be another advantage for us and we think with the capability that weve got our dealers and us we expect to have a pretty good year in used truck sales.
Hey Brian we just happen to have our General Counsel sitting with us at the table as well so Ill just push the SEC question over to him.
Good morning Brian its Steve Covey and Im Navistars General Counsel and unfortunately I can't add anything in response to your question other than what we put in our 10-K.
We have reached agreement with the staff of the SEC that will end their investigation and we are fully accrued in the financial statements that you're looking at for the fourth quarter for the amount that we've agreed to pay.
And beyond that were not making any announcement right now we will when the agreement is finalized.
All right.
Thank you very much.
Thanks Brian.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Ann Duignan with JPMorgan.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
Hi good morning guys.
Its Ann Duignan.
Good morning Ann.
Good morning Ann.
Good morning.
Again just a lot of my questions have been answered so I appreciate that.
But you did say also in the 10-K that there is some risk to your parts business on the back of the diminishing parts sales from the Blue Diamond and the Ford business.
Can you just talk a little bit about that and when you might expect that to start impacting the parts business? Well our parts business as Troy said and Walter reiterated was we had a record 2015 the Blue Diamond piece of that is a small piece of the total.
Revenues for the fourth quarter were flat in the U.S.
and down slightly in Canada and Mexico in our export markets but we think thats primarily due to the strong U.S.
dollar and the energy sector and some of the government spending but we're anticipating modest growth in 2016 across all regions and early results are showing that yes its going to be a good year in parts.
So while the Blue Diamond parts are projected to be down we don't think that thats going to impact the total for 2016.
Ann this is Troy if I could just add because I know that you have raised this before.
The Blue Diamond parts thing is basically  it sells parts for what were the Ford Power Stroke diesel engines.
And I know that you and others we have chatted with there is a point in time when those trucks get into the hands of their second owners that they may not come back to the channel that were supporting with the Blue Diamond parts.
And so we have been looking at this thing in the last couple of years kind of anticipating that there might be kind of a step function falloff in demand and we really haven't seen that.
As a matter of fact we kind of recalibrated ourselves that eventually this vehicle part just stops demanding parts but we believe at this point in time it will be a gradual runoff.
So we don't anticipate that there is a step function at least we certainly don't see that in 2016.
Okay so it'll just continue to kind of roll-off and it was a significant population so and its still  again still a good business and the cost structure is very scalable so even at a slightly lower revenue or declining revenue it still represents a profit opportunity for us.
Okay.
I appreciate the color.
And then I was just recently down in Brazil and nothing to really cheer about down there.
Could you just talk a little bit about everything you're doing in Brazil and how much of a headwind could that be for your total performance in 2016? Hi Ann this is Persio Lisboa.
Yes as I indicated in our previous call weve developed a solid plan to rightsize the business in Brazil to really  as a countermeasure off the drastic downturn that we saw in the economy there.
We have implemented in 2015 a lot of  kind of several steps that were tough but they were very effective and that's why I think Walter alluded that we managed to lower the losses in our global business and 59% despite of the drop of the revenue based on the market conditions.
We still have another step to take there; we have a plan of further consolidating the footprint.
We still have two engine plants in a country there is one in the south that we are basically  theyre no shutdown and move the production  all the products that we have in the south to the Santo Amaro facility in So Paulo so thats taking place now.
And other restructuring charges that we have already accrued in the fourth quarter.
So we feel good about what we are doing I think actually the fact that economy is in the situation that it is basically forced us to think differently and we believe that Santo Amaro facility will be a high productive facility when we are out of this.
So we have good expectations of that if the market bounces back MWM is prepared to be very successful and deliver good profit to us.
From an impact to this fiscal year 2016 we still have this  actually the final restructuring taking place in the first quarter but in the second half we see the operations in Brazil basically at breakeven.
Okay.
That's great color.
I appreciate it.
Good luck to all of you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Alex Potter with Piper Jaffray.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
Hi guys congratulations.
Good morning Alex.
I had a question on inventory in the channel of trucks people talking about how there's an elevated level of stock inventory out there.
I'm wondering if you think this is an industry-wide issue that all the brands had approximately equal exposure to or do you think that the inventory headwind is concentrated more for certain brands than for others? Alex this is Bill Kozek.
The total industry inventory is up.
I dont know the other brands situation but everybody was producing at very high levels in the third and fourth quarter of this year.
So we in some ways predicted that this was going to happen.
Our inventory is in pretty decent shape its little bit higher than I'd like it to be but weve got some plans to take that down in the first quarter and just a dealer channel check they are feeling pretty good about the inventory because it's not aged at all its in pretty good shape and weve got plans to lower.
So yes that the total industry is high and I think that will impact our competitors in the first quarter but we are not anticipating it be a major headwind at this point.
Okay.
Very good and then I had one other question here.
Just on the surface of things it looks like ASP for trucks came down in the quarter.
If you take the revenue from the truck business divided by the units optically it looks like there was a step down sequentially.
I'm just wondering if that's a function of mix more medium duty or maybe I'm calculating things incorrectly.
Just any color you could give there? Yes that is a function of mix more buses in the fourth quarter typically and more medium duty as well.
Okay.
So not necessarily something that persists in the Q1 and Q2.
It's a seasonal mix issue? Correct.
Okay.
Other than as we get into 2016 we do expect medium and bus industry volumes to rise Class 8 to be somewhat lower and since we participate more fully and medium and bus we should continue to see mix benefits for us in over time which will then also impact the average selling price.
So there is seasonal aspects but as we see the different parts of the  different segments in the truck industry developing we should see some of that continuing.
Okay.
Good makes sense.
Thanks very much guys.
Thanks.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Andy Casey with Wells Fargo.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
Thanks a lot.
Good morning everybody.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Good morning Andy.
I'd like to go back to the revenue guidance for flattish if you exclude the impact of the Blue Diamond JV.
I'm kind of trying to reconcile that with the Q1 guidance for a decrease and then Bill's comments about the order share improvement helping retail in the next couple of months.
It kind of seems like you expect share gain to offset industry Class 8 weakness and some potential continued Brazil declines.
First is that a correct read? And then second does your visibility extend beyond Q1? Okay.
Yes let me Ill take the first part of that or maybe the second part of it.
Yes our visibility is in the second quarter today as we sit here and we've seen some really strong order intake in the month of December.
So thats a positive trend as well I dont know if you want to address the other one.
Yes in the first quarter  the first quarter is a relatively strong comp from a year ago.
So we did have strong bus volumes I recall in the first quarter of last year there was a program that have been run at that time that's not repeating itself this year.
So there are some differences year-over-year in the first quarter that factor their way into this estimate that we provided as well but in particular we don't have the Blue Diamond Truck JV this year that we had for the first half actually of last year.
And then Andy this is Troy.
Just one other thing I dont know how significant this is in your calculations or how you are looking at it.
But you commented - you just made a brief comment there said offsetting Brazil declines.
I think what Persio was trying to comment on is we dont anticipate further declines in Brazil.
We think were - be able to have that as a Revenues will be lower.
Revenues will be lower year-over-year Troy - weakness that we saw in the second half of 2015.
Okay.
Thanks for that.
And then if I could follow up a little bit there has been some accounting changes for some other industrial companies related to pension and OPEB.
Have you guys looked at that? And if so is any of that included in the guidance? Yes so we have looked at it here in 2015 and weve included that in our guidance for 2016 that's one of the headwinds that I alluded to in my comments.
So we'll keep pushing on the structural cost side to get those costs lower but we do have some offsetting amounts in pension and OPEB as we took a look at our mortality assumptions in particular.
So that'll be impacting our earnings in 2016 and beyond from a funding perspective I think that still another year or so out before that has any impact on us.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Nicole DeBlase with Morgan Stanley.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
Yes thanks guys.
How are you? Hi Nicole.
Hi Nicole.
So my first question is around used truck inventory.
You guys talked about how gross inventory stepped up and gave some of the reasons for that.
I'm just wondering why you have confidence in flattish used truck inventory in 2016 especially since it's possible that export sales will remain weak.
So it would be great if you could just walk through that.
Sure as we said the used truck inventory is up and we anticipated that there has been some slowdown in export as you mentioned but we are looking at a number of different export opportunities as well.
So I don't  I think were going to end up our goal is to grow the export business for this year.
We did have a strong year in sales of our MaxxForce 13 and we know and we are anticipating some receipts this year and we also have our plan to increase our capabilities to sell more of the used vehicles.
The retail activity has been stable and were gaining some acceptance of our Diamond Renewed program which Ive discussed in previous call.
And I will say the uptime on our Diamond Renewed program is excellent based on the data were seeing from our OnCommand Connection system.
So you put all that stuff together what we expect to get in what we expect to sell and we think were going to be pretty closer flattish on inventory for 2016.
Okay got it.
That's helpful.
Thank you.
And then my second question is the only thing on the free cash flow walk that I didn't see is net working capital.
If you guys could comment on what you are expecting for working capital inflow or outflow for 2016? Yes its not that significant for 2016 but Ill let you run that through your own model based on your volume assumptions for us and you probably have a good idea where that needs to be.
We try to provide some guidance on items that are may be less clear but I think all you guys have models that calculate working capital so  but it shouldn't be a big driver one way or the other in 2016? Okay.
Thanks Walter.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Ted Grace with Susquehanna.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
Good morning gentlemen.
Good morning.
Good morning Ted.
Troy or Walter I was wondering if you could maybe walk through the $200 million of savings expected next year.
I know you've talked about materials manufacturing at least I thought you said being the lion's share of that.
But is there any way you could bucket kind of materials manufacturing efficiencies incremental/structural opportunities and the opportunities in Brazil just so we have a little more granular understanding? And then could you also just comment on what the 2016 the carryover of savings into 2016 is so we know the level of visibility on that? Yes so let me take the latter one first.
Our material savings during the course of the year really at a high level were about a quarter each quarter; we continue to track very nicely over the whole year towards that overall goal.
So I think you should  therefore you can roll it into 2016 similarly because that was pretty much of a straight line function over the course of the year.
Look we've done a great job on the cost reduction side here over the last few years.
Weve hit or exceeded all of our targets.
As we have provided some of that additional color in the past I dont really think it's helped us a lot with you guys.
So we have an overall cost target we are very comfortable in our ability to get another $200 million or more costs out of the business this year.
The costs are principally on the material side of the business so that will be a big contributor to that but I gave you some color in our prepared remarks I think in terms of where you should expect that  expected across the board and it will be another big cost reduction year for Navistar in 2016.
Okay.
And I realize that's baked into your EBITDA guidance of $600 million to $700 million but maybe Bill could you talk about the degree to which you plan on using some of those savings kind of strategically to drive sales? I know you talked about better quality and things of that sort but do you expect that $200 million to be net? Or is part of that going back into the business to help drive market share gains? Well were going to be very aggressive in the market in 2016 and with the new products thats really a discussion between Walter and I how much I get to use for my deal but with the new products and with the improvements and features that were adding we do like Ive said before we expect our share to grow and certainly our volumes to grow as well.
So I dont know how much Walter is going to give me but that is certainly a discussion well have on a pretty regular basis.
Well I think  this is Troy.
I mean we've worked really hard over the last two years that really we dont share this data with you guys but the significantly improved the margin on a per unit basis.
We really know these numbers and were moving in the right direction and I would look at this coming year were going to continue to move in that direction.
Okay.
Then my second question was a follow-up to Nicole's question on the used truck inventory side.
I know you commented that export sales had slowed.
Could you talk about the domestic success you've had? I think I heard somebody just say retail activity is stable in used trucks.
But just help us understand what you are facing into 2016 on the domestic kind of distribution side versus exporting the used trucks.
Any kind of clarity there would be helpful.
Yes in the market I get a wide range of feelings about 2016.
There's some people that are very bullish there is others that are not as bullish but I would tell you our situation is a little bit different than most but the key for us is going to be getting the vehicle in the customers hand and giving them the confidence that that vehicle will perform and that's why I'm bullish about 2016 and it's really all about our Diamond Renewed program and then following and monitoring that vehicle with OnCommand Connection.
So weve had some success there is a couple of different things were looking at in terms of lease programs financing and owner operator programs and looking at a number of different ways to grow our throughput and like I said we expect 2016 to be a stronger year than 2015.
I would say also that inside those numbers I mean much much much higher percent this past year of MaxxForce engine sales than the previous year.
So to increase our domestic sales year-over-year as Bill has noted through our used channel is significant and the fact that its running stable here as we are in that second half of the year but also the mix of product has really swung to much higher MaxxForce and this is where Diamond Renewed the uptime proposition is really developing their brand improving into the market is really what has supported the swing in mix away from all brands that we sold towards our MaxxForce 13 product.
I think thats part of what gives us some confidence as well.
Okay.
The proof for us has been in the repeat customers so some of the bigger customers coming in and re-upping and weve had a number of those here in the fourth quarter so that gives us a lot of confidence heading into 2016.
All right.
Well I wish you the best of luck this forward year.
Thanks guys.
Thank you Ted Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Adam Uhlman with Cleveland Research.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
Hi guys good morning.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Actually just to follow-up on the order trend comments  I might've missed it but I think that you had mentioned that December was running pretty strong.
Were your orders up year-over-year in addition to the share improvement that you've seen? Or did I hear that wrong? Well the numbers that I gave were the last six months where we were at on the medium side over 25% of the market and then on the Class 8 side over 16% of the market.
I don't have the year-over-year number in front of me based on 2014 being in the last half or the last quarter of 2014 being a huge order intake for not only us but the entire industry I would guess for the full-year our order intake is down probably up in medium up in bus but Class 8 down.
Okay got you.
Thanks for the clarification.
Yes in our particular case though whenever the percentage of orders runs higher than market share for a period as long as six months and I think it was same thing for our competitors right thats just a good time.
Right there is upward points beyond those numbers.
Right.
Okay got you.
And then Walter could you maybe just talk through the sensitivity to the EBITDA margin guidance that you provided to the market assumptions that you've given us? If the market turns around and is better than expected or worse than expected any kind of framework that you could provide for us on how youd expect EBITDA to unfold? Well the EBITDA is really a function of our $9.5 billion to $10 billion of revenue guidance so that gives us some idea of the range of volume movements that we could see like others we see the Class 8 volumes declining we think there will be 240 000 to 270 000 units in 2016 and medium bus will be up so that the total Class 6 to 8 bus will be 350 000 to 380 000 units and obviously well get our share within that we expect share to grow not providing any share targets today but we will also benefit from mix and share for the reasons I decided earlier.
So Im not sure we want to go beyond that today but the EBITDA guidance we gave is a function of the revenue guidance that we gave earlier.
Okay thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Seth Weber with RBC Capital.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
Hey good morning everybody.
Good morning.
Most of the questions have been asked and answered.
But maybe just from an industry perspective: Bill we've seen a big uptick in cancellations recently for the last three months on a year-over-year basis.
Can you just give us your perspective on what's going on there? Is that just a recalibration? Do you think that this is just a temporary kind of hiccup and things are going to get back to normal? Or are you seeing anything specifically that you could talk to there? Yes we have not seen an uptick or really any measurable cancellations this year and really for a pretty long period of time.
I know some of our competitors have seen some of that I think that just there was a function of the enormous number of orders that went in late 2014 but again I anticipate December we all thought November orders I anticipate December to bounce back from that number not to the numbers we saw on late 2014 but based on our order intake - and our order intake has been really pretty good and its all sold customer deals.
So Im pretty optimistic about what were seeing in the market right now.
I think just anecdotally - and you guys are more aware of this; as much aware of this as we are that some of the high order intake in the past was from multi-year deals that kind of guarantee carryover pricing and as the industry I think some portions of the heavy industry believe that they created too much capacity trucking capacity here in the second half of the year and so theyre pulling back a little bit - make sure that that capacity gets absorbed before they put those orders back in so to speak.
So again were not seeing it exactly that way because we dont go to market exactly that way and obviously we still have some gains to just make as a share of wallet so to speak as a portion of a persons buy and so I think were still benefiting a little bit from that and how that same phenomenon might or might not be impacting  some color on that.
That's great.
Thank you.
That's very helpful.
Just maybe a quick follow-up for Walter.
With the new GM arrangement the agreement that you signed will you be absorbing any extra costs in 2016 for that new agreement? Well we do have capital expenditures that were sharing for that program as well as engineering expense and that will start in 2016 theyre not large amounts for us but they're embedded in the numbers that Ive provided for overall CapEx of $125 million next year and the balance would be included in our engineering budget and I provided some color on structural cost for next year as well which would include those amounts.
Okay.
So the short answer is yes but it's not that significant in the scheme of things.
And you would expect that to rise I guess in 2017? Yes.
Okay great.
Thank you very much guys.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Kirk Ludtke with CRT.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
Good morning everyone.
Good morning Kirk.
Good morning.
With respect to the used trucks - and you touched on it earlier and I missed it - why do you think that you only need to deal with 50% of the 60 000 trucks? That's really been our historical - the number we've historically used or we've experienced not used it.
Actually its been a little bit less right so its all how we go to market right so there's a number of trucks that we sell directly to large fleets or in cooperation with some of our dealers in large fleet.
So we kind of know when the truck goes out in its sale mode that it's probably going to come back to us largely because the dealers can handle that volume of truck okay.
But fully half of those trucks are sold through dealers in twos and threes and fours and tens.
We Id say figure of speech don't know those customers they go to they tend to be in their hands for a little bit longer and those are totally processed by the dealers when they come back.
Historically again we can forecast how many were going to take back and its really a mix of the way we go to market.
Historically I would think we would typically take maybe a third of the total Class 8s that we sell.
We are anticipating again in an effort to manage the market and help manage the residual values of these products it would be in our best interest to take its going to be higher than the third we say 50% I think that's a good conservative planning assumption as we get further into this I think the number will  well be able to forecast the number far more accurately but I think 50% would be a very conservative or expansive view of that at this time.
Okay.
Thanks helpful.
Just to add to that I mean we don't have any obligation per se to take those units back thats our choice.
But obviously it helps us sell new trucks.
So at 50% as Troy indicated thats a higher percentage that we would have historically seen but we think thats more appropriate for this population of trucks.
And I think what were trying to reflect is that we have a - we believe we have very realistic expectations that we have put into our business plan with regards to size of the market with regards to revenue growth with regards to both the time and quantity of processing these used.
There is upside opportunities as the market might be bigger as our efforts might have more success okay but we think that what weve explained - or whats basically reflected as the basis for the guidance that Walter provided are very realistic assumptions on how we manage our way through these issues.
Great.
And I just - the 50% has been the number now for a while.
And it sounds like you are tracking that based on where you are and what's happening in the marketplace on a real-time basis and that's still the number.
Yes I mean we know every customer who owns these trucks basically in any significant quantity.
We are in constant contact with them.
We are working with them to make sure that we get share of their wallet going forward and so Id tell you I think we have a pretty good line of sight on most of these and the timing of them.
Great.
And then I just have a couple of follow-ups on the cash requirements for next year.
Walter you mentioned that the fourth-quarter charge for restructuring will - most of it will be a cash item in 2016.
Is that the total cash requirement for restructuring next year is the $54 million? Its on that order.
Okay.
And I know you can't talk about litigation but is there any potential that there could be a meaningful legal settlement next year? You are right we cant talk about that.
And we - probably good that projecting that either but we've had good success here recently and were obviously on top of that as well.
Okay.
And then the intercompany loan I guess it's now down to about $100 million.
Do you need to repay any more NFC debt? Is there anything that's beyond your control there? I know obviously you control NFC but is there anything with the creditors at NFC that require you to repay more of that debt? No on the way we've done it historically we try to keep as much flexibility for the NFC operations.
So some of the cash that weve streamed upstairs has been via loans as opposed to dividends.
Some folks strip that out and just assume that that would come back in the way of dividends.
So we obviously manage our interactions with NFC within our covenants both for the parent and as well as for NFC and our debt arrangements.
Great.
And if there are other intercompany advances between manufacturing and NFC you don't expect those to change going forward? Nothing substantial there to report we have brought the intercompany loans down as you highlighted and as I indicated earlier if we get an opportunity over the course of the year we would like to continue to repay some of those probably in conjunction with taking some dividends from NFC based on their strong profitability this past year.
Fantastic.
I appreciate it.
Thank you very much.
Youre welcome.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Jerry Revich with Goldman Sachs.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
Hi good morning.
It sounds like we should be thinking about structurally lower engineering expense going forward from your prepared remarks.
Can you just give us a little more context relative to the $300 million in engineering expense in 2015? What kind of a runway should we be thinking about exiting 2016? Jerry as I indicated were not going to dig into each of the elements of cost this year like weve done in the past.
I think our track records speaks for itself.
It will be lower.
It will be lower because weve completed the SCR conversions and you can take that to the bank.
Okay.
On the trade-in program so your gross receivables were up $70 million this past year.
And so to maintain that balance at flat for 2016 I think it implies that the pace of your trade-ins will slow in 2016 unless you've found a major new export market.
Can you just flesh out the assumptions there? And are you running at about 2 000 units trade-ins per quarter on a trailing basis? Is that how we should be thinking about it? Should be a little bit less than that Jerry but the other side of that is as time goes on the value of the trucks coming in is going to continue to be less and less just because they continue to operate and depreciate in our customers fleet.
Sorry can you just provide a little more context? Because $70 million inventory build off of the base of $320 million and now we're entering 2016 with a stronger dollar and weaker truck markets.
Are you able to provide any more context around how you can maintain that balance without slowing the trade-ins? Its really all about selling the used truck and as I mentioned the key for us is and there will be export markets there is a number of export markets we are currently investigating but also its the domestic market and getting the trucks getting the trucks Diamond Renewed and then getting them into the hands of the customers so they can experience the quality to gain the confidence and then and kind of move forward and buy more of the vehicle.
That's our formula for 2016.
Yes I think we have a pretty good line of side on the trades were taking for the first half of the year and some of the trades that were taking for the balance of the year.
So I think Bills hit it correctly it's really a matter of burning the units that we currently have in the inventory.
So there is two things we are going to do.
One we are going to continue to increase sales domestically and we have a crew of folks that's what they do everyday and then just finding more customers more ways to sell them more relationships that we could create.
And then the second thing is as one export market softens we have some number of others that were in the process of developing so were planning on having some success in finding and developing these markets.
Now this isnt hope this is a result of people on the ground doing market studies creating relationships with this type of folks that will distribute these products.
Some of these by the way are relationships weve had over the years on and off so really the whole used truck story is we have to sell used trucks this year just like we did this time last year and well go out and find ways to both increase our domestic sales for all mean as well as covenant developed additional export opportunity.
Jerry its Walter.
This just suggest you take a look both at a gross and a net level we did provide some additional color there in terms of the amount of reserves that we've taken against the used.
So as the residual values have come down on some of these trucks and as they get older as Bill alluded to the average value of the truck and the inventory has also declined because as weve explained I think in the prior calls when we take the units back from the customer we put them on our books that where we would expect those residual values to be so the average amount for truck is going to be lower going forward than its been previously due to time.
All right.
Thank you for the color.
Happy holidays everyone.
Thanks Jerry.
Thank you.
End of Q&amp;A Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen that is all the time we have for questions for today.
I would like to turn the call back over to Troy Clarke for any closing remarks.
Okay.
Hey thanks to you all this morning for your interest in Navistar and participating in our year end earnings call.
Hey the good news is 2015 a lot of progress the better news is in 2016 we are not done yet.
Just want to take this opportunity to wish you all a Merry Christmas and happy holiday and we'll see you on the other side of the New Year.
Thanks a lot.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for participating in today's conference.
This concludes today's program.
You may all disconnect.
Everyone have a great day.