Good day everyone and welcome to Noble Energy's First Quarter 2011 Earnings Call.
Now I'd like to turn the conference over to Mr.
David Larson.
Please go ahead sir.
Thanks Jennifer.
Good morning everyone.
Welcome to Noble Energy's First Quarter 2011 Earnings Call and Webcast.
On the call today we have Chuck Davidson Chairman and CEO; Dave Stover President and COO; and Ken Fisher CFO.
This morning we issued our earnings release for the first quarter and it is available on our website.
Later today we expect to be filing our 10-Q with the SEC and it will also be on our website then.
The agenda for today's call will begin with Chuck discussing the quarter and he will highlight our ongoing major projects.
Dave will then give a detailed review of our operational programs and the plans for the remainder of the year.
We'll leave plenty of time for Q&amp;A at the end and plan to wrap up the call in less than an hour.
We would ask that participants limit themselves to one primary question and one follow-up.
Should you have any questions that we don't get to during the call this morning please call us and we'll do our best to answer you later.
I want to remind everyone that this webcast and conference call does contain projections forward-looking statements based on our current view and most reasonable expectations.
We provide no assurances on these statements as a number of factors and uncertainties could cause actual results in future periods to differ materially from what we discuss here today.
You should read our full disclosures on forward-looking statements in our latest news release and SEC filings for a discussion of the risk factors and the influences that they have on our business.
We'll reference certain non-GAAP financial measures today such as adjusted net income and/or discretionary cash flow.
When we refer to these items it is because we believe they are good metrics to use and evaluate the company's performance.
Be sure to see the reconciliations in our earnings release tables.
With that let me turn the call over to Chuck.
Thanks David and good morning everyone.
I'm going to begin this morning with a high level review of our strong first quarter results and then have some opening comments on the operations side.
Dave will then follow with a deeper look at our major projects and our exploration programs across the globe.
Adjusted net income for the first quarter was $240 million or $1.35 per share after adjusting for primarily a large unrealized commodity derivative loss particularly on the oil side as prices strengthened from year end.
Versus the first quarter of last year our adjusted net income was up 74%.
Our GAAP net income was $14 million or $0.08 per share diluted.
Strong sales volumes price realizations and good cost control all contributed to our outperformance versus most analyst expectations.
Our quarterly revenues were almost $900 million up 23% from the first quarter last year with half of the increase related to volume and the other half from liquid prices.
During the first quarter the WTI benchmark traded significantly lower than oil price on both the Gulf Coast as well as international oil price at Brent.
This worked strongly to our advantage as about 60% of our oil is tied to the premium oil markets.
Total sales volume for the first quarter averaged 215 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day which is about the quarterly guidance range we've provided earlier in the year.
The outperformance was driven by our international portfolio which contributed 101 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day or 47% of our total volume.
We had strong liquid sales in Equatorial Guinea in the North Sea which delivered very high cash flow from over 30 000 barrels of liquids per day between the 2.
In Israel we sold 140 million cubic feet per day on average a 60% increase over our gas sales in the first quarter of last year.
Israel's natural gas imports from Egypt were interrupted in early February as a portion of the export system from Egypt was damaged resulting in no sales to Israel for about 5 weeks.
This of course increased demand for our in-country production.
Natural gas pricing in Israel strengthened in the first quarter with blended prices moving above $4 as a result of being partially linked to global liquids markets.
Earlier this week the pipeline export system from Egypt was again damaged resulting in suspension of natural gas sales to Israel.
As a result we expect demand from Mari-B Gas to increase above seasonal norms for a while and have attempted to account for this in our second quarter guidance.
But information on when imports may resume is quite limited at this point.
Missing from international volumes this quarter is natural gas from Ecuador where the government terminated our production sharing contract in late 2010 as they have moved to a more service contract set-up there in their country.
We continue to work with Ecuadorian government to finalize compensation for our Block 3 assets.
A significant progress on the agreements has been made recently which should pave the way towards our full exit from the country.
In the U.S.
we sold 114 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day for the quarter with 45% of our total U.S.
volumes being liquids.
I'm really pleased with our growth in the DJ Basin driven by both legacy as well as our new horizontal Niobrara drilling programs in Wattenberg.
DJ Basin volumes grew 12% over the first quarter 2010 with 60% of the growth being liquids.
Our onshore U.S.
operations were somewhat impacted by winter storms in the first quarter of this year reducing volumes by about 2 000 barrels equivalent per day on average.
Total U.S.
oil volumes were down versus last year but this was primarily a result of the 6 000-barrel a day onshore mature oil asset sale that we completed last year.
On the natural gas side our volumes were relatively flat as higher volumes in the DJ Basin offset natural decline in the Rockies and mid-Con [Mid-Continent] areas as well as in the Deep Water Gulf of Mexico.
Our unit cost performance for the quarter was very strong and certainly benefited from high volumes coming from low cost areas such as Equatorial Guinea and Israel.
As a result our lease operating expense and DD&amp;A per unit rates were below the low end of our annual guidance ranges.
Exploration expense for the quarter included some significant seismic expenditures where we wrapped up a 3D acquisition offshore in Nicaragua and a 2D offshore shoot in France.
In addition we've began adding to our 3D data in the DJ Basin in support of the horizontal Niobrara program.
G&amp;A was a little higher than our expectations for the quarter due to continuing staffing needs in support of our major projects and exploration programs.
We incurred an $18 million rig standby charge in the first quarter related to a portion of our time on the ENSCO 8501 which was stacked while we are waiting on a permit to return to drilling.
In addition we also had a non-cash charge of about $10 million related to the increased value of Noble Energy's stock held in a deferred compensation plan.
Interest expense was a bit higher than our guidance for the quarter due to our accelerating of planned bond offering.
As a result of favorable market conditions and strong investor demand we issued $850 million of 30-year bonds at an attractive coupon rate of 6%.
In our earnings release this morning we adjusted our annual guidance for interest expense to account for this new debt.
We also adjusted our effective tax rate guidance for the year largely as a result of recent Israel and U.K.
tax changes.
For the first quarter our adjusted effective tax rate and percent deferred were both 34%.
We generated very strong cash flows in the quarter with $576 million of discretionary cash flow versus $545 million of capital expenditures.
Our cash balance grew to $1.4 billion from both strong cash flows as well as proceeds from the debt offering after completely paying down our credit facility.
Total debt at the end of the quarter stands at $2.8 billion and we ended the period with liquidity of over $3.5 billion.
Our debt-to-cap ratio net of cash is at 17%.
Regarding our outlook for the second quarter we expect volumes to be between 208 000 and 218 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day.
Versus the first quarter of this year our U.S.
volumes should be relatively flat with growth from the DJ Basin programs offsetting the natural decline in the offshore and other onshore areas.
Internationally volumes will likely be down slightly impacted by some planned downtime in both the North Sea and Equatorial Guinea.
As a result of the latest disruption of Egyptian gas imports to Israel we're now assuming second quarter gas sales in Israel will be roughly equal to the first quarters.
We put a wide range on our volume estimate for the quarter partly due to the issues surrounding Israel's imports of gas from Egypt which continue to be highly uncertain.
I want to finish up by touching on each of our 4 major areas all of which are pursuing exciting growth.
Onshore in the U.S.
we continue to make substantial progress on the horizontal Niobrara program the DJ Basin.
We've now identified over 2 000 potential drilling locations on our 400 000-acre Wattenberg position are containing unrisk potential of 600 million barrels equivalent net to Noble Energy's interest.
We're accelerating the program where we continue to see strong well results in the core and on the edges of the field.
In addition our per well drill times continue to see significant improvement as we drill more wells in this play.
With the horizontal program at Wattenberg in full development mode and the exploration upside for the North we feel very good about where this program is headed.
In the Deepwater Gulf of Mexico we were certainly pleased to get the industry's first drilling permit post-moratorium to return to operations at Santiago.
Our team did a great job in preparing us in the industry to get back to work in the Deepwater Gulf.
We've now seen a number of drilling permits issued across the industry and I believe this is a direct result of the industry making significant enhancements to its ability to respond to an incident and to reduce the likelihood of an incident happening.
Our Deepwater Gulf plans for 2011 are proceeding with Santiago now drilling and we are working with the government on the permit for Deep Blue.
We hope to take the rig from Santiago to Deep Blue to complete the side track we were drilling there at the time of the moratorium.
We're also preparing to submit a permit for the first Gunflint appraisal well and we're targeting to spud that well later in the year perhaps after Deep Blue.
In Israel we are operating 2 rigs offshore one which has now commenced development drilling at Tamar and the second rig which is currently drilling an appraisal well for natural gas discovery at Leviathan.
The rig at Leviathan will continue with various exploration and appraisal drilling in Israel for the majority of the year and we maybe bringing a third rig to the region to test the very nice-looking prospect offshore Cyprus later this year.
The Israel tax and royalty issues are now behind us.
Our focus right now is in making sure that we keep Tamar on schedule and on budget.
The demand for natural gas in Israel continues to grow certainly highlighted by the inconsistency of natural gas imports as well as the continued strength in global liquid and coal prices.
Our existing and potential customers are asking for higher volumes of clean reliable domestic natural gas there in Israel.
Recent trends suggest our demand for that projections for Israel gas may have been too conservative which means we are going to have to plan earlier for growth beyond the first phase of Tamar.
In Equatorial Guinea the project at Aseng continues to make outstanding progress and we're actually seeing now that first oil could be earlier in 2012 than we have previously planned.
In addition we're currently drilling in the Carmen-Diega area.
The initial appraisal test there was successful with both oil and gas encountered and we're proceeding with a sidetrack operation to fully evaluate the resource potential.
In the second half of the year we will also drill 1 to 2 additional oil exploration wells likely offshore Cameroon.
There's a lot to be excited about at Noble Energy.
On the production side the near-term outlook is certainly looking very strong with 7 000 to 8 000 barrels of oil equivalent coming from Galapagos and 3 000 barrels of oil equivalent coming from South Raton in the Deepwater Gulf.
We'll soon be adding an extra 10 000 barrels of oil in the U.S.
Combine that with the Aseng production and you've got 27 000 barrels plus coming online within a year's time over a 12% increase in total company volumes and all priced at levels above West Texas Intermediate based on today's markets.
This is just the beginning of the projects that really kick start production cash flow and margin expansion that should continue for Noble Energy throughout the remainder of the decade.
After South Raton Galapagos and Aseng the growth continues with startups at Tamar and Alen which carries us through the end of 2013.
Growth in the middle of the decade is expected to be driven by Carmen Diega and Gunflint while West African Gas and Leviathan Gas supports late decade growth.
Also during the entire period we expect strong ongoing contributions to our growth from the Niobrara development.
However this is not the end of the story as we've got continuing exploration appraisal programs ongoing in all 4 of our core areas that are designed to deliver more major projects.
It's a great line-up in portfolio with many reasons to be excited about.
So with that Dave I'll turn it over to you.
Thanks Chuck.
I will provide an overview of our 4 key operating areas focusing on both the major project developments as well as our exploration and appraisal plans for the remainder of the year.
Starting with U.S.
onshore the horizontal Niobrara play in the DJ Basin continues to be a very exciting story for us.
We remain on target to drill over 70 horizontal Niobrara wells in 2011 with over 80% of them in Wattenberg as we continue to increase our activity in this field.
We now have 4 horizontal rigs operating in the basin having recently added a fourth rig.
In combination with 7 vertical rigs we're operating 11 total rigs in the basin all of which are currently in our 400 000-acre Wattenberg position.
As we go throughout the year 3 of the horizontal rigs will stay in Wattenberg with the other moving between Wattenberg and our DJ Basin acreage to the north.
Initially our horizontal Niobrara program was planning on 20 days spud to rig release versus our recent performance which has been under 10 days.
And in fact our most recent well was just under 9 days.
With this dramatic improvement in drilling efficiency we will likely not add a fifth horizontal rig until later this year when we start to expand into our 2012 program.
Wattenberg horizontal Niobrara production performance continues to be very positive both in the core of the field and on the north and eastern edges as we are focused on accelerating the development in this field.
In the quarter we have completed 8 wells to date with average initial 24-hour IPs of over 850 barrels of oil equivalent per day.
These wells have averaged about 640 barrels oil equivalent per day during their first month with liquid contribution over 55%.
One of our recent core wells the B1 [ph] well has been on production for over 4 months now.
Its rate is still around 400 barrels of oil equivalent per day.
About a month ago we celebrated the first year anniversary of the Gemini well which has now produced over 200 000 barrels of oil equivalent and is still averaging almost 300 barrels of oil equivalent per day.
We have completed 18 wells testing the outlying edges of Wattenberg.
Average 24-hour IPs have been 750 barrels of oil equivalent per day with 30-day averages of about 430 barrels of oil equivalent per day and liquid contribution exceeding 70%.
The 3 most recent completions in this area at IPs ranging from 850 to 1 100 barrels of oil equivalent per day.
Three of these wells have now been producing about 3 weeks with current production rates of 710 and 920 barrels of oil equivalent per day.
As Chuck mentioned we have now identified over 2 000 horizontal Niobrara locations just in Wattenberg with 600 million barrels equivalent of potential to Noble Energy none of which has been booked as proved reserves.
On the processing side DCP's planned expansion is set to be online in May which fits well with our field plans.
Our team continues to evaluate the next steps in the development of this major resource.
We are looking at longer laterals in the field with plans to drill a 7 000-foot lateral in the second quarter and perhaps additional longer laterals later in the year.
The goal is to further enhance recovery so we continue to study several potential initiatives on that front.
Our current thinking is that with 4 horizontal wells in a section recoveries are only about 5% of oil and gas and price combined with the vertical well program that is still less than 10% Niobrara recovery for a section.
In our 440 000-net acre horizontal Niobrara position north of Wattenberg we continue to expand our geologic knowledge base and test different completion scenarios.
We drilled 3 wells and completed 4 in this portion of the basin during the first quarter.
Our seismic program that require 1 000 square miles of 3D in the DJ Basin is underway.
We'll be using the results to enhance our understanding of this area and assist in our well planning as we go forward.
Moving to the Deepwater Gulf of Mexico we re-entered the Santiago prospect and Mississippi Canyon 519 about 2 weeks ago.
Santiago is a third prospect in the greater Galapagos project combined with the previous 2 discoveries at Isabella and Santa Cruz.
In about 40 days we should have results from this well.
Success at Santiago would allow us to bring this well on production next year.
Chuck mentioned receiving the first permit to return to deepwater drilling in the Gulf was great recognition to our company.
In early April we brought together key personnel and service providers for a one-week in-depth walk-through drilling Santiago well on paper with the chance to review the well operations and evaluate contingencies with all key stakeholders.
We also held a spill drill with the BOEMRE Helix Containment Group and over 225 company and contract employees before spudding the well.
At Galapagos we're anticipating first oil in the early part of 2012.
The 2 existing wells at Santa Cruz and Isabella are ready to go when final facility modifications at Na Kika are completed and the pipelines are tied in.
South Raton our other near-term oil development in the Gulf everything is on schedule for the first oil by the end of 2011.
On the drilling side we hope to operate our one rig continuously through the remainder of the year dependent on receiving the permit at Deep Blue and Gunflint.
Should things go as planned we could be on Deep Blue in the third quarter then move to Gunflint in the fourth quarter.
Internationally I'll start with our operations in West Africa and then finish in the Eastern Mediterranean.
At Aseng we completed the drilling and well completions during the first quarter.
All subsea equipment system integration tests have been performed with the installations scheduled to begin in May and the FPSO is progressing along schedule.
Aseng start of first production now looks to be moving up for midyear 2012 to earlier in the year.
When it comes online it will add over 17 000 barrels of oil to our net daily production.
We continue to work the Alen development as well.
Fabrication of the wellhead jacket central production platform and motor control center have all commenced.
We are analyzing jackup rig tenders for the 3 production well slots and hope to sign a contract in the next quarter.
Our project team has ordered all of the drilling tubulars and we anticipate the subsea trees arriving in country in August this year.
As a reminder Alen is another multi-darcy reservoir and we're estimating a net impact of 18 500 barrels a day of condensate in late 2013.
We previously mentioned our intention to return to appraisal and exploration drilling this year in West Africa.
Recently we were able to complete our rig work at Aseng and drill our appraisal well in the Carmen Diega area a little earlier than expected.
The appraisal test was successful encountering a column of both gas and oil setting up 1 to 2 sidetracks to help define the resource size.
The 2 sidetrack program would be finished by the end of the second quarter.
We're also planning to drill 1 to 2 exploration wells in the second half of the year.
Based on an early look at the 3D processing these wells are likely to be in Cameroon.
Currently we are maturing and prioritizing multiple prospects initially targeting those with over 100 million barrels of oil equivalent gross resources.
These prospects are higher risk than the previous program as we target deeper oilier plays.
Our teams continue to hold discussions on gas monetization in West Africa where we've discovered around 4 trillion cubic feet of gross natural gas.
Noble was recently named to chair an industry and government group in Equatorial Guinea working to define a gas development scenario.
We also continue to work with the government of Cameroon to progress gas development options for that country.
Moving to the Eastern Med [Mediterranean].
At our existing Mari-B field offshore Israel we will be completing the compression installation project in the next couple of weeks.
This project is especially important as we move toward the summer a period of increased demand for electricity.
As Chuck mentioned events concerning Israel imports of gas from Egypt result in Mari-B seeing some very high volumes in the first quarter for a period of around 5 weeks.
Our ability to meet this demand as well as the current situation highlights the benefits for the last year's Mari-B investments that increased our deliverability and flexibility.
Earlier this month we held a drilling operations at the Leviathan Deep test as a result of the casing oil identified near the mud line.
We have ordered the necessary equipment a hanger and some additional liner which should arrive in June.
We anticipate resuming drilling operations at the Leviathan #1 for this deeper interval in the second half of the year.
The Sedco Express rig has moved to the Tamar field and has begun development work.
We have 4 wells to drill at Tamar with completion operations on 5 taking approximately one year's time.
In the meantime we have spud the first appraisal well at Leviathan approximately 8 miles from the discovery well.
We're drilling this well with the Pride North America rig and anticipate results by July.
We plan to immediately perform a flow test of this reservoir and then use this rig for additional appraisal and exploration activity.
In addition to our Israel program there is a lot of interest on our part and in Cyprus to test the Cyprus prospect as soon as possible.
Depending on rig tendering and well permitting in a best-case-scenario we could spud the Cyprus prospect in the fourth quarter of this year.
This is an important prospect for a number of reasons including the well Cyprus could play in the monetization of Eastern Med gas.
At Tamar the project is continuing on schedule and budget with plans to commission gas in the late 2012.
With the development rig on location and platform construction already underway we're making critical progress to ensure we meet Israel's growing natural gas needs.
All major contracts have been awarded and we are focused on technical and commercial execution.
In addition given the importance in getting this project online as soon as possible we took steps to source additional materials so the project timing would not be affected by the Japan earthquake.
Taking the world's second-largest deepwater gas discovery in the last decade with first production in 4 years will be quite an accomplishment.
In summary we're working through a long-term strategy that is rapidly moving towards significant growth for us and our shareholders.
Each of our core areas has major projects under development as well as ongoing exploration and appraisal programs.
In the second quarter we will see increased horizontal well activity in Wattenberg the results from Santiago and the sidetrack extensions in the Carmen Diega area along with the initial testing of the Leviathan appraisal well.
At the same time the ongoing developments at South Raton Galapagos Aseng Tamar and Alen moved closer to production.
Longer term we continue to evaluate and progress new venture opportunities in both the U.S.
and international regions so there is a tremendous amount of activity with continued results coming from all areas.
At this time Jennifer we'd like to go ahead and open the call to questions.
[Operator Instructions] We'll hear first from Leo Mariani of RBC.
LLC</strong> You folks talked about 3 wells you drilled in the Niobrara outside of Wattenberg any additional color there? I mean are those wells on production and are you guys kind of more or less encouraged by kind of what you're seeing up there? Yes a couple of those are on production just recently been put on production Leo it's still early.
I think I'd say we're definitely not discouraged up there.
If you go back to what we talked about our strategy right now is focusing on ramping up the activity in Wattenberg where we can continue based on that amount of activity we can continue to test some of the different completion and even directional aspects of the play.
At the same time in the north we've now got a few more penetrations to put in our database and tie in with the geologic understanding.
By midyear we'll have additional seismic.
And based on the activity and what we learned in Wattenberg and the seismic in the north then we'll be able to expand the program up north in the second half of the year.
LLC</strong> Okay.
Jumping over to Cyprus you guys seem pretty excited about getting up there to drill the prospect.
Can you give us any sort of parameters around kind of potential size of the prize there? We have not disclosed yet what the size of the prospect is other than it's a sizable prospect.
I mean obviously from a material standpoint we believe it's important to test it.
We're still doing some work there and we're also working with the government on permits.
So given the sensitivity of the information in that region we've not made any disclosure on the parameters on it yet.
I think that's going to have to wait until we get closer to project on drilling.
LLC</strong> Okay I guess would it be fair to assume that this could be similar to what you guys have done in Leviathan and Tamar over time? Well I think we've said that Leviathan was the largest prospect that we saw in that region.
So I think Leviathan is in our view still on the upper end of the range.
But there are several multi-TCF prospects that we see in the region and Cyprus is important for the reasons Dave says now and because of its attractive prospect and it's sizable but it's also in Cyprus which could play a very important role on how we ultimately look at gas monetization in this region.
We'll hear next from David Kistler from Simmons &amp; Company.
Real quick in Israel obviously Mari-B's been getting pulled on a lot harder than it has in the past certainly for this seasonal timeframe as you highlighted Q2 similar that way.
Q3 is typically your high season.
If I understand correctly you kind of timed Tamar to come on and back fill Mari-B as it fades off.
Is there any concern that there'll be a time period where Mari-B can't be pulled on as hard just because the resource is in place before Tamar comes on? Dave I think you've described it very well is that the schedule for Tamar is such that it should come onstream really for a couple of reasons at the right time.
One is is that we see that Mari-B depleting and that at some point in 2013 as deliverabilities starts to decline and we can't meet full deliverability requirements at that time.
And then also the market itself in Israel continues to grow.
It's growing this year and it's growing next year.
And that's based on our expected production outlook for Mari-B.
Well one quarter's worth of higher demand doesn't change the picture too much.
If this continues everyone's aware that that could accelerate the depletion of Mari-B because of these higher draws.
And so we certainly have the deliverability now.
We've got a compression project that we're finishing up and that should help maintain the deliverability of Mari-B.
But as we get into 2012 if we're still seeing where Egyptian imports have been reduced or eliminated and we're drawing on domestic supply higher than what our expected case it could accelerate the depletion of Mari-B.
So it's something that we work closely with the government and with our customers on and we will have to do a lot of careful planning because as you recognize domestic gas in Israel right now has tremendous value.
Is that causing the Tamar or the negotiations with respect to the gas that's coming out of Tamar that people are signing up for purchase agreements to accelerate? Obviously it would be making it more positive but has activity accelerated around that? And I have one more question if I can sneak it in after that.
Well on the Tamar we're seeing the whole market for Tamar evolve as a result of all the things that have happened over the past several months.
We've got customers that had made purchases from Egypt that are now looking to see how they can backstop supplies and then of course Tamar is the only real choice there as well as our own traditional customers starting to talk to us about even higher levels of purchases than what they talked about before.
I think this is also helped by the fact of the announcement of Leviathan which means that we've got Tamar backstopped with another great supply of gas.
And so it just solidifies the reliability and the sustainability of this domestic gas source.
And so we're seeing growth in demand growth in market over and above what we had expected a year ago.
And I think you have one more follow-up that you're going to sneak in.
I did.
This one is more on liquidity.
With $3.5 billion in cash or credit availability yet kind of looking at the funding gap for '11 and '12 that you've outlined for us in the past it covers that many times over can you talk a little bit about the strategy of having that much liquidity? Are we looking at accelerating some other long-term projects or in markets where we've seen weak natural gas considering acquisitions and kind of that -- I'm not trying to direct it that way I'm just curious to understand because it certainly seems like you have more than enough liquidity at this point.
Yes this is Ken Fisher.
I mean we had a very deliberate attempt to maintain a conservative balance sheet and ensure we could fund through any kind of commodity price cycle and deliver the major projects online over the next few years and see that ramp up in production and subsequently cash flows so very deliberate.
As we look forward as Aseng comes online you start to see those cash flows the Galapagos and Aseng really will accelerate.
At the same time we're starting to think about mid-decade and you have the Leviathan discovery announced in December.
We're feeling good about the ability to deploy capital into the Niobrara.
So I would expect us to continue to think about ensuring strong liquidity keep a conservative balance sheet and be able to ride out any kind of thing and also be positioned to fund what will be the second half of the decade's growth.
So I'd expect us to maintain conservative metrics and strong liquidity and be able to do what the exploration and development program allows us in terms of developing the resource.
We'll hear next from Brian Singer of Goldman Sachs.
Following up a little bit on that last question you had mentioned 2 additional exploration wells in West Africa later this year.
Can you sort of refresh us on your overall inventory of exploration prospects there? How many are drill-ready? And whether you see that as a place to further accelerate exploration activity in the event that the oil prices remain high? Yes Brian it's Dave.
I think just on that note when you look at our current inventory and these are the things that are just kind of on the table now moving forward in maturation there's probably plus or minus 7 prospects that we're really working pretty hard right now.
But I think that gives us a good inventory to choose from as we're looking at the end of the year and into the first part of next year.
And I think that the next phase there is continuing to look at the next generation of prospects in West Africa that maybe aren't as clear from seismic and start to look at things that are more on the regional nature and more of -- take a lot of geologic and geoscience work.
But the long and short of it is I think we'll be continuing to explore and have a lot of activity there for a number of years.
And we've got a nice set of prospects right in front of us now to continue to mature and get ready for later this year and into next year.
And beyond those 7 the next generation prospects could you classify those as higher risk or just you need more time to be able to get them to a point where the 7 are? I think both.
I think there will be higher risk at this point until we have a chance to really work them because they are tie in more into fewer underlying geologic work and they're not quite as obvious from the seismic or not quite as clear so that in and of itself adds a little more risk to those.
But as all of these you continue to work through them and derisk them as you work through the maturation of the prospects.
And then on Leviathan Chuck you highlighted and David you highlighted as well the importance of Cyprus drilling later this year.
In the interim can you give us an update on any recent conversations regarding LNG monetization for Leviathan out of Cyprus? Well I think that those discussions are in the very early stages on a number of options on how you could carry out export projects.
So there's really nothing to discuss at this point in terms of any details other than that is one option that's being looked at.
It's I think a viable option.
But of course it would I think be clarified.
The scope would be greatly clarified after some exploration drilling in Cyprus so that we really knew what the scale of a potential project would be over there and in how the source gas would be contributed between Israel and Cyprus.
But there are some other options that are being considered as well.
And we've got a team now that's really working hard to start working through a number of options as the reality that clearly there is an opportunity to have this basin being a major supplier of global gas in the future.
Great.
And lastly on the Niobrara you mentioned the potential to accelerate activity there.
Can you just talk about based on the various constraints within Wattenberg what you think the max rig count is that you could deploy on your acreage and whether you are at all at a position to consider adding another rig or more than half a rig in the DJ Basin? Well I think when you look at the rig pace you're really looking at how many wells you can drill in a year.
When we've talked about the efficiency we've seen an improvement.
We're now drilling twice as many wells with a rig now as we could beginning of last year.
So I think for our program that we have laid out this year I think we're in a good shape with the 4 rigs we have.
And then as we look at accelerate and expanding into next year's program which we expect to see a significant increase that's about the time we'll start to add rigs toward the end of this year.
I think even if you look from first quarter to second quarter Brian you're going to see a significant increase in drilling activity horizontal drilling activity 4 is up in Wattenberg probably see almost twice as many wells drilled in the second quarter than the first.
And really that's coming off the heels of some of these really nice results we've seen on the latest wells we have competed down there.
I mentioned the 3 most recent wells outside of the core area in Wattenberg and those have been some of our better wells in that whole area.
In fact if you look at those 3 wells each of those are product performing granted they're only in the first 2 or 3 weeks but each of them are product performing above the tight curve.
Along with that last well I mentioned it's been producing about 4 months in the core area.
That's performing above the tight curve.
So when you go back and actually look at the Wattenberg area and you look at the last 9 wells that have been on production for say over 3 months to give us enough updated it's on comfort in projecting EURs.
Probably 7 out of those 9 are actually performing above our tight curve or at least at our tight curve on an EUR basis.
So all of that continues to give us this momentum to keep expanding and accelerating that program down there.
And I think also just to add a little bit more is we're working on the other pieces to support it.
Besides the other rigs there is a lot of land work that had to be done ahead of these wells working with the service providers.
We can't just turn this on overnight.
So some of this involves planning many months ahead.
And I think the teams are already starting on a 2012 program on increased activity.
And also we're working with the state of Colorado on new field rules that will help facilitate the drilling within the Wattenberg field and perhaps make some of the land work in the field a little bit easier as well.
So our whole goal is to accelerate.
It's not can we it's we will.
And we're moving forward as quickly as we can.
As Dave noted it's already started to happen as a result of the pace of drilling that we're able to do even today.
So you kind of have to get out in front of that 6 to 12 months to get that really ramped.
Our next question will come from Rehan Rashid from SBR.
Just 2 quick things.
One on offshore France any update on timing of drilling there? And maybe I've missed this in the beginning when do you back to the discovery well at Leviathan and deepening of it? Okay first one on France we shot 2D seismic programs so we're evaluating that.
The next step there will be to decide where we want to shoot a 3D program.
So that puts actually timing for drilling or recommendations for drilling probably still a couple of years out.
When you look at the deep Leviathan probably the earliest we could get back on that would be after we finish the Leviathan appraisal well after we appraise and test that.
So I'd say the earliest we'd be back to that would be in the third quarter.
Our next question comes from John Herrlin of Societe Generale.
Three quick ones.
Is the Cyprus prospect biogenic or catagenic? No we have not disclosed any of the prospect characteristics of it John other than...
It's worth a shot.
Other than to say it was that it is in the same basin and -- that's about it.
We've kept it very tight.
Okay that's fine.
With West Africa in terms of other drilling are you going to start getting more base now? Are you going to look and send them on in age plays that are more abyssal in nature more distal like what you're seeing in Ghana? Well I think what we're doing in Equatorial Guinea and Cameroon is still pretty much related to the things that we've had before except that we're just -- we're moving a little bit deeper in the section.
But I think for instance some of them look similar not positionally but they are in at least some of them have and we're hoping that others are sourced from oil and have -- are in the oil window there.
But Dave referenced and we haven't talked about any reference of other exploration plays that we're looking at but there are more in their infancy and they're really not even right to talk about yet.
Okay that's fine.
Last one for me is on the Wattenberg.
More activity there obviously given the fact that it's liquids advantaged.
Are you concerned about any future processing constraints given the NGL rich nature of the gas? And what kind of contracts are you running percent of proceeds or keep hold? Yes these are pretty much percent of proceeds contracts John.
I think as far as takeaway capacity we mentioned just briefly but the Duke facilities there they're doing some expansion on the gas processing side.
So we'll see a nice expansion here midyear and then later in the year and then again in 2013.
I know they have some nice expansion plans.
What's nice volumetrically Dave? I think by 2013 they have added close to a couple hundred million a day of additional capacity.
Gray Peckham with Susquehanna International has our next question.
LLLP</strong> Just quick on the Israeli tax changes.
Can you just kind of outline what has changed and which of your projects is going to apply to? Well I think in terms of the tax rate there is a part of the tax change that applies to existing assets.
It's not nearly as much of an impact as some of the future projects.
So that impacts Mari-B.
And we have to keep in mind that part of this was to remove a depletion allowance which we were using at Mari-B.
So all of that gets wrapped up.
And of course as we noted on our revised tax guidance that both Israel and the U.K.
tax changes have impacted us.
Going forward in Israel we've got -- they have outlined what the rate is for projects such as Tamar that comes on by 1/1/2014 and of course we've got some better tax rates on that and then later projects they've got another rate that they've applied as well.
So it covers a gamut with a minimal impact on existing production sort of an intermediate impact on Tamar and then later projects would see the full effect of their change.
But again we have to keep also in mind that while they've added a tax levy the corporate tax rate in Israel is declining.
And so as a result it's expected to move down from what it was at 25% to 23% this year and it's expected to move down to I think about 18% in the course of a few years.
So you've got a few moving pieces there but that's all been rolled into our estimate of effective tax rates.
Irene Haas of Wunderlich has our next question.
I have a question actually on one bullet in your press release here.
I noticed that you are collecting 3D data offshore in Nicaragua.
And then my question for you is you got to feel that there's something promising to be looking at to spend the money kind of curious as to how big the grid are? And are you looking for gas or oil and generally feel for end user where would the product go to once if you're successful? Yes Irene.
I think we've talked a little bit about Nicaragua in the past.
We just finished the 3D shoot and have been evaluating that.
Our objective there is to get that ready so we can make a decision as to whether we want to drill something next year or not and by the time we get to our budget process later in the year.
Again we've got about 2 million acres down there and what we're looking for are a fairly large oil prospects but still fairly high risk at this point.
And we'll get a better feel for that risk as we work through the 3D program here.
Okay if I may have one more follow-up question is really offshore France you've done your 2D and such.
Is this a biogenic play? And if yes roughly what age of sediment you're looking at and what delta system does it come from? Yes until we work through some things there we're not disclosing our real exploration strategy there other than it is a Mediterranean play and it is -- we would assume that it is gas-based but we don't really go beyond that.
We'll move next to Ken Caroll with Johnson Rice.
Guys actually my questions have been answered.
Dan McSpirit of BMO Capital market have our next question.
We're observing the stretching of the boundaries of the Niobrara at least through leasing activity as far south as Douglas [ph] and Elbert counties Colorado and parts of western Nebraska.
Any comments on that? And does that at all involve Noble? Well I think as you imply it's ongoing leasing.
So we don't disclose for competitive reasons where we might be acquiring acreage.
I just sort of reiterate Dave's point is that activity right now is concentrated in the Wattenberg field area and we have a very sizable position to the north.
So I think we've got a lot of work in front of us and a lot of area to cover.
And quite honestly I think some of the seismic data we're getting will be helpful in trying to high grade it as well as some of the well work.
But I would just still not comment on what we think are the boundaries of the play.
Very good.
And as a follow-up on offshore France is your one partner Melrose Resources.
Is there another? No that's the only partner right now.
We have time for one final question.
Our last question will come from Patrick Rigamer of Iberia Capital Markets.
I have a quick question on the Niobrara.
You mentioned 2 000 locations in the Wattenberg and I was just curious do you have a rough break-out as far as core and non-core? Not specific.
I don't have that with me.
What I can say Patrick if you look at the acreage and if you look at the map probably 2/3 to 70% is what would be classified in the core with the rest being in the net non-core area just on an acreage on the map and the way we've kind of drawn our lines around that.
There is an interesting thing when it gets to the horizontal Niobrara it's getting a little blurred as to calling it core versus non-core because as Dave pointed out some of these fringe wells when we drilled them on a horizontal basis are coming in very well and they're coming in at a high percentage oil.
So when you look at the returns we're seeing a very consistent high return as we go across the field.
So I think what we're seeing is there's probably less distinction when it hits the horizontal Niobrara of core and non-core.
And just looking good in Wattenberg.
That's probably more -- the core and non-core is probably more representative of the different GOR [ph] changes.
And then I guess the well cost pretty consistent across the field? Yes within the field fairly consistent.
Dave mentioned the drilling times have come down a little bit.
But of course as you go to the north it goes deeper.
And so the well costs go up a little bit as you go the north outside of field.
But within Wattenberg with all of the infrastructure we've got with everything else there it's been fairly consistent.
Jennifer this is David.
I think we're at our closing time here on the call.
I just want to thank everybody for their participation and interest in the call today and we will see you down the road.
And again that does conclude our conference for today.
Thank you all for your participation.
Good morning and welcome to Noble Energy's Second Quarter 2011 Earnings Call.
I would now like to turn the call over to David Larson.
Please go ahead sir.
Thanks Jenny.
Good morning everyone.
Welcome to Noble Energy's Second Quarter 2011 Earnings Call and Webcast.
On the call today we have Chuck Davidson Chairman and CEO; Dave Stover President and COO; and Ken Fisher CFO.
This morning we have issued our earnings release for the second quarter and hopefully you all have had a chance to review the results.
Later today we expect to be filing our 10-Q with the SEC and it will be available on our website at that time.
The agenda for today's call will begin with Chuck discussing the quarter and an overview of our major projects.
Dave will then give a more detailed overview over our operations along with a review of our activity levels to the second half of the year.
We'll leave plenty of time for Q&amp;A at the end and plan to wrap up the call in less than an hour.
We would ask that the participants limit themselves to  one primary question and one follow-up.
Should you have any questions that we don't get a chance to get to this morning please call and we'll do our best to answer you.
I want to remind everyone that this webcast and conference call contains projections and forward-looking statements based on our current views and most reasonable expectations.
We provide no assurances on these statements as a number of factors and uncertainties could cause actual results in future periods to differ materially from what we discuss.
You should read our full disclosures on forward-looking statements in our latest news release and SEC filings for a discussion of the risk factors that influence our business.
We'll reference certain non-GAAP financial measures such as adjusted net income or discretionary cash flow on the call today.
When we refer to these items it's because we believe they are good metrics to use in evaluating our performance.
Be sure to see the reconciliations in our earnings release tables.
One other item before handing it over to Chuck is hopefully you all received notice that we are planning an analyst meeting later this year on November 15 in Houston.
Please make sure to put that on your calendar.
We look forward to providing a significant update on our global portfolio highlighting significant growth and an opportunity set that we believe is unique in the industry.
With that let me turn the call over to Chuck.
Thanks David and good morning everyone.
Noble Energy's second quarter wrapped up a very positive first half of 2011.
As we look forward to the rest of the year we're accelerating a number of our development projects and we've also made important additions on the exploration side.
I want to begin this morning with just some brief comments on our quarterly results which were supported by better-than-expected volumes and robust oil prices both of which led to another quarter of strong earnings and cash flow.
I'll follow with the review of our updated guidance and comment briefly on our plans for the remainder of the year.
Adjusted net income for the second quarter was $263 million or $1.44 per share that's up 35% from the second quarter of last year.
Excluded from adjusted net income were a couple of items including a gain on asset divestiture related to our exit from Ecuador as well as a couple of asset impairments onshore in the U.S.
Field performance at Oliver Creek field in East Texas and Iron Horse in Wyoming combined with the low natural gas price environment led to the impairment.
And finally we have the unrealized portion of the mark-to-market on our hedges as well.
All-in GAAP net income for the second quarter this year was $294 million or $1.61 per share diluted.
Revenues were nearly $1 billion with approximately 75% coming from liquids pricing for both West Texas Intermediate as well as Brent light [ph] crude drove our liquid revenues to its highest quarterly amounts since mid-2008.
Global liquids pricing also supported our equity method income and we've now raised our full year equity earnings outlook for the NGL and methanol plant and Equatorial Guinea by $40 million.
Total sales volumes for the first quarter averaged 215 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day outperforming the midpoint of our second quarter guidance as a result of both high demand in Israel as well as a strong contribution from the DJ basin.
Our domestic volumes made up 53% of total volumes or 115 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day.
The DJ basin with high vertical and horizontal drilling activity continues to deliver growth.
It was up 8% from the second quarter of last year and up 5% from the first quarter this year.
Production growth in the basin is coming primarily on the liquid side as we continue to accelerate development in a lower GOR regions of the Wattenberg field and the Basin.
Total U.S.
oil volumes were down versus second quarter last year and that primarily is a result of the 6 000 barrel-a-day sale of onshore mature assets last year.
On the natural gas side volumes are down primarily from natural decline in the Rockies and the Mid-Con areas as well as in the Deepwater Gulf of Mexico.
Internationally sales totaled 100 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day which was up slightly from the second quarter last year.
Strong growth in Israel offset lower volumes in Equatorial Guinea as a result of timing of liquid liftings there as well as some downtime from the NGL and methanol facilities in Equatorial Guinea.
The 2010 period also included 27 million cubic feet per day from the Ecuador assets and of course we're -- we announced earlier were pleased to have concluded the sale of that business during the second quarter of this year.
We're now completely out of Ecuador.
We had stellar quarter in Israel with very high gas volumes.
Power generation demand for gas was very strong and competing imports from Egypt have been substantially reduced.
The combination resulted in high demand for our own gas from the Mari-B field in Israel.
In the earnings release this morning we noted that we've increased our sales volume outlook for the year to range from 215 000 to 218 000 barrels equivalent per day which is at the top end of our original guidance.
Performance to date has been strong and we expect to continue selling high volumes in Israel.
And in addition we're optimistic about volume growth throughout the remainder of the year in the DJ Basin.
Most of our cost items for the second quarter were within expectations and most of our year-to-date amounts look good versus full year guidance.
We have updated our exploration expense expectations for the year to range from $380 million to $440 million reflecting the acceleration of the Cyprus well and the addition of the Senegal and Guinea-Bissau opportunity.
Our adjusted effective tax rate for the second quarter was lower than anticipated at 33% with 52% deferred.
The deferred amount was higher than our expectations was impacted by the settlement of prior year tax reviews.
We're expecting a 50% effective tax rate in the third quarter as the catch-up for new U.K.
tax rules goes into effect.
It should come back down to normal level in the fourth quarter and still be within our full year guidance for the year.
We were just about cash flow neutral for the second quarter with nearly $660 million in discretionary cash flow versus $700 million of capital expenditures.
Year-to-date cash flow is flat with our CapEx amount.
Our cash balance grew to over $1.5 billion at the end of June and our total debt was unchanged to $2.8 billion.
Liquidity now is over $3.6 billion and our debt net of cash is only 15%.
We bumped up our capital program for the year with about half of the $300 million in incremental capital for new opportunities including 2 high-impact international exploration opportunities as well as the new development projects in Israel.
We executed an agreement during the second quarter to obtain a 30% interest in the AGC block that includes about 2.4 million acres offshore Senegal and Guinea-Bissau.
The first prospect Kora was testing a very large oil prospect.
Results on the well were disappointing but we have a number of additional prospects on the acreage and we'll be working with our partners on further evaluation and future plans there.
The other exploration addition to our capital program this year is offshore Cyprus where we plan to start a large prospect in the fourth quarter that is targeting the same natural gas interval already discovered at Tamar and Leviathan in Israel.
We recently secured a third deepwater rig for the Eastern Mediterranean which has allowed us to move up the drilling timing for the Cyprus well.
On the development side we've added the Noa development project offshore Israel.
Israel is a -- excuse me Noa is a near-term solution to a tight natural gas market in Israel.
Drilling should begin shortly with plant tie-in to the existing infrastructure at Mari-B.
The remainder of the capitol increase is focused on acceleration of our major projects.
We've grown our well count and the horizontal Niobrara play is 20% for the year due to continued drilling efficiencies and expanding rig counts.
Our terms are -- excuse me our teams are currently running 4 horizontal rigs in the DJ Basin and we'll be growing that to 5 within the next month.
We're also intently focused on progressing our liquids development at Aseng and Alen and we're certainly excited to say that Aseng continues to progress ahead of schedule and is now expected to start up by the end of this year.
I want to finish with some comments on our planned activities for the remainder of the year.
Onshore in the U.S.
it's all about accelerating the horizontal Niobrara program.
We continue to have very strong results within Wattenberg.
With our latest set of wells outperforming prior well averages.
Team continues to do a great job in improving completion designs and Dave will mention the well results in just a bit.
At the same time we continue to work the portion of the play to the north outside of Wattenberg where we're continuing our 3D programs.
Overall including those Wattenberg and the northern parts of the play we now expect to drill a total of 85 horizontal wells this year a 20% increase over our original plan.
In the Deepwater Gulf of Mexico we had excellent  results in Santiago and have now been able to integrate that success into our Galapagos plans very nicely with first production expected early next year.
Another positive step for us in the Deepwater Gulf is that we've now received the drilling permit for Deep Blue.
Operations in Deep Blue are expected to commence in the next week or so and we should have well results there in about 2 months.
As a reminder we were performing a sidetrack operation at the time of the moratorium last year.
Deep Blue has a 50% chance of success.
We're targeting up to 200 million barrels equivalent on a gross basis.
Our interest in Deep Blue is 34%.
Following Deep Blue we plan to drill the first Gunflint appraisal well and are continuing to work the process to obtain the related permit for that well.
For exploration prospects that we plan to drill next year we've already submitted one exploration plan and have 2 more expected to be in the bureau by the end of the third quarter.
In West Africa I already mentioned how pleased we are with the progression of the Aseng and Alen.
On the exploration front we're excited to relaunch our operated activity in West Africa during the second half of this year with plans for 1 or 2 wells likely offshore Cameroon.
The first of our identified oil prospects is named Wobby on the Tilapia block offshore Cameroon.
The well should spud in early October and we would expect our results in late November.
Wobby [ph] is a 100 million barrel plus legacy prospect who's targeting deeper potential in the Douala Basin with the chance factor of around 25%.
We operate Wobby [ph] with a 50% working interest.
Following that we will likely move the Atwood Aurora jackup rig to the Alen development work.
Offshore Israel we have 3 rigs operating.
One on Tamar development making great progress on the 5 development wells there.
A second rig is drilling the Leviathan 3 appraisal well.
And then we've brought in the third rig for the Noa development which will also support our exploration plan in the region including our prospect in Cyprus.
So it's a very active and meaningful exploration program in the second half of the year combined with the ongoing development of major projects things are moving forward a very fast pace for Noble Energy.
Our first major project Aseng is less than 6 months away from coming online.
And then Galapagos will follow shortly afterwards.
And finally with the progress that the company is making on all of our programs combined with a very positive outlook as you would've noted in the last couple of days our Board of Directors decided to raise our quarterly dividend payout this quarter by about 22% from $0.18 a share to $0.22 per share.
The management team here at Noble is looking forward to the meeting that David mentioned with the investor community that's planned for later this year.
We intend to provide a very detailed review on all areas of our business at that time.
So with that Dave I'll turn it over to you.
Thanks Chuck.
As we highlighted the second half of the year we'll see increasing levels of activity in all of our core programs.
Today I will provide an update on our major projects before wrapping up with expectations for the remainder of the year.
Let's start with our international projects.
In West Africa we're extremely pleased with the status at Aseng which continues to progress ahead of schedule.
With first production expected by the end of the year this is a real accomplishment for not only Noble Energy but all of our partners the FPSO teams and Equatorial Guinea.
This will certainly give us a nice start to 2012 with over 17 000 barrels per day of new oil production.
The Aseng FPSO is expected to sail in September arriving at the field early in the fourth quarter to begin hookup and commissioning.
All 10 wells have been drilled and completed and the subsea installations are ongoing.
At the same time we're ramping up activity on our second operated Equatorial Guinea liquid project at Alen.
Construction of the production platform has begun and the wellhead jacket is substantially complete.
The Atwood Hunter drilling rig should be back in the third quarter when it will begin drilling 1 and completing 3 gas injection wells at Alen.
Development plans will be supplemented with the second rig the Atwood Aurora jackup which will drill and complete the 3 production wells beginning in the fourth quarter.
First production at Alen is still planned for late 2013.
However our teams are intently focused on project acceleration here as well.
These are 2 very important operated major projects for Noble Energy.
Combined Aseng and Alen will contribute over 35 000 barrels per day net significant contribution to the near-term volume and cash flow growth outlook.
Our next Equatorial Guinea liquid project is likely to be Carmen-Diega where appraisal activity was conducted this last quarter.
We first drilled the vertical well then 2 sidetracks encountering a mix of oil and gas.
While our teams continue to evaluate the results and review multiple geologic models it looks like Carmen-Diega is a good candidate as a tieback to the existing infrastructure.
Final development plans will likely require another appraisal well next year.
We continue to make progress on gas monetization in West Africa.
Our team is working closely with both the Equatorial Guinea and Cameroon government we are currently the chair for the group involved in the Equatorial Guinea effort.
Moving to the Eastern Mediterranean.
Chuck has already mentioned the excellent quarter for our operation offshore Israel.
Our teams did a great job completing the near-term deliverability project to Mari-B finalizing the compression installation during the second quarter.
As the demand picture in Israel continues to grow and with reduced imports of natural gas from Egypt we've been working with our partners and the Ministry of National Infrastructure on available options to continue meeting near-term demand until Tamar comes online.
In response we're moving forward with the Noa development a 1999 discovery with 30 to 40 billion cubic feet gross to develop.
The Noa project allows us to continue producing Mari-B at high rates bringing another source of gas through our existing facilities before Tamar is ready.
First production at Noa should be in the second half of 2012.
Potentially supplementing Mari-B deliverability by up to 100 million cubic feet a day gross from 2 wells.
The rig is already on location and should begin the first Noa well in the next couple of weeks.
We expect to move this rig over to begin drilling our Cyprus exploration test by early fourth quarter.
The Cyprus prospect is our largest undrilled prospect in the Eastern Mediterranean area.
Tamar continues to move forward on schedule and on budget.
In June we completed batch drilling of the top hole sections for the 4 new development wells and are proceeding with drilling out the wells to total depth.
All of the subsea trees have now arrived in country and the platform fabrication is underway.
The majority of our line pipe has arrived and installation is scheduled to begin in October.
Project commissioning is still scheduled for late next year with first sales in early 2013.
At Leviathan we spud the #3 appraisal well in late June and expect to TD a well late third quarter.
The plan is to then move the rig back to the Leviathan #1 deep test to resume operations that were suspended earlier in the year as we waited additional equipment.
Timing for results at Leviathan Deep is at year end.
Nothing has been tested this deep and the basin before so we look forward to the results and knowledge we will gain from drilling this section.
During the third quarter will be soliciting proposals from several LNG contractors to develop LNG plant prepaid studies for multiple sites that are under consideration.
This is part of our ongoing effort to progress monetization solutions for our significant Eastern Mediterranean gas resources.
In the Deepwater Gulf of Mexico we recently finished completion operations at Santiago so all 3 wells at Galapagos are now ready for first production.
The majority of the subsea flow line has been installed and good progress is being made on the top side at Na Kika.
Our expectation is for over 10 000 barrels of oil a day net when Galapagos comes online early next year.
In anticipation of further work at Deep Blue and Gunflint appraisal this year we picked up an additional 180 days of time on the Ensco 8501 rig from our rig-sharing partner.
This puts us in great position with regards to our drilling plans for the remainder of 2011 as well as into 2012 when we are targeting returning to new exploration in the Deepwater Gulf.
After Deep Blue we will have around 35 days of rig upgrade before spudding a Gunflint appraisal well in late October early November.
The exploration plan for Gunflint has been submitted and we anticipate sending in the application for Permit to Drill in the next couple of weeks.
It's approximately a 100-day well and we may perform a sidetrack depending on well results.
We recently completed the unitization agreement for Gunflint whereby all of the partners came to consensus on interest and operator shift.
Portions of 2 additional blocks were added to the now 5 block area and we will have a 26% working interest in this project.
The approval of Noble Energy as operator was a big vote of confidence in our operating capabilities.
Getting this agreement finalized is a very positive step for us and the partners ultimately saving time and money for the appraisal program and full field development.
Finishing the operations review with the onshore U.S.
program our focus is on continuing to accelerate the horizontal Niobrara play in our 400 000-acre Wattenberg position.
With an inventory of over 2 000 possible locations and 600 million barrels of oil equivalent of net potential this is a huge development opportunity for our company.
Results today continue to highlight the play as a major development project and our teams are approaching it that way.
We're currently operating 8 vertical rigs and 4 horizontal rigs in the DJ Basin and we expect to add a fifth horizontal rig in the middle of August.
We continue to see improvements in our drilling times and as a result it looks like our well counts will be up some from our original expectations.
Current plans are for around 15 additional horizontal Niobrara wells this year compared to our previous plans.
This will increase our overall 2011 horizontal program to approximately 85 wells.
Of our last 12 horizontal Niobrara wells in Wattenberg that have been online 30 days or more 75% of those are in the low GOR area portions of the field.
The 24-hour IPs on those 12 have averaged about 835 barrels of oil equivalent per day.
For the 30-day average of over 600 barrels of oil equivalent per day and a high liquid component over 60%.
When compared to the previous 12 these rates are up 10% to 15% highlighting the work our team has been doing in the reservoir and production optimization areas.
We anticipate a fast acceleration in our number of well completions per month in the second half of the year.
In the second quarter we were completing 4 to 5 horizontal wells per month and we are expecting 8 to 10 per month during the remainder of the year.
Our current horizontal Niobrara production is about 10 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day gross or 8 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day net up approximately 5 500 barrels of oil equivalent per day gross from the beginning of the second quarter.
With the increased pace of completions we're on track to see continued significant growth from this program for the remainder of the year.
We recently drilled and completed the longest lateral ever performed in the DJ basin at over 9 100 feet in the northeastern part of Wattenberg.
The well is completed with 40 frac stages and we'll be watching closely as the well cleans up and starts producing shortly.
Building infrastructure in the Wattenberg continues to be enhanced where the third-party gas processing facility expansion recently starting up adding about 75 million cubic feet a day of capacity.
In addition DCP announced further expansion plans for a new plant operational in 2013 which will add an additional 100 million cubic feet a day.
On the oil side the first White Cliffs expansion is now complete.
Increasing that capacity to 50 000 barrels a day with plans to go to 80 000 barrels a day by early 2013.
The seismic program supporting our Northern DJ basin effort continues.
And to date we have brought in 870 square miles of 3D with an additional 420 square miles planned for this year.
Most of this 3D is in our 440 000-acre position north of Wattenberg and we anticipate drilling some wells there before the end of the year.
We recently drilled 2 horizontal wells in our low [ph] area south of Grover.
We should have result from those at the next quarterly call.
At the same time we're looking at additional recovery possibilities and further expansion of our development program in Wattenberg.
Chuck already mentioned our full year volume guidance increased to 215 000 to 218 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day which was the top end of our original range.
For the third quarter we estimate volumes to be 215 000 to 220 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day.
Our onshore U.S.
volume should be up driven by the DJ Basin program.
Deepwater Gulf will be down from natural decline in plant maintenance as well as the impact of a Swordfish gas well that watered out in the second quarter.
Higher volumes in Equatorial Guinea and strong demand for natural gas in Israel should contribute to increased International volumes despite the impact of some scheduled downtime in our North Sea assets.
In summary volumes are growing and we are accelerating a number of major project developments which are set to deliver material impacts to Noble Energy.
On the exploration calendar we will also be testing impact prospects in each of our core areas the second half of the year.
So with that Jenny at this time we like to go ahead and open the call to questions.
[Operator Instructions] And we will hear first from Dave Kistler with Simmons &amp; Company.
Real quickly focusing on the Wattenberg area.
With the CapEx increase that you talked about can you kind of help break that down for us in terms of what might be attributed to efficiency gains? What might be attributed to cost fleet? And obviously we know a portion of it is going to go to the new rig that's drilling.
Yes Dave I think the majority of it is obviously the additional wells.
I mean you think about 15 new wells at around 45 -- $4.5 million per wells so that's close to what $70 million a piece just from that.
So that's the majority of it.
I mean there's been some cost on the completion side but I'd say definitely the vast majority of it is just the additional activity.
Okay.
And then you mentioned efficiency gains how much your time to drill decreased? I think if you go back a year we were looking at 15 to 20 days.
It kind of spud the rig release out there and we're seeing now.
We can get down on some of the rigs.
We're getting down closer to that 10 days spud to rig relief on some of it.
I mean you still have different areas different things but as we continue to move more and more to pad drilling we'll see that continue to improve.
And our next question comes from Leo Mariani with RBC.
LLC</strong> Just a quick question on the well cost you just mentioned there in Wattenberg and in Niobrara you talked about $4.5 million.
That number seems to be upward from [ph]  I think your last update is that just primarily attributed to much longer laterals? Can give us a little bit of color around there? And additionally at Niobrara you talked about a little bit better well performance in terms of EURs can you just quantify that for us? Yes I think -- Leo I think we've been pretty consistent on that $4.5 million for a while now.
If you go back last year we may have been in kind of $4 million or so but obviously we're seeing some completion costs so often this kind of larger percentage of the overall cost now.
But I think this year we've been pretty consistent at that $4.5 million.
I think on EURs we're probably still a little early to change anything on the EUR piece.
I think what we did note with as we started to see some of these new wells and continue to tweak the completions we've seen a nice improvement on the 30-day 60-day averages but we want to see that play out a little longer.
LLC</strong> Okay.
That makes sense.
And then to quick question here on Israel.
I think your gas pricing is up prematurely in the second quarter.
I guess I saw some numbers out there indicating that you guys might be approaching $6 so far in July.
Is that accurate? Are you seeing that type of pricing here in the summer and maybe just give us an update on any gas contracts you guys are working on? Well I think -- Leo on Israel of course we've got really our base contract with IEC is in 2 components.
One is -- which makes up about 60% of volume is pretty much fixed at a low level.
And the second piece is indexed off of a suite of liquid prices.
And so what happened is as our Brent prices have moved up strongly and related liquid prices has moved up that pricing on that second piece.
But now that we've seen where Brent is not moving up aggressively much further.
I think that we'll probably see gas prices sort of stay in this range.
It's hard to predict obviously oil prices but keep in mind that 60% of that volume is pretty much fixed at a low level.
So it's a -- I mean the key thing in Israel is of course is the fact that our volumes have moved up strongly.
And that has certainly made a big impact on our Israel business.
But I wouldn't expect any severe changes in the gas pricing.
Our next question comes from Peter Kissel with Howard Weil.
Just a follow-on with a couple more out of Israel with the pipeline disruptions from Egypt right now clearly you're looking forward to accelerate production out of Mari-B some additional compression but my question is is there any way to accelerate Tamar or is that much more hampered by just equipment deliveries? That's a -- if there was a way that we could move up Tamar any further we would certainly do it given the need for natural gas in Israel.
But that schedule is fixed by some very unique installation equipment that's the hinge.
In some instances there's only 1 or 2 in the world.
And so that schedule is very tightly fixed as is the fabrication pieces.
And really the logistics of putting this all together.
So we're doing our best but we really don't see that schedule changing.
The most important thing we're able to do to help the near term in Israel is the development of the Noa which will add as Dave talked about substantial deliverability hopefully next year.
So that's how we're trying to work through it but Tamar is a major project with a lot of things that are locked in.
Got you okay.
And secondly with Nicaragua and France exploration programs are you able to comment on the recent 3D shoot that you got one of your partners making some comments on a few days ago? We're still interpreting the -- all the data and that's going to have to go through probably several iterations of not only 2D but then later hopefully 3D data.
So no really I don't really have anything to add.
And we will hear next from Joe Magner with Macquarie Capital.
Just question on the acceleration of the Aseng project timeline.
Should we expect that the volume ramp will change at all with the acceleration or will the 17 000 or 18 000 barrels a day that were expected early 2012 come online later this year? I think what we're looking at goes to try and get production started by the end of the year and it'll ramp-up as you bring that on.
I think the plan is still to bring that up to 50 000 barrels a day gross which is what correlates to that 17 000 barrels a day or so net for us.
But I think what we'd do is ramp it up at the end of the year and get it to that 50 000 then hold it there for a little while and see how it performs.
And I guess what period of time do you think that ramp will build over? That will probably take at least a few weeks up to a month.
And then just one follow-up on Israeli gas prices.
There's some reports in the news recently about discussions around Tamar pricing can you provide an update on where those stand and what we should expect to hear going forward? Well we continue to be in discussions with several potential customers for Tamar gas.
And obviously the largest is our current customer Israel Electric.
And so those negotiations are continuing.
I'm hopeful that we'll finalize the terms of that shortly.
It has been a very dynamic process as you can imagine with really the disruption of imports from Egypt.
And so it's -- it's changing some of our customers views on how much gas they need in the future and we're trying to work through that of course even as the large as Tamar is it got finite volumes.
So we're trying to make sure we meet our customers' needs.
But I don't have anything more to add in terms of where the negotiations are.
We need to hold those until we finalize things with the customers.
And our next question comes from Irene Haas with Wunderlich Securities.
A question on Cyprus the well you're going to drill there how many days are going to take roughly total depth cost to drill and complete? And are you still thinking using Cyprus as a hub for export? Is this still a good locale in terms of thinking your next stage of development and export plans? Yes Irene the well will take probably 2 to 3 months.
I mean it's similar depth as what we've been drilling over in Israel.
So not a whole lot different there.
I think as far as the Cyprus is still a potential opportunity for a hub for exporting.
I think that's still a viable option over there.
And we just have to see how that plays out.
First thing is to get a well drilled over there.
And again like we said we should be in there by early fourth quarter which means we'd have some results on that by beginning of next year.
Okay great.
Can I slip with one more question offshore Cameroon those project your prospect to drill this fall is seismic good to look for DHI or not? This is a little bit deeper prospect and so this is not -- I think it's closer to some of the oil prospects that we've identified in the Equatorial Guinea side where you don't see DHIs and you're having to try to calibrate your seismic to really what are dimmer amplitudes.
And so we're hopeful that that may be indicative of an oil.
And that's why we kind of refer to it as an oil prospect but as you know without a DHI it increases the risk and makes it more difficult to calibrate.
But obviously we're focused on oil in the region.
So we're going after some of those types of prospects.
And our next question comes from John Herrlin with Societe Generale.
Can you give us a postmortem on the Kora well? We need to -- we estimate that we have just gotten the are just getting the final logs from that.
Our partners because of various reasons decided to announce results I would say early.
So you need to give us a rain check on that until we have a chance to actually go through and look at the final logs.
It is still being evaluated and so it will be a little more time on that.
Okay.
With your 9 100-foot Wattenberg well is that currently on production and how many frac stages did you make there? John it's currently starting to flow back up the casing.
We just now put it on production to start flow back.
It was actually about 40 stages for the completion set.
It's something we're going to be real interested in testing and see how that looks.
And moving on our next question comes from Bob Brackett with Sanford Bernstein.
Inc.</strong> On Niobrara can you talk about the contribution from natural fractures versus the hydraulically fractured matrix? Well I think when you look at Wattenberg which is a predominant area that we're developing now we've always had what we believe is good matrix contribution because on a number of vertical wells there.
So we expect that the matrix is contributing heavily in the Wattenberg area.
When you go outside Wattenberg we have much less data there and I think you've got the industry is still assessing contributions from the 2 knowing that as they move around they drill some wells in areas that have a high frequency of fractures and other areas that are more quiet.
But I think at this point it's for us given the fact that our activity is so concentrated in Wattenberg it would really be speculative on our part to guess at the relative contributions further to north.
I don't know Dave if you want to...
No I think your point is right.
In Wattenberg we're obviously seeing good matrix contribution in that piece and that's predominantly what we're producing down there.
Inc.</strong> And then for the low GOR stuff time will tell? Well that I'd say there's a good portion of Wattenberg is low GOR area.
I mean a good portion of that that's the 1 000 to 5 000 GOR when you look to the North and the East.
Like I said out of those last 12 wells that we talked about 9 of those were actually in that what we would call low GOR area of Wattenberg in that 1 000 to 5 000 GOR area.
And we'll hear next from David Heikkinen with Tudor Pickering Holt.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</strong> You guys talked about the third-party midstream coming online in the Niobrara in June 2011.
Prior to that coming online were you curtailing the wells and does that give you an immediate bump to fill that capacity or it does it take some time? Obviously what happens in Wattenberg as you run out of processing capacity it raises the field pressures.
And so I think the answer is yes you see some backup.
I mean we could adjust it by and obviously it will affect more some of the higher GOR areas or gassy areas.
But again it obviously affects the older wells more because they can't buck [ph]   the pressure.
We actually do see a little bit of a pickup there that comes on and optimizes out but -- I think from now on given the development that's going on in that area we're going to have to see continued expansion of the mid-stream.
Dave mentioned another project coming on in I think 2013.
That will be a substantial edition I think as we continue talks with the mid-stream operator that's going to take a lot more expansion based on our forecast for the amount of drilling and the development we're doing.
As Chuck mentioned David the recent additions in the blank [ph] capacity obviously helps support this increasing number of completions per month that we're going to see and execute over the second half of the year.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</strong> Okay.
So that rate of change really does enable those high completions and that blank [ph]capacity.
So the constraint between now and year end is what I'm thinking about? And obviously a large portion of these completions will still be in those low GOR areas and so that helps also.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</strong> And then trying to think through a lot of exploration going on can you talk about primarily given excellent rates targets everything on those lines.
Any indications going into 2012 around -- now that the thing has been moved up you accelerated the Niobrara you bring in Noa and you obviously Gulf of Mexico was declining but it reversed as well.
Anything would be helpful as you think about going into the next year.
Well I think as we prepare for our investor meeting later this year as you could probably guess we'll want to give you some a very crisp outlook at that time on what our view is near term and long term.
We're really excited about how these projects are accelerating.
And obviously they have impacts near term as well as long term.
And so I think we'll be able to give you a better idea a little bit later in the year.
And our next question comes from Brian Singer with Goldman Sachs.
On Deep Blue can you refresh us on any additional work that you've done during the moratorium and your expectations as you begin the re-drill process? There's not a whole lot new to talk about there.
If you recall when we -- before the moratorium we'd gone down and we'd seen oil in a couple of intervals we're probably a little off-structure.
And the whole thought has been to come back and sidetrack up structure here to test some of these things we saw indications how much is what improved our chance factor.
I think originally we were down there probably around that 25% to 30% and now we're saying about 50% chance on the side track.
I think size-wise we're still saying it has potential up to 200 million barrels gross on this.
So we're just anxious to get this drilled and sidetracked.
And here in a couple of months we'll have a better answer on that.
Okay great.
And then going back to Israel on Noa.
Can you talk to any differences in pricing terms and costs versus Mari-B and whether you think the additional production from Noa will be enough to satisfy Israeli gas demand as Mari-B declines prior to Tamar being fully ramped up in the event that there remain disruptions in imports from Egypt? Well let's see.
I think I have to make about 10 assumptions before I can even start answering those.
But let me say a couple of things.
One is that the Noa incremental volume will help a variety of customers that we have out of Mari-B.
It's all part of meeting the market.
So is it we'll look developing it the clearly important thing was we saw a strong market demand with the Egyptian supplies being disrupted.
So it will feed into that.
And I would expect the pricing on that to be a result of the blend of our customers that go off of Mari-B.
As far as whether it will meet the needs I mean as Dave mentioned that it potentially has 100 million cubic feet a day of deliverability to what we would have as deliverability off Mari-B.
The big assumption there is the volumes that are taken from Mari-B between now and the start-up of Tamar.
So we're hopeful that this will be an important component of bridging the gap.
It's not only about -- it's more about deliverability than it is about resource because Mari-B will continue on past Tamar for a while but it's maintaining that deliverability for times like right now where it's hot in Israel the volumes off Mari-B are really at the maximum.
So this is all about supplementing the deliverability at a critical time and with the timeframe that we have it means that Noa will be available in the third quarter of next year which is a high demand hard-to-find hot part of the year for Israel.
So that's what our hope is we've worked hard with the state of Israel to look for solutions to help bridge this because of the loss of Egyptian imports.
And of course I can't forecast it or when or to what levels those imports will resume.
So we're just trying to what we can to meet the market needs between now and Tamar.
Great.
And if I one last in.
I think you mentioned in your comments that you'd be pursuing some pre-seeds [ph]   steady plans for LNG in the next couple of quarters are all those plans focused on geographically on Cyprus? We're actually looking at a couple of different areas on that Brian.
So we want to keep all options open at this point.
And our next question comes from Doug Leggate with Bank of America-Merrill Lynch.
I guess a couple of follow-ups on some of the things that have been asked already but starting off with the Wattenberg.
What do you need to see in terms of de-risking the acreage? I guess if you'd quantify to what extent you feel comfortable with the 2 000 locations because clearly 5 rigs sounds a little bit light and probably is the case.
What do you need to see before you start accelerating activity? And I have a follow up please.
I think Doug we're actually moving in to acceleration mode right here.
When you look at the number of completions of wells additional wells we're drilling this year.
The plan now is to look at how much we can accelerate into next year on that.
I'd say when you look at the question of de-risking we feel Wattenberg is essentially de-risked when you look at the spread of wells that we've drilled from core of the field to edges of the field.
So we are in full development mode now with the emphasis on how quickly can we continue to ramp up and accelerate.
And again thinking about it that 2 000 locations is for the Wattenberg area which is around 400 000 net acres.
So in much of that area we're looking at 4 horizontals per section.
We'll continue to test that.
Obviously there'll be some areas that will fall off.
But that's a full program and we would -- as Dave said we consider Wattenberg given the fact we've drilled so many wells.
And I think this year alone we'll have close to 75 of our wells in Wattenberg at its very deepest.
Chuck where do you see the rig count getting to ultimately? We'll just keep stepping it up.
Now there's a couple of critical things here.
We're working with State of Colorado on peel [ph] drills on Wattenberg and we're hopeful we'll see some rules come out later this year.
That will help facilitate the pace because it's a very land-intensive process.
So if that happens we'll be looking for probably some more ramp-ups in 2012.
I think more on that a little bit later in the year.
Our goal right now is to get this 5th rig in there and then see how we can continue to feed it.
But the real positive has been as Dave mentioned the drilling times are coming down.
So that's been adding to the well count and we need to now accelerate the completions because they take a lot of time as well.
And so we've got to work not only rigs but completions.
And that consumes a lot of resources.
So the -- it is a major project we're moving a lot of pieces but the idea of course is to get the development project we need to accelerate it as fast as the people and the service companies and the various other parties that are involved can support it.
Okay.
My follow-up is just something about Israel real quickly.
In light of everything that's happening with Egyptian disruptions can you kind of characterize perhaps how contract discussions have maybe changed with customers outside of Israel Electric? It would seem that there is obviously a little more competitive year or so ago.
Where are things standing now in the context of how you might expect to basically look at volumes overall outside of your core customers? Well I think it has created a large amount of uncertainty in the market there.
So customers -- our customers as well as customers of Egyptian Gas are trying to understand where they will get their future volumes.
So we've certainly seen more interest from customers that were using Egyptian gas and as I mentioned before we've got -- we were trying to supply the need as best we can.
The near term is very difficult because we have only maximum of 600 million a day deliverability off Mari-B.
In Tamar the project that we're developing has finite deliverability as well.
So we're doing our best to meet the market needs.
But clearly we have seen increased demand and more concern about the gas supplies there.
The good news is we've discovered a lot of gas between Tamar and Leviathan.
We discovered now some 25 trillion cubic feet of gas resources in the basin.
So there's a lot of gas there.
And now it's a matter of working the development projects and making sure that the market is met.
It's a challenge though.
And we will hear next from Dan McSpirit with BMO Capital Markets.
At Wattenberg can you speak to development spacing assumptions today and what you might test going forward? Yes.
I mean right now I think Chuck alluded to it.
All our assumptions is that they got 160-acre spacing.
And I'd like -- that's a subject that we'll continue to have to evaluate and understand with maybe some pilot work down the road and so forth.
It's not just the spacing it's how do you get the next 5% recovery out of Wattenberg whether it's spacing whether it's how we're handling completions because that's the huge prize out there.
This first 5% recovery from the 160-acre spacing assumption is 600 million barrels net to us.
So our focus is not just on the spacing it's on lateral length it's on completion optimization all of those pieces that look at what's going to unlock the next recovery space.
Got it.
And then one last one here.
Can you tell us the gas-oil ratio on the 9 100 foot lateral? Not yet Dan.
And we just turned it on.
[indiscernible] so it's got to unload and then it stabilized.
It is in the low GOR areas though.
And we will hear next from David Wheeler with AllianceBernstein.
With the Gunflint utilization in the 2 additional blocks what's been discovered resource size at this point? And how -- what could an appraisal add to that resource amount? Well I mean we still got the same prospect size on Gunflint.
Obviously by having an interest in the outlying blocks and spreading interest across that it exposes Noble to a greater net based on how it might go up in size.
But we've got to do the appraisal.
As you may recall one of the appraisal will test whether or not it does expand further off the discovery block.
So I would say right now we wouldn't change the overall range that we put on Gunflint.
It's a pretty sizable range.
It's well up from what it was under the original prospect.
But as we've been saying all along we need to get that next appraisal well drilled to really understand is this a discovery that's more centered on the discovery block or is it one that spreads into the outlying block.
But it's been real important Dave to get that interest defined for every party upfront before having to try and work that on appraisal wells down the road.
So that was a definitely a significant feat.
Okay great.
And Dave did you mention when you're talking about the Wattenberg are you looking at other horizontal opportunities other than the Niobrara? We really didn't talk about anything other than Niobrara here.
We'll continue to see if something makes sense but we're really focused on the Niobrara right now.
What we talked about in the Niobrara is we're continuing to look at different portions of the Niobrara as to how to optimize that on a horizontal basis.
Okay good.
And in terms of LNG prospects in Cyprus maybe come out of Israel.
You talked about the proposals from contractors does it make sense to bring in a upstream partner or a partner an LNG operator potentially? Well I think right now we have to understand the scale of the base and then the resource.
So I think step one is drill the Cyprus prospect which is as Dave mentioned our largest undrilled prospect as we see it in the basin right now.
That will help set the resource size and do some of this pre-seed work to understand what's viable.
And I think at that point then you're at the stage where you can decide just what should be the structure for going forward in terms of whether it's looking at upstream or mid-stream partners or partners who have expertise in LNG operations or LNG global LNG marketing.
I think all those options are open to us but we need to do know what the scale of the project is to start with.
And that concludes the question-and-answer session today.
At this time I would like to turn the conference back over to the speakers for any additional or closing remarks.
Thanks Jenny.
Yes again we kind of hit our time frame here.
We know everybody's really busy during this conference -- or the earnings season.
So anybody that we did not get to on the call today please don't hesitate to give us a call and we'll try to talk to you through your questions.
With that I just like to say again thanks everybody for your interest and participation in the call today and have a good day.
And again that does conclude today's conference.
We do thank you for your participation.
Good morning and welcome to the Noble Energy Third Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
I would now like to turn the call over to Mr.
David Larson.
Please go ahead sir.
Thanks Anna.
Good morning everybody.
Welcome to Noble Energy's Third Quarter 2011 Earnings Call and Webcast.
On the call today we have Chuck Davidson Chairman and CEO; Dave Stover President and COO; and Ken Fisher CFO.
This morning we issued our earnings release for the third quarter and hopefully you all have had a chance to review the results.
Later today we expect to be filing the 10-Q with the SEC and it will be available on our website at that time.
The agenda for today will begin with Chuck discussing the quarter along with an update on our annual guidance and touch on our ongoing exploration activities.
Dave will then give a more detailed overview of our operations and plans for the remainder of the year.
We'll leave plenty of time for Q&amp;A at the end and plan to wrap up the call in less than an hour.
We would please ask that our participants limit themselves to one primary questions and one follow-up.
Should you have any questions that we don't get to this morning please don't hesitate to call and we'll do the best answer you.
I want to remind everyone that this webcast and conference call contains projections and forward-looking statements based on our current views and most reasonable expectations.
We provide no assurances on these statements as a number of factors and uncertainties could cause actual results in the future to differ materially from what we would talk about today.
You should read our full disclosure on forward-looking statements in our latest news release and SEC filings for a discussion of all the risk factors that influence our business.
We'll reference certain non-GAAP financial measures such as adjusted net income or discretionary cash flow on the call today.
When we refer to these items it is because we believe they are good metrics in using -- to be used in evaluating the company's performance.
Be sure to see the reconciliations in our earnings release tables.
One other item before handing it over to Chuck.
Hopefully you all are aware that we are hosting an Analyst Day on November 15 in Houston.
Please make sure to put it on your calendar.
We look forward to providing a significant update on our global portfolio the significant growth that we expect and the opportunity set that we believe is unique within the industry.
With that let me turn the call over to Chuck.
Thanks David and good morning everyone.
The highlights section of this morning's earnings release clearly shows what an outstanding quarter it was for Noble Energy.
Sales volumes were well above expectations and if adjusted for last year's sale of onshore U.S.
assets as well as our exit from Ecuador would have been a record.
The quarter saw a record production from our horizontal Niobrara program in the DJ Basin as well as record production in Israel.
Our major projects remain on track with the same continuing to be well ahead of schedule.
And finally we announced and closed in the quarter the acquisition of a very significant position in the Marcellus Shale to the formation of a joint venture with CONSOL Energy.
As a result we now find ourselves rapidly speeding toward a significant inflection point in our growth profile.
An inflection point that's driven by accelerating Niobrara drilling the new and rapidly growing Marcellus production as well as the pending startups of Aseng in West Africa as well as Raton South in Galapagos in the Deepwater Gulf of Mexico.
It has indeed been a very busy and exciting quarter for Noble Energy so I'm going to start with a quick summary of the quarter.
We reported adjusted net income for the third quarter of $234 million or $1.24 per share.
That's up from $225 million for the third quarter last year.
Adjustments this quarter were primarily related to unrealized mark-to-market gains on our hedges.
GAAP net income for the third quarter this year was $441 million or $2.39 per share diluted.
Revenues were $924 million down slightly from last quarter with weaker commodity prices offsetting the volume growth.
73% of our revenue this quarter was from liquids including natural gas liquids and methanol.
Discretionary cash flow was $588 million for the quarter up 18% over the third quarter 2010.
Total sales volumes for the quarter averaged 224 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day outperforming the high end of our guidance for the quarter.
Our domestic volumes made up just over 50% of total volumes or 113 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day.
Total U.S.
volumes were down versus the third quarter last year as a result of the sale of the onshore mature assets we had at that time as well as some natural depletion.
The DJ Basin with the addition of another horizontal rig expanding our drilling capacity there continues to deliver impressive growth.
The DJ Basin produced a record 65 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day for the quarter.
That's up 18% from the third quarter of 2010 and up 10% from last quarter.
Additional production growth is expected as we increased the pace of horizontal drilling and completion activity.
As we have stated before the growth in the DJ Basin is primarily from liquids and as a result the liquid percentage of the entire area now is up to 55%.
Dave will have more to say about the performance of our drilling and production when he goes over our operations later in this call.
Internationally sales totaled 111 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day which was up slightly from the third quarter last year.
Our sales volumes grew in EG the result of timing of liquid liftings and in Israel where we experienced record sales at Mari-B throughout the summer peak demand period.
The volume growth overcame the production loss from the sale of Ecuador assets and the lower sales from the Dumbarton field in the North Sea where a planned production shutdown of the FPSO there was extended.
The work on that FPSO has been completed at the end of August and production was restored in September.
I wanted to make a few comments about our entry into the Marcellus Shale.
As I stated when we announced this transaction we believe the Marcellus is one of the most attractive gas plays in North America and that the partnership that we have entered into with CONSOL Energy will deliver significant value going forward.
Noble has a partner in CONSOL that shares our values and our focus on capital discipline and performance.
In addition we have created a deal structure that closely aligns the economic incentives of both partners.
We plan to leverage our experience and success in Wattenberg to help realize strong growth that is expected to materially grow production cash flows and reserves.
We're pleased that the transaction closed as scheduled and that the development is progressing better than anticipated.
The process of exchanging operational knowledge has already begun and we're coordinating with CONSOL to make sure that we both implement best practices to enhance the performance of this joint venture.
CONSOL has drilled 58 wells already this year and their production results are very encouraging particularly the early performance of their recently announced 10-well pad.
At the end of September net production was 50 million cubic feet equivalent per day and by the middle of this month it was over 60 million cubic feet equivalent per day.
Utilizing a multi-well pad allows greater efficiencies in drilling and in gathering.
Moving to multipad development has been made possible at this time because the large percentage of acreage held by production which means we don't have to skip around drilling a lot of single wells just to hold acreage.
In the earnings release this morning we noticed that we have -- we noted that we've increased our sales volume outlook for the full year to range from 220 000 to 222 000 barrels equivalent per day.
This is the second increase this year and is 8 000 barrels per day or 4% higher than our original guidance using the midpoints of the range.
2 500 barrels equivalent per day of the 8 000 barrels is attributable to Marcellus production in the fourth quarter.
Production performance this year has obviously been strong and we expect the additional volumes coming online from South Raton and the Gulf and Wattenberg and perhaps a bit from Aseng late in the quarter which will help offset some of the seasonal drop in Israel demand in the fourth quarter.
Our cost items for the third quarter are generally aligned with our expectations and remain within guidance ranges for the year.
We maintain our focus on keeping a low cost structure even as we grow our production.
In the fourth quarter however we expect lease operating expense in DD&amp;A unit costs to move up to the ranges of $5.20 to $5.60 per barrel equivalent and $12.25 to $12.95 per barrel respectively.
The LOE unit cost are impacted by maintenance projects at Alba the startup of Aseng and a higher production mix which is basically a result of seeing lower Mari-B sales being offset by higher North Sea sales in the fourth quarter.
The DD&amp;A costs are impacted by the Marcellus startups of Aseng and South Raton and again a higher cost of production mix again seeing higher sales volumes out of Wattenberg in the North Sea offset by the very -- lower sales from Mari-B which of course is a very low-cost source of production for us.
Exploration expense is estimated to be $150 million to $200 million for the fourth quarter and that's being driven by a large number of exploration wells that will be decisioned by year end.
Last quarter I mentioned our effective tax rate would rise in the third quarter due to the impact of a retroactive tax change related to a change in the U.K.
tax laws.
As expected our adjusted effective tax rate for the third quarter was 44% with 26% deferred.
The tax changes are retroactive to March of this year and this resulted in a charge for the quarter of $46 million.
We did not include this charge in the adjustments we made to determine adjusted net income but you'll want to note it when reconciling to your estimates.
Our expectation for the fourth quarter is that our adjusted effective tax rate will return to a level that corresponds with our full-year guidance of 34% to 38%.
Our capital expenditures for the quarter excluding the Marcellus acquisition cost totaled approximately $735 million.
Our full-year capital spending remains essentially in line with our guidance of $3 billion even with the $110 million included to fund the Marcellus development in the fourth quarter.
As we announced earlier we funded the Marcellus acquisition from cash on hand and $400 million from our previously undrawn $2.1 billion credit facility.
We ended the third quarter with a cash balance of $1.3 billion and total liquidity of $3 billion and our resulting net-debt-to-cap ratio of 26% is well within our investment grade rating.
Last week we further strengthened our liquidity by establishing an upsized 5-year $3 billion revolving credit facility.
I wanted to finish up here before turning it over to Dave and talk about our near-term exploration plans.
At our Deep Blue project we have now reached total depth and have discovered additional hydrocarbons in the sidetrack.
However it will require additional data and time to fully evaluate and develop forward plans with our partners.
Since the evaluation is ongoing I'm going to refrain from speculating on future plans until we're fully aligned with our partners on the plans going forward.
Our current international exploration efforts are in Cyprus where we spud a well in mid-September in Israel where we're drilling the Dolphin prospects and in Cameroon where we began drilling a well earlier this month at our Bwabe prospect.
The Bwabe prospect offshore Cameroon is our first exploration drilling in the Tilapia block to test our deep oil target and we expect results in the fourth quarter.
The Cyprus prospect is our largest undrilled prospect in the Eastern Med and the results for drilling will provide additional clarity with respect to the resource level there.
A better understanding of this resource is necessary as we evaluate our monetization options and we expect results on the Cyprus prospect in the fourth quarter.
The appraisal work at Leviathan will also enhance our clarity around the size of our gas resource base there.
We're evaluating proposals for an LNG plant pre-FEED study for several potential export sites under consideration.
This is part of our ongoing effort to advance monetization solutions for our significant Eastern Mediterranean gas resources.
Partnered discussions will follow the completion of the pre-FEED studies.
Finally let me remind you that our first major project Aseng in West Africa is making extremely good progress and now is expected to come online in the fourth quarter.
That's at least 6 months ahead of our original schedule for this project the first of many that will bring the production over coming years.
And certainly we're benefiting from the tremendous experience we've had at Aseng.
The management team here at Noble Energy is excited about our portfolio our progress towards developing its rich inventory of opportunities.
We intend to provide a very detailed review of all areas including our newest core area at our Analyst Meeting in November and we certainly look forward to seeing you all there.
So with that Dave I'll turn it over to you.
Thanks Chuck.
As you highlighted this is a significant period in the growth of our company.
Today I will provide an update on all 5 of our core areas before wrapping up with expectations for the remainder of the year.
Let's start with an operational look at our recent joint venture in the Marcellus shale.
As Chuck mentioned the joint venture with CONSOL is designed to create strong partner alignment.
This partnership is governed by a structure which includes the joint oversight and operations through a development committee with equal representation of Noble and CONSOL staff.
Under the predefined development plan together we will grow the rig count from 5 horizontal rigs today to 16 horizontal rigs in 2015 with noble expected to be operating 6 of the rigs at that time.
The plan is for the joint venture to add roughly one rig per quarter alternating between the partners.
Noble Energy will pick up its first operator rig in January 2012.
Partners have 2 dedicated frac crews with an option for a third next year.
We are leveraging our experience with our liquids rich development in Wattenberg by focusing our initial portion of the operations in the wet gas area of the Marcellus.
Our knowledge transfer from Wattenberg to Marcellus is already in progress through peer reviews and technical consultations between the Noble Energy and CONSOL teams and early feedback from our teams has been very positive.
Net production was 50 million cubic feet per day when we closed at the end of the third quarter and is growing at a pace that is faster than we originally modeled.
We're extremely pleased with the way the joint venture has started off with the first 5 wells from a new pad initially adding over 10 million cubic feet per day net in October.
We look forward to providing more details on our outlook for this new core area at our November analyst meeting.
In our other core onshore U.S.
asset the DJ Basin the acceleration of our horizontal Niobrara play continues.
We are operating 5 horizontal and 8 vertical rigs in the DJ Basin and are on pace to have over 80 horizontal wells drilled this year in the Wattenberg field.
Additionally we plan to have drilled 7 horizontal wells in northern Colorado and one in Wyoming by year end.
Of the wells in Wattenberg 15% are in the higher GLR area and the remainder in the lower GLR areas of the field where we've experienced roughly 70% liquids.
Our pace of drilling and completions continues to increase.
In the third quarter we completed an average of 8 horizontal wells per month including 10 in September a significant acceleration from the 4 completions per month that we averaged in the second quarter.
We expect to maintain a rate of 10 horizontal wells completed per month throughout the fourth quarter.
This activity level is translating into production growth.
At the end of September our horizontal Niobrara production was 14 500 barrels of oil equivalent per day gross or 11 500 barrels of oil equivalent per day net to Noble Energy.
This is up 64% from the 8 900 barrels oil equivalent per day gross at the end of the second quarter.
We feel very good about the momentum of this program.
At this time I want to mention the performance of just a couple of the new wells which are contributing to this production growth.
First the 9 100-foot lateral well in northeastern Wattenberg has been on since mid-July and performing extremely well.
It is still producing 750 barrels of oil equivalent per day with 85% liquid content after 80 days of production.
Another significant well is the Tamar well that is located in the high GLR area and appears to rival the Gemini well based on its early production profile.
Tamar has set a new peak 24-hour rate record at 1 282 barrels of oil equivalent per day for our Wattenberg operations while on a reduced choke with over 2 200 pounds of flowing casing pressure.
We will have much more to say about the horizontal Niobrara program in November as well.
Shifting to the Deepwater Gulf of Mexico our development projects are nearing completion.
Topsides work supporting South Raton will conclude in the fourth quarter and approximately 2 000 to 3 000 barrels of oil per day net to Noble Energy will be online before the end of the year.
At Galapagos the work on Subsea Systems and the Nikita topsides are about finished and production will begin in the first quarter of 2012.
The resulting production will be 10 000 barrels per day net to Noble.
Our well at Deep Blue has reached its total depth as Chuck mentioned and we're evaluating next steps.
After the ENSCO 8501 rig undergo some upgrades it is planned to spud a Gunflint appraisal well before the end of the year.
The Gunflint appraisal is necessary to narrow the resource range before final planning and sanctioning.
Currently the gross resource range is 70 million to 500 million barrels of oil equivalent.
Depending upon the drilling results we may also perform a sidetrack.
To support the future appraisal work in our exploration inventory we will pick up an additional rig on a shared basis.
Noble will have 2 separate 4-month slots with the ENSCO 8505 in 2012 and 2013 which will share our Gulf of Mexico workload with the ENSCO 8501.
I will now move to our international areas beginning in West Africa.
The Aseng project continues to progress and is on pace for first production before the end of the year.
The Aseng FPSO left the shipyard in September and arrived on location Offshore Equatorial Guinea this past weekend.
It arrived with testing completed and the focus is now on hookup and commissioning.
We expect first production by the end of the year.
Production is expected to ramp up to 50 000 barrels of oil per day 17 000 barrels per day net to Noble Energy.
The Alen project is on budget and on schedule for first production in the fourth quarter of 2013.
The wellhead jacket is being installed now and the production platform is 25% complete.
That with Hunter rig is on location and drilling the gas injection wells.
The Atwood Aurora jack-up rig will begin drilling the production wells later this year.
Before relocating to drill the Alen production wells the Atwood Aurora will finish the Bwabe exploration well that recently spud offshore Cameroon.
Moving to the Eastern Mediterranean.
It was an extremely active quarter.
Natural gas demand out of Israel remained particularly high through the summer months.
As a result Mari-B operated at full capacity to help satisfy the demand during the third quarter.
Our teams continue to maximize deliverability out of Mari-B and the compression installations from the second quarter made that cost possible.
Mari-B continues to perform well producing an average of 550 million cubic feet per day gross over the quarter.
With these high production rates we expect some decline to finally set in and impact next year volumes.
In order to help satisfy Israel's gas demand until Tamar comes online we are moving ahead with the development of Noa a smaller field that will be tied back to Mari-B.
The Noa project will provide an additional source of gas and offset some of the Mari-B decline.
2 development wells were recently drilled by the Noble Corporation Homer Ferrington rig and completion operations will commence next year.
First production from Noa is scheduled for the second half of 2012 and the 2 wells will provide up to 100 million cubic feet per day of supplemental production for Israel.
Tamar continues to move forward on schedule.
The Transocean Sedco express rig completed drilling the third production well and has relocated to complete the drilling of the Leviathan number 3 well.
After drilling Leviathan number 3 and 1 to 2 exploration wells the rig will move back to Tamar to finish development drilling and completion work.
Tamar platform fabrication is about 40% complete and line pipe installation is underway.
Project commissioning is still scheduled for late next year.
At Leviathan as mentioned earlier appraisal drilling has resumed at the number 3 well and should reach total depth sometime in December.
The Homer Ferrington rig is drawing the Cyprus prospect that Chuck discussed.
When finished it will be available for use offshore Israel.
At our third Eastern Mediterranean rig the ENSCO 5006 formerly the Pride North America riser repairs are complete and drilling operations are now underway on the Dolphin exploration well in the Hanna license.
Dolphin is a small prospect targeting the Tamar sand.
The rig will then be used for completion work at Noa and for exploration drilling on other prospects in the basin.
That is a quick overview of our activity in our 5 core areas.
For the fourth quarter we are estimating company-wide production volumes to be 226 000 to 234 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day.
Our new production from the Marcellus program should offset expected seasonal demand decrease in Israel while we should see a nice liquid production increase from our horizontal activity ramp in the DJ Basin and a full quarter production in the North Sea.
We should exit the quarter with South Raton and Aseng online and close to Galapagos starting up.
We look forward to a strong close to 2011 and we'll be providing more insight into our future growth on our Analyst Day on November 15.
But at this time Hanna we'd like to go ahead -- Anna we'd like to go ahead and open the call to questions.
[Operator Instructions] And our first question comes from Dave Kistler with Simmons &amp; Company.
Research Division</strong> Real quickly on the Marcellus transaction one of the things you guys did in the JV is put a circuit breaker in place if commodity prices are specifically and that gas fell below $4 for a 3-month period.
Looks like that's going to happen here at the end of this quarter.
Can you talk about what that does to your funding obligation and how you're thinking about that for the rest of the year -- this year and next year?  Sorry.
Yes you bet.
Well we were -- we put that circuit breaker in for a primary reason and that is is that as gas prices if they were to move below $4 as you point out they have then we and our partner are completely aligned on drilling economics and drilling results.
And that way we believe we can make the best decisions as to the pace at which we carry out the program going forward.
We have put together a plan that was the initial plan that was part of the transaction.
But that plan can be modified with the mutual agreement of both partners and with us being fully aligned as you would expect we will be visiting with our partners to see what's the best plan going forward.
We're of course very encouraged by the results we're seeing.
That is intended to make sure that as we go forward perhaps we need to adjust the pace of acceleration and drilling.
These are all decisions that we need to make with our partner.
But the point is that there's nothing that automatically happens when the price drops below $4.
It simply eliminates or suspends the carry so that our returns and our partner's return should be identical on the program that we drill.
Research Division</strong> Switching over to Israel.
With volumes where they were this quarter I'd imagine that you fulfilled any kind of obligations to your counterparty regarding volume requirements.
With that in mind how do I think then about what kind of volumes they would look to pull this next quarter and then maybe even more importantly how pricing might change given that they've probably hit a new tier in sort of contract pricing? And if I'm misunderstanding how that's structured please help me understand.
Yes let me just a bit on that.
We have -- our contracts continue on with our primary customers so it's -- we would not expect any change in the structure or pricing now.
Seasonally fourth quarter does fall down and so we would expect lower demand for natural gas in the fourth quarter is usually the case.
But I wouldn't project any change in the pricing methodology at all Dave.
It continues on.
Yes we delivered a lot of gas to them.
In some instances well above what we perhaps had an obligation for but at the same time we understand the market demand and the situation in Israel and we wanted to make sure that we provided as much gas to that market as we could given that the alternative supplies have been suspended.
But again our customer contracts remain in place.
At some point yes you're right.
About the time we really deplete Mari-B we'll have completed all the contract obligations for those original contracts and quite honestly many of those will roll over to the Tamar field at that point.
And we'll now take our next question from Brian Singer with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> A couple of questions on Israel.
First there's obviously been a lot of headlines regarding the Mediterranean politics and in your comments earlier on evaluating LNG pre-feeds is noted.
But have you had any recent conversations on the Israel side regarding the government's willingness and interest for Leviathan gas to be exported beyond what you've expressed in past calls? Well there's a number of ongoing discussions and I think as you just referenced I mean some of it median and some of it as we talked to officials there in the country they're continuing -- go through an evaluation of what will be their gas needs going forward.
And also realistically the fact that most would view that the demand for domestic gas has gone up because the potential for imports from Egypt has been minimized.
So that work is underway.
There's actually a group that is assigned to look at the export question and that will be -- and are providing import providing input and data to that group.
So it's ongoing.
I look at it as first of all more local demand is always good.
That's the positive keep in mind.
The other thing is we have found a lot of gas in that region so that's why it's so important to get this decided early as I think is really the real question behind your question is getting the amount of gas that's needed for domestic versus export decided early so we can make some decisions on the scale of an export project.
Research Division</strong> And then you mentioned I think in the opening comments that you expected Mari-B to be -- whether you expect the miller to offset the bulk of declines from Mari-B.
Can you talk about where you expect Mari-B to be producing when you're out and I guess when you add the 100 million a day from Noa what Israel volume should do next year versus this year? I don't want to -- at this point I don't want to give an Israel guidance for production for next year.
We'll have some overall guidance coming in in November.
But the other thing is as you can imagine it is very sensitive to what the current takes are what volumes they will take in the fourth quarter.
And also whether or not our customer decides to adjust their takes to give it a more stable supply.
So a lot of it depends on what the volumes are taken now and customer demand and how they pace demand until Tamar comes on early in 2013.
So we're dealing with a finite tank we know that.
It's a field that's produced very well and we know that with these high volumes we've delivered this year it will reduce some of our deliverability next year whether or not Noa offsets that decline I can't speculate at this point.
And our next question comes from Leo Mariani with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just kind of sticking with Israel real quick can you guys comment on the progress of any negotiations to contract additional Tamar gas? Yes Leo we're still in negotiation.
Obviously I think our view of the negotiations they're going well.
We're making some real progress but we have nothing defined at this point.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And maybe you could give us a little bit more detail around what you guys are doing in Cameroon with that Bwabe well and times in terms of prospect size out there and if you guys could potentially comment on what you think maybe the chance of success is? Yes.
I think we've talked about that a little on the past.
We continue to refurther that as our first oil prospect of greater than 100 million barrels oil equivalent gross and I think about a 25% piece of G or chance factor on that.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I guess on the Niobrara on your prepared comments you guys had some really strong well results there from your horizontal program.
Obviously your production's really making material strides.
Can you comment on well costs for those horizontal wells and what those have done of late? I mean the typical well cost is still hanging in there right around drilling complete around that $4.5 million.
So we've seen that still hanging pretty flat on that.
And our next question comes from Bob Brackett with Bernstein Research.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Can you comment on your Israeli Exploration Plan kind of Dolphin and post-Dolphin wells? Are those short-cycle time domestic projects small targets or are you looking at some larger targets? Well and Dave may want to add some color to this as well.
But as he noted Dolphin is a small prospect.
The big prospect that we're drilling is the Cyprus prospect.
That's the largest undrilled gas prospect that we have in the inventory and we'd expect results on that here in the fourth quarter.
But as we've noted before we have a number of other prospects in Israel and so we would expect I think Dave may have reference there will be at least a couple more exploration wells as we go forward here into 2012 testing some of these other prospects as well.
I mean just as we've talked a little bit earlier about how important it is to understand the demand in the countries is just as important to understand what the potential supply can be so that's why we're continuing the exploration program on these prospects of various sizes.
So I think the other part of your question was whether they're designed for domestic.
Any of these could be setup to provide either a domestic or an export project.
In fact I would expect that there will be ultimately if we look far ahead there will be a lot of interconnections and backups and redundancies of multiple supply.
So it's not that we're necessarily drilling for domestic.
That's what we did at Noa.
As of late it's specifically tied back to Mari-B and helped them on the gas supply situation next year.
Most of these are looking at defining the long-term resource which could be committed to either a domestic or an export market.
And our next question comes from David Heikkinen with Tudor Pickering Holt.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just had a question more conceptually around Israeli long-term demand you talked about a 40-year supply determination.
Is there a chance that Tamar and then Leviathan could be sequentially produced as opposed to concurrently produced as an option? Or do you expect both fields to be able to be produced concurrently? Well we would expect that ultimately the production from those fields will overlap each other with some portion if Leviathan and Cyprus -- I mean we're dealing with a very large resource base here so we -- well hopefully Cyprus will be successful we'll find out here this quarter.
But you would expect that again some of it will be dedicated to the domestic market and that right now we're assuming that all of Tamar will go in the domestic market and we would guess that some of the Leviathan will go into the domestic market as well.
And then some of Leviathan will go into a international market.
And so we could be supplying the domestic market from both Leviathan and Tamara at the same time.
In fact there's a lot of good reasons why that would make sense in terms of diversity of supply and hopefully multiple delivery points as well into their system.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> How does that impact ultimate peak deliverability out of a combination of the multiple projects? And would it be timing would be later? Just trying to think about timing and then peek deliverability into the domestic and the global market.
Well I think when you look at peak deliverability you really if you want I'll total it all up.
You need to wait for the export market to be there and we've given some early snapshots of being later in this decade and because that's when you can really kick of the volumes.
Now the wildcard in all this is that we see the potential that the domestic market and domestic demand for natural gas could be moving up from what we expected before.
So there could be stronger near-term demand for domestic gas even before we're ready to export.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then like Dolphin as a smaller prospect are those things to be developed faster or do they just kind of fit it in the overall scheme of a multifield development? I mean it'll depend on size and then looking again at that internal market and then how things work out from an export scenario and being able to tie these together.
I mean it'll sort itself out over the next couple of years.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> But don't think of Dolphin as another Noa.
No no no.
No.
We're talking about small versus Tamar and Leviathan.
Yes yes.
And our next question comes from Brian Kuzma with Weiss Multi-Strategy.
I just had a question on the U.S.
production front.
I wanted to make sure I understood the Niobrara or your DJ production went up so much where was the offset mainly from? On the U.S.
operations.
Well in Deepwater you still had some decline there and actually with some other downtime there.
And then the other U.S.
onshore piece is that we're not continuing to invest in those have some natural underlying decline.
Yes we're not of course drilling in Piceance which doesn't make sense and some of the dry gas areas.
And that -- I will assume that you're talking about second quarter versus third quarter.
Exactly.
Yes if you're comparing to the year before we of course sold some production since then.
Okay.
But mainly Deepwater there were some hurricane outages and then just natural declines out there every season...
Right yes.
Especially in areas where it doesn't make sense to be drilling in this current gas market.
And our next question comes from John Herrlin with Societe Generale.
Two quick ones.
One you committed to more rig time in the Gulf of Mexico does that mean you're perhaps more optimistic that you'll have faster permitting going on? Well I think it gives us more flexibility on rig options.
Because you may recall the first -- the rig that we're currently using is shared with a partner and right now it's uncertain as to how much of their time they're going to use and we wanted to make sure that we could back it up.
So I would say that we're encouraged that we're getting permits that we need.
But right now I can't say that we're projecting it's going to come any faster.
This just gives us more flexibility on rig choices going forward.
Okay.
That's fine Chuck.
With the Cyprus well there's a press article saying you had some drilling difficulties was that correct? Well what we're doing is we're drilling through the salt.
We got into a little bit higher pressure which we had to increase the mud weight a little bit and then go ahead and set casing strength just a little bit sooner than we originally planned so that's really all that was.
So it's a slight adjustment but no real change.
Nothing impacting the lower horizon that would target interval.
And as actually we've seen that throughout the basin as we're in the salt that we get some variations.
And so we've had a couple of instances where we've had to stop and set pipe before continuing.
Adjust the casing program.
Yes.
Well you did that with Leviathan for sure.
Last one for me what are your modeling for Marcellus well cost in the EURs? The well cost are in that -- and then you look at some of the other folks numbers out there but they're pretty much thinner in that $5 $5.5 type range for drill and complete.
EURs we'll have more on that as we get some more information but we'll get into that a little more at the analyst discussion.
And our next question comes from Joe Allman with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> In the DJ Basin outside of the Wattenberg field what do the results look like for the horizontal Niobrara? That's still early.
I mean that's something we're continuing to monitor.
We'll actually drill a few more wells probably between late this year and into early next year.
As you may recall one of the things we were doing was obtaining some more 3D seismic to help us with our well planning up there.
So I guess I'd still say it's still early results out there.
Our focus again has been expanding the program in Wattenberg especially as we continue to see these results in the lower GLR areas in the field that we've continued to focus on there.
I think you'll see when we talk about it in November.
But with the results we have seen in Wattenberg with the huge acreage position we have and the fact that it's essentially been derisked we're trying to keep all our resources focused in Wattenberg.
We'll continue to test some of these peripheral areas to make sure we're staying abreast and make sure we hold the positions that are important.
But we're very focused on returns and the return right now is to drill in Wattenberg where it's been derisked.
We've got the infrastructure.
We're making some high liquid content wells and some really really good completion.
We're continuing to accelerate that program.
Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
And a follow-up whether within Wattenberg or outside are you drilling horizontals to any other formations like the Codell? And if so have you had results? I think we've talked before -- we tested 1 or 2 that kind of touched into the Codell but we really haven't focused on the Codell yet.
I mean we've had such good results on the Niobrara.
And our real objective there is to try and continue to understand was some additional pilot work where we're going to get the next increment of recovery out of the Niobrara.
And our next question comes from Doug Leggate with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> I have a couple of quick ones.
I may have missed this earlier but when you talk about the export scheme or the potential for an export scheme conceptually is it too early to think about how Noble may want to participate in that? In other words would you be looking at a partner that would offer you tolling opportunities? Or would you look to actually participate in the capital of the actual plan should it go that way? And I've got a quick follow-up.
Yes it is a bit early.
Although we have said that our primary focus it will be on the upstream side of the project.
We may or may not take an interest in the midstream piece.
A lot of that will depend on potential partners what their interests are how we get alignment what the structure is.
So it also quite honestly will probably depend on where the export facility is located and what its nature is.
So our attention right now is to go ahead.
We are doing as we mentioned we're getting the proposals and we will be doing a pre-FEED for export sites and so we'll carry that work.
But the intent is to use that work as we go forward to engage in discussions with potential partners.
Research Division</strong> My quick follow-up is is there any update you can provide on pricing on Tamar in terms of contract structure? And I'll leave it at that.
Well no I don't think so.
Because we're -- as Dave I think responded on a previous question we're right in the middle of I think making some very good progress on the contract negotiations there.
So I'd let that work its course before making any comment on it.
It appears there are no further questions.
Thanks Anna.
And I'd like to thank everybody today for their interest in Noble Energy and have a good day.
And that does conclude today's conference.
We thank you for your participation.
Good morning and welcome to the Noble Energy's Fourth Quarter and Year-End 2011 Earnings Call.
I would now like to turn the call over to David Larson.
Please go ahead sir.
Thanks Celia.
Good morning everyone.
Welcome to Noble Energy's Fourth Quarter and Year-End 2011 Earnings Call and Webcast.
On the call today we have Chuck Davidson Chairman and CEO; Dave Stover President and COO; and Ken Fisher CFO.
This morning we issued 2 news releases one covering the fourth quarter and full-year earnings and the second one was for our 2012 guidance.
Later today we expect to be filing our 10-K with the SEC and it will be available on our website.
The agenda for today will include -- will begin with Chuck discussing final fourth quarter 2011 results and then will highlight our capital and guidance expectations for 2012.
Dave will then give some detailed overview of our operational programs including a summary of year-end reserves and a breakdown of our expected activity levels for the current year.
We will leave time for Q&amp;A at the end and plan to wrap up the call in less than an hour.
[Operator Instructions] Should you have any questions that we don't get to this morning please don't hesitate to give us a call and we'll do the best we can answering you.
I want to remind everyone that this webcast and conference call contains projections and forward-looking statements based on our current views and most reasonable expectations.
We provide no assurances on these statements as a number of factors and uncertainties could cause actual results in the future periods to differ materially from what we discuss today.
You should read our full disclosures on forward-looking statements in our latest news release and SEC filings for a discussion of the risk factors that influence our business.
We'll reference certain non-GAAP financial measures here today such as adjusted net income or discretionary cash flow.
When we refer to these items it's because we believe they are good metrics to use in evaluating the company's performance.
Be sure to see the reconciliation in our earnings release tables.
With that let me turn the call over to Chuck.
Thanks David and good morning everyone.
I'm going to start out with a brief wrap-up on 2011 and then go into an overview of our plans for this year.
As David said Dave Stover will follow up with the operational highlights as well as details on our planned work in each of our 5 core areas in 2012.
I have to say up front that 2012 is the year that certainly I've been waiting for and I think I can speak for the rest of the Noble Energy team as well on that.
You can see early indications why when you look at our fourth quarter results results that included the start-up of Aseng the first of many major projects that we're pursuing globally; it also included the first contributions from our newly added Marcellus Joint Venture; and another quarter actually our third quarter in a row of record DJ Basin production driven by outstanding horizontal Niobrara results; and finally the announcement just before the end of the year of yet another major gas discovery in the Eastern Mediterranean in Cyprus.
All great results but not the only reasons I'm excited about 2012.
This year marks the beginning of a multi-year period of growth for Noble Energy driven by major projects and programs in each of our 5 core areas.
As we announced at our Analyst Day back in November we now expect the annual production growth over the next 5 years to average 17% per year.
On a debt adjusted per share basis we expect not only production but cash flow and reserves to grow at double-digit rates over the next 5 years.
Starting in 2012 we begin realizing the benefits from multiple years of exploration success and the strength balance and diversity of our portfolio.
The early start-up of Aseng offshore Equatorial Guinea clearly demonstrated our ability to deliver on projects of significant magnitude.
Projects of this scale would not have been possible for us several years ago but they're well within our capabilities today both technically and financially.
Our exceptional project execution whether in the international deepwater such as Aseng or onshore U.S.
such as the Wattenberg horizontal Niobrara now parallels our best-in-class exploration program and gives us good reason to be confident about our future growth.
With Aseng now onstream and Galapagos ready to go shortly in 2012 Tamar in early 2013 Alen in late 2013 followed by many other developments our major exploration discoveries are now turning into real production cash flow and profitable growth with growing margins.
While our guidance for 2012 suggests strong overall growth this year of 13% the real headline is that with Aseng Galapagos and the Niobrara we expect growth in oil production this year of 40% over 2011.
At today's oil prices that will drive real value growth and that really gets us excited.
2012 -- excuse me 2011 was a year in which Noble Energy experienced many unique achievements.
Early in the year we received the first post-moratorium drilling permit in the Gulf of Mexico which resulted in the discovery of Santiago.
Our Eastern Mediterranean portfolio was expanded through exploration especially with the sizable discovery offshore Cyprus and enhanced through our successful appraisals of Tamar and Leviathan.
With the Tanin discovery announcement recently we've now discovered approximately 35 trillion cubic feet of gross mean resources in the greater Levant Basin.
In our horizontal Niobrara program we doubled our activity in 2011 which allowed us to de-risk the Wattenberg Niobrara resources and to extend the field's economic area by over 60%.
We've also added a fifth core area to our portfolio through the joint venture with CONSOL Energy in the Marcellus one of the lowest cost domestic gas plays which further deepens and diversifies our global project inventory.
And I'll talk more about the Marcellus later as will Dave.
As you can see we accomplished a tremendous amount in 2011 and we did it while maintaining our financial discipline and strong returns.
We further enhanced our liquidity and lengthened our debt maturities by successfully completing 2 public debt offerings.
Our most recent debt offering included a 10-year $1 billion unsecured note at a very favorable interest rate of 4.15%.
We ended the year with a liquidity of $4.5 billion $1.5 billion in cash and equivalents and $3 billion available on our new credit facility.
Our press release also included a summary on year-end proven reserves.
We ended the year with record reserves of over 1.2 billion barrels of oil equivalent an increase of 11% from last year.
All-in replacement of production totaled approximately 245%.
Major reserve additions were in the Marcellus the DJ Basin and Tamar offshore Israel.
We still have another 3.3 billion barrels of oil equivalent of discovered unbooked resources a majority of which we expect to convert to proved reserves over the next several years.
I will be reporting in our 10-K and SEC 10 valuation for year-end 2011 of $13.3 billion.
That's an increase of just over 45% from last year.
The increase was driven by our Marcellus acquisition additional reserves from Niobrara and Tamar and higher oil prices.
In the past 2 years our SEC 10 value has climbed from $4.9 billion at the end of 2009 to the $13.3 billion at the end of last year representing an increase of nearly 170% over the 2-year period.
Although not a perfect measure this increase does indicate the tremendous progress we're making in shifting unproven resources to proven reserves and the completion of major projects all of which leads to growth and value in our company.
In the fourth quarter our performance was demonstrated by strong metrics.
Adjusted net income for the fourth quarter was $211 million or $1.18 per share diluted.
After removing adjustment items including an asset impairment charge and an unrealized loss on commodity derivative hedges.
As noted in our press release the fourth quarter included $41 million of other operating costs mostly due to the disposal of surplus inventory and reserves for legal settlements.
The quarter also included $22 million of deferred compensation charges.
All of these were essentially non-cash charges.
Discretionary cash flow for the quarter was $677 million.
The asset impairment charges totaled $620 million and relate to various non-core onshore U.S.
dry gas assets.
They are a result of declining domestic natural gas prices that are in areas such as Piceance and Tri-State.
These assets have received limited investment dollars as we have continued to focus our investment programs primarily on oil or liquids-rich opportunities rather than the dry gas regions.
Sales volumes for the quarter averaged a record 233 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day which was an 8% increase over the fourth quarter 2010 excluding volumes from Ecuador which we exited in 2011.
Oil production was up 11% over the prior year's quarter driven by the early start-up at Aseng and growth in the horizontal Niobrara.
Revenue for the quarter was $985 million.
That's up 25% from the fourth quarter of last year.
The revenue growth was almost entirely driven by our liquid sales which were supported by higher volumes and strong prices.
The stronger oil volumes coupled with their increased prices helped grow margins even though we had higher lease operating expense and DD&amp;A rates.
Our full-year sales volumes were 222 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day at the high end of the adjusted guidance we provided last quarter and a record in terms of annual sales volumes for the company.
Our capital plan for 2012 is set at $3.5 billion which is slightly below the outlook we gave at our analyst conference in November.
In this dynamic environment there are quite a few moving pieces and we continue to reallocate capital to the best projects in our diverse portfolio.
Over 50% of the capital spending supports developments of our onshore U.S.
properties.
In Marcellus our economics are fully aligned with our partner CONSOL Energy in the current low price natural gas environment and we share a similar returns-based approach in capital allocation.
We have jointly decided to slow the pace of development in the dry gas regions of the field and as a result have cut around 40 wells from the original 2012 drilling plan.
Dave will give you more details later.
The reduction in the Marcellus drilling coupled with the fact that the deal's low-gas price circuit breaker was tripped which deferred the drilling promote this year has reduced Noble Energy's net 2012 investment in the Marcellus by approximately $250 million.
Noble Energy has reallocated a portion of this capital with a higher return horizontal Niobrara program to Wattenberg.
We continue to transition more of our vertical Wattenberg development to horizontal drilling which offers better recoveries and returns.
We are at full development mode in this field while we continue to expand our program into Northern Colorado.
And again Dave will provide you some specific data points that attest to the size and scope of our operations there.
The next largest segment of our capital program comprises our international portfolio and accounts for approximately 40% of our planned investment in 2012.
The funds there largely support the development work on Tamar  and Alen as well as continued exploration in the Eastern Mediterranean  and West Africa.
And in our final area the Deepwater Gulf of Mexico we'll invest approximately 7% of our capital in both development and exploration programs.
Overall our exploration encompasses about 16% of this year's capital program.
The exploration program remained a big driver of our success and we actively search for material opportunities with running room.
The targeted exploration and appraisal wells are the primary mechanism by which we build our pipeline of future development projects.
We tend to -- we intend to drill exploration wells in West Africa Eastern Mediterranean and the Gulf of Mexico this year.
We believe our core areas have significant growth potential but we will also continue our efforts as a global explorer to look for other attractive opportunities as well.
Our 2012 sales volume guidance ranges from 244 000 to 256 000 barrels of oil equivalent.
The midpoint of this range represent a 13% growth from 2011.
This is very close to what we presented in November with the only significant difference being we trimmed our outlook for Mari-B in Israel due to the high depletion that we experienced there last year.
The increased crude and condensate production is expected to account for 95% of our growth this year as we will have a full year of production from Aseng new crude production from South Raton and Galapagos in the Gulf of Mexico and growing crude and condensate production from the DJ Basin in 2012.
The overall liquids growth is expected to change our product mix to approximately 46% crude condensate and natural gas liquids 31% natural gas and 23% international gas.
This split does not account for any anticipated divestments of our non-core U.S.
onshore assets.
Overall we expect domestic volumes to be up over 20% from 2011 driven by the DJ Basin and Marcellus.
Total international growth will be 3% with Aseng volumes being partially offset by planned downtime at the Alba offshore Equatorial Guinea and reduced production at Mari-B offshore Israel.
We had anticipated depletion at Mari-B but we did not expect to produce at such high rates in 2011.
Mari-B production in 2011 was much higher than our plan projected as the field was called on to replace volumes that Israel was unable to import from Egypt for most of the year.
In order to conserve deliverability for the peak summer demand period and to bridge these dwindling Mari-B gas supplies to early 2013 when Tamar is expected to come onstream we'll be reducing the field's production for the remainder of the first quarter and the second quarter this year.
In addition we're working hard to develop alternate sources of natural gas for Israel until such time as Tamar comes online.
The growth that we have planned and worked for over the last several years is now in progress and each of our core areas is making significant contributions.
Our diversification has again proven its value as we continue to navigate the challenges of the environment.
Our goal remains to continue building long-term sustainable growth growth that is creating value for our investors.
Our opportunities set remains large diverse but it's also matched by the capabilities we've built within the company and the disciplined capital allocation approach we employ.
Dave will now give you the operational highlights and more details on our plans for 2012.
Thinks Chuck.
I will start with a review of our reserves at the end of 2011 before discussing our operations and planned activity for 2012.
As Chuck mentioned we reported total proved reserves of over 1.2 billion barrels of oil equivalent an increase of 11% from the end of 2010.
U.S.
reserves made up 47% of the total with the remaining 53% from our international locations.
The reserve additions for the year replaced 244% of our annual production.
In the U.S.
net additions of 120 million barrels of oil equivalent replaced 279% of U.S.
production.
Additions were mostly related to the acquisition and development in Marcellus and by our continued development in Wattenberg.
Downward reserve revisions were associated with a decrease of undeveloped vertical locations in the DJ Basin due to our continuing transition from vertical to horizontal drilling and a further reduction of activity in dry gas areas due to low -- sustained low gas prices.
Our horizontal reserve bookings in the Niobrara and Marcellus programs reflect only the specific wells already being worked by our teams and result in less than 2 years' worth of horizontal drilling booked for both programs.
Internationally net additions of 78 million barrels of oil equivalent replaced 205% of our sales.
These additions were mainly a result of the Tamar drilling program where we penetrated a third fault block proving additional reserves.
As you may recall we reported in November that our net risk resource inventory was approximately 7.4 billion barrels of oil equivalent.
Of that amount 3.3 billion barrels was discovered unbooked.
We expect the majority of this inventory of discovered unbooked resources to be converted into proved reserves over the next 5 years.
I will now focus on our operations and plans for each of our core areas beginning with our U.S.
programs.
In the DJ Basin we produced 66 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day in the fourth quarter with 57% liquids content.
This is our third consecutive quarter of record volumes with production up 16% and oil production up 20% year-over-year.
At year end our horizontal Niobrara program produced 17 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day net a four-fold increase from year-end 2010.
With 95 producing horizontal wells at the end of 2011 our average estimated ultimate recovery or EUR is over 310 000 barrels of oil equivalent with liquid content currently averaging 65%.
The more recent 18 wells we referenced in November continue to produce significantly better than our earlier wells and we estimate their average EUR to be above 350 000 of oil equivalent with similar liquid content.
We now have over 6 months of production data from our 9 100-foot extended-reach lateral well in Northeastern Wattenberg.
The production profile is tracking a tight curve indicative of an EUR above 750 000 barrels of oil equivalent with 84% liquids.
Building on that success our plans for 2012 call for drilling approximately 10 to 12 extended-reach laterals across our 400 000 acre position in the Wattenberg field.
In 2011 we drilled over 85 horizontal Niobrara wells and our top performing rigs are now averaging less than 10 days from spud to rig release.
We're currently running 5 horizontal rigs in the Wattenberg field and we'll add 2 additional horizontal rigs over the next few months one this month and one in April.
Our plan is to operate these 7 drilling rigs primarily in Wattenberg throughout the year and to take delivery of 2 additional new-build rigs for the horizontal program in the fourth quarter of this year.
In November you may recall we discussed doubling our horizontal rig count over the next couple of years but we have now accelerated that plan to reach 9 rigs in the basin by the end of this year.
As a result we expect to double our horizontal activity from 2010 and drill over 170 horizontal Niobrara wells -- from 2011 and drill over 170 Niobrara wells in 2012 focusing in the more oil-prone areas of the play.
To accommodate the increase in horizontal activity we plan to drill approximately 200 fewer vertical wells in Wattenberg this year.
With the accelerated horizontal activity levels and the improved drill times we have ramped up our horizontal completion operations from 2 wells per month in early 2011 to approximately 10 wells per month at the end of the year.
Our focus over the last several months has been to ensure that we can execute at these higher levels of activity.
One result is the formation of a water management team that's procured long-term water supplies that will support our 2012 activity level.
In the Wells Ranch area we have installed water storage and transportation lines that both reduce truck traffic and also ensure adequate water supply for our operations.
In addition we have secured frac sand and pumping services to accommodate the new levels of activity.
Concerning the Wattenberg horizontal Niobrara 80-acre pilot test program an EcoNode concept that we announced in November the well completions are under way on the initial pad and the EcoNode is being commissioned for start-up.
Of the 9 wells in the pilot project 8 have been drilled in the B bench of the Niobrara spaced as close as 300 feet apart.
The remaining well is in C bench less than 100 feet below the B interval.
So we've previously discussed this pilot is designed to increase Niobrara recovery while reducing our surface footprint and we expect to share results from this project as we progress through the year.
I also want to mention that we recently spud a horizontal Codell well in the Wattenberg field and we'll be testing and monitoring results over the next several months.
With respect to capital spending our plans are to invest $1.25 billion in the DJ Basin with most of these funds supporting our horizontal program of over 170 wells.
In addition to the developments in Wattenberg we plan to use one of the horizontal rigs in Northern Colorado.
This rig will continue the appraisal and delineation of our 220 000-acre position in this area.
Thus far we have been encouraged by the results which we will share with you later in the year.
Shifting over to Marcellus our second U.S.
onshore core area we reported production of 74 million cubic feet per day for the fourth quarter.
Results are running above our acquisition model and production has more than doubled since the announcement of the joint venture in August.
The joint venture placed 21 wells online in the fourth quarter with average 15 days stabilized production rates of 5 million cubic feet per day and production tracking EUR curves of 5 billion to 6 billion cubic feet per well.
Drilling completion costs remain around $5 million per well.
For the joint venture agreement the carry is suspended until Henry Hub natural gas price rises above $4 per million Btu for 3 consecutive months.
As a result our economics are aligned with our partner CONSOL Energy as we make investment decisions in the low natural gas price environment.
The strong performance of the wells in the CONSOL-operated Southwest Pennsylvania dry gas area confirms that development in this area continues to be economically attractive at the current strip prices.
The Southwest Pennsylvania drilling program for 2012 also benefits from an average net revenue interest of over 95%.
The joint venture acreage is predominantly held by production which allows for flexibility in scheduling the timing and location of development.
The partners have agreed to defer drilling in the dry gas areas outside of Southwestern Pennsylvania and Northwest West Virginia.
The impact on the schedule is around 40 fewer wells than our original plan.
In order to respond rapidly to the rising gas prices the joint venture will continue the land and permitting activities at the originally planned level.
Doing so will allow us to build up a strong inventory of drillable locations.
Without the carry we have approximately $500 million allocated to our Marcellus program which includes the drilling of 39 wells in Noble-operated white gas area and 60 wells in the CONSOL-operated areas.
The capital program also provides for additional infrastructure development in the wet gas area to support the 2013 drilling schedule.
Last month Noble Energy took over operatorship of our first rig in the wet gas area and we intend to add 2 more rigs in the wet gas area in the second half of 2012.
By the end of the year we expect to operate 3 rigs in the wet gas area while CONSOL operates 3 rigs in the dry gas areas.
We have opened our office in Canonsburg and have allocated staff to this important project.
Initial production from the wet gas area should begin in the second quarter of 2012.
Moving offshore to our operations in the Deepwater Gulf of Mexico.
We expect production from South Raton to begin before the end of the first quarter and from Galapagos by the end of the second quarter.
Our operated portion of the Galapagos project is essentially complete.
However the host platform operator has indicated that concurrent maintenance activities will delay the completion of final topsides work into the second quarter.
Following the completion of the third-party maintenance on the platform we'll have access to finish the work necessary to commission the project.
All other significant subsea development and topsides work has been completed and production will begin following the commissioning of the topsides facilities.
We have allocated $250 million to the Gulf of Mexico for 2012 with approximately 80% supporting our exploration and appraisal work.
The first Gunflint appraisal well is drilling ahead with the ENSCO 8501 rig and we expect to reach total depth in the second quarter.
As we look forward in 2012 we're evaluating several exploration and appraisal opportunities for our remaining time on the ENSCO 8501 and our 4-month slot with the ENSCO 8505 rig during the second half of the year.
We have filed permits -- We have filed for the permits for our 2012 program and anticipate obtaining these permits in a timely manner.
Moving from the U.S.
to international I'll begin with West Africa.
Our Aseng project offshore Equatorial Guinea began producing in November 7 months ahead of original schedule and 13% under our budget.
According to a review by an independent consulting firm this overall performance was near top quartile in schedule and near top decile in subsea scope costs when compared to a data set of major West Africa project performance.
Before the end of the year we lifted 3 cargoes each between 600 000 and 900 000 barrels of oil gross at a price essentially equal to Brent which was better than we initially expected.
The strong reservoir performance has allowed us to increase the production rate from 50 000 to 55 000 barrels of oil per day with 99% run time.
The FPSO has available capacity and we're evaluating a further increase in production to 60 000 barrels of oil per day by the end of the first quarter.
We intend to invest $500 million this year in West Africa with 80% dedicated to development activities.
Our development focus has shifted to the Alen project which remains on budget and on schedule for first production in the fourth quarter of 2013.
All subsea trees have been installed and subsea fabrication is ahead of schedule.
The production and injection wells are on schedule to be completed in the first half of 2012 by the Atwood Aurora jack-up rig and the Atwood Hunter rig respectively.
Carla our recent oil discovery below the Alen field in Block O is being integrated into our development plans alongside Diega.
Finally we plan to drill at least one exploration well offshore Cameroon in the Tilapia PSC.
In the Eastern Mediterranean we had an exceptional quarter.
We announced the natural gas discovery offshore Cyprus with an estimated gross mean resource of 7 trillion cubic feet.
The appraisal well at Leviathan drilled more than 6 miles from the initial discovery well confirmed the continuous reservoir and increased the gross mean resource estimate to 17 trillion cubic feet.
The gross mean resource estimate of Tamar was also increased after successful appraisal.
Overall including the Tanin results announced this week we now have discovered approximately 35 trillion cubic feet gross of new gas resource -- reserves resources from this region.
The Mari-B field has produced since 2004.
And in 2011 it produced at historically high rates to satisfy Israel's natural gas demand while Egyptian imports remained offline.
The field has performed well as we accelerated production but as Chuck mentioned is experiencing some advanced depletion as a result.
Going forward we will be decreasing Mari-B production over the rest of the first quarter and the second quarter to conserve deliverability for the upcoming summer peak demand period and to maximize gas recovery from the reservoir.
In addition we're actively pursuing 2 initiatives to enhance deliverability of natural gas from the Mari-B facility until Tamar production comes online.
The first is the ongoing development of the nearby Noa field which is expected to add 100 million cubic feet per day of deliverability in the third quarter of this year.
We have drilled 2 wells which will be completed early in the summer with the Sedco Express rig.
The second initiative is an evaluation of an additional untested area near Mari-B called Pinnacles which may be able to contribute additional deliverability.
Pending partner approval the ENSCO 5006 rig is available to begin drilling at Pinnacles well this quarter.
Noble Energy is a long-term partner of the State of Israel and we remain committed to working with them to provide as much gas as possible until Tamar is brought online.
I've referred to our Tanin discovery which we announced this week.
With the gross mean resource of 1.2 trillion cubic feet this is our fourth Eastern Mediterranean discovery over 1 trillion cubic feet gross in the last 3 years.
We are now 6 for 6 with our exploration program in the Levant Basin and continue to diversify the area's gas supply base.
The deep oil test at Leviathan is under way with the Noble Corporation Homer Ferrington rig.
As we indicated in November the deep oil gross mean potential on our acreage in the basin is estimated at 3.7 billion barrels of oil equivalent spread over multiple prospects.
We expect results from this 15% chance factor Leviathan deep oil test in the second quarter.
Development drilling will continue at Tamar with the Transocean Sedco Express rig and final well completions are scheduled for the fourth quarter of 2012.
Pipeline installation is essentially complete and the project is on budget and on schedule to begin commissioning late this year and start up early in the second quarter of 2013.
The expansion of the Ashdod onshore receiving terminal is also under way.
The capital program supporting our activity in the Eastern Mediterranean is around $750 million.
The negotiation of a Tamar gas contract with Israel Electric Corporation continues to progress.
In the past month we have signed 4 contracts for the delivery of over 1.1 trillion cubic feet of natural grass gross with other gas purchasers in Israel and expect to sign more as we move closer to first production.
Pre-FEED studies have been initiated to analyze floating LNG as an export option for Tamar and Dalit and to evaluate LNG plant locations for potential exports from the massive Leviathan field.
Additionally we're working with our advisers to help us identify and select a strategic partner or partners for the development of Leviathan gas.
Now let me touch upon the guidance we issued this morning for 2012.
We presented a full-year sales range of 244 000 to 256 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day with volumes in the first quarter expected to range from 228 000 to 238 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day.
Although the midpoint of first quarter 2012 volumes is expected to be fairly flat with the fourth quarter 2011 the production this quarter should be a higher value mix than we had in the fourth quarter.
Compared to fourth quarter 2011 crude and condensate production is expected to increase around 17% and gas production is expected to decrease about 8% as we start ramping down Mari-B to conserve for the summer months and the Alba field experiences the first 2 of 4 weeks' planned maintenance.
For the year I anticipate the volume profile to stay fairly flat through the first half and grow significantly in the third quarter as we increase production through the Mari-B facility complete maintenance at Alba see the full benefit of new projects in the Gulf of Mexico and continue to grow our horizontal Niobrara and Marcellus volumes.
Lease operating expense will follow the inverse trend of volumes with LOE per barrel equivalent closer to the higher end of guidance during the first half of the year and near the bottom end of guidance the second half of the year.
When you compare 2012 to 2011 you can see the impact of focusing on our 5 core areas.
Our overall gas production is expected to stay fairly flat as our Marcellus increase will more than offset the reduced volumes from Israel and Equatorial Guinea.
This means our total company volume growth will be driven by an expected 40% increase in crude and condensate sales for 2012 compared to 2011.
This high-value gross will be contributed 60% from a full year at Aseng 25% from our horizontal Niobrara program and 15% from our new Deepwater Gulf of Mexico production.
With Aseng now online a couple of new Deepwater Gulf of Mexico projects starting up the first half of this year our 2 core onshore U.S.
programs ramping up and continued significant exploration success in the Eastern Mediterranean we are right on track for delivering the 5-year outlook we reviewed at our November Analyst Day.
Our current appraisal well at Gunflint and our deep Leviathan oil test provide additional excitement for the coming months.
With that Celia let's open the call for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from David Kistler with Simmons &amp; Company.
Research Division</strong> Real quickly in Israel given kind of the vast resource potential that you have discovered there or really Eastern Mediterranean do you think about maybe entering into a joint venture or monetizing a piece of it is to accelerate the present value of those assets? Well I think right now as Dave mentioned we've -- we're beginning to look at the options there and part of it is the exploring how we might bring in another partner into the development that can provide some additional capabilities.
And clearly the thinking is is by doing that we can accelerate the development of these big assets.
We have as you know a fairly high working interest on the Cyprus opportunity at 70% which is well about what we have of the Israel side.
So there's certainly maybe some opportunities for us to accommodate along with our partners an additional partner that would probably have an interest in obtaining some of the upstream interest as well as participating in a midstream project as well.
So I guess the answer to the question is is we're open to all options to try to accelerate value here.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
I appreciate it.
And then maybe just one more in Israel.
Can you talk a little bit about the contracts you signed? What that means from more of a daily production value and when those kind of start and the prices around those contracts? Well I think right now we -- the safest things is for us to stick with the original script which gave the overall gross amount that was committed under the contract and the dollar value on it.
They -- all of them do have some various mechanisms for escalation.
The ones that we have entered into already have formulas that are tied to the public utilities' tariffs that's there in Israel.
And of course that will adjust as we go forward.
That's -- we've made some estimates of how that might move.
But that's kind of a guess at this point.
But there -- again we're continuing to contract volumes out of Tamar.
The big contract with IEC I think we continue to make progress and we're waiting on just the final approval from our customer there.
And we'll take our next question from Brian Singer with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> With the better rates that you're seeing or expecting out of Aseng in Equatorial Guinea do you attribute this to achieving a greater recovery rate of oil in place or depleting the reservoir more quickly? And are there any implications for how youre thinking about Alen? Well I think number one the better production rates are clearly due to the -- we've got a very high-quality reservoir there and we've got very good completions.
It's far too early to say what any implications might be on recovery.
Although in the past we have said that on our reserve bookings there is some possibility that because we saw some positive things as we develop the field that we'll monitor for performance and there's certainly a reasonable chance that we'll be able to increase our proven reserves estimate in the field later this year.
So too early to tell but everything is working very well.
And maybe Dave wants to add a couple of more things on that.
Yes if you recall Brian these producers are all horizontal wells.
So that the plan from the beginning was to start them at 50 and then slowly increase them up to probably holding them no greater than 60 000 barrels a per day.
And that will allow us to still hold a fairly flat production profile at that rate for over one year or so.
And then as Chuck mentioned we'll look back at the end of the year and see how performance has gone and reevaluate reserves at that time.
Research Division</strong> And in the U.S.
in the Wattenberg field do you anticipate any midstream or downstream bottlenecks at all or should we expect that the trajectory of your growth be pretty consistent over the course of the year? No I think the key up there is continuing to plan ahead for that make sure you've got your plans in place a couple of years out.
I think Ted talked in November and we mentioned I think even at the last call some of the expansion plans up there with DCP on their facilities and how they're working with us to stay up with us especially with the increased activity levels.
I know there's some new plans for some NGL lines out of the area too that we're in discussions with.
So when we look at the outlook we look at the whole midstream piece that's seasoned up with what we've got planned there.
The other component is we're continuing to move more and more into the oil portion but which alleviates any timing pressures on the gas part of it and that matches up well with our plans with the downstream midstream companies.
I think I'd also add Brian that on the oil side we've continued to expand the markets that we go to.
So in the past we were perhaps going to 2 markets.
I think now we're touching on maybe 5 different customer outlets in the area so that's helping on the oil side as well.
Because as Dave pointed out while we've managed around any gas bottlenecks by moving into the oil part of the field we've got a -- we're starting to move a tremendous amount of oil out of Wattenberg.
So it's a -- we've got everyone working on every piece of the logistics.
And we'll go next to Amir Arif with Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> First a quick question on the Marcellus.
The 630 000-acre position how much of that is in the dry gas? And is there any concerns of acreage explorations as you slow that portion of the drilling down? I mean the beauty of the position out there is how much of this is held by production.
There's a large component too that will essentially feed acreage which contributes to the high interest that net revenue.
Again I mean it's highly unusual to have areas where you can drill with 95% net revenue interest like we're focusing on right now in the dry gas area.
So we don't see issues with anything as far as any concern of acreage loss or anything like that with any adjustment in the program.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And the carry I know it comes back after gas goes over 4.
But is there any time frame over which the carry would expire regardless of the gas place or did it simply get carried forward? It just keeps moving out in time.
And we'll go next to Leo Mariani with RBC.
LLC Research Division</strong> You talked about your Mari-B production in the first half of '12 being curtailed in order to leave some more room for kind of peak summer season.
Could you guys quantify that at all in terms of where you think it could be in the first half of '12 versus the second half of '12? Well I think we look at it on a gross basis.
I'll tell you what I'm going to let Dave go through it because we can get a lot of moving pieces here because we're going to be adding a Noa project in the third quarter.
Yes and essentially what we're doing is we're ramping down through the first quarter which we talked about.
So we're ramping down probably about 50 million a day per month for a few months until we get into a number we're comfortable with for the second quarter and then we'll ramp back up starting in the third quarter to meet some of the summer season along with bringing on something like Noa.
But I think when you look out in the summer period you're looking at numbers probably closer in that 400 million to 450 million a day total Israel gas production that we're delivering.
And then I would expect it would fall back off in the fourth quarter.
And that's reflected in our guidance.
But we just want to make sure that everyone understands that we just don't have the ability to go back up to that 600 million that we saw in 2011.
That really pulled a lot of volume out of the reservoir.
So we're trying to provide as much deliverability as we can for our customers in the summer months knowing that Mari-B and even with Noa is not likely to come anywhere close to the deliverability we had last year.
LLC Research Division</strong> That's very helpful.
Just jumping over to the Niobrara here.
Obviously you guys had a -- it sounds like a very stout well in your first long lateral well there.
Just trying to get a sense of what the well cost there is on the long lateral compared to your normal wells.
I guess you said your last 18 horizontals were from more of a normalized lateral were sort of 350 Mboe wells.
Just wanted to get a well cost comparison and whether or not you guys think you're seeing a huge benefit in terms of added value from that program? Yes when you looked at our average and what we've been running on our normal horizontal wells they're right about that 4.7 million drilling complete.
I think what we showed in November for that long lateral was around 7.5 million.
So you see that there's potential efficiency improvements and optimization with the long laterals.
And really the effort on that I think we even indicated potentially with those type numbers 20% improvement in F&amp;D and just take that straight up at least.
What we're really focusing the next tests on the long lateral really in the more oil-prone windows up in those northeastern part of the field and so forth where you don't have quite as many vertical wells.
It gives us more ability to maneuver those to start with.
And we'll go next to Bob Morris with Citi.
Research Division</strong> Dave on the reserve write-down that you took up in the Rockies for the vertical wells knowing that those were PUDs with associated hydrocarbons.
Why didn't  you just swap those out for horizontal PUDs just to keep the reserves the same? Well if you remember a large portion of our vertical reserve component is Codell and in some cases even J-Sand.
So the big portion of that is really taking that -- those vertical well Codell and J PUDs off the books and not assuming that we're going to re-drill those on a vertical basis within the 5 years.
We've not allocated any horizontal reserves to Codell at this point.
As I mentioned earlier we're just starting to test and drill our first true Codell horizontal well.
And so we'll revisit Codell horizontal at the end of this year.
Research Division</strong> I think it's not really price related it's just the fact that you're not going to drill those in the next 5 years now? Yes we're are just not assuming we're going to really drill those in the next 5 years.
And just to re-emphasize a point that Dave made on our horizontal bookings both in the Niobrara and the Marcellus we're just looking those that the teams are working right now which really only works to about a 2-year inventory.
So we're not pressing the envelope at all on our horizontal bookings.
So I think when you take a look at the combination of those factors is why it's prudent to put those Codell resources into the unproven category for now until we firm up the plans for the future for either for horizontal drilling in the Codell or the drilling of vertical Codell wells later.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So you would expect that perhaps next year book a lot of offsets on the horizontal side? I think we will.
We do expect to continue to book offsets on the horizontal but I think we're going to be very careful and manage a plan that's based on location our teams are working on.
I mean activity level we're drilling twice as many this year.
We'll go next the John Herrlin with Socit Gnrale.
Could you give a postmortem on the well in Cameroon what happened? Basically that prospect we didn't see reservoir.
And I mean that was one of the primary risks that we identified pre-drill.
Okay.
Next one for me is just on the DJ.
They had a lot of snow recently.
Should we expect any sort of weather-related delays? Did you have any freeze-offs anything like that? I mean there's always a little bit of impact.
But we haven't seen a big impact from that.
I mean the team has done a good job of preparing for winter and we haven't had big long sustained.
If you remember a couple of years ago we had  probably 3 storms one week after another that had a big impact.
And hopefully we won't see that type of thing.
But a short storm they're able to weather most of that impact.
I would say that when we look at our January performance it was outstanding in terms of the amount of oil that we moved there in the field.
So there will be some -- there will always be some little winter upsets but we certainly -- we think we've factored that into how we've outlined and guided for the first quarter.
We'll go next to Bob Brackett with Bernstein Research.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> I had a question on the Leviathan appraisal program.
How many wells do you think you'll ultimately need and what's your timeline for certainty on the results? And specifically if you get a negative result in the deep oil test does that condemn the concept or would you then go back and find a different prospect to test that oil concept? Between Dave and I we'll try to cover that.
I think in terms of the Leviathan appraisal we've now -- we have 2 wells.
Certainly there will be probably 1 to 2 more over time.
And that will continue to narrow it down although this a very big resource so it will never get down to a perfect number.
I guess what we'll do is just narrow the range.
But certainly the appraisal that we had last year helped a lot.
And as you know it actually allowed us to move the discovered gross mean resources up a bit.
As far as the deep test we see a number of structures in this basin.
Not all of them may have been formed the same way and so there is some differences in the prospects.
So this is very low chance of success to start with.
But I would say that there's still a possibility that if we did not find something at Leviathan depending on what we found there we could be encouraged to test one of those other prospects in the basin as well.
We'll go next to Irene Haas with Wunderlich Securities.
Research Division</strong> The Marcellus wondering sort of you working the wet gas portion and can you update me on which county you're working on and also sort of your longer term plan infrastructure and such? I know you guys always think ahead.
And then secondarily what's your view on U.S.
dry gas? How long can you and your partners sort of kind of stay back and wait for recovery? Yes Irene let me take the first part of that.
We're operating in Marshall County West Virginia and we anticipate we'll stay in West Virginia all year this year.
And as I mentioned earlier we have additional money in there or some money in the program this year for preparing for additional acceleration as we get the other couple rigs in and then that will lead into a potentially larger program in the wet gas area next year.
But all of that right now for this year and I would anticipate beginning of next year will be in the West Virginia portion.
And I think as far as how long can we wait it out.
Again because this is not a situation where we have to hold acreage it's all basically held by production mostly held by production that I think we have a lot of patience here.
We've got a particular area that Dave talked about that's got some very high net revenue interest and we've seen some very high quality there in Southwestern Pennsylvania.
We still see some good returns to drill there.
But as far as the other areas we'll just plan with our partner to continue to monitor the gas market and see if it turns around.
It just doesn't make sense in those other areas to be drilling there right now.
Research Division</strong> What's your internal view? How long would this sort of gas surplus last? Ah the crystal ball.
I can't tell.
And quite honestly I like all of you are waiting to see what the gas production is in the U.S.
and how it matches up with demand and how the weather evolves.
My sense is that we have to go through a full season here.
And we're basically looking at trying to guess at where we'll end up with gas and storage in the fall and look at what the actual production volumes are in the country.
So it's -- I don't see it as something that will turn around immediately.
I think we're going to have to go through several months in a season to see where both demand and supply go.
We'll go next to John Malone with Global Hunter Securities.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just taking a little bit more in Mari-B just to be clear.
So you're talking about 2 options Noa obviously you're going to have with and then an evaluation of Pinnacles.
Are those mutually exclusive? And when you talked about getting up to I think you quoted a 400 to 450 number later in the year for the Israel summer demand is that -- that's including Noa but not including for Pinnacles correct? It would include the possibility of gas from both of those John.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
So all right fair enough.
And then just quickly Cyprus.
Can you give any guidance on what you think fiscal terms are going to like there? Are they going to be similar to Israel? Well it's basically a production sharing agreement and we're under a confidentiality with the government on disclosure.
We'll go next to David Heikkinen with Tudor Pickering Holt.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Can you give us the status of asset sales or timing or any thoughts around them? Yes we kicked that process off David and we should be opening up some data here to folks in the next month or so.
We'll start with probably some oil production in Permian and some oil production in Kansas and also some of our Granite Wash production.
Those would probably be the first components that we'll have out the door.
So I think we'll just be kicking that process off here in earnest over the next couple of months here by the end of the quarter or so.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then results at Aseng sound encouraging.
What drives the wide range of crude and condensate volume guidance for '12? Well I think what we just look at -- we put in a number of factors and we've got -- you have to keep in mind we've got a downtime factored in at Alba.
And anytime you take facilities down that can swing the liquid volumes.
And we try to look at variances on our growth of the Niobrara.
And so we just try to -- in the end try to put a reasonable range and try to accommodate things like if you've got any type of unusual downtime or weather.
Especially in the Deepwater Gulf.
I think also the other point is that we noted that Galapagos was a little later than we originally expected.
And any time you don't have a project that hasn't started up you need to put a range around that a sensitivity around it because of issues on start-ups.
So those are the big drivers.
We'll go next to Michael Hall with Robert W.
Baird.
Research Division</strong> Just curious can you remind me I guess where are your NGL volumes out of the DJ Index too from a pricing standpoint? Are you guys getting Conway or MBOE [ph] type prices? Yes we're -- right now the NGLs out of the Wattenberg area are going to Conway.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then how much of the -- I don't know if you have this but how much of the NGL barrel is ethane? Yes we actually...
About 1/3 I think.
Yes it's about -- about 1/3 of it is ethane and then the rest is in heavier liquids.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then last one for me on the Niobrara.
How much of the acreage position there do you think has potentially perspective for the long lateral development? I'm just trying to get a sense for is there any constraints from leasehold and land ownership or legacy wells? I don't have a number at my fingertip.
I'd say we'll probably have a better idea later in the year after we finish these next 10 to 12.
I will say we are going to start more in that.
If you go back to those areas we had high GLR and then the core that was a much larger picture than the higher GLR.
It's kind of a core with low GLR and then an extension area.
It would be those latter 2 areas that we'll really concentrate the long laterals first.
I think also is that if they continue to be very successful there could be opportunities to go beyond just where we have contiguous acreage but actually start forming partnerships where you either trade acreage or you bring others in so that you can form adjacent sections.
So that's a lot of land work that it takes to do something like that but that's some other options as well.
And our final question comes from Paul Crovo with PNC Capital Advisors.
Quick question about Aseng.
You had indicated that you could possibly be bumping production up to 60 000 by the end of the first quarter and I was wondering whether or not that was built into your full year 2012 production guidance? Yes.
That assumption is built into our overall guidance yes.
It's part of the range that we provided for production and for oil.
So this is David Larson again.
We've reached our one-hour limit here on the phone call and I want to be -- stay on schedule for us as well as you guys out there in the market.
So I just want to end by saying I want to thank everyone for their interest in Noble Energy.
Eric and I will be available to answer any questions that you may have that we didn't get to today but I hope everyone has a good day.
And that includes today's conference.
We thank you for your participation.
Good morning and welcome to the Noble Energy's First Quarter 2012 Earnings Call.
I would like to turn the conference over to Mr.
David Larson.
Please go ahead sir.
Thanks Ryan.
good morning everyone.
Welcome to Noble Energy's first quarter 2012 earnings call and webcast.
On the call today we have Chuck Davidson Chairman and CEO; Dave Stover President and COO; and Ken Fisher CFO.
This morning we have issued our earnings release for the first quarter and it is available on our website.
Later today we expect to be filing our 10-Q with the SEC and it will also be available on the website.
The agenda for today will begin with Chuck discussing the quarter and highlights of our exploration inventory and the progress that we're making on our Eastern Mediterranean projects.
Dave will then give a detailed overview of our operational programs and near-term plans.
[Operator Instructions] Should you have any questions that we don't get to this morning on the call please don't hesitate to contact us and we'll do the best we can to answer you.
I want to remind everyone that this webcast and conference call does contain projections and forward-looking statements based on our current views and most reasonable expectations.
We provide no assurance on these statements as a number of factors and uncertainties could cause actual results in the future periods to differ materially from what we discuss here today.
You should read our full disclosures on forward-looking statements in our latest news release and SEC filings for a discussion of the risk factors that influence our business.
We'll reference certain non-GAAP financial measures here today such as adjusted net income or discretionary cash flow.
When we refer to these items it is because we believe they're good metrics to use in evaluating the company's performance.
Be sure to see the reconciliations of these items in our earnings release tables.
With that let me turn the call over to Chuck.
Thanks David and good morning everyone.
I'm going to start out by reviewing our first quarter results including a number of significant accomplishments and then I will move on to discuss some of our forward plans for the remainder of the year.
As you can see from our press release that was issued this morning this was another strong quarter for Noble Energy.
And also if you've seen our recently-published annual report for 2011 I think you would agree that this quarter's results fits well with our annual reports theme.
That theme focuses on the single word now.
In other words it's all about what we are delivering now.
For several years we've talked about transitioning transforming and preparing for growth.
However as our report highlights that preparation work is behind us and now we are seeing the results.
We are now experiencing real growth that is expected to last for many years into the future.
And so the future has become now.
Starting with the financials.
The adjusted net income for the quarter was $314 million or $1.75 per share diluted that's an increase of 31% compared to the first quarter of last year.
Our only adjustment was for unrealized commodity derivative losses due to strong oil prices.
GAAP net income was $263 million or $1.47 per share diluted.
Quarterly revenues were almost $1.2 billion a 30% increase over the first quarter of last year.
Crude oil and liquids represented nearly half of our sales volumes and combined with strong prices accounted for over 80% of our revenue for the first quarter.
Our sales volumes were a record 243 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day up 10 000 barrels of oil equivalent from the fourth quarter of last year and up 13% from the first quarter of 2011.
Our sales exceeded quarterly guidance range that we issued earlier this year and essentially all of the increased production was from crude oil and liquids sales.
The outperformance was driven by exceptional operating performance at Aseng which completed its first quarter production as well as continued growth from the horizontal program in the DJ Basin and the deferral of some maintenance downtime in our non-operated Alba facilities from the first to the second quarter.
The good news is that that Alba maintenance has now been completed and the field is back up.
47% of the total sales volumes for the quarter were liquids.
That's up from 40% in the fourth quarter of last year.
Our U.S.
sales volumes were 131 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day with 45% being liquids.
Compared to the first quarter last year U.S.
sales volumes increased 15% largely driven by increases from Wattenberg and the addition of the Marcellus Joint Venture.
The DJ Basin production totaled 73 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day with oil representing 39% of the volume mix and Natural Gas Liquids representing 17% of the total volumes.
DJ Basin production from the horizontal program averaged 18 000 barrels of oil equivalent net in the first quarter of this year greater than a fourfold increase over the 4 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day production in the first quarter of 2011.
The international region contributed sales volumes of 112 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day.
That's an 11% increase over the first quarter last year.
Strong operational performance coupled with exceptional reliability resulted in Aseng crude oil sales averaging 18 000 barrels per day net for the first quarter.
International production was 5 000 barrels of oil equivalent below sales with the additional sales volumes attributed to the timing of crude and condensate listings in Equatorial Guinea.
Price realizations for crude oil and condensate were $110.80 per barrel.
That's up 14% from the first quarter of last year while domestic natural gas realizations were down 36% to $2.62 per 1 000 cubic feet.
Israel gas price realizations were near the midpoint of our guidance range and they averaged $4.51 per 1 000 cubic feet for the quarter.
Total production costs which included lease operating expense production ad valorem taxes transportation and gathering expenses were $8.09 per barrel of oil equivalent which is below our expected average for 2012.
The liquids projects have contributed to increases in DD&amp;A.
Rates which at $14.11 per barrel oil equivalent are still below our annual guidance range.
The unit costs are expected to fluctuate as the production mix changes throughout the year but we still expect to finish the year with unit costs within our annual guidance ranges.
In general growth in liquids production will bring higher unit cost but also much higher revenues.
In today's world where oil and gas prices are significantly disconnected we believe the only way to rationally evaluate producer cost is on a cost-per-dollar of revenue basis.
When we look at Noble's cost from this perspective we actually see a very positive trend.
Discretionary cash flow for the quarter was a record $716 million that's up 24% from the first quarter last year.
As expected discretionary cash flow was growing faster than production due to rapidly increasing liquid content of our production stream.
Our financial position remains strong with over $1.1 billion in cash on the balance sheet and total liquidity of $4.1 billion.
In addition to the solid financial results we experienced a number of operational achievements.
We assumed operatorship in a liquids-rich area of the Marcellus Joint Venture.
We made another discovery offshore Israel at Tanin with an estimated gross resource -- mean resource of greater than 1 Tcf.
And we've contracted approximately 4.1 Tcf of new natural gas sales from Tamar in Israel or approximately 45% of the fields estimated being resources.
These new contracts are expected to generate $28 billion in gross revenues over approximately the next 15-plus years.
As you can see the first quarter was a great start to 2012.
We're bringing on high-value production and actively progressing major projects that will fuel our growth over the next few years.
We also continue to invest in exploration whose value has already been demonstrated by our significant discoveries in West Africa and the Eastern Med as well as the Gulf of Mexico.
In West Africa we're continuing a multi-year exploration program which has already discovered 350 million barrels of oil equivalent net.
We believe this area has significant running room with currently identified inventory of high-quality prospects representing around 900 million barrels of oil equivalent net unrisked resources.
We plan to drill the prospect in Cameroon before the year ends which has an estimated gross unrisked resource range of 75 million to 230 million barrels of oil equivalent and a 38% probability of geologic success.
Exploration teams are also active in the Deepwater Gulf of Mexico where we plan to drill 2 exploration wells this year in addition to the ongoing appraisal at Gunflint.
The primary exploration well candidates include Deep Blue Troubadour and Big Ben.
In combination Troubadour and Big Ben have a gross mean resource estimate of over 90 million barrels of oil equivalent.
They're oil plays in close proximity to each other with similar characteristics to Galapagos and which could be brought to production quickly if successful.
But exploration is not just an onshore activity as evidenced by the prospective play in the Western U.S.
that we announced last month.
We've been building this position in a new resource play and we're noting today that it's in Nevada and we now have over 330 000 net acres in the play.
The play is different than what's been historically pursued by industry in Nevada.
The target section is similar in age and depositional history to productive petroleum systems in the Uintah Basin in Utah they have produced hundreds of millions of barrels of oil.
We're currently planning 3 seismic surveys and expect to begin pilot well tests next year.
At present we estimate net risk mean resources in the 500 million barrel of oil equivalent range which fits nicely in our global exploration portfolio.
Dave excuse me Dave will cover in detail our results in the Niobrara.
I just wanted to highlight here that we've expanded our acreage position in Northern Colorado outside Wattenberg to around 230 000 net acres.
We've integrated our geoscience work with our drilling and completions expertise to unlock and expand additional opportunities outside Wattenberg.
We continue to apply our learnings to increase well performance both within and outside Wattenberg.
By the end of this year we estimate that about 40% of our production from the DJ Basin will be from horizontal wells.
I want to spend a few minutes on our activities in the Eastern Mediterranean.
The Khmer project is on schedule for sales at the beginning of the second quarter next year.
As I previously mentioned nearly half of that resource is now under long-term contracts.
A pre-FEED study for floating LNG is nearly complete and may transition to a FEED study later this year.
Domestic Israel gas demand continues to grow and we're evaluating options to timely meet that demand.
With respect to Leviathan we're continuing our partnering efforts.
Our preferred partners expected to bring value through significant LNG plan expertise financial strength and global gas marketing expertise.
We've had a number of informal discussions with interested parties and we'll be launching a formal selection process in conjunction with our partner shortly.
We are encouraged that there is a broadening support for exports from Israel.
Our belief that exports will contribute significantly to the energy security and economic growth for the state of Israel.
Earlier this month the gas commission studying Israel gas exports released its interim recommendations.
These recommendations will be evaluated and commented on before the commission makes its final recommendations which are expected in June.
The final recommendations will need to support the continued exploration and development of the Levant Basin and ensure the economic viability of development projects to maximize energy security and value for Israel.
It's our intention to work closely with our partners including the State of Israel to contribute to the process we're able to do so.
So with that I'm going to turn the call over to Dave who'll give you an operational update and provide more details on our ongoing work.
Thanks Chuck.
I will begin my update in the DJ Basin the core area where we are continuing to generate impressive results from our horizontal program.
In the first quarter our net DJ Basin volumes averaged a record 73 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day that's 25% of the total production or 18 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day from the horizontal program.
Crude oil contributed 28 800 barrels per day and Natural Gas Liquids added 12 500 barrels per day representing a 56% liquid content from the DJ Basin.
The high liquid content has continued to provide significant economic value and we're focused on projects that further increase our liquids production percentage.
Expect the contribution from the horizontal drilling program to continue to grow rapidly as we transition from vertical to horizontal drilling in the Wattenberg field.
Our current April production from the horizontal program is 21 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day net with a 68% liquids content.
We estimate the exit rate for 2012 from the horizontal program to be 32 000 barrels oil equivalent per day net which is very similar to our total Wattenberg volume when the Patina transaction occurred in 2005.
We recently added our seventh operated horizontal rig alongside the 4 vertical rigs that we currently operate.
Additionally we plan to add 2 new fit-for-purpose horizontal rigs in the fourth quarter which will bring us just 9 horizontal rigs while we reduced to 2 vertical rigs by year end.
This rig activity will enable us to drill over 170 horizontal wells in addition to over 200 vertical wells this year.
Through our water management strategy we have secured over 100% of the water required to execute our 2012 completion program.
We're also working on future infrastructure needs beyond 2012 that includes water wells storage ponds and infield transport lines which will reduce truck traffic and lower transportation and procurement costs.
We estimate that these benefits in addition to the efficiency gains of pad drilling and shared service facilities will minimize our footprint and eliminate 56 million truck miles and reduce NOx emissions by 1 300 tons over the next 5 years.
An example of our more-efficient operation is our EcoNode facility where we've recently finished the completions of our 9-well pilot test.
All 9 wells are now on production.
As a reminder we're evaluating several things with this pilot program.
First we're testing recovery from 80-acre and 40-acre spacing.
We're also evaluating vertical recovery within the 300-foot Niobrara with a C chock lateral.
We have a month of production history now on over half of the wells in the pilot and we are encouraged that their average 30-day per well rate is around 500 barrels of oil equivalent per day with a liquid content over 80%.
After obtaining several months of production history we will have additional results to share later this year.
Since our last earnings call we've completed our first horizontal well specifically targeting the Codell interval.
It was drilled in the high geo our portion of the Wattenberg field in a section where 31 vertical Codell Niobrara wells have been producing.
Although it is early initial results have been promising.
We are moving ahead with plans to drill 6 to 8 similar wells this year.
We haven't fully discussed our Niobrara C bench evaluation program before but we have now completed 12 wells in this interval across portions of the field.
The results have been very good with 30-day per well rates ranging from 300 to 600 barrels oil equivalent per day.
These tests are designed to understand the Niobrara vertical communication between the B and C benches and how we designed a program to maximize recovery from this 300 to 350-foot hydrocarbon saturated reservoir.
Another value-optimization opportunity is extended reach laterals.
We just finished drilling our second extended reach lateral which reached TD in the lateral length just under 9 000 feet in 8.5 days beating the performance of our first extended reach lateral by 15%.
We're currently drilling our third and plan to drill a total of 12 to 15 extended reach laterals this year.
In Northern Colorado where our acreage is northeast and adjacent to the Wattenberg field we've expanded our position to 230 000 net acres with the addition of 48 000 net acres over the last few months.
Results from 5 recent wells are extremely encouraging with an average 30-day per well rate of 600 barrels oil equivalent per day and with our highest average crude oil content of approximately 80%.
We now expect to drill about 20% of this year's DJ Basin horizontal program or over 35 horizontal wells in this area with the objective of moving that into full-development mode by year end.
To summarize our efforts in the DJ Basin we have a very robust horizontal drilling program for 2012.
The majority of the wells will be in the more oil-prone areas of Wattenberg in Northern Colorado.
We'll continue to evaluate well density in the horizontal potential for multiple pay intervals.
Finally to illustrate the impact of our horizontal program by year end we expect 40% of our DJ Basin production will come from about 4% of our producing wells.
This clearly demonstrates the substantial production and technology improvements that have been implemented over the last couple of years.
I'll now shift my comments to our Marcellus horizontal program.
In the dry gas areas our current plan is to drill less than 60 dry gas wells this year while we continue to visit with our partner about the optimum dry gas activity level throughout the year.
The drilling is focused in Southwest Pennsylvania where we have a very high net revenue interest averaging 96% and expected recoveries over 6 Bcf per well.
In the wet gas area we're maintaining our program and expect to drill nearly 40 wells this year.
You will recall that in January we started operating our first rig in the wet gas portion of the acreage.
With the addition of 2 more rigs in the second half of 2012 we plan to be operating 3 rigs in the wet gas area by the end of the year.
We're presently conducting completion operations in Marshall County West Virginia on a 5-well pad and we'll then begin completion operations on our second pad containing 8 wells.
We anticipate our first operated production at the end of the second quarter.
Our overall Marcellus strategy focuses on an efficient repeatable process that builds on continuous improvement such as we have experienced in the Niobrara.
We believe that we can improve our recoveries by integrating geology and completion technology for optimum well placement and stimulation design.
In addition we expect cost reductions to improve drilling efficiency and fit-for-purpose rigs.
Shifting to the Deepwater Gulf of Mexico where we recently brought our South Raton project online that is now producing just over 3 000 barrels of oil per day net with some associated gas.
At our Galapagos project all topsides and subsea work is essentially complete.
The final commissioning and hand over to operation's ongoing.
We still expect to be on full production by the end of the second quarter.
Drilling operations continue to progress at Gunflint with results expected in the second quarter which has helped us to better define our current resource range of 70 million to more than 500 million barrels oil equivalent gross.
After logging and evaluation we will make a decision whether to sidetrack the well to further define the resource range.
We also expect to drill a couple more exploration wells this year as Chuck previously mentioned.
Moving to the Eastern Mediterranean.
We had several positive developments.
In Israel we had a significant discovery at Tanin which expanded our resource base with our sixth consecutive Eastern Med discovery.
We also announced the execution of a Gas Sales Agreement with Israel Electric Corporation.
Contract includes an option in which they can increase the sales volume from 2.7 Tcf to 3.5 Tcf.
If they exercise that option overall total contracted gross sales will be 4.9 Tcf or a little over half of the main resource estimate for Tamar.
The estimated value of the 4.9 Tcf is around $33 billion gross.
The Tamar project is progressing on schedule for commissioning to begin late this year and sales to start early in the second quarter of 2013.
Development drilling has been completed and final well completions should conclude early first quarter 2013.
Jacket and deck fabrications are over 80% complete we expect final installation in the fourth quarter.
Subsea pipeline installation is also complete and expansion of the Ashdod onshore receiving terminal is underway.
Supported by contracted volumes we expect gross Tamar sales could average around 700 million cubic feet per day by mid-2013.
In-country demand continues to grow and we're already evaluating other options to deliver incremental gas.
The Tamar pre-FEED floating LNG study is ongoing and we expect a decision on moving to a full FEED study to occur in the third quarter.
As we continue to make progress on Tamar we're closely managing our production for Mari-B in order to conserve deliverability.
We have just completed the Noa #2 well and the Pinnacles well and expect to complete the Noa #3 well in mid-May.
Initial indications from Noa and Pinnacles are encouraging and it's our expectation that these 2 fields will provide deliveries in excess of 150 million cubic feet per day beginning this summer.
In addition operations are ongoing to test the deep oil concept at Leviathan #1.
We still expect results in the second quarter before returning uphole for a flow test of the main Leviathan gas interval in this wellbore.
Moving now to our activity in West Africa.
I'll begin with Aseng.
We initially brought Aseng on production at 50 000 barrels per day gross and have increased production to 60 000 barrels per day with greater than 99% uptime.
Our cumulative production reached 8 million barrels at the end of the first quarter which is impressive when you consider that Aseng was initially scheduled to be online in July of this year.
Turning to our non-operated Alba production.
Our previously planned maintenance turnaround was shifted which resulted in increase production in the first quarter but will result in reduced production from Alba in the second quarter.
The planned turnaround is now complete and the field has been returned to full production.
Looking ahead our Alen-operated project remains on schedule for first production in the fourth quarter of 2013.
The platform fabrication is over 50% complete subsea umbilicals and controls are nearing completion.
We're currently completing the final production well and flowline installations are scheduled to begin in June.
Concerning our discoveries at Carla and Diega we have assembled project teams to evaluate development tieback options.
We have also contracted with an engineering firm to assist in preparing for concept selection.
With regard to the exploration program in West Africa that Chuck mentioned we're actively evaluating rig options for this multiyear program.
Based on water depths we anticipate this will be a mix of jack up and floater activity.
Before wrapping up I want to update the status of our U.S.
onshore divestment marketing effort.
Over the next month we'll be opening separate virtual data rooms for Texas and Oklahoma Panhandle properties Kansas oil assets and a Permian oil package and plan to market additional properties in the coming months.
Now let me review our volume guidance for the second quarter and the year.
Full year guidance remains unchanged at 244 000 to 256 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day.
We expect second quarter sales volumes to range between 224 000 and 232 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day.
Compared to the first quarter 85% of the change is attributed to international gas.
Second quarter volumes will be impacted by the Alba maintenance shifting from the first to the second quarter lower production levels at Mari-B and third-party processing downtime in the DJ Basin.
Volumes will recover quickly in the second half of the year from full production in West Africa new production in Israel start up of Galapagos and the Gulf of Mexico and the growing onshore programs.
As a result second half volumes are expected to be more than 10% greater than volumes in the first half of the year.
In summary we're excited about the activity in each of our core areas.
We're driving liquids growth in the DJ Basin Gulf of Mexico and West Africa.
Also in the DJ Basin we continue to unlock material additional resources.
Significant exploration is ongoing or planned this year in the Gulf of Mexico West Africa and Eastern Mediterranean and we're moving forward to realize the tremendous value of our Eastern Mediterranean assets while preparing to bring on substantial new production next year in Israel and Equatorial Guinea.
With that Ryan we will open the call for questions.
[Operator Instructions] And we'll take our first question from Brian Singer with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Following up on your comment with regards to the Niobrara C bench where you completed those 12 wells.
Can you talk to what that means or what you think that means at this point for how many with a combination of vertical and horizontal wells you can drill per section and over what level of area extent within the Niobrara or within Wattenberg you feel you like that confidence? Yes I think Brian it's still early in the evaluation.
I'd say what we've seen has been very encouraging which would lead me to believe we'll have a mix of C and B bench laterals over time.
I'd say and that'll differ probably in different parts of the field as you'll see different performance contribution from the C and different areas of the field.
So I'd say it's still probably too early to say that we'll have overlying and underlying C and B bench everywhere.
It may be staggered in some places but I think we'll know a lot more about that by the end of the year.
What I'll say though is that from what we've seen so far the productivity of the C bench in a number of the areas has look just as good as the productivity of the B bench which leads us to that conclusion that we will have a combination of both various portions of the field as we move forward.
So we'll continue to learn more about that.
What it means is continuing to unlock opportunity in resource for us.
I would just add Brian that we continue to test the horizontal in areas as Dave's noted areas that have been previously developed vertically.
And in the case of the EcoNode facility we had 17 vertical wells already drilled in that section in which we put the 9 horizontals across it which included both not only wells in the B but also a well in the C bench there.
So we're really testing it under real conditions and we just need more time and more data to really evaluate how we can expand it and how we would expand it across the field.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And my follow-up is regards to the Nevada play.
You compared it to the Uinta Basin in terms of age and geologically.
Can you talk about your expectations for oil quality would be and then also what you're -- I guess beyond the plan C you talked about the pilot wells in 2013 why you think that this was an area of focus for industry previously.
Well it's -- and again some of the Uinta production has high pour point oil and we would expect the same thing out of this prospect.
It's tertiary and that's why we refer to the production that was out of the Uinta basin.
That is as we have looked at industry that it's not been a focus point for industry in Nevada before in this particular section.
We carry the play into it based on a lot of regional work that we had done.
So that was how we came to that conclusion.
So as you know we've been gathering this acreage position.
We've gotten to the point where we were more comfortable about talking about it after securing the acreage and of course we've got to do some work as we go forward.
But that's our current thinking on it.
We'll know more with some pilot wells and as we do further evaluation work continuing into next year.
And we'll take our next question with Dave Kistler with Simmons &amp; Company.
Research Division</strong> Following up on the Nevada question there.
If the crude's kind of high paraffin well actually crude what does the refining capacity look like for you guys or have you started that evaluation process to understand ultimate deliverability of the options? I would just say that we have started working on what the infrastructure needs would be.
As you would guess there's not a lot of infrastructure since this is a new concept play.
It would likely be rail be likely heated railcars which is what some of the other production up in that part of the world would utilize.
But it's pretty early pretty early in the process other than we have anticipated there will be some additional infrastructure needs to develop this.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And following up on that and maybe combining it with the continued success in the Niobrara how does that change maybe the capital outlook for 2013? Could we see that biased higher versus the 5-year plan you gave us at the Analyst Day? And maybe any comments you can make towards what that would do to your liquids mix going forward would be helpful.
Well I guess I would just say that we constantly look at the mix of our capital and what's happening this year of course is that we've pushed capital out of some of the dry gas that we'd anticipated in the Marcellus and we pushed it into the Niobrara.
And given where the market environment is today and given the great results that we're getting in the Niobrara we'll continue to do that in 2013.
But it's too early to say what impact that might be on the overall capital program because we're constantly moving things around.
So it's -- how it works in our company is the best projects get to the table first and get the first capital and the Niobrara is doing extremely well.
And so we're trying to do everything we can to accelerate and grow that program as fast as reasonably possible.
And we'll take our next question from Arun Jayaram with Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Arun Jayaram Credit Suisse.
Chuck I was wondering if you could walk through some of the development options that you're thinking about today for Leviathan and Aphrodite? And perhaps discuss some of the pros and cons from a timing and cost perspective of development options including Cyprus Northern Israel or the Red Sea.
Well I think when you look at Leviathan and also keep in mind that we're getting new information as the committee in Israel study exports there is a view that the larger fields will be developed as a combination of both the domestic market and export.
So I think in Leviathan while we'll want to basically have a good plan for both going forward is that we could easily see domestic production from Leviathan before we see exports and that is our current thinking right now is that it will be a 2-step process.
Just by the way as we noted that we're evaluating potential exports from Tamar with a floating LNG.
So certainly for the large discoveries you would see a mix of domestic production which would likely come sooner combined with exports.
Cyprus the market there there is a need for gas domestically but it's of a smaller scale.
And so we certainly see that the Cyprus will go towards mainly an export market and those markets we see right now could be either European or Asian.
And really one of the -- why this whole partner selection process that we discussed and touched upon is so important is that can bring us not only a partner with the expertise in LNG and global gas marketing but conceptually it could also bring a partner that actually has a market.
So we need to go a little further on that.
But we've been working through this pre-FEED work on a number of sites that cover everything from Jordan to Israel to floating to Cyprus and have looked at the viability in a number of those.
And so we're keeping many options in play at this point but I think probably the only thinking or perhaps new information is that we see that probably all the major fields will have a domestic component including Leviathan.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And the timing Chuck if you did go to a domestic option first before export at Leviathan what would the timing be? I think you're looking at something in that kind of 2016 type time range for a Leviathan.
The other thing that you have to consider or enter into consideration also as you pride in that time frame you're also looking at additional phase in Tamar also.
So you've got probably 2 additional at least in-country projects to look at over the next 3 to 4 years.
And we'll take our next question from Brian Lively with Tudor Pickering Holt.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> On the Nevada play.
Can you just guys just talk broadly where is that within the state? And then I know some of us remember the Chainman Shale that's been tried over the last 2 years.
So maybe just some contrast on how this play's different.
Well it's in Northeast Nevada.
And again it's a tertiary play.
When you look at this section generally it's younger than what the industry has chased in Nevada over the number of the decades.
We've done a lot of geochem work.
The scorecard on this looks pretty attractive especially when you look at total organic carbon content some other rock parameters.
The uncertainty of course you've got the variability of rock types and things like that.
But as we mentioned before we've got this one risked at about over 500 million barrels of oil equivalent.
So it has the scale potential.
We built a very solid acreage position around it at very low cost which is the key of being an early entrant identifying a play earlier.
So it fits very nicely in the portfolio.
So we're excited about it.
I'll tell you that certainly several of us kept asking the team over and over again how did this one get missed.
And so you're asking the right questions because we've been asking him as well.
But it was clearly a nice job of people backing up and doing regional work and understanding how they can pull what works in another part of the country or what we do on our international program we sometimes look completely around the world.
And something we apply new technology to that really unlocks some of this resource.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Sure interesting.
And my second question is just probably on NGLs.
And if I recall them your Niobrara NGLs go through Con-way.
But if you guys could give just some updates on what you're seeing on the NGL realization front have you seen any stabilization in the NGL pricing that's been coming down recently? You're right.
Right now the majority of our DJ Basin NGLs go through Con-way.
I'd say probably in another 1.5 years 2 years that'll flip with the new line that's going in that'll take a lot more of that portion to Mount Bellevue.
But what we've seen is kind of recently we're at -- when you look at the NGL mix you're at about a little over 40% of West Texas Intermediate pricing and that's come down some from probably -- late last year it was closer to 50%.
So again I think we mentioned that last time we had the call our ethane contribution's just right around 30% 30% 31%.
I would also add and Dave referenced that the recent market is hard to read because there was a fractionator that was down there that really backed things up.
So that put another wrinkle in the market but that work is being completed.
And it was noted that was one of the things that affected our guidance for the second quarter.
And we'll take our next question from John Malone with Global Hunter Securities.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just to get a little more granular can you guys sort of walk us through the balance in Israel with Mari-B declining? And I then think you said 150 000 -- I'm sorry 150 million cubic feet a day on the summer from Noa to Pinnacle.
So can you just kind of walk us through how production goes towards Tamar next year? Yes we've been holding Mari-B or we've ramped down Mari-B to this quarter probably around in the 150 million to 160 million cubic feet per day range.
In the third quarter we expect as I mentioned Noa and Pinnacles to come back on.
So in total we should probably be a little north of 300 million a day in the third quarter as we get into the summer.
And then we're just going to have to see how some of the new wells that like Noa and Pinnacles hold up as we start to produce those.
They're not as large a reservoirs but we'll see how well they hold up going into the fourth quarter which will get us real close to when Tamar starts to come online.
And we'll be starting the commissioning of Tamar in the first quarter and have that ready in early second quarter.
And as we've mentioned we expect the volumes from Tamar then as we get that lined out next year.
By mid-next year it will be back up to probably close to 700 million cubic feet per day from Tamar.
And we'll take our next question from Irene Haas with Wunderlich Securities.
Research Division</strong> If I may ask 2 questions.
One is Nevada.
In this case you're going to train your staff out are you going westbound? Question number 2 has to do with the Wyoming Niobrara play.
Are you guys -- how's your feeling towards this particular portion of the play? And then in terms of extended lateral in the main part of the Wattenberg Field would you end up doing a whole lot of that stuff rather than your more conventional laterals? And Irene I just want to make sure I understood your first question on Nevada.
Was it on the transportation our anticipation of what direction it would go? Research Division</strong> Yes yes.
You go -- is there any chance you can go to California? I will tell you it's way way early in the stage now to decide on where that would go.
Again we mentioned I think in response to an earlier question that we expect this to be high pour point oil.
So we want to look very carefully at what refineries can best utilize that as you go forward.
But I mean we've got a lot of exploration work to do before we get to that point.
On Wyoming right now we've been working on our way north.
And so we're as Dave noted we've expanded into Northern Colorado outside the Wattenberg Field.
We've got some limited work in Wyoming but it's nowhere near at the maturity level that we've gotten in Colorado.
So right now the bulk on -- Dave can add exactly how much but I'd say a vast majority of our investment in Niobrara will be in Wattenberg and Northern Colorado in the extended area.
Yes I think the Wyoming work Irene will be just a few focused wells to continue to try and understand better these different pods as we call them that we'd breaking it up into different areas and portions of the acreage out there that we'll continue to evaluate.
But Chuck's right.
I mean the activity right now is focused on accelerating the Wattenberg program defining the Northern Colorado program and moving that forward to get it to the same place we are in Wattenberg.
As I've mentioned we expect to be there by the end of this year moving into next year.
I'd say on the longer laterals the extended laterals if we can get the type of performance we saw from the first well and it's the only one we really have on production at this point we'll be gung ho to move more of that program that way.
I mean there are limitations especially when you get in areas of the field that have been densely drilled vertically already.
So it has probably more application to the north and the east and then up in to Northern Colorado which coincidentally maybe not coincidentally happens to be our high oil content.
So that could play out well but as I said we're going to drill 10 to 12 of those this year.
We'll get some -- a wider data points or more data points on that type of performance and then we'll adjust from there.
Research Division</strong> Which is bench C and Codell as well? Same type of thing.
I'd say the one thing when you look at the things we're testing in Wattenberg and I'd say now even in Northern Colorado whether it's on aerial recovery or vertical recovery the one thing you can say is we have not been disappointed by any of the things we've tested there whether it's C bench Codell or lateral -- extended laterals.
[Operator Instructions] And we'll take our next question from Charles Meade with Johnson Rice.
L.L.C.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to ask about the Gulf of Mexico.
The Gunflint well you guys have been underway with that for a while.
Can you talk about where you are right now with respect to the target in TD and what you -- how you make your decision based on what you learn with this first penetration? Yes.
I mean we're still drilling ahead.
And as we've said we expect to finish that well in the second quarter.
We won't really give out an update as we go along but we'll wait till we finish the well.
If you go back to the first well that took over 5 months to fully drill and now we're in an environment where you're doing more testing and more continuous testing post-Macondo of equipment.
And so of course that'll take a little longer than the first one.
But I think that when we get the well down and we log and evaluate then what we'll be looking at is from what we're seeing and where we are relative to water contacts and where we expect water contacts to be from what we understand.
Does it make sense to do a sidetrack to further define the potential especially with the narrow down that resource range based on what we've seen from the initial logs.
L.L.C.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
So...
That'll be our decision once we get this well down.
L.L.C.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
So to clarify that then you're problem at getting it done in Q1 is really the first this wellbore not any follow-up appraisal or anything? Right.
We're talking about by the end of the second quarter to have the initial wellbore down and then we'll make the decision on a sidetrack.
L.L.C.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And so maybe if you see water levels you're more likely to sidetrack updip to try and find it...
It all depends on -- there is multiple sand here and so we would expect to see contacts in some.
The key is is we are off on the plank we're trying to evaluate a syncline feature.
And so based on what we see it could tell us whether oil has build into a second 3-way trap that's off to the side of the main feature.
And so we could be sidetracked in either downdip or updip based on what we find.
L.L.C.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then if I could just lob on a follow-up on that.
Galapagos can you tell -- can you kind of give the detail where you expect to be kind of end of this week or end of this month as far as your operations? I mean what we've said is we expect that to be coming online over the next month or so and be up to full production by the end of the quarter.
And by full production by end of quarter by the end of June we should be up to where we're seeing about 10 000 barrels per day of oil net to us.
And we have no further questions in the queue at this time.
Great.
Thanks Ryan.
I want to thank everyone today for their interest in Noble Energy and I hope everybody has a nice day.
Thank you.
That does conclude today's conference.
Thank you for your participation.
Good morning.
Welcome to Noble Energy's Second Quarter 2012 Earnings Call.
I would now like to turn the call over to David Larson Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead sir.
Thanks.
Good morning everyone.
Welcome to Noble Energy's Second Quarter 2012 Earnings Call and Webcast.
On the call today we have Chuck Davidson Chairman and CEO; Dave Stover President and COO; and Ken Fisher CFO.
Earlier this morning we issued our earnings release for the second quarter and it is available on our website.
We have also posted a few supplemental operational slides that we hope you will find useful as you review our results today.
You may have also noticed in the morning's press release that we have reclassified our North Sea operations as discontinued operations.
To assist you with the accounting impact we provided an additional table to our earnings release.
Following our call today we expect to be filing our 10-K with the SEC and it will be available on our website.
In a few moments I will be turning the call over to Chuck who will discuss our results for the quarter and some of our ongoing efforts to grow and monetize our project inventory.
Dave will then provide a detailed operational review and our -- on our near-term plans and outlook.
We'll leave time for Q&amp;A at the end and plan to conclude the call within the hour.
[Operator Instructions] I want to remind everyone that this webcast and the conference call contains projections and forward-looking statements based on our current views and most reasonable expectations.
We provide no assurances on these statements as a number of factors and uncertainties could cause actual results in the future periods to differ materially from what we discuss here today.
You should read our full disclosures on forward-looking statements in our latest news release and SEC filings for a discussion of the risk factors that influence our business.
Finally we will be referencing certain non-GAAP financial measures such as adjusted net income or discretionary cash flow on the call.
When we refer to these items it is because we believe they are good metrics to use in evaluating the company's performance.
We provide you with reconciliations in our earnings tables.
Now let me turn the call over to Chuck.
Thanks David.
Good morning everyone and thanks for joining us today.
We've got lots to cover as our activity levels remain very high.
I'm going to start out by reviewing our second quarter results including our full year guidance and then comment on some of our planned activities for the rest of the year.
And before we get to the numbers let me just comment on the reclassification of our North Sea properties to discontinued operations.
David referenced this in the opening.
We are doing this as a result of our recent announcement to divest the majority of our North Sea business.
Previous quarters have also been reclassified to reflect the impact of this change and you can see the references to discontinued operations in the schedules that accompany our earnings release this morning.
Adjusted net income for the second quarter totaled $145 million or $0.77 per share diluted.
Excluded from adjusted net income were unrealized gains from commodity hedges and 2 domestic asset impairments related to commodity prices.
As previously announced we have recorded $118 million pretax in exploration expense related to the Deep Blue project which reduced earnings this quarter by approximately $0.42 a share.
Revenues from continuing operations were $966 million for the quarter.
That's up 15% from the second quarter last year with a big driver in the growth being crude and condensate revenue which was up 57%.
Our total sales volumes for the quarter including sales from discontinued operations were 231 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day which was near the upper end of our second quarter guidance range.
As expected total sales were down from the first quarter due to planned maintenance early in the quarter at the Atwood plant as well as reduced gas sales in Israel where we continue to manage reservoir depletion.
In addition we experienced an impact in the DJ basin of approximately 4 000 barrels a day equivalent as a result of third-party processing downtime and hot weather.
Over 85% of the volume decrease from the first quarter was in natural gas sales with the remaining decrease in natural gas liquids.
Crude oil volumes were actually up 2% over the first quarter.
Sales from continuing operations averaged 224 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day.
Of that amount sales of crude and condensate represented 86 000 barrels a day which is a 62% increase over the second quarter last year.
Domestic sales totaled 134 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day and benefited from the first full quarter of production from South Raton as well as the start up of Galapagos near the end of the quarter as well as strong results from the horizontal drilling programs in the Marcellus and the Wattenberg and the Niobrara.
Internationally sales volumes were 90 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day.
We brought Alba back to full production after completing maintenance early in the second quarter and delivered another very strong quarter of production from Aseng.
As I mentioned previously our decision to divest certain North Sea assets has triggered reporting our entire North Sea business as discontinued operations.
As a result all of our North Sea production has been removed from our reported sales volumes.
Financial results for discontinued operations are rolled up to a single line item in the table as income from discontinued operations net of tax and as David mentioned we've provided an additional schedule in the back of this quarter's earnings release that gives greater detail on that line item.
Separately we've also announced that we've entered into sales agreements for our mid-continent and Permian divestiture packages.
To help you through the volume story on all of this on Page 4 of the supplementary slides that we've provided alongside our earnings release we have reconciled our original 2012 sales guidance that is the range of 244 000 to 256 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day.
We have reconciled that to a new pro forma range of 234 000 to 242 000 barrels of oil equivalent.
This pro forma was prepared by removing all the North Sea volumes for 2012 and adjusting volumes for all U.S.
divestments based on the expected closing dates.
In looking at our performance to date as well as estimates for the remainder of the year we're raising our full year sales guidance by about 2 000 barrels of oil equivalent above the original pro forma guidance.
Thus the new guidance for the full year is 236 000 to 244 000 barrels of oil equivalent.
I know there's a lot of pluses and minuses to get there but really the bottom line is clearly that the strong performance at Aseng and now Galapagos are helping us to lift the guidance range.
Additionally as noted in the press release we have lowered the guidance range for lease operating expense.
We've raised the range on DD&amp;A to reflect the greater mix of new high-value oil production and adjusted exploration expense guidance to reflect our latest estimates.
All other guidance items remain unchanged.
Our discretionary cash flow for the quarter was just over $700 million.
That's up 7% from the second quarter last year.
Liquidity remains very strong at over $3.7 billion.
Our already announced $1 billion of non-core divestments will provide additional support to our strong balance sheet.
On our divestment program I'm very pleased with the interest in the marketplace and the speed at which we've been able to execute.
We expect to continue divestments of our smaller non-core packages throughout this year and into next year.
David mentioned at the beginning of the call that for this quarter besides the earnings release we also provided a package of supplementary slides.
We believe this material will be helpful to you in understanding not only our quarterly performance but also the key drivers of our growth going forward.
I mentioned earlier that our activity levels are extremely high and we have many exciting things happening in virtually all of our core areas.
The supplementary materials provide additional detail and color on our programs and I encourage you to review the package.
In the DJ basin Dave will discuss later some of the substantial improvements we're seeing in our horizontal drilling program there.
It's hard to believe that it was only 15 months ago when we began seeing the upward inflection point in production from the horizontal Niobrara that told us that this program truly had the potential to dramatically change our company.
At that time we had been running 3 horizontal rigs and had about 30 horizontal wells online.
Since then we've experienced more than a fivefold increase in production and now have 7 rigs drilling horizontal wells with plan to be at 10 rigs by year-end.
Our horizontal well count should easily top 250 by then.
The era of vertical drilling in Wattenberg is rapidly coming to a close.
Our plan today for this region bear little resemblance to what they were 15 months ago.
Field development plans have gone through dramatic changes in scale and scope and major industry investments are being made in oil transportation gas processing gas and NGL transportation to accommodate this growth.
Earlier this year we announced we expected to invest $8 billion in this region over the next 5 years.
Our operations continue to expand northward.
We recently opened our new operations center in Greeley which will expand as we grow our activities in the DJ basin.
At this new facility our technicians are able to remotely monitor operate and optimize production from over 6 000 Noble-operated wells across the basin.
Utilization and expansion of this technology are bringing tremendous efficiencies to our operations and enhancing our safety and environmental performance.
Switching over to the Eastern Mediterranean.
We're rapidly moving forward with the development of our major discoveries there.
The development of Tamar which will provide gas to the Israeli domestic market is progressing on schedule.
Obviously the sooner we can provide that gas to the growing market the better.
After receiving approval from the public utility authorities and the Israel Antitrust Authority the sales agreement with Israel Electric Corporation has now received final regulatory approval from the Israeli cabinet.
This long and detailed process is now over and the contract is fully executed and effective.
While we continue to progress Tamar towards first sales oil next April we've been developing 2 smaller fields the Noa field and the Pinnacles field to support near-term domestic market needs.
Noa started delivering gas in the second quarter and we just now brought Pinnacles online after resolving some gas-specification issues.
The cost of substitute fields in Israel is very expensive to us so there's significant economic benefits to our customers and the people of Israel from these gas deliveries.
Once Tamar is online our work is not over by any means.
Domestic demand continues to grow and we're working on additional solutions to meet this growing demand.
With respect to exports we're studying several options.
The first phase of our pre-FEED work on LNG site locations has been completed.
Additional concept selection studies will be completed before launching a FEED study targeted for the first half of next year.
To complement our onshore initiatives we're also developing floating LNG strategies.
We're learning a lot about the technology that could be applied to Leviathan and Cyprus and we're evaluating those options as well.
Discussions with potential Leviathan partners are ongoing with several companies already having been through the data room and several more scheduled in the coming weeks.
Also we expect final recommendations from Israel's gas policy committee shortly.
We're optimistic about both our domestic and export sales plans.
We have numerous options.
We'll continue to move forward in parallel several of these over the coming months.
Let me finish up with just a brief review of our exploration activities in each of our key offshore basins.
In West Africa we look forward to beginning the drilling of an exploration prospect offshore Cameroon called Trema around September 1 with Atwood Hunter rig.
Trema is an oil prospect in about 2 000 feet of water with gross unrisked mean resources of approximately 120 million barrels oil equivalent and a 38% geologic chance of success.
Following Trema we plan to spot an appraisal well at our Carla discovery before the end of the year.
Carla is located beneath the Alen field and has an estimated gross resource range of 35 million to 100 million barrels equivalent with about 80% liquid content.
Following Carla we've got a deep inventory of West Africa drilling plan for 2013.
In the Gulf of Mexico our appraisal well at Gunflint has reached TD at 29 975 feet.
While we still have a rig on location and we're finishing up the open hole evaluation we can provide a preliminary status at this time.
Hydrocarbons have been found in several but not all of the target sands that contain hydrocarbons in the original discovery well.
The appraisal well has also confirmed excellent reservoir properties and continuity thus establishing the commercial viability of the field.
The results to date indicate that the resources are within Noble's previous range although likely below the midpoint given not all of the sands are showing pay at this appraisal location.
Our plan is to drill a new well later this year in the southern part of the field which we expect will determine the development of Gunflint as either a subsea tieback or as an standalone host facility.
The current well will be temporarily abandoned for future use as a producer.
Also in the Gulf of Mexico we next plan to spud an exploration well at our Big Bend prospect later this year.
This oil prospect is located near our second oil prospect named Troubadour.
If successful we envision using subsea tiebacks for these yields just as we recently completed Galapagos.
And in the Eastern Mediterranean we're working on arrangements to spud a well to test the deep oil potential offshore Israel in 2013 and in Cyprus we plan to spud an appraisal well at our discovery there by early 2013 depending on rig availability with that well to better -- help us better understand the resource potential and better define our development options there.
I continue to remain very excited about the path we're on.
Our major projects execution continues to be outstanding with Aseng and Galapagos delivering exceptional results that are well above expectations.
The same can be said for our unconventional developments in the DJ basin and the Marcellus.
Our next generation of projects are on track for 2013 and we have lots of high impact exploration in front of us.
I wouldn't trade our position for anyone at this point.
So with that I'll turn the call over to Dave who will take you through a review of our ongoing operations.
Thank you Chuck.
I will touch upon the operations in each of our core areas beginning with our activities in the Marcellus Shale play as next month we'll mark the 1-year anniversary of our announcement of the joint venture with CONSOL.
By focusing on our Marcellus areas that provide the strongest returns we're now producing over 2.5x our net production at the time of the announcement last year.
For the recent quarter we averaged 74 million cubic feet per day from our Marcellus horizontal program.
All of this production is from the dry gas area and we expect to start our first wet gas production by the end of this month.
In the wet gas area we are currently operating 1 rig and will be adding 2 additional horizontal rigs in the third quarter.
We took over operatorship of the first pad which was drilled by our partner in Marshall County West Virginia at the beginning of the year.
The 5 wells on that pad have been drilled and completed and we are finishing the gathering system hookup which will allow transport of the wet gas to the MarkWest processing plant.
The second pad has 8 wells that have been drilled and completion operations are underway.
We estimate that those wells will also reach first production in the third quarter.
The third pad contains 7 wells and drilling is nearly complete.
We'll then be moving our rig to the fourth pad which will likely be an 11-well pad.
Our longest lateral in the wet gas area so far is approximately 6 200 feet and we're actively optimizing our lease positions to allow us to continue maximizing lateral lengths.
In the dry gas area planned drilling operations for 2012 were completed in central Pennsylvania and northern West Virginia.
During the quarter CONSOL brought the first well of a 4-well pad onto production and although we only have a short production history this well produced just under 18 million cubic feet in a 24-hour period.
These 4 wells are among 8 recent wells with lateral lengths of 8 000 feet or greater and they demonstrate the partnership's successful efforts to increase lateral links where possible.
CONSOL is presently operating now 2 horizontal rigs both in southwestern Pennsylvania where drilling efforts will be focused on several pads in Greene County.
Strong well results in southwest and central Pennsylvania and in West Virginia have allowed us to increase our EUR significantly above our acquisition model.
We now believe our Marcellus net risk resource estimate is closer to 10 trillion cubic feet equivalent compared to the original estimate of just over 7 trillion cubic feet equivalent at the time of the acquisition.
On Page 11 of our supplementary slides we show an example of this increase for our southwest Pennsylvania dry gas area.
Looking forward.
In 2012 we now expect to drill just over 30 wells in the wet gas area and just under 60 in the dry gas area.
We're benefiting from our continuing trend of lengthening laterals and now believe that our average lateral length in 2012 will be greater than 5 000 feet.
The efficiencies of pad drilling the initiation of production in the wet gas area and our focus on the high EUR and high net revenue interest area of southwestern Pennsylvania will all have a positive impact on the economics of our program.
By the end of the year we expect to be producing 140 million cubic feet equivalent per day net from the Marcellus.
In our second onshore domestic core area the DJ Basin second quarter production averaged 73 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day despite an impact of approximately 4 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day from third-party processing facility maintenance and unseasonably warm weather.
Crude oil represents 40% of the production with another 17% from NGL.
Our horizontal program continues to outperform expectations and is rapidly expanding.
During the second quarter this program accounted for 24 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day or approximately 1/3 of our DJ Basin production.
Our horizontal production is up 60% year-to-date and is currently producing 27 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day net with 66% liquids.
Since June of last year the horizontal production has more than tripled.
We're adding an eighth horizontal rig in August and have contracted 2 additional horizontal rigs that will start up before the end of the year.
In the first half of this year we spud 83 horizontal wells and performance continues to improve as a result of a number of key learnings.
Slightly more than half of these wells are in the extension area where the wells brought on production this year are tracking EURs almost 10% above the 310 000 barrel of oil equivalent type curve with greater than 75% liquids.
We have highlighted this year-over-year performance improvement on Slide 7 of the supplemental material.
In the core area we spud a total of 24 wells this year where liquid content average is close to 60% and again our EURs are exceeding previous type curves.
And in northern Colorado where we plan to drill 35 to 40 wells this year we continue to see approximately 80% crude oil content on the wells completed to date.
With respect to our extended reach lateral program our initial well is located in the extension area.
This 9 000-foot lateral continues to track above a 750 000 barrel of oil equivalent type curve even after a year of production.
Cumulative production to date is close to 200 000 barrels of oil equivalent.
Our next 2 extended reach wells are approaching 30 days of production with excellent results similar to the first extended reach well.
We just finished completion operations on our fourth long lateral well and recently turned it to sales.
We have plans for approximately 10 additional extended reach wells this year.
We are collecting a significant amount of production and performance data at our first EcoNode pilot project which began production earlier this year.
We call this 9-well project as testing aerial and vertical recovery of the Niobrara formation.
We encourage -- we are encouraged with the performance of all 9 of the wells.
In fact it appears that the wells placed closest to each other at 40-acre spacing are producing the best.
Based on these results we are preparing another increased density pilot project.
This program will consist of 15 wells in a section testing different development concepts with 40-acre density and multiple targets.
We will again be targeting the B and C benches but also intend to horizontally test the A bench and the Codell from the same pad.
The 15-well pilot will be located in the extension area near the 9-well pilot and we expect to spud the first well in August with initial production late in the fourth quarter.
Our goal with these pilot tests is to maximize the economic recovery of the original oil and gas in place while minimizing our surface footprint.
Refer to supplemental Slide 8 and 9 for further information on these 2 pilot programs.
The majority of our development plans this year are focused in the oilier extension area where we envision new numerous multi-well pads incorporating the EcoNode concept supported by a central processing facility with pipeline infrastructure enabling the offtake of  oil and gas.
Meanwhile we will continue to delineate the northern Colorado portion of our acreage in preparation for the implementation of our next-generation development plan building up on the EcoNode and central processing facility concepts.
With respect to infrastructure we're obtaining additional oil transport and gas processing capacity through pipeline and plant expansions new gas plants and a new rail terminal.
The capacity of the White Cliffs oil pipeline was previously expanded to approximately 75 000 barrels per day.
We have approved an infield oil gathering system with initial capacity of 50 000 barrels per day with an expansion capability to 80 000 barrels per day.
The system should be operational in the third quarter of 2013.
We have also committed 10 000 barrels per day to a new rail terminal in the area expected to be online late next year.
Third-party gas processing capacity continues to increase through expansions and new facilities.
And with respect our water needs we have a number of water supply projects underway to support our development.
To summarize our DJ Basin activity we're on pace now to drill close to 190 horizontal wells this year with 75% of those on multi-well pads.
Our vertical program will be ramping down to 1 rig by the fourth quarter as we continue to shift capital to our horizontal program.
Our production has grown dramatically performance continues to exceed expectations and we are encouraged with recent data from our pilot project as we continue to focus on increasing recovery.
I will now discuss our Deepwater Gulf of Mexico operations.
In the Gulf of Mexico production averaged 15 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day throughout the second quarter up over 30% from the first quarter primarily due to the first full quarter of production from South Raton and a small contribution from Galapagos in June.
We will see greater growth in the third quarter with the benefit of a full quarter of production from the Galapagos field.
Current oil production from the Galapagos field is about 30% greater than our original expectations and has significantly increased our contribution from the Gulf of Mexico.
As Chuck mentioned earlier our next Gulf of Mexico exploration well will be Big Bend with another Gunflint appraisal targeted for late this year.
We were also active in the recent Gulf of Mexico lease sale where we were the apparent high bidder on 6 blocks.
Turning to our international activities.
I'll begin in the Eastern Mediterranean.
We've been working hard to bring on additional supplies of natural gas.
During the quarter we completed and started production from 2 wells in the Noa field.
We also recently started producing from our well in the Pinnacles field.
Overall we expect to hold our Israel gross production between 200 million and 250 million cubic feet per day over the third quarter as we continue to manage our volumes until Tamar comes online.
Our development plans at Tamar are progressing thing on schedule for sales to commence next April.
Well completions are continuing and we recently completed a flowback test.
The deck and jacket fabrications are over 95% complete and progressing toward platform installation later this year.
We plan to begin commissioning Tamar in the fourth quarter.
As Chuck mentioned finalizing all approvals of the Israel Electric contract and the continuing increased gas demand in the country sets us up well for our 2013 deliveries.
At Leviathan we completed a successful gas flow test on the #1 well and are evaluating drilling an appraisal well in the fourth quarter.
We are targeting initial Leviathan production to support the growing domestic market in the 2016 time frame followed by an export project.
We've been pleased with the interest shown in our Leviathan marketing effort and we continue to move toward a new partner announcement by year-end.
In West Africa we continue to see great results from Aseng.
It produced an average of 63 000 barrels per day throughout the second quarter and hit a daily peak rate of just under 70 000 barrels per day.
We initially brought production on at 50 000 barrels per day and the strong reservoir performance has allowed us to continue ramping up production.
We plan to produce the field at a gross rate of 65 000 to 70 000 barrels per day through the third quarter.
By the end of the second quarter we had already produced nearly 14 million barrels of oil.
We're also making good progress on our Alen project.
All major platform fabrication has been delivered and power generation modules and gas compressors have been installed.
The subsea platform well operations and flow line installations are complete and the project remains on schedule.
We believe there are significant prospectivity remaining in our current lease positions  offshore Equatorial Guinea and Cameroon.
As Chuck mentioned we have exploration drilling starting this quarter and continuing through 2013.
Before we open the call to questions let me touch upon our expectations for next quarter's volumes.
As I mentioned in our last earnings call we expect tremendous growth from our core operations during the second half of 2012.
For the third quarter we estimate volumes to be 242 000 to 250 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day up 10% from second quarter based on the midpoint.
On supplemental Slide 5 we show the adjustments to the range which include announced U.S.
asset sales and discontinued operations.
Onshore volumes will continue to grow with the DJ Basin activity and the initiation of our wet gas production in the Marcellus.
Our Gulf of Mexico production will also be up with our first full quarter impact from Galapagos.
Internationally we expect West Africa sales to remain strong and volumes in Israel should reflect the added deliveries from Noa and Pinnacles.
The significant growth in the second half of this year is the initial springboard for our 5-year average annual growth rate of 17% we highlighted late last year.
Combined with the ongoing exploration and appraisal activities and the continued progress on the major 2013 startups for Tamar and Alen this is an extremely active and exciting time for Noble Energy.
So now we'd like to go ahead and open the call for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Brian Singer with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> A couple of questions.
First can you just talk to the cost trends that you're seeing drilling horizontal wells in both the Marcellus and in Wattenberg and whether you're seeing any changes per lateral foot or any atrocities from using those longer laterals et cetera? Yes Brian I think what you're -- initial results are very encouraging.
What the target is is as you continue to move out beyond these 4 000 to 5 000 foot horizontal laterals you're really looking for something in a 2:1 ratio of improvement of recovery versus costs and that's kind of what we've been seeing so far.
So I think the real question is is that proportional as you continue to move out from say 4 000 to 5 000 feet to 8 000 to 9 000.
So that's really the price that you're looking for there.
And as we've noted a number of times especially where we're deep in the program in the Niobrara the big driver of efficiency has been that our drill times have been coming down steadily and so now we're -- it's one of the reasons that our well count for this year is moving up instead of -- we've just been able to drill the wells more quickly.
Research Division</strong> If we look at EUR charts that you have in your presentation.
I mean it does look like some of the wells that you've drilled so far are actually above your revised EUR your revised type curves.
Is that just conservatism? Or do you feel like you've drilled better wells than what you expect to have on average? I think we're really starting -- continuing to improve and learn as we go out here.
Part of it is how your bring the wells on production and how you maximize performance especially in the early time period of the wells that sets you up for better recovery over the longer time period.
I'd say on those charts none of those reflect the extended lateral piece.
For example the charts on Wattenberg those are those 4 000 to 5 000 foot operations.
So I think we're just continuing to improve as we go and we're continuing to learn as we go as you would expect in these types of plays and I'd say we're probably further along in the DJ Basin than we are in the Marcellus.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And lastly on Israel can you put any more color on -- I guess any greater certainty if you have it for where Leviathan facility the LNG facility would be located.
And then as you speak with potential partners whether there are specific key milestones that you all need to see from the government before moving forward.
I think Brian I think the real key indication we're going to see is from the policy committee that is looking at their requirements for an LNG exports from Israeli gas and of course we've talked to them about the benefits of having perhaps a single combined facility in the Eastern Mediterranean rather than several.
So I think the key milestones there will be the policy committee's report which we do expect to have shortly.
On our side of it though we have as I mentioned we've done a lot of pre-FEED work on a number of sites Cyprus as well as Israel also looking at floating LNG as well.
So we've got a lot of pieces moving forward.
Key milestones going forward are certainly the policy report the work that we're doing to solicit a partner which again that progress is we're making nice progress there.
And hopefully we'll be announcing something by the end of the year.
We're getting a number of companies interested that have gone through the data room.
And then in parallel with all that we're doing some of this early engineering work on a number of options.
We'll take our next question from Leo Mariani with RBC Capital.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just curious about the downtime you saw in the second quarter in the DJ.
Is that something you think is going to persist into the second half? And just curious if you've seen similar downtime in July.
I think most of that was back in April Leo with some of the facility maintenance and some of the downtime on the facilities.
More of what the recent has been in June maybe a little bit in the early July has been the hotter weather.
It's been extremely warm up there I think approaching 100 is the third part of it.
And when you get that really warm weather it kind of ends up backing of some pressure.
You end up with a little higher pressures in the system out there.
So we get some relief from the weather we'll be okay.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
So no problem selling any of your NGLs at this point? Well the early -- one of the third-party downtime was with the problem with a fractionator.
And so far our volumes -- of course we go through a third-party processor as well and those volumes have been moving out.
We all know that the NGL market is very soft.
Ethane of course is very very soft so we'll see it going on.
But it's -- again it's from our business NGLs is not a huge part of our business so any impacts don't appear to be material to us at this time.
LLC Research Division</strong> Got you.
And I guess just in terms of Israel where is your current Mari-B production? And what do you expect Pinnacles to add as well? Yes.
I mentioned in the call for the quarter we'll be running in that 200 to 250 range total.
I think when you look at capacity Mari we've been trying to keep that in the 75 to 100 range.
Noa has had capacity to get up to 100 but -- so we'll be in that 70 to 100 range on that and Pinnacles is probably in the 50 to 75 range.
So just putting all those pieces together we'll run in that 200 to 250 for the quarter.
Some of these components may have the capability to deliver at higher rates but as -- I know you're well familiar with the story is we are managing this the bridge all the way to next April when we expect Tamar to come on.
So we're trying not to get into a position where we have a sudden depletion and then say the winter months that we don't have any gas to sell.
So it's very much a managed sales process right now.
We'll take our next question from Brian Lively with Tudor Pickering &amp; Holt.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Can you guys remind us what you are looking to sell or what you're looking to do with the Leviathan data room? Yes.
The Leviathan data room is open for companies who are -- we have asked to consider coming in as a partner in the development of Leviathan and potentially an export project in the Eastern Med later on.
So these are companies who are reviewing the data because the anticipated transaction would be that they would be purchasing an interest in the Leviathan field.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just a follow-up to an earlier question.
On your Q3 guidance how have you risked back for potential hurricane downtime? And are there any other planned maintenance downtimes you see across the portfolio? Yes.
In both third quarter and fourth quarter we put hurricane downtime risking in there.
I don't remember exact Levi amount but it's 10% or so I think of the volume for the quarter in the Deepwater.
So that's part of what we go into the year budgeting for and planning for some downtime for third and fourth quarter.
And I don't think we really have any planned maintenance of any significance in the third quarter right now.
We finished up the West Africa maintenance early in the year so we'll just knock on wood that some unplanned maintenance doesn't come up.
We'll take our next question from Dave Kistler with Simmons &amp; Company.
Research Division</strong> Real quickly on Gunflint.
If I recall correctly the range you guys had around it was 70 million to maybe 500 million-plus barrels.
With what you've seen to date and with plans to drill another well what are initial thoughts on timing to sales and maybe development costs that we should be thinking about incorporating as we build out a model around that? Dave and I will tag team on that.
What we're seeing right now is we could see a combination process on the development of Gunflint and we've shown some of the mapping before.
But it looks like we've got a nice 4-way structure there based on the original well and this appraisal well we've drilled.
And as we've mentioned on the call we've got another well to the south that we wanted to drill.
But you could anticipate now that one possibility is to go forward with a subsea tieback on the 4-way while there's probably still some exploration that needs to be done in the deeper zones.
That's one possibility but we're still working with our partners.
Some of our partners would say that maybe there's a possibility this could still be a single-hosted facility and they'd like to see the results of this next appraisal well.
But as you know if it turns out to be a subsea tieback that could possibly shorten maybe by a year the production timing as to when first production would come.
But we'll know more after the next appraisal well.
And I know you asked about cost but it's way too premature to figure that out at this point.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
I appreciate that.
And then maybe switching back over to the DJ Basin and the down spacing program and I apologize if I missed this.
But based on the results you're seeing right now what's kind of anticipated timing to calling maybe victory to down spacing and what would that mean to total recoverable reserves in that area? Well I think the key is where we end up on this 40-acre type pattern and a big key to that Dave is this next pilot that we're doing that we're actually just starting the drilling now.
So we won't start really seeing production from this next pilot until probably late in the quarter.
So 2 things.
We'll continue to monitor the wells that we had essentially set up on 40-acre spacing in the previous pilot that have looked very strong and I think we included that in the supplemental slide.
And you can kind of see that performance relative to some of the other wells.
So that's given us some real encouragement.
Now we need to get this next 15-well pilot drilled and start to produce from that and that will give us a lot more data over a wider range here that will -- you'll really start to understand that data a little bit better by the first quarter next year.
But if you go back to our resource potential and everything we've talked about the 40-acre potential is something new.
So we just need to get a handle on that and I'd say it's very encouraging today.
But we'll have a lot more information on that the first half of next year.
And as you could expect we would -- our thinking is is that increased density may be more applicable to some parts of the area than others and we have to figure all that out.
But you're on the right track if the resources are going up as we get these positive results from the 40-acre test.
And I'd say the other thing there.
We're testing some different things on vertical recovery there with this new pilot too.
That will all enter into that picture.
We kind of laid that out on the supplemental slide also.
Our next question comes from Bob Brackett with Bernstein Research.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> I had a question on Leviathan.
What fraction of Leviathan's reserves have to go to the export market to make the project viable? Well with Leviathan at 17 TCF within almost any range you've got more than enough resource.
And I'm talking about -- the general discussion in Israel so far has been maybe roughly half but we'll see what the final policy decision is on that.
So you've got even at half you've got 8 or 9 TCF that's available which is enough to support a project but I think what's more important here is to try to make sure you've got an efficient project for the Eastern Med because of the additional resources at Cyprus.
And there will be -- under this policy there will probably be several fields that will be set up to allow for exports.
It won't just be Leviathan.
So we're trying to see if we can to make sure that this thing is as efficient as possible hopefully a single point location for exports.
There may be a land base as well as a floating.
But I don't think right now we're as concerned about the amount of gas that's available for export.
We certainly would like to see as much as possible because it makes a project more efficient but we just want to make sure the logistics work out.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> But if that number is 25% or 0% that's allowed to export does the project still work? Well it depends on how much you add at Cyprus because this is not necessarily just a single field.
But I've not heard of any numbers that low.
So that's just kind of speculating and is beyond what any speculations occurred in Israel.
We'll take our next question from David Tameron with Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> A couple -- let me just go back to the Wattenberg.
I know it sounds like you have got additional capacity coming on in 2013 as far as processing and getting some of the third party processing capacity up.
But can you talk about between now and then -- I mean you're ramping activity.
I would say Anadarko is ramping and others.
But it seems to be getting pretty tight as far as the takeaway capacity until '13 and yet you're still adding the rigs in the back half of the year.
So can you just talk about what we're up against for the next 2 or 3 quarters as far as getting [indiscernible]? Keeping an eye on capacity and takeaway and managing the field to in tune with that.
Now a lot of our effort I'd say the majority almost all of our effort has been in the northern part of the field moving up into northern Colorado which is the area we're continuing to delineate.
And that's where we have the real high oil percentage if you will.
I think if you get the northern part of the field up in northern Colorado we're up to 80% oil 80% crude up there.
So it minimizes the amount of gas you have to handle as part of that while your allowing some of this additional processing this expansion to catch up with that.
So I think we've managed the field operations to be in sync with the capacity expectations and what we see going forward with a large part of that being the focus in the northern part where you have the high crude content.
Again the whole idea is to stay a year or 2 ahead of this with the third-party processors to make sure that everything syncs up with our drilling schedule.
And at the same time as Dave I think mentioned in the call is that we're winding down rapidly the vertical program.
A lot of that vertical program was in some of the higher GOR areas with the refracs and with the drilling of vertical wells.
So it's managing all the pieces.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
Fair enough.
One final question.
Just as I look -- again back to the DJ can you guys talk about -- as you look to the Codell but can you talk about any results in the Codell? As far as I know there's been some chatter out there from some other players.
And then have you done anything with the Greenhorn? And do you think it's prospective? Yes.
I'd say first on the Codell we've done a few tests on the Codell.
And if you look at this 15-well pilot we've got a couple more tests that we're going to do on the Codell.
So it's something that still continues to interest us and we've seen some encouraging results on the tests we've done now.
Whether it's something that can be drilled horizontally across the whole field I don't know.
That's part of as Chuck alluded to earlier that some of these things may apply to different parts of the field differently.
On other formations like the Greenhorn I'd say they're kind of secondary behind what we're doing with the Niobrara and Codell here at this point.
Still it's somethings we're continuing to look at.
We'll do some what I would call exploratory work on some of that over the next year or so but this is just a basin with a lot of resources and a lot of things that have shown hydrocarbons and it's just something else that's further back in the queue right now.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
As far as the baseball analogy what inning would you say you're in as far as field development and as far as climbing that learning curve? In -- I'd say in the Niobrara we're probably in I'd say third inning or so of that as far as the horizontal Niobrara of what we still have in front of us.
And some of those other formations like Greenhorn and stuff I'm not even sure we've stepped up to bat yet.
I think the other thing just to add to it is if you look up the history of Wattenberg which goes back into around 1970 this field has reinvented itself a number of times.
But this one is stunning.
The horizontal development in this field is truly stunning and we're probably cautious about assuming we know everything there is to know here.
And I think Dave's got it pegged just right is that for every quarter we're setting new records and we're learning new things.
And fortunately most of it has been extremely positive.
We'll take our next question from Michael Hall with Robert W.
Baird.
Research Division</strong> I just had I guess another couple of questions on the DJ program.
On the 40-acre pilot you highlighted that the 40-acre test seemed to be performing better.
Any thoughts as to maybe what's driving that why you'd see better results from the 40 as opposed to the 80? I mean one of the theories Michael is that really the more you break this rock up and the more you get it connected the more recovery you're going to get out of this just as tight as this formation is.
So what you start to see as you get down to the smaller spacing is you start to get this a little better connected and then more broken up.
And with the brittleness here that may lead to just better recovery overall.
Research Division</strong> And what do you think those recoveries are trending versus any internal target picture? I mean if you go back to what we said when we started this on 160-acre horizontal Niobrara based on our original type curves we're thinking about 5% incremental recovery for that.
So as you keep cutting that in half you're looking at 5% potential incremental price for each reduction in spacing.
So I mean that's kind of the price we're looking at.
Yes.
We're absolutely -- in terms of ultimate goals we're trying to push this well beyond 10% recovery.
But we're still testing what the limit might be.
We're also still getting a handle on how much original oil and gas in place there is as to whether that's still growing as we continue to unlock some of this.
Research Division</strong> Fair enough I guess.
I'll just ask then what is the kind of current thinking on original oil plays [ph]? We've started out and we always said it's kind of 20 million to 30 million barrels per section per 640.
And we haven't really changed that yet.
But I'd say it's probably gravitating towards the upper end of that.
Our next question comes from Arun Jayaram with Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to follow-up Chuck a little bit on Leviathan.
Obviously you're waiting a little bit on the export decision.
But there seems to be quite at a bit of chatter that you guys have launched a tender for an early production system at Leviathan with perhaps an FPSO in a 1.2 BCF of capacity perhaps coming online in 2016.
I just wanted to get your thought process.
Obviously with Tamar that would take a deliverability well above 2 BCF potentially which is a little bit higher than Israeli consumption.
Just wanted to get your thought process behind an early production system at Leviathan.
Well first of all we are pursuing a number of options and what we're zeroing on is that the demand for gas in Israel has grown substantially.
And so we see a bigger market there than probably what we saw at the time we designed Tamar.
And so we are looking at a number of options of how we can provide incremental gas to the Israeli market.
The other thing is that the early results from the policy committee and we'll see what their final results are.
As suggested they do want to have split deliveries from fields so that -- it's not just a matter of Tamar supply the domestic market and Leviathan goes to export is that we expect that on certainly the larger fields they will be split between domestic and export.
So that means that Leviathan would have a component that goes to domestic and so we've been doing some work to see how we might develop Leviathan ahead of an export project because an export project is more long term.
Ahead of an export project that could help meet this increased demand of gas from Israel.
Research Division</strong> And that timing perhaps Chuck would 2016 be a possibility? Oh yes that's a possibility.
And as you know that getting early production from Leviathan really boosts its value.
Research Division</strong> Right exactly.
Okay.
Now let me shift gears a little bit in terms of the DJ.
At the analyst meeting you guys had talked about an inventory of about 2 000-plus wells possibly doubling based on down spacing.
It seems like you obviously had some good success at 80 acres pushing to 40.
When are you thinking -- or what are you thinking about the inventory today? And are you ready to say today based on initial results of the inventory it's pushing that 4 000 well number? I mean you're absolutely right in the recognition that the inventory is growing because that inventory we talked about last -- well I guess last November or so included some 80 acre but not a lot of 80 acre and also didn't include all this northern Colorado piece.
So between getting more comfortable with the 80-acre and the northern Colorado that's grown the inventory a good bit and now we'll see where we get to on the 40-acre.
And again if I go back to 40 acre to be able to really start to get a good idea of how that's going to fit into the inventory of locations you're looking at the first half of next year.
But it's not unrealistic to be pushing this to 4 000 at some point here.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just one real quick one.
It looks like now the rig count is moving to 10 on the horizontal side which is up a little bit I think from 9 previously.
Any thoughts as we think about 2013 on how many horizontal rigs you plan to have next year? Yes I mean we'll continue to work through that here as we get into the budget cycle.
I mean we'll be exiting the year with 10 so that's kind of our starting point.
For next year I think the other thing we'll be looking at pretty hard is the efficiencies because it's not taking as many rigs to drill as many wells even on the horizontal program.
You know what at one time we were think it would be 12-day wells to drill or turning out to be under 10 on a lot of this.
So that's going to be a factor into the number of rigs that we need.
The main thing we'll be working on is how many wells do we want to set ourselves up to drill horizontal wells next year.
And then we'll back back into the rig portion.
Our next question comes from John Malone with Global Hunter Securities.
LLC Research Division</strong> I just want to know can you give a little more color on the 2 more recent extended reach wells you had in the Wattenberg? You said their actual results were kind of comparable to Wells Ranch.
Are you seeing a certain -- a similar EUR potential for those and similar IPs? The reason John we haven't given more color is we're still less than 30 days in on those.
So we don't like to get too far ahead of ourselves.
What I would say on that performance within that 30-day time frame it looked very similar to that type curves of that first extended reach horizontal well.
If you go back and look at that.
But that's something -- as we get another quarter into this and we can get closer to 120 days we'll overlay that with the first one and be able to highlight how it compares.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And Marcellus was it similar targets similar parameters? Right similar thing.
It is just cleaning up now.
In fact I think we just put it on production in the last couple of days.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just on Gunflint.
If I recall correctly you talked in the past about the potential -- the appraisal you're testing a potential spillover to another structure.
From what you're seeing here can we assume that that spillover is not the case and it's just flowing closer? We're still going through the evaluation of that but we've got -- we had as I mentioned there were some zones that had paid down to our current appraisal location because our appraisal is down-dipped moving more into that syncline line other zones didn't.
And then we've got some deeper zones that look kind of interesting.
So I'd say the jury is still out in terms of understanding the resources there.
But I'll give you that our thinking is there's probably some resources in the 3-way as well but we can't tell from this location what extent that might be.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just one last one.
Just anything you can say about Sierra Leone plans there.
Still early just in the phase of -- we've just been notified of the license so there's work to be done.
But going into that we thought that was a very interesting and prospective area so we're excited to -- it looks like we'll be invited to be a part of the exploration.
More than 2 blocks it is.
Our next question comes from John Herrlin with Societe General.
Three quick ones.
With Aseng why the better performance reservoir? Or is it bigger than you thought? I think on Aseng it's-- we always knew we had a high quality reservoir and so it's really that reservoir performance when we look at the drawdown.
It's just the wells had the capability to produce within the limits of our -- the boundaries that we set for drawdown on that.
And we drilled these wells directionally horizontally and it gave us a lot of productivity.
And then I think on top of that John is the fact that the surface facilities the FPSO has performed extremely well.
So we haven't -- we just haven't seen reservoir bottlenecks or surface bottlenecks.
It's allowed us to-- we've been doing some modeling to make sure that we don't do anything that damages the ultimate recovery of the field by going at these higher levels and everything we see suggests that's not the case.
Okay good.With respect to Gunflint what's your standalone volume threshold your standalone facility threshold rather than the subsea? 100 million barrels? On standalone it's probably at least 100 million.
I mean I think what we have now you've got 2 wells that we know we can produce and tieback to a subsea at a minimum.
And as Chuck said we'll  continue to evaluate the larger portion of it.
I think where you -- it's not only volume but it's also looking at if you do a subsea how much they can handle right? And if it gets to where you're leaving a lot of oil in the ground or production capacity back up because they can't handle then it's starts pushing you toward that standalone as well.
So there's a number of moving pieces and we really need to drill that next well to get a good handle on it but that's the things being balanced.
Okay.
Last one for me is on the Cameroon lockout you described.
Could you give a little bit more information on trap types of the 3-way or the 4-way that sort of thing? Well most of the work that we have been doing in that area they have stratigraphic boundaries.
You've got sand deposits that flow so you got a structural component and a stratigraphic component.
So I wouldn't call it a 4-way by any means.
It's a combination Chuck? Yes.
Our last question comes from Charles Meade with Johnson Rice.
L.L.C.
Research Division</strong> My question was more on especially -- Slide 7 you talked about the different way you're completing these wells on the DJ.
And I get on the first bullet point you're talking about snubbing on completion that you're trying to hold the pressure there.
But I'm less clear on how to interpret the early drill-out.
And I was hoping maybe Dave you could address what you're doing there and how that perhaps fits with the closer 40-acre space that you're doing.
Yes I mean this is just -- in general what we've moved to is being able to move on these wells quickly after drilling these go in and clean them out.
In a lot of cases with coiled tubing go in and clean these out while you're continuing to flow these back.
So you continue to use the reservoir energy and not get in the situation where we started with some of these.
When we initially started producing wells up here we've let them flow and until almost they had died if they will or they lost energy.
And then you go in and run tubing and move on.
What we're doing now is we're starting with these from the beginning getting them cleaned up early -- getting them cleaned out early getting them set up so that you can move into production quickly and not be stopping and starting with these wells and playing with the reservoir energy that they have.
So you're really using that with you upfront and getting in early getting coiled tubing in there running and cleaning out quickly while these wells are flowing and then getting them turned on to production.
Again what we're doing is kind of holding some -- if you will holding some pressure on these to start to let them come on a little slower than they did initially not open them full up.
And you're starting to see some real benefits from these especially as you line them out over the first 30 days or so.
L.L.C.
Research Division</strong> And are you guys still doing the slow packers? Or are you doing the plug and parallel? We're using like a packers plug.
Then where you have multiple packers so that -- and really where that helps us is in speed of the completion operations so that we can go through a full well stimulation process pretty quickly.
And that concludes today's question-and-answer session.
Mr.
Larson at this time I will turn the conference back to you for any additional or closing remarks.
There's a few more questions on the call there.
But we've kind of hit our -- went a little over our time limit.
Those that we didn't get to I'll just remind you that we will be available to take your calls after the call.
And then finally I'd just like to thank everyone for participating in the call today and your interest in Noble Energy.
So have a nice day.
That concludes today's conference.
Thank you for your participation.
Good day and welcome to Noble Energy's Third Quarter 2012 Earnings Call.
I'd now like to turn the call over to David Larson Vice President of Investor Relations.
Thanks Tim.
Good morning everyone.
Welcome to Noble Energy's Third Quarter 2012 Earnings Call and Webcast.
On the call today we have Chuck Davidson Chairman and CEO; Dave Stover President COO; and Ken Fisher CFO.
Earlier this morning we issued our earnings release for the third quarter and hopefully you all have had a chance to review our results.
A few supplemental slides were also posted on our website.
You'll want to download the slides if you have not already done so as we'll be referencing them in the call today.
Later today we expect to be filing our 10-Q with the SEC and it will be available on our website at that time.
The agenda for today will begin with Chuck providing a quick overview of where Noble Energy stands now then discussing the quarter and finishing up with some comments on our exploration activities.
Dave will then give a more detailed overview of our operations and plans for the remainder of the year.
We'll leave time for Q&amp;A at the end and plan to wrap up the call in less than an hour.
[Operator Instructions] I want to remind everyone that this webcast and conference call contains projections and forward-looking statements based on our current views and most reasonable expectations.
We provide no assurances on these statements as a number of factors and uncertainties could cause actual results in future periods to differ materially from what we talk about today.
You should read our full disclosure on forward-looking statements in our latest news release and SEC filings for a discussion of the risk factors that influence our business.
We'll reference certain non-GAAP financial measures such as adjusted net income or discretionary cash flow on the call today.
When we refer to these items it's because we believe they are good metrics to use in evaluating the company's performance.
Be sure to see the reconciliations in our earnings release tables.
One other item before I hand the call to Chuck.
Hopefully you all are aware that we are hosting an analyst conference on December 6 in Houston.
Please make sure to put that on your calendar.
We'd love to -- we look forward to providing a significant update on our global asset portfolio and highlighting the significant growth that we believe sets us apart within the industry.
Should you not be able to attend in person the entire event will be webcast.
With that let me turn the call over to Chuck.
Thanks David and good morning everyone.
I thought I'd depart from our normal format and start out by sharing my thoughts on where I believe Noble Energy is today and where we're headed.
It's so easy to get entangled in the quarterly results that sometimes we lose the bigger picture.
And it's that bigger picture regarding Noble Energy that I'm so excited about and I don't want us to lose track of.
Many of you have seen our annual report.
It has the word "Now" across the cover.
It's a word I've been using a lot lately in talking about our company.
The periods of transforming transitioning and preparing are over.
For now we're in the midst of a multiyear period of very substantial and very transparent growth growth that is truly adding value.
This growth is being supported by major accomplishment after major accomplishment.
Our organization is truly shining as it demonstrates it's ability to execute really big projects extremely well.
Some that come to mind include the Aseng field in West Africa.
It continues to perform extremely well after coming onstream 7 months early and under budget.
Galapagos in the Deepwater Gulf which came on earlier this year producing at rates well above expectations.
Tamar in Israel perhaps one of the most impactful projects ever taken on by our company which just sailed from its U.S.
construction site.
Even with its scale and complexity Tamar is right on schedule for first production in less than 6 months.
Tamar is followed next year by Alen in West Africa which will be installed by some of the same equipment as is installing Tamar.
And as Dave will mention with Tamar moving so quickly it makes it more likely that Alen can move up a bit.
Four major complicated offshore projects with projected gross costs totaling over $7.5 billion all being executed with precision.
In my mind Noble's ability to execute major projects has developed quickly into a competitive advantage.
Jumping to the domestic onshore the results in the DJ Basin continue to far exceed our expectations and set record after record.
Our net horizontal production there was up 29% in the past quarter and more than double from a year ago.
In March we set a year-end target for horizontal production and we blew through it in August.
Drilling times continue to come down results continue to improve and the play area continues to expand.
It's hard to see where the limits are right now.
Also domestically the Marcellus is delivering strong performance with production up 38% from last quarter alone.
But I also believe that Marcellus highlights another Noble competency which is the ability to pull together quickly integrate and deliver superior performance from major acquisitions.
And by no means are we letting our portfolio go stale.
We've successfully divested non-core assets this year and have received over $1.1 billion in proceeds.
On the flip side we've added new major positions in Sierra Leone and the Falklands where our first well is now drilling a very significant prospect.
Financially we remain very strong driven by our outstanding performance and growing all production discretionary cash flow from continuing operations was a record $714 million this quarter up 27% from the comparable period last year.
Liquidity at quarter's end was $5.6 billion with $1.6 billion in cash coupled with an expanded and undrawn revolver.
Finally as a result of where we find ourselves now and with a high degree of confidence as to where we're going our board just announced the 14% increase in our dividend to $0.25 a share.
It's all of this that really in my mind comprises the big -- bigger picture of Noble Energy and it's what certainly excites me so much.
I've had the privilege of working in some very high performing organizations in the past but I've never been previously involved with one that was delivering as much with such quality and with such future potential as Noble is today.
So let's get to the numbers.
As a reminder we reclassified our North Sea properties as discontinued operations last quarter and our guidance ranges now are based only on our continuing operations.
Previous quarters have also been reclassified to reflect the impacts of this change.
Adjusted net income from continuing operations for the third quarter was $167 million or $0.93 per share diluted.
Excluded from adjusted net income were unrealized losses from commodity hedges and gains on divestitures of the non-core domestic properties.
As previously announced we recorded $40 million pretax in exploration expense related to our exit from Senegal and approximately $20 million pretax associated with the Trema dry hole.
Revenues were $1 006 000 000 for the quarter.
That's up 14% from the third quarter last year with revenue from crude and condensate increasing 46%.
Our sales volume for the quarter were 242 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day.
This number does not include the 5 000 barrels oil equivalent associated with discontinued operations.
Sales of crude and condensate represent about 84 000 barrels per day or 35% of total sales.
As expected total sales were up from the second quarter due to the full quarter of production from Galapagos and the return of the Alba plant from planned maintenance which occurred early in the second quarter.
Net gas sales in Israel averaged approximately 116 million cubic feet per day up from the second quarter as Noa and Pinnacles contributed production to Mari-B.
But these good numbers could have been a lot better in that we experienced approximately 12 000 barrels oil equivalent of one-time impacts in the quarter the largest being around 7 000 barrels a day of oil impact -- equivalent per day loss due to shut-ins for Hurricane Isaac.
There was another 5 000 in the DJ Basin due to unusually hot weather and some third-party plant downtime.
Even with these impacts average crude oil volumes for the third quarter were 84 000 barrels per day up 44% year-over-year.
During the quarter we completed the first phase of our non-core divestment program by closing sales on domestic assets in the mid-continent in the Permian and Kansas and by closing the sale of the majority of our North Sea production.
The proceeds of over $1.1 billion have contributed to our strong balance sheet as we continued to invest in our major projects and horizontal development programs.
The next phase of our non-core divestments involves smaller package -- packages which we expect to execute through the end of the year and into 2013.
Shifting to exploration we recently hosted a conference call during which we provided an in-depth view of our new ventures exploration program.
This is a program that's very important to us but with all the activities we have under way in our core areas we usually have limited time to talk about new ventures.
I encourage you to listen to the call if you've not already done so.
With regards to conventional exploration we currently have a well being drilled in our Big Bend prospect in the Gulf of Mexico.
We expect to have results there by the end of the quarter.
Following that we intend to move to our next and hopefully final appraisal well at Gunflint.
With respect to new ventures we have 4 significant opportunities we're pursuing in our portfolio.
The first of our new venture plays is offshore Falkland Islands where we have a 35% working interest.
It's an area with significant oil potential that we believe could open up a new basin play.
Our 10 million gross acre position has over 30 identifiable leads on 2D seismic with the top 10 leads alone accounting for gross unrisked potential of some 7 billion barrels of oil.
An exploration well is in progress at the Scotia prospect a cretaceous target with a P75-P25 gross unrisked resource range of 145 to 960 million barrels.
We expect to have results at Scotia later this quarter.
Our second new venture is a domestic unconventional oil play in Northeast Nevada where we have a lease position of approximately 350 000 net acres.
We're presently acquiring 3D seismic which will be used to guide a pilot test program next year in which we intend to drill a handful of wells.
The play concept has a geologic chance of success of over 50% with P75-P25 gross unrisked resource range of about 200 million to 1.4 billion barrels of oil equivalent.
Our other new play frontiers include Nicaragua where we plan to drill next year and Sierra Leone where we were awarded a working interest of 30% in 2 blocks with Chevron.
Finally while not necessarily new ventures we have our deep oil concept underneath Leviathan in the Eastern Mediterranean.
And we recently announced that we've contracted a rig that's capable of drilling this prospect which has gross unrisked resource potential of some 200 million to 1.5 billion barrels of oil equivalent.
There are several deep oil prospects besides Leviathan so we see a lot of running room there.
Before I turn this call over to Dave let me make a few comments on our work in the Eastern Mediterranean.
The countdown to Tamar is progressing rapidly and production is now 6 months away.
We have plans to expand the peak capacity of Tamar.
We believe there is need for onshore delivery from Leviathan which would provide diversity of supply and possibly an onshore delivery point to the North.
And finally we're evaluating the proposals that we've received for bringing in an additional partner at Leviathan.
I know that many of you are anxious to hear the details and there's been much media speculation but sensitive discussions are ongoing and as a result we will not be commenting further at this time.
We are encouraged and our target remains to have secured an additional partner in the project by year end.
Now I'll turn the call over to Dave who'll give you more details on our ongoing operations.
Thank you Chuck.
Our growth this quarter is indicative of the culture we have been building that makes this possible and sustainable over the next decade.
Let's start by discussing our activity in the DJ Basin.
Here our team has been focused on transforming from a gas to an oil operation leading to the significant ramp-up of our horizontal Niobrara activity and constant performance enhancements.
Since we launched our horizontal program in the DJ Basin in 2010 we recognized the need to accelerate our plans to bring the resource value forward and that is exactly what we have done.
As in the development of any large field we plan for our needs in water services rigs and takeaway capacity.
We're in good shape in all these areas and we continue to expand the services necessary to support our growth.
For the third quarter we averaged production of 75 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day in the DJ Basin.
Our production this quarter was impacted by some one-off issues primarily tied to the midstream sector that reduced our production by 5 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day.
These issues have been resolved and DCP is currently setting new throughput records for gas on their system.
We remain on track to meet or exceed the 5-year growth projections we announced last year.
In fact we're currently producing about 83 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day from this basin with 59% liquids as shown on Slide 9.
And that growth is dominated by our increasing crude oil production.
As we show on Slide 10 every quarter over the last 2 years we have seen a decrease in our horizontal drilling times and we're drilling substantially more lateral feet per rig than we would have anticipated even 3 months ago.
By the end of the year we will add 2 newbuild rigs and release 2 older rigs.
We will exit the year with an 8-rig program and we will now drill over 200 horizontal wells by year end.
In the third quarter we spud 64 horizontal wells and completed 57.
The bulk of our activity has been in the core and extension areas of Wattenberg where our liquids are approximately 60% and 75% respectively.
With our focus on the horizontal program we have halted our legacy vertical drilling program.
In Northern Colorado we have applied our exploration processes to an area we call East Pony.
This area shown on Slide 11 includes roughly 45 000 net acres a good portion of which we acquired at the beginning of the year.
We have 11 wells online with a 30-day production rate averaging over 600 barrels of oil equivalent per day per well with more than 80% oil content.
Three of the wells are part of an 80-acre pilot test and they are actually outperforming the 11-well average.
As you can see the 30-day average production for the 3 wells is over 700 barrels of oil equivalent per day.
As a result of this performance we're now close to full development when we will transition to pad drilling to realize the efficiencies we have previously achieved in our extension area.
We're also expanding our Lilli Plant which came as part of the Petro-Canada acquisition to 15 million cubic feet per day by year end and we will be installing a second plant in 2014 capable of increasing capacity in this area by an additional 30 million cubic feet per day.
Matching our overall drilling activities we have continued to significantly increase our pace of completions.
Completions in 2012 will more than double those in 2011 and we expect to complete over 70 wells in the fourth quarter.
This accelerated horizontal drilling and completion activity is resulting in increased production especially with respect to crude oil.
Early this year we set a goal for our horizontal program to exit the year at 32 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day net.
We met that goal in August and we are currently producing about 36 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day net more than doubling our horizontal production since the beginning of the year.
We continue to focus on improving recoveries by increasing densities and testing multiple targets.
Our initial 40- and 80-acre pilot project continues to perform well with all 9 wells producing above the 310 000 barrel oil equivalent-type curve after 8 months of production.
On our full section 40-acre pilot testing multiple targets and patterns we have drilled 10 of the 15 wells and we plan to have all online this year.
By year end we will have drilled over 300 horizontal Niobrara and Codell wells since we started our horizontal program in 2010.
Our knowledge of the play grows every quarter while we continue testing economic enhancements such as EcoNodes and extended reach laterals.
Slide 12 shows the performance of our 3 recent extended reach lateral wells plotted against the 750 000-barrel oil equivalent-type curve.
In particular the 2 recent wells with 90 days production history have been eye-opening.
At returns over 100% this performance is outstanding and we plan to expand this program.
We are on pace to drill another half dozen or so this year and we anticipate escalating the program in 2013 to approximately 60 extended reach lateral wells.
Slides 13 and 14 show how gas-handling capacity is expected to keep pace with our growth over the next year.
DCP has announced significant infrastructure expansions to handle future production increases.
They increased the capacity of their Mewbourn Plant to 160 million cubic feet per day and they have announced 560 million cubic feet per day of new capacity scheduled to begin coming online in the middle of 2013.
In short processing capacity in Wattenberg is growing at a pace that will support our growth projections.
In addition to pure infrastructure development remember that our production focus has shifted from Central Wattenberg to the Northeast where crude content is higher and where our Lilli gas plant can contribute to our gas processing needs.
On Slide 15 we show how our production in this basin will continue to shift more heavily to the extension and North Colorado portions of the play which drives a significant increase in oil and liquids volumes relative to gas production.
Concerning both crude oil and NGLs we are working with the purchasers and transporters in the region to ensure that capacity is available to support our expected growth profile.
Shifting over to the Marcellus.
We're currently producing 115 million cubic feet equivalent per day net.
We initiated production from the Majorsville wet gas region in July and now believe that this production is in a very rich area of the Marcellus.
We brought 2 pads online with a total of 13 wells.
The pads each experienced some production downtime from late September through early October due to a processing plant downtime.
However the plant has been returned to service and our production is ramping back up.
Our condensate yields have fluctuated between 15 and 30 barrels per million cubic feet and NGL yields are over 50 barrels per million cubic feet.
These results have exceeded our expectations and we are pursuing options with our partner CONSOL to accelerate wet gas drilling in 2013.
Our wet gas operation in the Marcellus is an area we can continue to apply our learnings from our DJ Basin operation to accelerate performance improvements.
Presently we have 3 horizontal rigs running in the wet gas area and CONSOL operates 2 dry gas horizontal rigs in Southwest Pennsylvania.
They brought on 22 wells in the third quarter adding approximately 35 million cubic feet per day net to Noble Energy.
Moving to the Deepwater Gulf of Mexico.
Production is currently 27 000 barrels per day.
Average production for the third quarter was impacted by Hurricane Isaac which reduced quarterly production by close to 7 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day.
At Galapagos current production is 14 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day and still outperforming original expectations.
Our exploration well at Big Bend was spud in early October and we expect results by the end of the year.
As a reminder Big Bend is an oil prospect with the probability of success just over 50%.
If successful it would likely be a prolific Miocene subsea tieback development like Galapagos.
Earlier in the quarter we finished the drilling and evaluation of the Gunflint appraisal well.
Gunflint was confirmed as a commercial discovery and a second appraisal well is planned to the southwest part of the field.
The rig will move from Big Bend to the next Gunflint appraisal in early 2013.
The information obtained from this well will determine whether development is a standalone facility or a subsea tieback.
Moving to our international programs I'll begin in the Eastern Mediterranean.
Here our team did a fantastic job bringing Noa and Pinnacles online in record time to support Israel's power needs.
This contributed to net Israel production averaging 116 million cubic feet per day for the third quarter.
Tamar remains on schedule for sales to begin in April of 2013 less than 6 months away.
As we saw at Aseng the tremendous coordination between our folks and our contractors resulted in the Tamar jacket and deck beginning their transit to Israel for installation on schedule and within cost expectations.
Slide 17 shows these massive structures as they left the shipyard.
Following the initial startup period we expect to average approximately 700 million cubic feet per day through the remainder of 2013.
The peak demand from Israel may exceed the first phase of Tamar capacity next summer and we continue to work on solutions such as the expansion of Tamar and the delivery of Leviathan gas onshore.
Earlier this month we hosted an exploration conference call in which we discussed the deep oil potential of the Levant Basin.
To drill the deep oil targets and to support our global drilling program we secured a service contract for the newbuild drillship Atwood Advantage that is scheduled to arrive in the Eastern Mediterranean in the fourth quarter of 2013.
The drillship's capabilities are sufficient to reach the deep oil targets and the Leviathan deep oil prospect is the first exploration well expected to be spud.
The dual derricks and dual BOP stacks along with the faster transit speeds of the drillship are time-saving and cost-saving features that will benefit our global drilling program.
Shifting over to our fifth [ph] quarter area in West Africa we had another strong quarter with production from our Aseng field averaging 64 000 barrels of oil per day gross.
Sales volumes reflected 59 000 barrels of oil per day due to lifting schedules.
Earlier this month we surpassed 20 million barrels cumulative sales from Aseng.
Our Alen project construction is making excellent progress.
Construction is over 85% complete at the yard in Morgan City.
The vessel that will install the Alen platform is being utilized to set the Tamar jacket and platform.
Once the Tamar installations are complete this vessel will transit to West Africa.
And since Tamar is making excellent progress we could install the Alen platform earlier than previously expected.
This could result in an earlier startup for Alen.
The Atwood Hunter rig will be moving to our Carla oil discovery located below the Alen field offshore Equatorial Guinea.
The rig will drill an appraisal well at Carla with results expected early next year.
Before wrapping up I want to touch on our fourth quarter volume guidance.
We estimate volumes to be 248 000 to 252 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day.
On Slide 18 adjusting for the third quarter volumes associated with our onshore divestitures the midpoint of our fourth quarter guidance range reflects a quarterly growth of 8%.
Throughout our portfolio I am excited about the results each of our core area teams are achieving and in particular our consistent major project execution from Aseng Galapagos Tamar Alen and carrying over to our onshore operations in the DJ Basin and the Marcellus.
This attention to execution sets up our future and will deliver the short medium and long-term growth we expect.
In addition we now have a portfolio of frontier exploration prospects any one of which would significantly add to our long-term growth.
With that Tim it's probably now time to open the call to questions.
[Operator Instructions] And we'll take our first question from Arun Jayaram with Crdit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Yes Chuck or Dave just one of the -- elaborate a little bit on the DJ Basin.
Dave you mentioned that you believe that the company could be well-positioned to meet or beat your 15% growth target that you highlighted at last year's analyst meeting.
Obviously the slide suggests that you're probably okay but I just wanted to see if you could elaborate.
Do see any pitch points in terms of growth in 2013 until the LaSalle Plant comes online later in the year? Yes I think we're going to see pretty consistent growth here starting in the fourth quarter and going into next year.
I mean you do have some expansion DCPs planned expansion coming on in about midyear next year which will help in the second half of the year some more.
But again we're focused in that high oil content area where you're up in 70% to 80% oil.
So you're actually growing oil at 4:1 to 5:1 ratio versus our gas volumes out there especially on the areas we're concentrating on.
And then we have -- the other part of it is the Lilli Plant still has additional capacity right now in Northern Colorado.
So we'll be working to continue to fill that up while we're continuing to expand that area.
So I think if you look at those 2 slides we showed you on the gas comparisons both in Wattenberg and in Northern Colorado I think we're in good shape to stay on track and do maybe even hopefully even a little better on our growth profile next year.
Research Division</strong> And Dave this is just by managing where you put the rigs right? It is.
It's also what you're seeing in performance out there on the oil content on some of this which goes along with managing where we're keeping our activity and a lot of it's continuing to work with the processors on plans and staying in front of this.
And we've had great cooperation on that side.
Research Division</strong> Great.
Chuck I did want to ask you a little bit about Cyprus.
Now that you've gotten a favorable export ruling from Israel and you continue to move with your partners to monetize Leviathan what is the strategic endgame for Noble regarding Cyprus? And I know [ph] you're going to appraise that discovery.
But does it make sense for you guys to participate in another LNG scheme in that area? Or just thoughts around Cyprus.
Well obviously the desirable outcome there would be some integrated solution that looks at how we monetize and export the gas from the basin.
And so that's one of the things.
As we go forward obviously Leviathan is the big discovery and is the one that's getting a lot of attention now both from a domestic side because some of Leviathan will go into a domestic market but then certainly from the export side.
Still a few more pieces to work together.
We're exploring a number of sites in the region.
Some of those sites could accommodate gas from both Israel and Cyprus.
And so that is still one of the possible solutions.
But quite a bit of work needs to be done both engineering work as well as working with our partners and the governments involved.
So a lot of things a lot of moving pieces but nothing has fallen off the radar screen.
But it just takes a lot of work.
And of course we're very focused right now as you could expect on getting Tamar onstream and meeting the near-term gas demand in Israel which is really surprising us to the upside.
And we'll take our next question from Dave Kistler with Simmons Inc.
Research Division</strong> Real quickly looking at the extended laterals in the DJ continuing to produce probably 2x the average EURs.
Is that potentially location-specific or is it just length-specific? And probably most importantly how much of your portfolio do you think that could apply to? Yes I think we're still working through some of that as far as -- we haven't tested it.
Right now Dave I'd say we've been focusing in that kind of Wells Ranch area that extension area up there.
And I would anticipate that's where still a majority of them will be next year.
One of the things that area has going for it you're dealing with large ranches so the complexity of going to cross sections is a lot easier to deal with and you can handle that quicker up in that area.
So that's been part of the reason for focusing there.
Also we're focusing in the higher oil content area with that part of the program.
So the full extent of where you can go with that probably remains to be seen but I'd say for now we'll continue to focus up there in that extension area and then possibly even some into Northern Colorado.
But we're talking about going from 10 to 12 of those this year to 60 next year.
And Dave it is an area where we also have the normal length lateral wells also.
So we're clearly seeing -- it's not just because of where they were drilled this is truly -- these longer laterals are having a big impact on the recoveries and the performance.
So as Dave said it's really finding the right locations and the ranches certainly are the place to start.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful I appreciate that clarification and then maybe one more in the DJ.
When you look at your pilot test both on the 80-acre and the 40-acre side of things they are yielding 30-day rates that are in line or higher.
And I want to focus a little bit more on the 80-acre that are showing a little bit higher.
Can you talk about -- is there any interference that might be causing those rates to be higher out of the gates that could impact the ultimate recovery of those wells? Obviously that would be a present value decision as well but just trying to understand what that looks like at this point.
Yes David if you're talking about the 80-acre we mentioned today that's that portion up in East Pony.
And I'd say that's kind of the natural evolution like we did down in that Wells Ranch area where we started with the 160s or so and moved down to 80 and are actually now starting to do 40-acre tests.
So this is kind of just a the step behind that up here in the East Pony area.
And this has just been our first opportunity to go down to a tighter spacing.
I think what you're seeing in all of it is with this brittle rock or where you can find this brittle rock and the more you can bust it open and connect it the better off you are.
So I mean we're not seeing interference from the standpoint of affecting offset wells performance at all.
In fact you're seeing as it's showing on those 80s and what we've actually seen so far on the 40s down the Wells Ranch area that performance actually seems to be enhanced in these wells.
Research Division</strong> Great well I appreciate the clarification and nice to know there's no interference with the wells it probably keeps the EURs consistent if I'm not mistaken.
Right.
You bet.
And we'll take our next question from Leo Mariani with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just overall question on liquidity.
Obviously you've done a number of asset sales this year.
Sounds like you've got some other minor ones planned late this year early next year.
You took -- made the decision to increase the revolver even though it's undrawn from $3 billion to $4 billion.
It definitely sounds like you guys are kind of building a war chest of liquidity here.
I mean should we expect a potential big increase in CapEx for next year? Can you just kind of help us on sort of the thinking there? No this isn't -- we don't build war chests here.
We want to make sure that we are covered for any eventual outcome as commodities are volatile.
And we have some major projects that we've made commitments to.
And so we need to make sure that we can fund those through virtually any environment.
And I think quite honestly we probably originally thought that maybe we could wait until next year to expand the revolver but the market was very very open.
We had some banks who really wanted to become part of our line.
And so Ken and the financial team decided to go ahead and do that this year and take advantage of the situation.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay thanks for clarifying that.
Just kind of jumping over to Israel you guys talked about being able to run at 700 million gross at Tamar once that comes online here.
And I guess you mentioned the possibility to sort of getting it higher.
Could you talk a little bit about sort of how you'd kind of go about doing that? I mean do you see it as if there's Israeli demand that's well above that is that something you could get higher in the second half of '13? And also with respect to Israel when was it that [ph] the gas price was down about 18% in the third quarter versus the prior quarter.
Just any comments around the pricing dynamics and what we should expect kind of in the fourth quarter on the gas price? Well when you look at the volume for next year there -- it -- we have the capability to produce close to a BCF a day through the system.
Now we don't expect to average that over any extended period of time because of needing to preserve some flexibility for peaking whether it's hourly or daily peaking.
But we would expect after this thing's up and running and then you get into the summer season that we could see volumes up in that 900 or so range during some of that period of time.
But I'd say a safe estimate is the average over an extended period is closer to that 700.
Now we did mention as a result of the demand and as Chuck mentioned the demand has been to the upside from our original expectations over there.
We're looking at 2 additional projects.
One is an expansion at our onshore facility and which could add a couple hundred million a day over the next couple of years so we're looking real hard at that.
And then we're looking at this first phase of Leviathan to have that ready to bring on to supplement supply in that kind of 2016-type time frame.
So we're continuing to look to how we can continue to meet the growing demand needs in country.
On the gas price question that you had on that our average gas price is a blend of contracts and terms.
And so especially as we're getting at this point where the Mari-B volumes are coming down and we're -- we've got contributions from Noa and Pinnacles that blend is moving around quite a bit.
And so that's what we experienced as we went from the second to the third quarter.
It was a mix.
As you know the contracts for Tamar are new contracts and so that will really reset and we previously guided on what we thought the range would be on that.
So starting in hopefully that April time frame when Tamar starts up then we'll have a whole new set and a whole new blend of contracts feeding the market.
Just as a follow up I just want to make sure I was clear on your question on our liquidity is is we're not -- we're also not planning any huge changes in our capital program as we've outlined before.
We see our program as very steady and very predictable as we've guided before.
So I just want to make sure I was clear that we're not planning some massive capital jump or surprise from what we've been telling you before.
And we'll take our next question from Bob Brackett with Bernstein Research.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> A question on those extended laterals.
You got them coming in at 8.3 million.
What would be the cost of just a kind of a conventional 4 000 or 5 000 sort of lateral? Those have been running in that 4.5 to 4.7 range.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So the savings I can sort of think of is kind of an 8.3 million instead of kind of a 9.2 million? Yes and I think remember this is just the first few of these extended laterals.
I think our team still feels they can get those just a little under 8 at the end of the day.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
And remind me what did you guys pay for the acreage up in East Pony? And what sort of royalty do you have up there? Now we really -- we've got a blend of acreage at different prices so we really haven't given out the acreage price.
But it was a very very reasonable price because we got in pretty early on some of this stuff.
And then we added to it as we went.
So it's a blend from a couple of different places.
And we'll take our next question from Brian Singer with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Back to the DJ.
Can you talk more about aerial extent and multi-event [ph] potential? On aerial extent can you put the East Pony area into context size-wise and talk to how much additional acreage is unevaluated with some potential in Northern Colorado? And then perhaps could you also talk to the horizontals drilled in Codell versus the Niobrara and how you're thinking about that development? Well that's a good bit there Brian.
But let me start with Northern Colorado.
In Northern Colorado remember we have about 220 000 acres or so that goes along with the 400 000 in Wattenberg.
I'd say the East Pony area is around 44 000 45 000 acres.
We've got another of what we'd call West Pony area of another 50 000 just west of that where we're starting to drill some wells also.
But I'd say when you think about the couple hundred thousand acres in Northern Colorado we've probably drilled a well at least in maybe 70% of that area.
I'd say we've probably got about 6 more wells in the East Pony to complete yet this year.
So out of the 30 35 wells we've talked about drilling in Northern Colorado it looks like about half of them will be in the East Pony area be some more in that West Pony area and some more scattered around up there as we continue to test it.
So I'd say we focused on the East Pony here originally as an area to test and move forward with a development pattern which we've been extremely pleased with I'd say extremely enthusiastic about what we've seen there.
I mean that looks every bit as good as anything we've seen in the Wattenberg Field.
But the other areas are still in much earlier stages.
So we're going to have to do some more testing in those areas yet.
I'd say -- you had the question on what we're thinking on densities and recoveries and all that.
And I'd say we're still -- we've been asked before what inning are we in there.
Maybe we've moved from the third to the fourth inning but we're still early in what we're doing there.
As I mentioned earlier we're down testing some 40-acre spacing in the extension area of Wattenberg.
So continued encouragement from that and we'll continue to expand that program.
We'll continue to expand the extended lateral program like I mentioned.
We're going to drill 5x to 6x as many of those next year.
So there's a lot of testing and a lot of things still going on.
But I'll go back to one of my earlier statements we haven't been disappointed up here whether you look at Wattenberg or whether you look at this East Pony area.
So I'd say right now out of the 600-and-some thousand acres that we have up here we've probably have gotten extremely good encouragement on at least 500 000 of that so far.
Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
And then going back to that conversation on Israel and meeting demand next summer I think you mentioned you could pick -- or you could potentially tap Leviathan if I heard you correct in your opening comments.
Can you just talk about what the level of demand your base contracts would cover? And then what are the pricing implications if you do have to or are able to run at a harder level than what those base contracts call for? Well most of these contracts have terms that allow for swing volumes.
And so you can -- especially in the -- like in electricity generation there as you get demand it swings up.
So we will see times whether it's peak days or peak times of the day where we will swing up under the existing contracts to the BCF a day that is really the limit of our capacity right as we've got it and as we're installing it now.
So we'll swing up to that amount.
There may be -- and there's provisions to have some additional customers that are more on what I'd call an interruptible basis that might be able to fill in when we don't use all that capacity and that might provide some.
But I think in the end the real solution that we're seeing because there are other customers out there that would like to buy gas we are seeing that there's quite a bit of demand and the interest continues to grow with the savings -- the cost of savings that Israel is experiencing from natural gas.
So our real focus is looking on number one a way that we can expand the capacity of Tamar that will involve some installation of some additional facilities and then also a little longer term looking at a development of Leviathan that would -- probably the first phase of it be a position to deliver to the domestic market in Israel.
So those are the 2 pieces that we're really looking at to try to meet this growing demand in Israel.
As I know you're well aware when we designed Tamar we had anticipated that the Egyptian gas would be continuing to flow into the market.
And the -- and with Egyptian gas not flowing to Israel that's left a demand gap.
Research Division</strong> Do you expect the incremental contracts that serve in a domestic market to be signed at more attractive pricing terms than the Tamar contract? Well each of those are negotiated on their own.
So I think that -- I think there's a sense as to what the gas price market is in Israel.
And we just have to take them one contract at a time.
And we'll take our next question from John Malone with Global Hunter Securities.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just staying with Israel for a moment and it looks like Noa and Pinnacles perform pretty well.
But how do you see that balance of those 2 fields versus the declining Mari-B kind of playing out between now and April? And on that you talked about a blend of contracts as one of the reasons that realizations were down.
How do Noa and Pinnacles play into that? I mean does it imply that the contracted price for Noa and Pinnacles are lower than Mari-B? Well first of all those fields are much much smaller than what the original Mari-B was.
So the whole plan with Noa and Pinnacles was to fill a gap here especially in 2012 as Mari-B declined.
Even with Mari-B there was a blend of different terms because as you recall the original gas some of it was contracted at about $2.65.
And then we had some other supplemental volumes that were above that.
But as Mari-B has declined that mix has changed.
And so it's a mix that has occurred at Mari-B as well as these other fields that have come on.
They've come on -- in some instances they are also supplying that basic IEC or Israel Electric Contract.
It's just we have the right to meet that from various supplies of gas.
So it's not like they were sold differently.
It's the whole blend that moves around as we get down here at the real tail end on some of these contracts.
And we'll take our next question from Charles Meade with Johnson Rice.
L.L.C.
Research Division</strong> Going back to the DJ Basin or the Wattenberg and your extension areas there it looks like the completed well cost has been moving up there from kind of the mid-to-low 4s earlier this year now to $4.7 million to $5.25 million.
And my question is is that really an apples-to-apples comparison reflecting the service costs? Or is there some scope change in there? And if you could kind of attribute the increase to those 2 things? No.
Charles I guess I'm not sure what all you're seeing but I guess when I look at the costs this year we're actually seeing them come down a little bit on the full drilling and completion at least if I compare apples-to-apples type cost.
For example beginning of the year we were seeing more of that $4.7 million in the Wattenberg area.
And then as we got further north it was closer to maybe $5 million.
But you might be comparing mixing and then matching some of those pieces.
But I think now what we're seeing is in the Wattenberg piece you're seeing they're may be getting closer to $4.5 million to $4.7 million.
So if anything coming down a little bit.
And in the Northern Colorado they're now coming from maybe that $5 million to $5.2 million that they were down into the high 4s.
So you're actually seeing some downward movement to maybe $100 000 $200 000 per well at least on the drilling and completion when you look from beginning of the year to what we're seeing now.
And I think...
And also you've got the potential in Northern Colorado to continue to bring some cost down up there because in some instances we've not gone to these high-density pads that we're using at Wattenberg.
And that's one way that you can really get some cost savings as well as time savings.
And so as we really move forward like in areas of East Pony where it moves into a development phase with higher density drilling off pads you can get some more savings as well.
L.L.C.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
Yes you actually didn't have the footnote or you didn't have the slide on -- in this presentation one of the early ones.
It mentioned that may be well costs could have gotten up to $5.25 million.
But it sounds like that was a mix shift and going into...
That was those individual wells as we were testing new areas up in Northern Colorado.
And so that wasn't representative of the development program.
L.L.C.
Research Division</strong> Great.
That answers my question.
And the second thing related to the curtailments of production in the area in 2Q and 3Q is there any chance for makeup in Q4 coming in the form of maybe like unfractionated NGL volumes? Or is that just straight-up volume that didn't come out of the wellhead and there's going to be no makeup? I think it's volume that didn't come out.
I mean in one case there was a plant there in the field that they had some difficulties with their aiming system.
They got it fixed and -- but you really can't -- if you didn't produce it you can't make it up.
And as far as I know we don't have any stored volumes of unfractionated NGLs.
In this instance they couldn't handle the gas at the inlet because of the aiming.
So we never could get a chance to recover the NGLs.
And we'll take our next question from John Herrlin with Societe Generale Associates.
I've got 2 quick ones.
With respect to the extent horizontals given the softness on the services cost side all things being equal if you did more pad-type activity could we expect the development cost to drop say 7% to 10% per well? I mean have you thought about the amounts? Yes John it's a good question.
And I think as we continue to get larger -- I mean more wells on pad drilling I think you have an opportunity for that 5% to 10% type range.
I mean that's kind of what the team is working towards up there over the next year.
Okay.
My next question on Northeast Colorado would you consider doing greater density pilots I mean like say a 40-acre pilot rather than the 80-acre pilot with more wells in a given area? I think that's something we'll definitely be considering up there.
First thing is that they look at the performance down in the extension area of that pilot we have.
Those wells those 40-acre wells where we have that full section that we went the 40-acre spacing they'll just start to come online over the next couple of months.
So that will take us a few months to see how that performs.
If we get the continued encouragement from those that we've seen from that first pilot I'd say that East Pony area is a next obvious target to move up there because you've got now an 80-acre base to compare against.
And we'll take our next question from Eliot Javanmardi with Capital One Southcoast.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to know if we could get any color on Big Bend and what's happening there.
And also if you could take us back on the Gunflint appraisal well that you had drilled.
I know that you had seen the results initially and reported what you had saw.
Is there anything upon further evaluation that have -- could have you repositioning the next appraisal well at Gunflint? Well on Big Bend Big Bend is drilling and there's -- so there's really nothing to update on that.
We would expect results at the end --- by the end of the quarter and we'll announce that as it comes up.
We've talked a little bit about the prospect.
I think our Gunflint appraisal I mean I think we're getting with the appraisal the well that we previously announced it helps us give us a clearer picture of the structure.
And the Parkers have agreed on the next location.
We know we need to go to the South and appraise that flank of the structure which we haven't seen yet.
And so that's the intent.
And so we're really trying to get this nailed down so that we can position it for a sanction for a project.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Appreciate that color and lastly do you -- the JV payment to CONSOL that happens in 3Q I believe you have one more left after this year.
But in the CapEx spend that's listed for the quarter is that payment included in that figure for this quarter? Actually that was a commitment that was accrued at the time we entered into the JV.
The accounting rules would say that you have to accrue that because it's a capital commitment.
So that was all booked last year.
And so obviously it's cash but in terms of capital spend that all went into our capital spend of 2011.
And we'll take our next question from Irene Haas with Wunderlich Securities.
Research Division</strong> Yes very quickly I'm kind of curious about your East Pony project.
And firstly it's a very oily area so are these wells on pump cost-wise a little more expensive than the wells in the extension area? And then just a little more color on resource have you guys come back and revised your outlook for this particular area? Then lastly is the geology sort of continuous or patchy and then acres sort of look like a little rabbit ears.
So I was wondering if that's the geology or is it random? I'd say that if I can remember them in order here Irene on the first part we would expect to go to pumping units on these sometime maybe after a year or so.
But right now they're more starting out with gas lift initially and then actually holding these on some pretty tight chokes upfront so we can continue to keep some back pressure on some of these and not open them wide open.
That continues to seem to perform pretty well.
And on the I think on the cost side we were talking a little bit earlier I think on an earlier question about how we would expect costs to come down in this northern area as we go to more pad drilling and we can really do some concentrated wells.
I was trying to get all this but before we get to the rabbit play on the resources we're working on that.
We'll probably in December be able to provide an update for you on the resource potential of the entire Niobrara play.
And I think that's a great -- I guess it's a rabbit or maybe it's a long-eared dog but we got it as an East Pony and a West Pony and I don't think there's any geologic reason that I can say there.
It's just that we picked up some concentrated acreage positions and that's how it fell.
And we continue to do a lot of seismic work on things so we've got our own theories as to what's good and what's not good but we kind of hold that tight.
And that concludes our Q&amp;A session.
I'll turn it back to our presenters for any closing remarks.
I want to thank everyone again for participating in on our call today and certainly for their interest in Noble Energy.
And I'd just like to hope to see all of you at our analyst conference on December 6 and have a great day.
That concludes today's conference call.
We appreciate your participation.
Good morning.
Welcome to Noble Energy's Fourth Quarter 2012 Earnings Call.
I would now like to turn the call over to Mr.
David Larson.
Please go ahead.
Thanks Camille.
Good morning everyone.
Welcome to Noble Energy's Fourth Quarter and Year End 2012 Earnings Call and Webcast.
On the call today we have Chuck Davidson Chairman and CEO; Dave Stover President and COO; and Ken Fisher CFO.
Earlier this morning we issued our earnings release for the fourth quarter and hopefully you all have had a chance to review our results.
A few supplemental slides were also posted on our website.
You'll want to download the slides if you have not already done so as we will be referencing them in today's discussion.
Later today we expect to be filing our 10-K with the SEC and it will also be available on our website.
The agenda for today will begin with Chuck discussing the final quarter of 2012 and make some comments on '13.
Dave will then give you a detailed overview of our operations programs including a summary of our 2012 reserves and a breakdown of our activity levels for the upcoming year.
We'll leave time for Q&amp;A at the end and plan to wrap up the call in less than an hour.
We would ask that participants limit themselves to one primary question and one follow-up.
Should you have questions that we don't get to this morning please don't hesitate to call and we'll do our best to answer them.
I want to remind everyone that this webcast and conference call does contain projections and forward-looking statements based on our current views and most reasonable expectations.
We provide no assurances on these statements as a number of factors and uncertainties could cause actual results in future periods to differ materially from what we discuss here.
You should read our full disclosures on forward-looking statements in our latest news releases and SEC filings for a discussion of the risk factors that influence our business.
We'll reference certain non-GAAP financial measures such as adjusted net income or discretionary cash flow in the call today.
When we refer to these items it's because we believe they are good metrics to use in evaluating our performance.
Be sure to see the reconciliations in our earnings release tables.
With that let me turn the call over to Chuck.
Thanks David.
Good morning everyone.
We appreciate you joining us today.
I'm going to start out with a quick review of 2012 including the fourth quarter results and make some comments on our plans for 2013 and how I see things shaping up.
Dave is going to finish with a walk-through of our global operations.
We completed a great quarter and we're really excited about 2013.
Some of you listening to this call attended our analyst conference back in December where we presented a comprehensive review of our business and our growth expectations going over the next 5 years.
The presentation material and the webcast recordings of the conference were made available on our website for those who want to review it.
We also released at that time our 2013 capital program outlining our spending and guidance for the year.
I believe we presented a very exciting future for our company a future that includes very strong value-creating growth.
The story of our future really starts with the great accomplishments we had in 2012.
And as just a few examples over the course of the past year we've dramatically grown the scale of our onshore resource plays in the Niobrara and the Marcellus.
We've accelerated the pace of the Niobrara to a level that we could not have envisioned just a year ago with production from our horizontal wells at the end of the year far exceeding our original targets.
But 2012 was not just about our unconventional plays.
Our major projects in the Gulf and in international hit major milestones with the startup of Galapagos in the Gulf Tamar on track for startup in April and Alen on pace for an earlier-than-expected startup in the third quarter of this year.
We also announced a strategic partnership in Israel discoveries in Israel in the Gulf and new exploration opportunities in Nevada the Falklands and Sierra Leone and a successful divestiture of non-core assets with proceeds totaling over $1 billion.
Our sales volumes grew 11% over 2011.
We project an even higher rate of growth of 20% this year after adjusting for divestitures.
And finally we issued our first Sustainability Report an area that's becoming increasingly important to investors.
At Noble we're not only proud of our financial and operational results but also we're proud of how we carry out our business.
These strong results have us well positioned to extend our success into 2013 and beyond.
So let's go to the fourth quarter.
As I said it was a strong quarter so let me get to the numbers.
Adjusted net income from continuing operations for the fourth quarter was $296 million or $1.65 per share diluted.
Excluded from the adjusted net income were unrealized gains from commodity hedges and an asset impairment associated with Mari-B offshore Israel.
Mari-B has been an outstanding field that is rapidly approaching the end of its production life although it could have an important role going forward as a gas storage reservoir.
Our focus right now is to squeeze as much gas as we can out of these depleting existing reservoirs to bridge the gap until Tamar comes online in just a few months.
Revenues were $1.2 billion for the quarter up 30% from the fourth quarter last year with revenue from crude and condensate increasing 52%.
Our sales volumes for the quarter were 255 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day a 5% increase over the third quarter and a 14% increase over the fourth quarter of 2011.
This number does not include 2 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day associated with our discontinued operations.
Sales of crude and condensate represented 98 000 barrels per day or 38% of total sales.
The overall volume growth was almost entirely due to increased crude oil sales which as I mentioned earlier were up 17% over last quarter and up over 50% over the fourth quarter of 2011.
The growth in crude oil was from the DJ Basin Gulf of Mexico and West Africa.
Natural gas volumes were essentially unchanged from last quarter with gains from the DJ Basin and the Marcellus offsetting the impact of non-core domestic divestments in the third quarter.
Domestic sales totaled 149 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day up 6% from the last quarter despite the loss of production from our divested non-core assets and was up 17% from the fourth quarter of 2011.
Domestic results benefited from our horizontal programs in the DJ Basin and Marcellus as well as growth from the Gulf of Mexico which was impacted the previous quarter by shut-ins associated with Hurricane Isaac.
Internationally sales volumes were 106 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day up 5% from last quarter and up 9% from the fourth quarter of 2011.
Strong performance from Aseng and Alba in West Africa accounted for our growth in international volumes.
Noa and Pinnacle fields offshore Israel have continued to perform well and contributed to average gas sales in Israel of 118 million cubic feet per day net essentially unchanged from last quarter.
Our discretionary cash flow from continuing operations for the quarter was a record $824 million that's up 16% from the fourth quarter of 2011.
Our liquidity position remains extremely strong at over $5.4 billion.
Our cash position of $1.4 billion and our credit facility of $4 billion provide us with tremendous financial flexibility as we go forward.
Our fourth quarter was our highest sales volume quarter and contributed to our annual average volumes from continuing operations up 239 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day for the year.
Having closed out 2012 we're now focused on 2013.
We anticipate that our 2013 sales volumes will substantially jump in the second quarter with the startup of Tamar and continue to ramp up through the rest of the year.
Dave will break down our guidance expectations for the first quarter later in the call.
The addition of Woodside as a partner in the Leviathan project contributes to our confidence that we can deliver on our development plans in Eastern Mediterranean.
Our initial focus at Leviathan is delivering natural gas to the domestic market in 2016.
That is a market where natural gas demand continues to grow.
Longer term our plans anticipate exporting gas via LNG.
We expect that Israel will enact their export policy later this year and Woodside's experience and expertise in LNG projects will contribute to our progress on an export facility.
In West Africa Aseng and Alba continue to perform well and we've been able to move up the expected date of first production from Alen into the third quarter of this year.
Also in West Africa we discovered a new reservoir Carla and plan to flow test 2 intervals there.
So 2013 is in full swing.
We're actively moving several exploration discoveries also towards full development.
The major development projects that may be sanctioned this year which could be as many as 5 will compliment our growing domestic horizontal programs.
In the Gulf of Mexico we're working towards the sanction of 2 projects Gunflint where we're currently drilling an appraisal well; and Big Bend.
In West Africa after production tests we anticipate that Carla should be ready for development.
And in the Eastern Mediterranean we're moving towards sanctioning a Phase 2 of Tamar as well as the first phase of Leviathan.
In total these major project sanctions will likely include in total significant bookings of new reserves in 2013.
In the press release today we included a summary of our year end reserves.
Dave will review these reserves in more detail but I'd like to add just a few comments.
All of our reserve adds are from organic activity not acquisitions.
Excluding divestments our reserves at the end of 2012 were up 3% over 2011.
We added approximately 200 million barrels in the DJ Basin and the Marcellus and still have over 3 billion barrels of net risked resources still on book from these 2 plays.
As Dave will discuss later we're currently booking less than 3 years of proven undeveloped locations for our domestic horizontal programs.
Later today we will be issuing our 10-K which will include our year end 2012 SEC 10 valuation.
Despite the soft domestic gas market slightly low average liquid prices and divestments that resulted in over $1.1 billion in proceeds as well as $3.5 billion in commodity sales net of production costs even with all of these our SEC 10 valuation ended up essentially flat to the prior years.
This reflects the quality of our portfolio demonstrated by the increased liquids reserves in the DJ Basin and the increased value as a result of the progress we're making on our major projects Tamar and Alen.
Before turning the call over to Dave I wanted to highlight some of our 2013 exploration activity.
Exploration has been a true value creator for Noble Energy and we believe it will remain a strong contributor to future growth of our company.
To start with we're actively appraising our earlier exploration discoveries.
In the first quarter we expect to have results from the Leviathan 4 appraisal well.
Also we recently spud the second Gunflint appraisal well which may include an exploration tail to test the deeper myocene interval.
And finally we expect to drill the Cyprus appraisal well later this year.
We'll continue to mature our new ventures program and we have a number of exploration wells planned.
In Northeast Nevada where we have about 350 000 net acres we plan to begin testing vertical wells in the second or third quarter of this year.
In the second half of the year we plan to spud our appraisal prospect offshore Nicaragua where we have a 1.8 million acre position and currently hold 100% working interest.
A number of companies have visited our data room and we'll be evaluating their proposals as we move forward to bringing a partner into this prospect.
In the Eastern Mediterranean we plan to spud an exploration well at Karish following the Leviathan 4 appraisal well.
Karish is a 3 Tcf prospect with a high chance of success.
Our new build drillship the Atwood Advantage is scheduled to arrive in the Eastern Mediterranean about the end of the year where it will drill the deep Mesozoic oil play at Leviathan.
We're continuing our seismic programs offshore Falklands where we have a 35% working interest and a 10 million-acre position.
We'll be taking over operatorship of the northern area licenses on March 1 of this year and of the southern area licenses no later than March of 2014.
At our acreage position offshore Sierra Leone a 2D seismic survey is being prepared.
We currently hold a 30% working interest in those leases.
Throughout the year our new ventures team will be evaluating additional areas that have potential to become future core areas for the company.
This is a dynamic process that we believe will continue to fuel our long-term growth.
So as I mentioned at the beginning 2013 will be a very exciting year one that myself and many others have been looking forward to.
It will be a year of significant growth with new projects coming on stream.
They'll be led by Tamar which will not only have a material impact on our company but just as importantly a material impact on the state of Israel.
We're very proud of the role we're serving in developing the newly found resources of that country.
It will also be a year of continued acceleration of our unconventional development programs led by the hugely impactful Niobrara program.
This is a program that continues to deliver more positives every day.
And finally it will be a year of moving major prior discoveries to development as well as testing very material new exploration opportunities some of which could be -- have a significant impact on the future of our company.
So now I'll turn the call over to Dave who will give you more details on our ongoing operations.
Thank you Chuck.
As you mentioned it was an outstanding quarter but the best is yet to come.
Before I discuss the activities in our core operating areas I want to start with a review of our reserves at the end of 2012.
We reported total proved reserves of 1.2 billion barrels oil equivalent which is up 3% after adjusting for our non-core asset divestitures.
Slide 6 of the supplemental materials shows the reserve changes from last year.
Net of revisions total company additions of 121 million barrels of oil equivalent replaced 136% of 2012 production.
In the U.S.
net additions of 105 million barrels of oil equivalent replaced 207% of U.S.
production.
Domestic reserve additions were from our horizontal developments in the DJ Basin and Marcellus Shale.
We booked only the proved undeveloped locations that are currently part of a specific development plan which equates to less than 3 years of drilling in each horizontal program.
Additional locations will be booked as future drilling plans are developed.
Included in net additions were reductions of 26 million barrels of oil equivalent due to negative price revisions from lower natural gas prices and 94 million barrels of oil equivalent due to the termination of the legacy vertical drilling program in Wattenberg as we concentrate on the higher-return horizontal program.
The reserves debooked due to the focus on the horizontal program will likely be developed beyond the 5-year SEC window.
The horizontal program reserve adds in the DJ Basin more than offset the vertical reduction.
And despite debooking 94 million barrels oil equivalent basin reserves increased 6% over the prior year.
At year end 2012 we have booked 358 million barrels oil equivalent in the DJ Basin only 17% of our estimated 2.1 billion barrels oil equivalent resources.
And in the Marcellus we have booked 146 million barrels oil equivalent which is only 9% of our estimated 10 trillion cubic feet equivalent resources.
Our Marcellus reserves increased 61% over the prior year.
Internationally net additions of 16 million barrels oil equivalent resulted from strong performance at Aseng and further appraisal at Tamar.
As Chuck mentioned we have not booked any reserves associated with the major projects we are targeting to sanction this year.
We could book in excess of 200 million barrels oil equivalent reserves this year associated with the possible sanctions of Leviathan second phase of Tamar Carla Gunflint and Big Bend.
Also with the startup of Tamar and Alen later this year we expect to shift the bulk of their 400 million barrels oil equivalent of undeveloped reserves to developed reserves.
As you can see 2013 is shaping up to be an outstanding year of reserves growth.
Let's now review the operations in our core areas beginning with the DJ Basin.
We're excited about what the teams have been creating here and our superior execution and results in the fourth quarter provides tremendous momentum as we move into 2013.
We produced 86 000 barrels oil equivalent per day for the fourth quarter a 30% increase year-over-year.
Slide 7 shows the growth in net production over the last 5 quarters.
Horizontal production contributed 39 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day.
That's a 2.5-fold increase versus the fourth quarter of last year.
We exited the year with horizontal production above 42 000 barrels oil equivalent per day net from about 280 horizontal wells.
Liquids production from the DJ Basin in the fourth quarter was 51 000 barrels per day or 59% of the total production stream.
Oil alone represented 44% of our production for the quarter.
Since we have been focused on developing the oil-prone areas of the play our oil production has dramatically increased year-over-year by close to 50%.
We drilled 200 horizontal wells in the DJ Basin in 2012 and operated 8 horizontal rigs at the end of the year.
Over 85% of those wells were in the oil areas of the play which includes northern Colorado and the oil window of the greater Wattenberg area.
All the wells have been completed in our 15-well horizontal pilot focused on testing recovery of 40-acre density in multiple benches of the Niobrara as well as the Codell.
Remember we are testing 3 different development patterns here across the entire 300-foot oil-bearing section with a potential of over 30 wells developed per section as shown in Slide 8.
All wells are being prepared to flow through our newly constructed EcoNode facility and initial results will be available during our next quarterly update.
Looking at what we have learned over the past year our base plan is to focus on 40-acre density across the oil window while accelerating activity and continuing to unlock ways to increase recovery.
In 2013 we plan to add 2 rigs in order to drill 300 horizontal wells all but a handful in the oil window.
About 60 will be extended reach lateral wells with lateral lengths of 7 000 to 9 000 feet.
Normalizing for an average lateral length of 4 000 feet we'll be drilling close to 350 equivalent wells up over 70% from 2002 activity levels -- 2012 activity levels.
As shown in Slide 9 the average production from 3 initial extended reach lateral wells is showing minimal decline and is tracking well above a 750 000 barrel oil equivalent-type curve.
In fact if you look closely at the last 2 months the average shown in red exhibits essentially no decline.
Obviously we're excited about how this is evolving.
In one section of Wells Ranch we're drilling 8 extended reach lateral wells on an 80-acre density pattern.
We recently finished drilling 4 of the 8 with lateral lengths of approximately 9 000 feet.
We expect to spud the remaining wells and begin well completions on this 8-well section by the end of the first quarter.
In Northern Colorado we plan to drill 80 wells in 2013.
This activity stems mainly from the exploration success we have experienced in the East Pony area.
As noted on Slide 10 we now have 20 wells online that are exhibiting superior results 24-hour peak flow rates averaging close to 800 barrels oil equivalent per day with about 80% oil.
We plan to drill 55 to 65 wells this year in East Pony incorporating some of the same thinking as we've done in Wells Ranch laying out a very integrated development plan that will incorporate pipelines for water and oil transport as well as multi-well pad drilling and centralized facilities to reduce our footprint.
To support our expected growth in northern Colorado we recently sanctioned the Kyoto gas plant with a designed processing capacity of 30 million cubic feet per day.
We will own and operate the plant scheduled for startup in the second quarter of 2014.
This new plant alongside our 15 million cubic feet per day Lilli Plant allows us to control our own gas processing needs in this high oil area.
In Marcellus production averaged 121 million cubic feet equivalent per day net in the fourth quarter.
Wet gas production averaged 14 million cubic feet equivalent per day net from 3 pads.
In January we completed drilling the last of our 11 wells on our fourth wet gas pad and completions are underway.
We drilled 11 wells in the fourth quarter and operated 3 rigs.
Two of the rigs are in Majorsville and one is delineating our acreage position in Normantown West Virginia.
We plan to add a fourth rig in the second quarter in the Pennsboro West Virginia area.
The addition of a fifth and sixth rig later in the year will help us to drill 85 to 90 wet gas wells by year end.
In December we showed the returns uplift from the liquids on our wet gas production.
Slide 12 demonstrates that the value of the wet gas is about double the dry gas.
It's easy to see why we are increasing our development in this portion of the field.
In the dry gas area our partner CONSOL drilled 14 wells during the quarter and operated 2 rigs.
For 2013 we have agreed to a 36-well dry gas program down from 64 dry gas wells drilled in 2012.
Our strategies are well aligned in this natural gas price environment and we continue to focus on the high EUR and high net revenue interest areas of the play.
Most of our leases are held by production so our drilling plans are not being driven by lease expirations.
Instead we're able to optimize our development and we are retaining the optionality to grow our program when domestic natural gas prices rise.
Moving offshore to the Deepwater Gulf of Mexico we produced 24 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day led by production from Galapagos.
For the full year production grew more than 20% over 2011 to nearly 18 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day.
Our Gulf of Mexico production is approximately 80% oil and receives premium Light Louisiana Sweet pricing.
In the fourth quarter we announced the discovery of Big Bend with approximately 150 net feet of high-quality oil pay and the same productive interval as our Galapagos discoveries.
The excellent reservoir and oil characteristics are similar to Galapagos giving us confidence we will realize significant value from the development and production of this resource.
We have a 54% working interest in Big Bend and we intend to sanction a development project later this year.
Success at Big Bend has also derisked our adjacent Troubadour prospect which we intend to drill this year.
If successful Troubadour could be co-developed with Big Bend adding value to both projects.
We hold an 87.5% working interest in Troubadour.
We're currently drilling our second appraisal well at Gunflint.
Our first appraisal well established a commercial subsea tieback project.
The second appraisal well will test the south side of the Gunflint structure and possibly a deeper myocene interval.
A successful deeper myocene test could warrant a larger stand-alone development.
After results of this well we anticipate sanctioning Gunflint development as early as the second half of this year.
The combination of Big Bend and Gunflint oil production will be a significant new source of cash flow in the 2015 2016 time frame.
With respect to exploration in the Gulf of Mexico we continue to mature both subsalt prospects as well as amplitude prospects.
Later this year we plan to drill another exploration well after we finish with Gunflint and Troubadour.
We recently exercised a 1-year option on the ENSCO 8501 to support our expected drilling activity in the Gulf of Mexico and still maintained 3 additional 1-year options.
Shifting now to our International business let's begin in the Eastern Mediterranean.
Our existing production from the Mari-B facilities was essentially unchanged from last quarter due to the contribution from the Noa and Pinnacles fields.
We've developed these fields with the intent that they would deliver natural gas until the Tamar field comes online and they have performed extremely well.
We're now only a few months away from first production at Tamar.
Slide 14 shows a couple of pictures of Tamar facilities.
The installation of the jacket and platform was completed in December and offshore hookup and commissioning operations are in progress.
We're on schedule for first production in April and we'll ramp up growth Israel volumes to reach full capacity around 1 billion cubic feet per day in the peak summer demand period.
We expect to average gross sales volumes of approximately 700 million cubic feet per day the last 8 months of the year.
We spoke in detail in December about the growing demand for natural gas in Israel from electricity providers and industrial customers.
To meet this demand we're planning to implement a Tamar Phase 2 project to increase peak capacity to 1.5 billion cubic feet per day.
The project consists of 2 components: installation of compression at the Ashdod onshore terminal to increase onshore delivery capacity and storage at Mari-B to increase the offshore delivery capacity.
With this increase in system capacity we anticipate averaging around 1 billion cubic feet per day annual sales from Tamar in 2015.
At Leviathan we're continuing the appraisal of the massive field and spud the Leviathan #4 appraisal well late last year.
The Phase 1 development concept involves the use of an offshore host likely an FPSO to process the gas before bringing it onshore through a northern entry point.
A portion of the capacity will be earmarked for domestic needs with the remaining volumes available for export.
We expect domestic demand to continue its growth resulting in potential sales of several hundred million cubic feet a day from Leviathan beginning in 2016.
In West Africa crude and condensate volumes from Alba and Aseng were 36 000 barrels per day net in the fourth quarter.
We continued to see strong prices on our listings with an average realized price around $108 per barrel.
The Alen project as we announced in December has accelerated its schedule for first production to the third quarter of this year.
Well operations are complete and platform installation is scheduled for the second quarter.
Initial condensate volumes are expected to be 18 000 barrels a day net which will be transported to the Aseng FPSO for offloading.
At Carla we discovered an additional reservoir in the fourth quarter.
Our appraisal of Carla is in progress with the next step a flow test of the original and the newly discovered reservoirs.
The complete analysis of these results will guide our plan of development which will likely be a subsea tieback to Aseng.
Before I open the call for questions let me quickly touch upon our volume guidance.
Our full year volume guidance of 270 000 to 282 000 barrels per day and all full year guidance ranges that we announced in December remain unchanged.
We expect the first quarter to be our lowest volume quarter and that production will increase significantly in the second quarter with the startup of Tamar and will continue to ramp up throughout the year exiting around 300 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day.
We anticipate first quarter volumes to be 238 000 to 242 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day essentially no different than what we expected when we provided full year guidance in December.
This range includes the impact of underliftings of over 4 000 barrels per day in West Africa maintenance downtime in the Gulf of Mexico as well as normal depletion at the Mari-B field and the timing of pad startups in the Marcellus Shale.
Offsetting the Gulf of Mexico downtime is several thousand barrels per day higher production from the DJ Basin.
In summary we continue to execute and deliver on the plan we've laid out.
Before long the Tamar and Alen major projects will be online; we will have drilled significant appraisal wells at Leviathan Gunflint and Cyprus; and we will be testing large oil prospects in Nevada Nicaragua and the Eastern Mediterranean.
It's no wonder we are excited about our company.
Camille with that it's now time to open the call for questions.
[Operator Instructions] And we'll take our first question from Evan Calio with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> My question is on the Niobrara and then I know the production profile in Slide 9 continues to be flatter than your type curve after 3 wells.
And while I realize it's early days here is there anything specific to those -- these locations that could make them more outliers? Or any incremental changes on your view of the type curve and maybe how many wells you think you need to give you comfort to revisit that type curve? Yes.
It's a good question.
It's -- when we look at it and particularly what we emphasized especially as that production's continued from those longer laterals you can see how flat that curve is.
I mentioned in the last 2 months really if you look at the last 3 months it's fairly flat.
That gives us a lot of encouragement on what we're doing there.
I would say we've looked at -- is there -- is this really an outlier area? We don't really believe so.
We think the real application of the long horizontals is up in this oil window and that northeast part of Wattenberg and then up into northern Colorado.
So we're really going to test that this year.
As I mentioned we're going to drill close to 60 longer lateral horizontals.
We've got an 8-well program or a section that we're completing drilling and completing now in that Wells Ranch area.
So the real answer to your question in part is then we'll be real comfortable with how well do we understand this it'll be towards the end of this year when we get more wells drilled in more different areas.
But from what we've seen and where we drill these 3 wells and you combine that with that initial long lateral that we drilled that's now over a year of production we're really enthused by what we're seeing from this program.
I think it just points out once again how important it is on unconventional wells to really wait until you get extensive data and try not to make judgments too quickly.
In the case of the Niobrara it just -- certainly in the extended area it's just gotten more and more positive as we've gathered the performance data on these extended laterals.
Research Division</strong> If I could ask just one more follow-up to that is -- I mean can you just generally discuss the constraints for growth here in the Niobrara? I mean is it midstream? Staffing? Otherwise? Or some combination? I mean -- I guess I'm looking at the 500 well rate in 2016 huge growth rate with still over a 19-year inventory.
What's the limiting factor for faster growth? And I'll leave it at that.
The one thing you want to do is you want to lay out a pretty thoughtful plan and lay it out at least a year or 2 ahead of time as you're developing this.
I think when we look at it right now -- I mean if you look at this year's activity when you look at it on a normalized footage basis we're up over 70% from what we did last year heading towards as you mentioned -- going from 300 wells to closer to 500 in a couple of years here.
I think the thing that will play into this is the work we're doing on understanding the vertical recovery component of the Niobrara.
In other words where do we get to on -- how many different laterals do we need in any one particular area? Everything we're looking at and evaluating from that A bench down through the Codell.
We need 1 lateral.
Do we need 2 or even 3 in some of these areas to optimize that? As we start to unlock that and understand that and if you get into areas where you're doing more multi-laterals then you potentially have the ability down the road to be doing more off central facilities even than what we've got planned now which could help accelerate some of the timing as we get into that.
But I mean that's some of the things that are going to have to play out over the next year or so.
I think also it's -- as you're probably aware this plan continues to evolve.
If you look at our -- the plan we laid out in December versus the 5-year plan that we showed a year before our most recent plan had 1 100 additional wells over the 5-year period.
So we continue to accelerate the program as results come about.
And as Dave mentioned we continue to look for ways to push it forward but to make sure that we are developing it in a very efficient way.
So it's exciting to have that kind of potential.
It's exciting to see the potential grow.
And we know that we've got a lot of work ahead of us to continue to accelerate it.
And we'll take our next question from Leo Mariani with RBC.
LLC Research Division</strong> See if I can get a little bit more color on some of the high-potential exploration.
Wanted to get a sense if you guys thought you would have results from the well in Nicaragua by the end of the year.
I just wanted to get a sense of when you thought you'd start drilling in Sierra Leone.
Yes.
I'd say Leo on Nicaragua I'd say about end of the year is probably about the right timing for that if we get started by mid-year a little after mid-year.
So I think that would fit with what we're thinking right now.
Sierra Leone right now it's a little bit further behind.
It's earlier stages.
We're just working right now on planning what the 2D seismic program will be which then based on what you see from that you'd plan a 3D program before you get around to start drilling.
So the drilling there is probably a couple of years off yet.
I think on the other high-profile wells while it's a different type of play keep in mind that somewhere around the middle of the year we'll be starting in Nevada with that program and that's testing a pretty sizable resource there.
And that information will evolve over time.
And then also at the very end of the year as we mentioned the drillship will be moving back into Israel to start drilling the deep Mesozoic oil test.
But we wouldn't expect results on that until early the following year.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay that's really helpful.
And I guess just a question on Israeli production.
Just looking at your production guidance you talked about some of the moving pieces here.
Are you all expecting Israeli production to be down pretty significantly in the first quarter of '13 in your guidance? Yes I think it will be somewhat.
We kept it ramped up third and fourth quarter to meet some of the needs over there and supply everything we could as we're getting closer to Tamar.
And actually you're starting to deplete some of these fields a little more.
You're probably -- I'd say in the fourth quarter we were running that net 270 to 300 growth range.
We'll be down closer to 250 or -- plus or minus in this quarter.
Probably 230 to 250 is what we'll run it at.
On a gross basis.
On a gross basis.
And we'll take our next question from Doug Leggate with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> If I could jump back Dave please to the northern Colorado area.
I think in the past you guys have suggested that the limiting factor was really more about large ranch stages and so on.
I'm just curious given the success that you've had if you're able to still add acreage up there? And if so is -- ultimately what do you think the extent of this extended lateral area could be? I think that sounds maybe similar to a question you had before but really more about the acreage adds.
Yes.
If you recall we added a significant portion of acreage in northern Colorado last year which help delayed some of the activity and the development of this East Pony area.
I think when you think of north Colorado this year it's really 2 pieces.
It's moving into full development over in that East Pony area and then it's probably I'd say testing and delineating probably another 100 000 acres up there with a number of wells.
I'd say 5 to 10 wells up in that area.
So that's probably the 2 main focuses of the program in that area for this year.
Research Division</strong> So you feel you've got plenty of running room in terms of -- are you still adding acreage? Or are you pretty much done? I mean we add pieces here and there as it fills out drilling spacing units and so forth.
But we're not adding big pieces of acreage.
We still have -- I think if you remember we still have probably 100 000 150 000 acres that we need to delineate up there in the northern Colorado portion right now.
Research Division</strong> My follow-up is really -- you've had a pretty good clean up of the portfolio here in the last year or two but Chuck we haven't heard you talk about China in a while.
What are your thoughts there in terms of potential disposal? And I'll leave it at that.
Well I think we continue -- like you say we continue to clean up the portfolio and I think we would view that China would move into a category where it would be non-core.
It's always a matter of matching up the right -- the buyer of the assets.
We worked on the North Sea for quite some time till we found the right home from some of that because we do put a lot of value on focusing on our core area of businesses.
So we've got a little bit left in the U.S.
to finish up on that program.
We got most of it last year very successful program but there's still a couple more packages here in the U.S.
we need to clean up as well.
So always moving it down the food chain so to speak and keeping it as clean as possible.
So more work to come.
And we'll take our next question from Dave Kistler with Simmons &amp; Company.
Research Division</strong> Real quickly kind of thinking more about the service cost outlook.
Last quarter you guys had talked about thinking towards a 5% to 10% decline in 2013 in the DJ Basin.
Has anything changed that landscape as you move more rigs up there and do more pad drilling? Do you have the right fit-for-purpose rigs? Are you able to get them at similar rates? Any kind of sense on where you guys are thinking in terms of continued cost compression that you've benefited from as well? I don't -- I'll also ask Dave to comment but I don't think we anticipate any changes from what we just talked about at the end of the year.
But we do have to keep in mind that we are driving -- especially in the development programs we're driving to a more efficient development program.
The pad drilling multi-wells on a pad some of the things that we outlined in December that we're doing in areas such as handling of water of more efficient movement of fluid.
These are all built to get more efficiency out of the scale that the Niobrara program is going.
But in terms of just looking at service costs themselves I don't think we see any big changes in what we outlined before.
No.
And a lot of that is predicated on moving more to these fit-for-purpose rigs which we've been doing too Dave.
So nothing's really changed on that outlook.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then maybe kind of more of a housekeeping item it looks like LOE for 1Q is kind of trending up versus where it was 4Q and is certainly above full year '13 guidance.
Can you talk about what's kind of moving that around just for that one quarter? Or is that a trend [indiscernible]? Yes.
There is some -- in that first quarter we're seeing some impact of some Swordfish maintenance cost on our Swordfish well out there.
We had lost the power supply for a period of time so we had to bring in an additional power supply and then we had some compression work that needed to be repaired.
So a lot of it is driven by that Dave.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So really one time in nature more than anything else.
Yes.
I think we'll see that trend down over the next part of the year and especially as you start to bring the Tamar project on too.
[Operator Instructions] And we'll take our your next question from Brian Singer with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> On the Marcellus you talked about the liquids-rich components contributing about 12% of the total; and in your prepared remarks talked about reducing I think the number of wells you're drilling on the dry gas side.
Can you talk about how you see your mix changing in the Marcellus over the course of the year and how you see overall production trending given the shift in activity? Yes.
I mean our production trend -- no different than what we laid out in December.
So -- I mean we'll be up still significantly overall.
A lot more of it as you allude to Brian will be driven by the wet gas portion.
We'll be drilling what close to 85 to 90 wet gas wells this year compared to 35 36 or so dry gas.
But a lot of those pads really don't start to come on till second third fourth quarter.
So it'll be more second half of the year weighted where you start to see the real impact of the more liquid portion of that.
Research Division</strong> And then going back to reserve bookings internationally.
Can you just refresh us on Alen and Tamar what is booked now from the projects that -- at least the portion of Tamar that you have coming on in 2013 and if there's anything less to book? And then how we should think about reserve bookings perhaps at year end 2013 internationally with some of the sanctions that you're planning? Yes Brian.
We've booked kind of -- if you remember we booked the liquid portion probably a fairly significant portion of that.
I think as far as additional potential for bookings at say Alen and -- when I'm thinking about Alen and Aseng we saw some improvement this year from Aseng from performance.
We may be able to see some of the -- the same thing from Alen.
When you think about what we're doing at Tamar I think we've booked if I remember right about 70% of the total reserves there.
And then we'll look at that as we get performance and get further along in development.
And we'll take our next question from Irene Haas with Wunderlich.
Research Division</strong> Today I wanted to focus my question mainly on marketing issues in 2 regions.
Firstly in the Niobrara you guys generally are sort of a trendsetter and pace setter for the play.
And I'm wondering where your crude is being sold to a percentage into Cushing and then other Rocky Mountain area and just really sort of a longer view as to how you're going to pace yourselves.
Then the second part of this question is really offshore Eastern Mediterranean.
I mean surely there's a lot of countries nearby that you can sort of export your gas to and my question is how comfortable you are in terms of getting oil index-type pricing in light of the fact that some of the Gulf Coast projects are selling it at Henry Hub Index? So that's all I have for today.
Thanks Irene.
I think Dave and I will tag team on this a little bit.
I think in Niobrara the one thing to keep in mind is that our marketing has greatly expanded over the course of the last really 1.5 years 2 years.
So not only do we market locally to a -- oh it's actually a company that has 2 refineries in the area but now it's broadened out to a number of customers in the region.
And then also we send a sizable portion of our crude down to the White Cliffs pipeline into Cushing.
In addition we're working with partners on a rail facility that will start up in the second half of this year and that rail facility will actually allow us to move crude to multiple markets throughout the country.
It's just not about moving it through the Gulf Coast.
We can move it to the East Coast and the West Coast as well.
It really opens things up for us.
So as a result of all this we're seeing a lot of flexibility going forward in terms of how we market our crude out of the basin.
And with the capacity growing with the expansion that White Cliffs has undertaken and with the rail facility we're able to move these ever-increasing amounts of oil.
On the Eastern Med I would just say that on the export side of it obviously near term we're focusing on this growing domestic market in Israel which is probably going to support 2 more expansions one of Tamar and a first phase of Leviathan so that we can satisfy that market.
And then we'll be -- we continue to work the export process.
There may be markets nearby but I think we really see exports as being an LNG export project.
And gosh what kind of pricing evolution that will happen on that? We know we'll have European customers that have a different pricing methodology as some of the Asian customers and it all continues to evolve.
And so that -- those will be all the pieces that will be continuing to work where countries are all different.
The good news is is that we're dealing with a resource that can be developed at low cost and can be competitive in a number of markets.
I might ask David if he wanted to comment anymore on either of those.
I'd say when you look at our DJ Basin crude I mean we don't see that going forward even with the rail situation coming in.
We don't really see what you've seen as far as deducts from WTI really changing that much.
I mean we see with the ability to move crude to a number of different places and a number of different markets we still have a good plan there on how to continue to handle that.
And that gets even better with some of these expansions that Chuck has mentioned.
And we'll take our next question from Bob Brackett with Bernstein Research.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> I had a quick question on Tamar Phase 2.
You mentioned there are 2 capital items around compression and storage.
Will you need any more wells to supply that volume? And can you remind us on the nameplate capacity for the platform? Well the -- I'm not -- well there are 2 platforms that are involved here.
One is Mari-B that potentially would be used as a storage facility and then there's the big Tamar platform that we put in.
So right now the nominal peak capacity of the Tamar Phase 1 will be around 1 Bcf a day which is delivered out of 5 wells of which probably 4 could make that volume and the fifth is additional.
The peak capacity for Phase 2 would be about 1.5 Bcf.
And again that would be achieved through probably some swing volumes from Mari-B out of storage as well as utilizing the compression that we would install onshore to be able to enhance the delivery.
So will there be another well along the way? We'll just see.
I would speculate at this point that we'll want to see the performance of these wells that we have as part of the base development.
They've been -- some have been flow tested.
They're very high productivity.
And then we'll just see -- we always want to make sure we've got some redundancy in the system as we go forward.
But it's a very highly prolific field very productive wells.
And we'll take our next question from John Malone with Global Hunter Securities.
LLC Research Division</strong> You mentioned earlier in the call that you think that you might get approval from the Israeli government for exports later in the year if I heard correctly.
Can you sort of walk us through what you -- the expected timing the ideal timing post that approval? When do you think you might have some SPAs with customers and when you think the earliest date for FID is possible? Well on an export project I think we still see -- a final investment decision is out into the future.
There's a lot of work that needs to be done on facility design.
And as you pointed out just making sure you're secure on markets and customer.
So that's not a -- that is not something that we would anticipate anywhere near this year.
That's out some time.
As far as the export policy the committee that studied that in Israel made their final recommendations late last year.
We would as I think kind of anticipated because of the elections that were called in Israel there was no final action taken on that.
Israel is now building the new coalition government after elections have occurred.
And I guess my anticipation would be is that that export policy would be taken up after the new government is formed which will be probably some time late this quarter early next quarter.
And then it will just go through its process.
But again we would expect that relatively soon they would finalize that because it does give us more certainty in how to plan and design going forward.
LLC Research Division</strong> And just a follow-up to that probably too early to answer but Woodside in the past has gone to 2 FID on projects without having sold 100% of capacity on the idea that they can get some spot volumes sold as well.
Are you guys thinking of these terms yet or is it too early? Well I think it's way too early.
But I would just say that as we've looked at the LNG markets there is some strategic advantage to leaving some of your volume uncommitted for spot sales.
And so again without -- we just haven't gotten that far.
But we at least philosophically agreed that there's some value in doing that.
And we'll take our next question from Charles Meade with Johnson Rice.
L.L.C.
Research Division</strong> If I could go back to a sub -- comment that Chuck made in his prepared remarks I think -- this sounds like this was a new prospect this Karish if I'm saying it correctly? And I'm wondering where that is in relation to your other prospects and what your work condition is what a developed scenario would look like.
Well it's not a new prospect Charles.
It's one of that inventory we had up there in the Levant Basin that we've seen -- as we've gone through all our 3D work.
I guess it's about a 3 TCF prospect and it's a very high chance of success.
We think it can kind of help solidify the resource base there in Israel.
Close to Tamar.
And it is.
It is close to Tamar probably a little east of Tanin our discovery that we made.
That was early last year.
So it just fits in with that program.
L.L.C.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And so that would just have some kind of the same sort of subsea development and tieback as you're using for Tamar?.
Oh I would think so.
Yes.
L.L.C.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then the follow-up.
On Carla on the cartoon map you guys have it looks like the southern portion of that prospect hasn't been tested yet.
Is that correct? And is that going to be part of your 2013 appraisal program? Yes.
I mean we've got a -- that sort of started out as a multi well with some additional sidetracks to more fully appraise this.
So what we're going to do is kind of systematically appraise this now multiple reservoirs.
And the next step here is actually flow testing a couple of these reservoirs.
Keep in mind we did drill Carla earlier at a different location.
And so what's happened with this most recent well we didn't -- I don't think on our cartoon -- we didn't really show the well locations.
But this latest well showed that we had some reservoir separation there.
So certainly there will be some more work to be done and we show a fairly large range for Carla.
Our latest on a P75-P25 shows that it could range anywhere from 36 to 136 million barrels equivalent from about 80% being liquids.
So it's a sizable feature and it will probably -- again after we do our well tests we'll put together the development plan and we'll just see how we stepped through it.
And we'll take our next question from Dan McSpirit with BMO Capital Markets.
Hoping to get your view on domestic NGL prices and what the options are to not price DJ Basin production off Conway.
Just asking in an effort to better understand the impact of margins here going forward.
Well I think the key thing to keep in mind that will I think give us some flexibility on DJ volumes is the new pipeline that's being built that will go into service I want to say early -- end of the year of this year beginning of next year.
And that will move it away from Conway and start moving it down into the Gulf Coast.
So you've got then more flexibility on the pricing there.
Okay great.
And then as a follow-up with respect to the new gas plant in northern Colorado can you give us the amount of capital that will or has been committed to building constructing that plant? And should we expect much by way of changes to the initial capacity of $30 million a day here going forward? And maybe as a follow-up to that the amount of third-party volumes that may go through that same plant? Yes Dan.
I mean right now we're looking somewhere in that $30 million to $40 million range if I remember it right for that facility.
And at this point we'll see how it develops.
But with our plans for development in that area we're looking at it filling that up with our gas.
I mean if there's any additional capacity we'll surely look at any third party gas in the area.
But our plans right now are based on our activity and what we're seeing up there to continue to load that up with our volumes and our activity.
I mean that's at least the emphasis upfront.
Yes.
Just to keep in mind that's a very low GOR area.
So you don't need just a small amount of processing capacity.
And again we've got an existing Lilli Plant and then this Kyoto plant that we're building that -- that really helps us able to move things up there.
When you have 1 000 GOR or so.
Exactly.
And we'll take our next question from Amir Arif with Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just a question on the extended reach laterals.
Have you tried that up in the northern Colorado area given the higher oil cuts? And the follow-up question to that really is what's the difference in the economics uplift that you see with the extended laterals versus your average lateral based on your results today? Yes.
Good questions.
I think right now we have not yet drilled extended laterals in northern Colorado.
But our plan is to drill a handful of them this year up there so we'll start to get a look at it up in that area as you say given the acreage position up there and the oil prone -- theres the high -- low GOR high oil in that area it's a natural place to move that program.
When you look at the returns we're seeing returns over 100% from when you look at these first 3 or 4 extended reach laterals.
So when you look at what we've shown on our base program and that 40% to 60% returns it's a pretty nice uplift here to go -- get up over 100% return from what we're seeing so far on these.
And just to add to some things that Dave was talking in the prepared remarks is that that's -- 100% plus is what we are seeing based off of the type curve analysis that we had out there and our performances is going well above the type curve.
So we're probably -- even at the type curve we're seeing F&amp;D down about 20% on these.
So that's probably -- with what kind of success we're seeing that's set up to improve as well.
So very very high return wells.
I guess the real story there is we don't really know yet what the limit to recovery from this program is.
And we'll take our next question from Michael Hall with Robert W.
Baird.
Research Division</strong> Most of mine have been addressed.
But just a quick follow-up on the DJ marketing topic just curious on the rail volumes.
Have you actually contracted any capacity out of the basin on rail? And what might the per barrel cost be on that? Yes.
On the rail capacity we've committed 10 000 barrels a day and I wouldn't be surprised to see us move up to 20 000 by the time it gets put in given how fast our oil production is growing up there.
When you look at it as Chuck mentioned it goes -- potentially can go to a lot of different markets to get better pricing than WTI.
I think the costs we're looking at are in -- to deliver it's probably $10 to $12 a barrel.
And the gross facility the gross rail facility has a capacity of about 60 000 barrels a day and there's another partner in it that's made a commitment for some capacity as well.
So a lot of room to grow.
Research Division</strong> And sorry is that in northeastern Colorado? Or -- where I guess physically is the...
No it'd be in the Wattenberg area.
In the Wattenberg area probably closer to Platteville.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then just curious I don't know if it's necessary a whole lot to be read from it but just curious what your per well EUR bookings are on the horizontal program at this point on proved reserves? I think in the DJ you're around that 300 that we've been talking about.
On a gross basis you've got to net that down for our net revenue interest.
Hey Camille this is David.
It looks like we're -- we've reached our 1-hour limit here so we are going to end the Q&amp;A session now.
And for those that are still on the call I want to thank everybody again for participating in the call and really the interest that you have in Noble Energy.
And have a great day.
This concludes today's presentation.
Thank you for your participation.
Good morning.
Welcome to the Noble Energy's First Quarter 2013 Earnings Call.
I would now like to turn the call over to David Larson.
Please go ahead.
Thanks Camille.
Good morning everyone.
Welcome to Noble Energy's first quarter 2013 earnings call and webcast.
On the call today we have Chuck Davidson Chairman and CEO; Dave Stover President and COO; and Ken Fisher CFO.
This morning we issued our earnings release for the first quarter and it is available on our website.
Later today we expect to be filing our 10-Q with the SEC and it will also be available on our website.
The agenda for today will begin with Chuck discussing the quarter and followed by an update of our Eastern Mediterranean business and highlights of our ongoing Exploration program.
Dave will then give a detailed overview of our operational programs and near-term plans.
We'll leave time for Q&amp;A at the end and plan to wrap up the call in less than an hour.
[Operator Instructions] I want to remind everyone that this webcast and conference call contains projections and forward-looking statements based on our current views and most reasonable expectations.
We provide no assurances on these statements as a number of factors and uncertainties could cause actual results in the future periods to differ materially from what we discuss here.
You should read our full disclosures on forward-looking statements in our latest news release and SEC filings for a discussion of the risk factors that influence our business.
We'll also be referencing certain non-GAAP financial measures such as adjusted net income or discretionary cash flow on the call today.
When we refer to these items it's because we believe they are good metrics to use in evaluating the company's performance.
Be sure to see the reconciliation in our earnings release tables.
With that let me turn the call over to Chuck.
Thanks David.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us today.
I have to say right upfront that it looks like we're off to a great start for the year.
As we go over our results and outlook during this call I'm sure you'll reach the same conclusion.
My list of highlights for the quarter include strong earnings and strong cash flow as well as solid production all of which came in a bit higher than we expected.
But certainly surpassing all of these was a surprise of experiencing the Tamar startup late in the quarter.
Not only did Tamar start up a few weeks early it then almost immediately began setting records for gas sales to Israel.
A smooth and successful start up of Tamar really sets the stage for us for a great 2013.
The projects of the scale and complexity of Tamar are not easy to execute much less execute under a compressed schedule that resulted in going from discovery to production in just 4 years.
The project performance we've delivered at Aseng in West Africa and now Tamar in Israel are showcasing an emerging Noble competitive advantage and that is the ability to consistently deliver major projects on schedule and on budget.
So this morning I'll highlight what I believe has been an excellent quarter.
I'll review the financial results and then I'll touch upon the outlook for the upcoming quarters before turning the call over to Dave who will provide a more detailed operational outlook.
So let's look at our performance for the quarter.
Adjusted net income from continuing operations for the first quarter was $269 million or $1.48 per share diluted.
Excluded from adjusted net income were unrealized losses from commodity hedges and gains on some non-core asset divestments in the first quarter.
Revenues were $1.1 billion for the quarter supported by another quarter of strong crude realizations.
Our sales volumes for the quarter were 245 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day of which 39% were crude and condensate volumes.
Volumes for the quarter were significantly above the high end of our guidance due to stronger-than-expected performance in Israel the Gulf of Mexico and the DJ Basin.
Adjusting for divestments our year-over-year volume growth was 9% and the growth was almost entirely due to increased crude oil volumes from the DJ Basin.
Domestic sales totaled 146 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day up 23% from the first quarter of 2012 excluding volumes from divested assets.
Domestic results for the quarter exceeded our expectations as a result of the horizontal program in the DJ Basin and the faster return to production of Swordfish in the Gulf of Mexico.
Internationally sales volumes were 99 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day down 6% from the first quarter of 2012 but above our expectations due to stronger-than-expected volumes from Noa and Pinnacles in Israel which delivered net production of 110 million cubic feet equivalent per day.
As expected West Africa sales volumes were down due to scheduled underliftings.
Our discretionary cash flow from continuing operations for the quarter was $761 million up 10% from the first quarter of 2012.
Our liquidity position remains extremely strong at more than $5.3 billion with $1.3 billion of cash on hand.
Also in the quarter we made progress on our non-core asset divestment program.
We closed 2 divestment packages one in the North Sea and one consisting of some Gulf Coast assets and received proceeds of approximately $90 million.
We also signed a sales agreement on a package of Mid-Continent gas assets that is expected to close in the second quarter.
We expect to divest of some additional non-core assets later this year as well.
As I look forward to the rest of the year I'm excited about the operational successes that we're experiencing.
Onshore we're on track to drill 300 wells this year in the DJ Basin and we're testing various horizontal lateral patterns across several target zones to increase our recovery per section.
We're drilling longer laterals than we have ever had done before and we're seeing some extended-reach lateral well production curves that now appear to be tracking an estimated ultimate recovery curve of 1 million barrels of oil equivalent.
In the Marcellus we plan to drill 120 wells this year in cooperation with our joint venture partner CONSOL.
Our emphasis remains in the wet gas area where we anticipate adding rigs this year to support the program.
In our offshore business units our appraisal program support scheduled sanctions for later this year.
I believe that one of the reasons we have been so successful in bringing our major projects to production on schedule is that our appraisal programs have allowed us to design a properly sized and effective development scenarios.
In the Gulf of Mexico we expect to complete our appraisal well at Gunflint during the second quarter.
We do expect that in the coming weeks we'll be penetrating a deeper exploration target previously untested on the Gunflint structure which if successful provides significant upside.
Following our drilling and analysis there we would expect the sanction a development at Gunflint later this year.
Following Gunflint we plan to spud exploration wells at Troubadour and another prospect before the end of the year.
We also plan to sanction a second development in the Gulf of Mexico in our Big Bend discovery by year-end.
In West Africa our land project continues to follow an accelerated plan targeting a third quarter startup and Dave will provide you an update on our progress there.
We're drilling a second appraisal well at Carla and working towards a sanction of a project there later this year.
Following Carla we plan to begin an appraisal at Diega.
Looking more closely at the Eastern Mediterranean programs I was in Israel recently and can really see the impact of our efforts there.
We're supplying natural gas to Israel at a higher rate than we ever have before.
In fact we tested the field that delivery is equivalent to over 950 million cubic feet per day.
We expect the facility to deliver at full capacity during the peak summer demand period in the third quarter and Dave will fill you in on some of the details on our operations at Tamar later in the call.
Israel Electric Corporation recently exercised its option to increase the amount of natural gas it will purchase from Tamar.
This further supports the need to initiate a second phase of Tamar soon.
The new coalition government was recently formed in Israel and the new leaders are becoming familiar with the items on their country's energy policy agenda which includes energy exports.
Our expectation is that the export policy is one of the early issues that the new government will be addressing.
Clarity on an export policy is essential as we finalize the farmout agreement with Woodside which in turn will bring us closer to sanctioning the first phase at Leviathan.
On the exploration front we finished an appraisal well during the quarter at Leviathan which increased our gross mean resource estimate there at the field to 18 trillion cubic feet.
Coupled with the announced increase and resource estimates at Tamar these 2 fields gross mean resources now total 28 trillion cubic feet.
With necessary government support we anticipate sanctioning Leviathan later this year.
We're currently drilling our Karish prospect offshore Israel which is a 3 Tcf prospect.
Our analysis and modeling has verified through our earlier successes and we believe this well has a very high chance of success.
Following Karish we plan to move over to Cyprus and spud an appraisal well at our 7 Tcf Cyprus discovery.
With respect to our new ventures exploration programs we completed 3D seismic surveys in 2 different sections of our tight oil play in Northeast Nevada late last year.
We're finishing our analysis and plan to initiate our vertical test program in the third quarter.
Bear in mind this is exploration drilling not factory drilling like we're accustomed to in the DJ Basin.
This will be slower drilling especially initially but we expect to have some preliminary results later this year.
We have a 100% working interest in our 350 000 net acre position.
We're on track to spud our first exploration well an appraisal prospect offshore Nicaragua in the third quarter.
We secured a drilling rig and are actively evaluating bid proposals on this world-class exploration opportunity and anticipate farming down our ownership before spudding the well.
We expect the farm-down to include our entire acreage position which has multiple prospects identified.
Appraisal alone may contain 1 billion barrels of oil equivalent.
We estimate the entire acreage position has a gross unrisked resource of nearly 3 billion barrels of oil equivalent.
We personally hold a 100% working interest and expect the farm-down to a level of 40% to 50% interest.
In the Falkland Islands we've acquired almost 1.5 million acres of 3D seismic.
In Sierra Leone we're completing an initial 2D seismic survey of our acreage which will direct the future 3D program.
And finally our new build drillship should arrive on location in the Eastern Mediterranean around year-end with a spud of our deep Mesozoic oil prospect below the Leviathan field.
In closing the first quarter served as an excellent start to the year and we really remain well-positioned to deliver on our expectations for the year and beyond as we continue with this period of very significant growth.
Earlier this week we announced that we have increased our quarterly dividend by 12% as well as announcing a 2-for-1 stock split.
These actions reflect our confidence in our ability to execute on the plans we've previously communicated to you.
Now I'll turn the call over to Dave who will provide some more details on our ongoing operations.
Thank you Chuck.
As you mentioned we had an exciting quarter in the Eastern Mediterranean as we began production at Tamar.
Late last month we initiated flow from the Tamar field through the world's longest subsea tied back to the platform and then to the Ashdod Onshore Terminal.
It took less than a week to bring on all 5 subsea wells and stabilize flow which was a remarkable feat by our project team.
Each of the 5 wells has been cycled up to the design capacity of 250 million cubic feet per day.
With the startup we shifted over 300 million barrels of oil equivalent of proved undeveloped reserves -- with proved developed reserves and we increased the gross mean resource estimate of Tamar by 1 trillion cubic feet to 10 trillion cubic feet total.
Looking forward we plan to continue producing from our fields at Mari-B Noa and Pinnacles until they are depleted.
As they continue to deplete we will ramp up Tamar volumes as necessary to support the Israel demand.
We've seen strong demand and expect it to increase as we enter the peak summer season.
At times in the third quarter it seems likely that we will deliver up to the maximum capacity of the development which is approximately 1 billion cubic feet per day.
We're working to sanction the second phase of Tamar which will increase the system capacity to 1.5 billion cubic feet per day by 2015.
The capacity increase will be through a combination of increased compression system optimization and the use of storage at the existing Mari-B reservoir.
As Chuck commented Israel Electric Corporation exercised its option to purchase additional natural gas beginning in 2015.
The second phase will support the additional sales.
With respect to exploration we're drilling the Karish prospect in Israel followed by our first appraisal well in Cyprus.
The drillship Atwood Advantage will be mobilizing to the Eastern Mediterranean late in the year and is targeted to spud the Mesozoic oil prospect beneath Leviathan.
As I've mentioned a number of times I can't wait to test this breakout play concept and look forward to having the capability of this new drillship.
In West Africa Aseng production was nearly 60 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day gross with decline expected to start this quarter.
At our non-operated asset Elba we expect some planned maintenance downtime this quarter.
Our next big operated project Alen is progressing very well.
I'm confident this will be our fourth major project in a row with outstanding execution.
Platform installation was completed by the same vessel that installed the Tamar platform the [indiscernible].
Subsea installation and commissioning is complete.
Major hookups are approximately 80% complete and facilities commissioning is approximately 40% complete.
The Alen development is now scheduled for first production in the third quarter with production ramping up to 18 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day net.
The condensate volumes at Alen will be transported via a pipeline to the Aseng FPSO for offloading.
In Carla we completed appraisal of a well in Block O.
Following a planned sidetrack we flow-tested 2 separate zones.
The test confirmed that both zones are productive one with oil the other with condensate.
Earlier this month we spud another well to test similar objectives to the south in Block I.
Results are expected near the end of the quarter and we will be analyzing development options for a potential sanction later in the year.
One scenario is to flow Carla to the Aseng FPSO via subsea tiebacks.
Shifting over to the deepwater Gulf of Mexico we restored production of Swordfish following some unplanned downtime.
We will be replacing an umbilical there next month resulting in 2 weeks of downtime and we'll also be impacted by about a month of downtime at Galapagos for planned maintenance at the host platform.
We recently increased our working interest in Gunflint to 31% from 26% and are currently drilling our second appraisal well.
This well should complete our appraisal drilling and will help determine our development plan.
There is a deep exploration zone to this well which if successful can result in a standalone development.
We expect results late second quarter or early third quarter with a possible sanction to follow later in the year.
Following the Gunflint appraisal we plan to drill the offset to our Big Bend discovery at Troubadour.
If successful Troubadour would likely be another subsea tieback similar to Big Bend.
We expect to sanction Big Bend this year and is possible that Troubadour could be sanctioned at the same time and codeveloped with Big Bend.
Following Troubadour we plan to spud another exploration well.
We have a number of potential candidates.
We'll be maintaining a one-rig program in the Gulf of Mexico through the end of the year.
Moving onshore our domestic production continues to be led by our growing DJ Basin program as shown in Slide 5 of the packet.
For the quarter sales from the DJ Basin averaged 92 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day an increase of 7% over the fourth quarter and 25% over the first quarter last year.
This month we have been impacted by a series of spring snowstorms which has affected our ability to move volumes and bring on new production.
We've taken that into account in our second quarter guidance.
The horizontal program contributed 45 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day or 49% of the first quarter DJ production.
This progress is amazing when you consider first quarter last year we averaged 18 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day from the horizontal activity.
We continue to see the impact of the increased oil production from this program as crude oil accounted for 49% of the production for the quarter.
Total liquids volumes were 63% of production with natural gas accounting for the remaining 37%.
We continue to expand our drilling activity as we recently added our ninth horizontal rig in March and plan to add our tenth rig later this quarter.
We spud 56 horizontal wells in the first quarter of which 10 were extended-reach laterals.
Our extended-reach lateral wells continue to perform extremely well.
We'll drill approximately 60 wells this year with lateral lengths generally between 6 500 and 9 500 feet.
As shown on Slide 6 we now have substantial production history on 4 wells that averaged 9 100 feet and the average production is tracking well above the 750 000-barrel of oil equivalent type curve.
It's interesting to point out that 2 of the wells are tracking at a 1 million-barrel type curve.
This highlights how far the transformation this field has come when you think back just 3 years ago and the average new vertical well was started getting 40 000 barrels of oil equivalent per well.
Slide 7 shows production curves of 5 wells with an average lateral length approaching 7 000 feet.
These production curves are tracking above a 540 000-barrel of oil equivalent type curve.
We recently finished drilling 8 extended-reach lateral wells in one section with 7 of the 8 laterals extending beyond 7 000 feet.
The wells are currently being completed and we expect initial production from all 8 late in the second quarter.
We continue to push this program and a fact we believe we have drilled the longest lateral in the State of Colorado at 9 978 feet.
With respect to our ongoing pilot programs we're testing recoveries for multiple zones in various lateral patterns as shown on Slide 8.
What we have learned up to this point is that we need a minimum of 16 wells per section in the oil window to drain the B Bench of the Niobrara.
We've also learned that the entire 300-foot section from the Niobrara A through the Codell is productive and it is apparent that more than one well is required to vertically drain the 300-foot section.
It also appears that the B Bench performs as expected even with tightly spaced wells in the A Bench C Bench and the Codell.
We continue to focus on additional pilot testing in an effort to understand the optimum recovery plan with respect to density lateral length multiple zones and zone patterns.
We're testing a handful of different patterns across the oil window and we have several more on the drawing board.
We're doing this while drilling our crude oil production significantly and continuing to accelerate the pace of our horizontal development.
We see significant upside to our recoverable resource numbers which are currently based on an average of approximately 10 wells per section.
Further north we're actively developing our 45 000 net acre East Pony area as shown on Slide 9.
We now have 27 wells on production and we'll be drilling between 50 and 60 wells there this year.
These wells continue to generate 80% crude oil and are among the highest returning assets in our portfolio.
Outside of East Pony we're working to delineate our remaining 185 000 net acre position in Northern Colorado.
With respect to crude oil infrastructure infield oil gathering trunk line is scheduled to begin service with an initial capacity of 50 000 barrels per day in September.
This line will help us deliver crude oil efficiently to the White Cliffs Pipeline and the plain's rail facility.
The rail facility is scheduled to begin service in the third quarter of this year with a capacity of 68 000 barrels per day.
The rail facility diversifies our sales portfolio and gives us market options to the Gulf Coast the West Coast or the East Coast.
The White Cliffs pipeline capacity will essentially be doubled when the loop of the existing line is completed in the second quarter of next year.
On the gas side DCP is bringing on the LaSalle plant in September of this year which will initially add 110 million cubic feet per day and then will be expanded in the fourth quarter to 160 million cubic feet per day of total processing capacity of that facility.
The 230 million cubic feet per day Lucerne [ph] 2 plants that's scheduled for service in 2014 followed by another 230 million cubic feet per day plant in 2015.
Also our Kyoto gas plant is scheduled for startup in the third quarter of 2014 with a processing capacity of 30 million cubic feet per day.
This plant alongside the Lilli Plant will support our growth in Northern Colorado.
Next to our Kyoto plant we'll be building the state's first LNG facility and we'll be supplying our rigs and frac fleets with a clean fuel source from our own operated facility.
These efforts give us confidence on our ability to continue to bring our production to market and we expect another year of significant growth from the DJ Basin.
Moving over to the Marcellus we're operating 3 rigs in the wet gas area.
Currently we have 2 rigs operating in Majorsville and 1 rig operating in the Normantown area of West Virginia.
In Majorsville we have 20 wells on production from 3 pads.
Completion operations are finishing up at our fourth pad the 11-well WEB 4 pad which we'll bring into production in late June.
Our fifth and sixth pads the 10-well SHL 8 and the 7-well WFN 1 are finishing drilling operations soon and are scheduled to begin completion operations in June.
In Normantown we're breaking out a new development area.
We've taken a core and our analysis will guide our development going forward.
We'll be completing drilling operations at our first Normantown pad a 6-well pad around mid-May.
We'll begin completion operations there in late June.
We'll be adding a fourth rig to our wet gas operations in the second quarter.
This rig will be utilized to break out another development area in Pennsboro West Virginia.
We also intend to add 2 more rigs to the wet gas area later in the year to support drilling a total of 85 to 90 wet gas wells this year.
The current plan for 2013 has our partner CONSOL drilling 35 dry gas wells.
The second order -- in the second quarter CONSOL intends to bring 2 pads to production.
Let me talk about our volume guidance before we open the call for questions.
Our full-year volume guidance remains unchanged at 270 000 to 282 000 barrels per day and we expect second-quarter volumes to be 254 000 to 260 000 barrels per day.
Second-quarter volumes will be up over the first quarter primarily due to production from Tamar.
Offsetting some of the increase are about 2 000 barrels per day impact from divestments of non-core onshore assets and another 10 000 barrels per day from items I mentioned earlier including planned downtime in Equatorial Guinea and the Gulf of Mexico along with the early quarter weather in the DJ Basin.
The second half of the year is expected to average around 300 000 barrels per day sales with increased demand at Israel startup of Alen and accelerated ramp up in the DJ and the Marcellus wet gas programs.
This mix of catalysts will allow us to deliver on our full-year volume guidance while absorbing some ongoing non-core asset sales.
In summary both Chuck and I have discussed the activity that underpins our confidence in delivering the exceptional growth we've outlined late last year.
The execution of the Tamar project and the progress on Alen continues to highlight the organization's ability to execute major projects and deliver on our promises.
Our appraisal activity this year at Leviathan Gunflint Carla and Cyprus along with significant exploration wells in the Gulf of Mexico Nicaragua Eastern Mediterranean and Nevada provide additional catalyst.
All combined with expanding and growing programs in our onshore core areas provides an exciting year and a tremendous future.
Camille it is now time to go ahead and open the call for questions.
[Operator Instructions] And we'll take our first question from Evan Calio with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> A question in the Niobrara I know you completed 44 wells versus a 300 annual target.
Should we expect the completions to be back-end loaded? And can you help me understand the pace on the completion side? And I have a follow-up.
Well the completions as somewhat has expected were a little less than average in the first quarter with some of the weather.
But with -- as we mentioned we're bringing in -- we've actually brought another rig in March and we've got another rig coming in this quarter.
So that activity will continue to ramp up through the year.
And it won't be so much back-end loaded they will be continual I'd say from this point forward.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And my follow-up or second question is I know you gave us a lot of data on Slide 9 on Northern Colorado.
Do you have any color on the wells drilled outside of East Pony? And kind of what were the number of wells drilled outside that area within the quarter? I'll leave with that.
No.
I'd say still too early for that.
We're just starting on some of that delineation up there.
So that'll be towards the end of the year before we really have a lot of new insight on some of these what I call appraisal areas.
And we'll take our next question from Doug Leggate with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> Dave could I just ask you to elaborate a little bit on your plans for the Phase 2 at Tamar? And I guess what's behind my question is I think in Chuck's prepared remarks he talked about the sort of greater urgency to get that onstream quicker perhaps.
Could you maybe just give us an update as to how you see the timeline there? And if you could perhaps clarify some of the government noise around gas prices as it relates to future expansions for both that and Leviathan please? And I have a quick follow-up.
Sure Doug.
First on the second phase of Tamar Tamar is -- that phase is a combination of utilizing compression that we would install onshore as well as the utilization of Mari-B for storage.
And that's why it gives us that big uplift in capacity.
I think Dave noted that it would raise the capacity to about 1.5 billion although we again just like at Tamar right now we wouldn't expect to be able to average at that level but it raises the peak capacity.
Again the key is well storage as well as compression to get there.
And again that project is expected to be ready to come onstream in 2015 and is actually needed to support the Israel Electric exercise of their option to expand their gas take.
So all of that is tied together.
Our contract with Israel Electric provided for that option to expand and the pricing has already been set in that.
So when it gets to pricing in Israel really we've got multiple contracts that have already gone through the government review and approval.
So it's hard for me to really comment on any other things that are maybe just more speculative in the media.
We're very confident in terms of what our pricing is for our Tamar project.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
My follow-up hopefully quite quick.
Are you now back funding the carry in the Marcellus? And if not can you give us an idea when you might be starting to pay for that? And I'll leave it there.
Well just -- it's always hard to speculate on the forward curve but again the contract provides that once Henry Hub prices average above $4 for 3 months then our carry would come back on.
So if we look at the forward curve we would expect that perhaps sometime in the third quarter the carry would begin again.
So it's -- we're enjoying the benefits of the increased gas prices and I would just say once again is we really like that structure in the contract and really protected us and aligned our partnership when we went through this period of very low gas prices.
And we'll take our next question from Charles Meade with Johnson Rice.
L.L.C.
Research Division</strong> Two questions for me on the Wattenberg.
First I know on the graphs you guys have put out showing the -- your well results versus type curve.
I know in the past you have shown those as a rolling 3-day average but I guess I'm just -- it struck me little more this time that given the volatility in that line and recognizes that rolling 3-day average that there's a lot a volatility that's hidden in there.
And I'm wondering if you could kind of explain that.
Is that and I'm thinking maybe one possible explanation is that sales rather than production? Yes that's exactly what it is Charles.
That sale that has loads are being lifted from the tank.
L.L.C.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's very good and easy and comforting explanation.
And then the next point which follows that or the next question rather I think it's clear to most people who are following your story that you guys have a huge amount of inventory drilling inventory here.
16 wells in a section just in the Niobrara B.
But where do you think you are -- I imagine first you have to identify the resource then you have some idea of ranking the opportunities on a present value to cap and then at some point you're driving efficiencies to bring value forward.
Where is most of your focus falling now on those kind of 3 areas if you agree of looking at that way? Charles we're approaching it on let's call it at least 3 fronts.
I mean this is outside of the other appraisal effort going on in Northern Colorado.
But if you think about it you go back to what we're looking at the aerial recovery which is that number of wells per section in just the B interval alone if you start with that and optimizing that on different parts of the field from Northern Colorado to the Greater Wattenberg oil portion.
We're testing this vertical recovery.
In other words the impact of the A the C and the Codell relative to the B and then the other piece is this long lateral.
If you start and you look at it these long laterals seem to improve efficiency as we go with the 7 000 type or the 9 000.
So it kind of starts with where can we fit in the long laterals and how do we do that in a way that we can improve our vertical recovery on some of this? So those are the things we're continuing to test as we develop this field out and evaluate these different patterns if you will.
If you noticed on that one slide we showed some of the different pattern possibilities we're looking at.
That's not all of them.
That's an example of some that we're continuing to test and we'll be testing this year as we move through that answer to answer that specific question that you posed.
L.L.C.
Research Division</strong> And which of the -- I'm sorry to interrupt but which of those 3 between the C the B the vertical -- or vertically in the column and the long laterals do you think is most important to you Dave? Well I think the real next breakthrough out here if you will will be the improved vertical recovery.
In other words how do you tie in the A and the C and the Codell with what you knows there in the B.
I think the key is that clearly some patterns work better than others.
And that is I mean that's -- that could be the key to really unlocking the optimal development.
And we have to recognize there's geology at work here so that what works in one area we might change in another area.
So this is not just poking holes in the ground.
It's a really good problem to work and we're excited on it.
And like you'd say we've got a huge inventory there and we're going down a path of really trying to make it as efficient as possible while improving the recovery.
But all of those pieces are important.
And that's we're tying in the 3D seismic and everything is important here too as you do optimize different patterns across the field.
It won't be one-size-fits-all as Chuck says.
Our next -- take our question from Leo Mariani with RBC.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just a quick question for any super extended laterals that you've got here in the DJ.
Wanted to get a sense of where you have tested those what sort of coverage on your acreage have you seen with the SXL test.
And additionally just wanted to get a sense of the progression of the EURs.
Obviously you kind of look like you've stepped these numbers up a little bit with some of your recent wells.
Are these wells kind of continuing to get better as you drill more and more of these and you guys are hopefully kind of optimizing or refining your techniques sir? I think we have.
I mean to your point Leo I think we've definitely seen improvement over the last year or 2 in how we bring wells on how we maintain kind of a steady production if you will as we've seen on these -- especially the super long laterals as we've seen on these.
Most of these so far have been up in that wells ranch type area that Greater Wattenberg oil portion up there.
But it was about 50 or 60 of these to drill this year we're going to start to test some of this in some other areas.
And again a lot of it gets back to the geology on this and especially tying in some of this 3D and making sure that we stay in zone and not crossing fault and things.
And that's where that becomes really important in helping to direct and lay out your well pattern well plan.
So I'd say what we have been encouraged especially when you look at the decline or the slow rate of decline on some of these extended laterals as you get further out in time.
So the more information we've gotten I'd say as we started to see that we got beyond those 90 days and gotten into 180 days and beyond that was real encouraging on these extended reach.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I guess obviously you mentioned some of your best wells could be approaching upwards of 1 million Boe per well you guys could achieve results in that neighborhood.
I mean what kind of improvement you think you'd see in economics versus 5 000-foot laterals out here? Well I think just given indicative numbers.
We already showed that our extended reach laterals at about the 750 were 100% rates of return.
And even the normal lateral wells were very good rates of return as well.
So looking at a 9 000-foot where maybe guessing well north of 100% 125% 130% rates of return.
That's just all numbers.
I back off from this whole development and think about it a different way and that is an area where we have an opportunity and a plan to invest 10 -- a billions of dollars.
As we announced last year over 5 years perhaps $10 billion in this area at rates of return of 70% 80% 90% 100%.
That is going to create huge value and growth for our company because it's rare that you can invest that amount of capital at these higher rates of return.
But it's all about improving it and that's really what your question was directed at I'm sure.
LLC Research Division</strong> That's exactly right.
And just one brief follow-up here.
I think Dave you mentioned impacting 2Q production by 2 000 barrels a day as a result of the asset sale.
I think you also said that some of the sales are going to close in the second quarter.
So I was just trying to get a sense of what the impact could be maybe in 3Q if you're going to lose a little bit of initial production as a result of those asset sales that you've already announced here.
Yes.
I think when we're looking at it on a full year basis and I said we're going to absorb some of these onshore non-core asset sales I mean you're looking at absorbing a couple of thousand barrels for full year type of piece.
And we'll take our next question from Joe Magner with Macquarie Capital.
Just I wanted to clarify the 10-well current spacing I guess assumptions that support your resource.
Is there a breakdown on which zones or which types of wells are included in that 10 wells or is that all assumed to be in the B Bench? I'm just trying to clarify where...
Yes that goes back to what we showed in December that presentation.
So that was for that full acreage position up there and we -- if you go back to that I think we broke it down where on average that came up to what 67 acres per well.
And that included what we had looked at at that time.
In the Greater Wattenberg oil we were on a little bit less than 50-acre spacing assumption for probably 6 400 locations over -- almost 2/3 of our locations and about 80-acre assumption down in the gas portion.
And then in Northern Colorado at that time we were using the assumption of a little over 80-acre spacing up there for the location.
So we had broke that down in December and that's where that comes from.
I think when you start looking at trying to differentiate between the A the B and the C and Codell at that point we were just looking at recoveries per section.
And I think what Dave pointed to is now that we're really working the patterns and looking at the different pattern developments that's what's causing us to focus in and in some areas will probably give us an idea of how many would be in the B and how many would be in the A and how many would be in the C.
I just keep focusing on is how many wells a section because if you can -- if you're looking at a minimum of 16 per section in some of these areas versus 10 to 4 that gives you an idea of directionally where this is going from a resource standpoint from a recovery standpoint.
Okay.
So truly the step up from it was 10 it's gone to at least 16 and you're testing things that might -- testing other ideas that might take it to 32 that sort of the progression.
Yes when you start to roll in potential for staggered or multiple laterals at different intervals through this thing.
But keep in mind that we've got areas in Northeastern Colorado they're still in appraisal and those would be outside of the scope of that.
This is more talking about the more concentrated developed area of Wattenberg extended Wattenberg that we really defined here.
Okay.
And not to overplay just to clarify one more thing.
On this Wells Ranch pad there were 3 different spacing concepts that were being targeted.
The support today for the 16 per section is that based on that center pad the B that was being tested on 40-acre spacing or was it the results of all that work that was being done there just trying to...
Yes I mean really if you go back to what was rolled into that scenario at that point in time when we built that resource space it was for all intents and purposes it was a B development for 16 wells per section.
So all the rest of this is testing upsides to that.
And I think that just is reflected also as we've looked at those closely spaced wells in the B Bench that's where we're really seeing the performance and that's what supports it.
So your point is correct.
But then there have also other patterns that have given us encouragement and support as well.
So.
I guess I think it's the big point there Joe is that anything we've seen on the production from the A the C or the Codell hasn't detracted from our original expectations of the B pattern we've looked at there.
Okay.
And just one last question.
Any progress made on determining LNG scope or development plans offshore -- Israel onshore versus floating LNG or still more to come on that? We're working in parallel both options both floating as well as onshore as of course we're also looking at Cyprus as well.
So that work from an engineering standpoint is moving forward.
The key will be in Israel hopefully obtaining a final policy decision by the government shortly.
We do believe that it is pending on the export policy and that will help us move some of those projects forward.
But we're keeping every option open right now.
There's a lot of possibilities there.
We'll take our next question from Dave Kistler with Simmons &amp; Company.
Research Division</strong> Real quickly maybe tying a bunch of these Niobrara questions together.
I believe in December you talked about a net resource of about 2.1 billion barrels.
Obviously we didn't have a lot of the results that you've come up with subsequently.
Where do we stand now in terms of thinking about net resource potential out of the Niobrara and that general area Eastern Colorado et cetera? Well I'd say David it's fair to say we believe it'll increase.
Just from all the things we've described.
But I'd say we're probably not ready to just focus on a particular number yet.
We've still got a lot of drilling a lot of wells to complete and a lot more production history on some of these different patterns we're testing.
And I would imagine we want to get that information in get some extended production history and then revisit that number toward the end of the year.
Yes.
We've -- and believe me we ask that question all the time.
But yes our history has been -- is to base our resource estimates on solid results and we don't speculate on where it's going.
So this is what we're doing right now is we're gathering all the data from these compressed patterns increased density drilling looking at it through the various areas and that's allowing the teams to start working on improved resource estimates.
There's no doubt directionally where it's going because you've heard what the basis was on our prior estimates and what we're thinking now.
But it's understanding how that applies in the various areas and making sure we got good solid estimates on recoveries.
That's all part of the process.
So sorry for the dodge on that but we're still getting the answer ourself.
Research Division</strong> No problem I completely understood.
Maybe switching over to the Marcellus just for a second.
As you highlighted perhaps as early as 3Q your partner could decide to push the drill bit a little harder in the dry gas window.
Just trying to think about it from a cash flow impact in terms of potential uptick in CapEx versus rising gas prices and the potential impact in cash flow to you guys.
Should we just look at that as a wash and not be worried that any kind of upward movement in CapEx that previously was unplanned will be self funded by the gas additional benefit of higher gas prices across your gas production in North America? Yes Dave.
When you look at it as Chuck mentioned that there's a potential lift.
If price stayed up for the next 3 months let's say April and then the next 2 months above that $4 then the carry would kick in what July August type time frame.
But -- and then the actual impact of that carry kicking in offset by the additional revenue from the gas price above $4 versus below $4 that's pretty close to a wash when you look at that.
As far as the drilling part additional drilling and the discussions we've had with our partner and actually when you think about the realistic time frame it would take to ramp up a program again I don't see a big increase this year in gas drilling.
I think that discussion will really be as we start to look at how we lay the plans out for next year and how consistent in the outlook for gas price is.
I think also our -- while the industry has experienced a little bit of an uptick in gas prices we still see in our program that there's -- our oil projects have much superior economics.
And so there's not a desire on our part to ramp up dry gas drilling.
Now we'll work with our partner on the 2014 budget and we'll work through that.
But this is not a time to get in my view to get overly optimistic.
It's a time to enjoy the fact that we've had a nice increase in gas prices and we need to stick with our plan and that's what we're doing this year is staying with our plans.
We'll take our next question from Arun Jayaram with Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Dave I was wondering if you could maybe comment a little bit more on some of the well results you saw in the A and C Bench as well as the Codell? And maybe I don't know if you could walk us through how these compare.
I think in the oil window you've talked about a 335 MMBoe type of EUR.
Are you seeing well results in any of the benches similar to what you've seen in the B? I think we are in cases and it varies and it varies with the geology out there in the different patterns.
I'd say each pattern and it's -- I'll couch this with but it's still very early.
As Chuck mentioned we like to get some extended production data.
But from what we've seen in the first 90 days or so each pattern looks economic.
And one of the things we've really kept a close eye on is just how does any one interval's performance affect the B interval and compare to the B.
So we've been very pleased with what we've seen there and so we're going to do a lot more of this type testing as part of the drilling program this year.
Research Division</strong> Fair enough.
It sounds like 16 wells per pad has got money in the bank with upside here.
The second question Chuck is you guys have talked about a 9 500 kind of well inventory for the horizontal program clearly upside to that number.
How do you accelerate -- how does that come into your plans to accelerate activity even more? I know you plan to drill 500 wells in 2016 but based on these initial positive well results from wells 24 do we even go even faster than that pace Chuck? No they don't want to answer my phone calls.
So all I could say is we looked at -- we have been on a pace of growing this program.
When we looked at our prior 5-year plan versus the 5-year plan that you just mentioned that we put out last December that had added 1 100 wells over that 5-year period and so that was a tremendous growth rate there.
So it's all about making sure that we understand what the optimum development because you don't want to race in in an area and prematurely develop it in a way that's not optimal.
That's what we're trying to do here.
But as soon as we see where there's -- we're getting -- continuing to get more and more clarity on how to move forward.
Yes the idea is to grow the production.
Kind of my constant speech is that 9 000 drilling opportunities is nice.
But if some of them are 20 and 30 years out it doesn't add value.
So we've got to move that forward but we have to do it in a very deliberate fashion.
So it's all about continuing to press forward making sure that we're working everything all the pieces of this not just the fact that we've got locations but this is a huge business.
This is a big manufacturing business.
So we've got to work all those supply chain logistics that go along with it.
But that's what we're doing because we know it's going to create value to accelerate it even more.
Well and part of the thinking there too as we're going forward is you're evolving more and more to more pad drilling.
And then the more wells that you can actually put on these pads as you go to a larger density of wells per section I think optimally it will continue to evolve into an increased activity rate at some point.
Research Division</strong> Final question Chuck can you just give us an update on where you stand in terms of trying to close the Woodside transaction? Well the -- I mean we -- all the parties are committed to close it.
But quite honestly with so much of that transaction focused on Leviathan and potential and export project down the road that we're really at this point waiting on the government to issue its export policy.
And again we've gotten certainly the recent trip that I was over there.
I got a lot of comfort that that was a high priority with the new government in Israel.
So that's a key piece.
That's a key part of it.
And certainly our structure that we announced as part of that is tied to an export policy.
So I think both the Woodside CEO and myself have made comments that it's important that the government make some decisions so that we can move on and because we really can't make good decisions on how to develop Leviathan without having fully defined what the rules will be for export.
I'm comfort -- I'm confident that they will issue those but that's what is really key to getting everything closed.
We'll take our next question from Brian Singer with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Back to DJ Basin.
Can you just talk to the cost trends that you're seeing on a per well basis and then relative to lateral length.
I think the costs are staying fairly constant right now Brian.
I'd say they've kind of leveled off as we've talked actually come down a little bit over the last year as we've started to get more in the development phase on a lot of these areas but they've somewhat leveled off.
You're still in that range plus or minus 4.5 million for that 4 000-foot type lateral.
And then you're up closer to 7 500 and 8 000 for the 9 000 footers.
But you see increased efficiency when you look at the increased lateral links on a kind of an F&amp;D per well if you will as you move from the 4 to the 7 to the 9.
So that's part of the economic improvement that you see us to continue to be able to step out lateral lengths.
Research Division</strong> Great.
Are you seeing any service cost pressures there? It seems there's more companies talking and trying potentially accelerating activity around based in part on your success.
Haven't really seen it yet.
I mean as we get into the third quarter and get in more discussions on next year pricing and so forth we'll see where the industry's at and where the activity is.
But I haven't picked up anything on increasing pressure on the cost side over there right now.
Research Division</strong> And lastly for the second quarter in Israel what should our gas price expectations or what do you expect in terms of gas price expectations for production -- or gas production expectations and do you see the constraints to your production demand ahead of summer or do you see the constraints being the ramp up of capacity at Tamar? Well I think on pricing when we laid out our guidance for that that's the best place to go on that because it is -- that's a blend of -- we'll have a blend of Mari-B that satisfies some old contracts on the Tamar.
So I wouldn't -- so it's just a little north of $5 and so I wouldn't deviate from that.
I think on the production side of it I mean second quarter is a -- I mean we rolled it into the guidance and it tends to be a shoulder month for Israel and we're kind of making a guess on what the demand will be.
Yes I mean when you think about it second quarter's going to bounce between that 600 to 700 gross type numbers Scott and what we're expecting right now.
And then third quarter as we've mentioned we ought to start to see some periods where you get up in that 900 range depending on whether seasonal demands kick in.
We've actually if you go back a couple of years when Egypt was supplying gas we actually saw combined with those imports plus our own deliveries we were seeing production in one third quarter of 800-plus million of total country demand and that was a couple of years ago.
So we know the demand is there.
Guessing weather is just like guessing weather here in the U.S.
So I think right now we've got delivery capacity and we'll see what the demand is.
Research Division</strong> That's great.
The demand is in a constraint in the second quarter you're fully ramped up in terms of Tamar and second quarter to meet whatever demand there may be? As we say we test the facility over 900 million.
So it's just a matter of what the demand is.
We are all set to deliver whatever they need right now.
We'll take our final question from Irene Hoff [ph] with Wunderlich Securities.
My question has to do with your extended lateral curve.
Can you explain to me why you have a little plateau there on the 1 million-barrel type curve? Are those later wells that you do something different? Are there Artificial Lift involved? Just kind of curious as to why it kind of normally go from hyperbolic to now you have low plateau which is fantastic for cash flow.
So little color please.
Okay.
You're talking about the initial period or the early stage period I think where yes it kind of ramps up.
And then what we saw is that actually leveled off a little bit for that 30- to 90-day or 30 almost up to 120-day period.
And that just seems to be the way these long laterals are performing where now as you get further away from the vertical part of the wellbore you get less drawdown.
And it's almost like you've got a gravity feed into there from this long period for some period of time but it just kind of replenishes itself is just what it appears to be doing on these longer laterals until you start to get a little bit of a decline in there.
But overall that's one of the things that really caught our eye when we're starting to see some of the performance of these that's how well these held up for an extended period of time especially early here.
And part of that is just bringing these things on pretty slow you see that initial ramp up first 0 to 30 to 45 days.
We're not pulling on these very hard.
We're trying to let them come on naturally and then just feed into the system And should that be the kind of curve that we would expect as you get more like 300-day data on these extended laterals? I don't know.
That's what we want to see is how this thing duplicates itself or repeats itself as we get a much wider database here to look at but we'd like to see that.
That's for sure.
That does conclude the today's question-and-answer session.
At this time I will turn the conference back over to the speakers for any additional or closing remarks.
Thanks again for everybody participating in the call today as well as your interest in Noble Energy.
Just have a good day.
That does conclude today's presentation.
Thank you for your participation.
Good morning and welcome to Noble Energy's Second Quarter 2013 Earnings Call.
I'd now like to turn the call over to David Larson.
Please go ahead sir.
Thanks Tim.
Good morning everyone.
Welcome to Noble Energy's second quarter 2013 earnings call and webcast.
On the call today we have Chuck Davidson Chairman and CEO; Dave Stover President and COO; and Ken Fisher CFO.
This morning we issued our earnings release for the second quarter and hopefully you all have had a chance to review our results.
A few supplemental slides were also posted on our website.
If you have not already downloaded them you will want to do that now as we'll -- as they will be good reference material for the discussion today.
Later today we expect to be filing our 10-Q with the SEC and it will also be available on our website.
The agenda for today will begin with Chuck discussing the quarter and providing an updated view of the remainder of the year highlighting our dramatic production and cash flow growth combined with a number of exciting Exploration opportunities.
Dave will then give a detailed overview of our 5 core operational programs and near-term plans.
We'll leave time for Q&amp;A at the end and plan to wrap up the call in less than an hour.
[Operator Instructions] I want to remind everyone that this webcast and conference call contains forward-looking statements as well as references to non-GAAP financial measures.
You should read our disclosures in our latest news release SEC filings for a discussion of those.
With that let me turn the call over to Chuck.
Thank you David.
Good morning everyone and thanks for joining us today.
It's hard to imagine that we're already well into the third quarter of the year.
And when I look at the list of accomplishments through the first 6 months it really reads like a full year's worth of activity which just showcases the fact that our teams have really been extremely focused.
And we're not anywhere near through for the year.
There's much more to come.
Certainly highlighting the list for the first half is that we've continued to set new production highs driven by the acceleration and optimization of our DJ and Marcellus Shale programs as well as the startup of major projects including Tamar offshore Israel in the first quarter and Alen offshore Equatorial Guinea which began commissioning late in the second quarter.
Commencement of production at Alen follows the successful startup of multiple large-scale developments including Aseng in late 2011 Galapagos in 2012 and Tamar earlier this year.
Four major projects brought online within a period of 2 years is a tremendous feat and I'm very proud of what we have accomplished as a team.
Delivering the Alen project ahead of schedule and on budget furthers our exceptional track record of execution and continues to highlight what we believe is a significant competitive advantage for Noble.
In addition to reaching record production levels we've also bolstered our pipeline of major projects with strong Exploration appraisal drilling results.
This includes a new discovery in Israel at Karish and the successful appraisal at Gunflint in the Deepwater Gulf of Mexico.
I'm equally excited about what is still to come this year with further production and cash flow growth anticipated from multiple areas of our business and a number of additional major projects targeted for sanctioning.
In addition we have 2 Exploration wells planned for the Gulf of Mexico our first exploration well in Nicaragua initial drilling in Nevada and a number of meaningful appraisal wells all before the end of the year.
I want to spend some time reviewing our second quarter results which reflect the significant operational momentum we've built.
Adjusted income from continuing operations for the second quarter was $249 million or $0.69 per diluted share with the adjustments from income this quarter primarily representing unrealized gains on commodity derivatives.
Revenues were $1.1 billion for the quarter with nearly $900 million of our revenues coming from liquid volumes and supported by continued strong U.S.
and global crude oil pricing.
We had record sales volumes for the quarter totaling 260 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day.
Volumes were led by exceptional performance internationally where total volumes were also a record at 120 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day from continuing operations.
Strong sales in Equatorial Guinea combined with Tamar which contributed its first full quarter of volumes led our International performance.
Domestic production totaled 140 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day for the quarter with the drivers of our ongoing growth being the horizontal programs in the DJ and Marcellus which are benefiting from continued operational efficiencies in drilling and completions.
As we noted in last quarter's call our second quarter volumes were impacted by late winter storms in the DJ Basin as well as some third party facility downtime at Na Kika in the Gulf of Mexico which handles our Galapagos production.
Discretionary cash flow from continuing operations for the quarter was $765 million.
We ended the quarter with over $700 million in cash and an undrawn revolver.
That resulted in total liquidity of $4.7 billion at the end of June.
And net debt to book cap was at 28%.
It all adds up to a solid quarter that reflected continued execution of our multiyear growth agenda.
However the numbers really have greater significance when one steps back and looks at our performance over the course of the past 4 quarters.
So as compared to second quarter 2012 production this quarter was up 16% revenues up 19% discretionary cash flow up 20%; and adjusted earnings up 82%.
All of this of course from continuing operations; really great progress and very consistent with our long-range plans.
Let's now take a quick review of our core operating areas and the status of our major projects before spending some time on the Exploration and appraisal calendar for the rest of the year.
Onshore we're operating at the highest level of horizontal activity in our company's history targeting 300 operating wells to be drilled this year in the DJ Basin and approximately 80 operated wells in the Marcellus.
In each play we're intensely focused on optimizing the drilling and completion techniques testing various spacing patterns testing longer laterals delineating new areas of potential.
Both of these areas in the DJ and the Marcellus continue to grow rapidly and as a result are currently producing well above their second quarter averages delivering new production highs for Noble Energy.
Dave will be providing some further details on our current record production levels.
In West Africa the Aseng oil project continues to perform strongly.
Having recently come off the plateau of production as expected the field has now produced over 35 million barrels of cumulative production.
As mentioned earlier the Alen project has commenced production is expected to reach full operations by the end of this -- the third quarter.
With its condensate recovery gas processing and gas reinjection systems this project represents Noble's most sophisticated processing system worldwide and is expected to be a strong contributor to the company's production and cash flow profile.
Moving to the Eastern Mediterranean we've been extremely pleased with the performance of Tamar following startup with -- while experiencing nearly 100% uptime in the field and facilities.
This level of reliability on the world's longest subsea tieback with a project of this size installed in industry-leading timeframes is a significant accomplishment for Noble Energy.
We're continuing to progress plans for an expansion of the Ashdod onshore receiving terminal which handles our gas production in Israel.
This expansion which is anticipated to be online in 2015 will take maximum capacity volumes from today's levels which are just under 1 billion cubic feet a day to around 1.2 billion cubic feet per day.
Recently the Israeli government finally issued their policy on gas exports.
It permits the export of some 40% of discovered resources although the percentage is allowed to be determined on a field-by-field basis and is higher for larger fields such as Leviathan.
The policy was approved by the cabinet but has been challenged as to whether it should be approved by the Knesset.
And we expect an indication from the High Court in a few weeks' time on that issue.
We and our partners are evaluating the final terms and conditions of the export policy and its implications on the scope and pace of further and future developments.
In the meantime we continue with our Leviathan phase 1 development planning and also continue to work with Woodside and our existing partners in finalizing agreements associated with the sale of Leviathan interest.
The closing of these agreements has been delayed primarily due to the uncertainty over exports as I mentioned earlier.
Hopefully we are nearing closure on that issue.
Let me wrap up with a review of our Exploration and appraisal programs which are summarized on Slide 5 and which include a number of meaningful and impactful wells for the remainder of the year.
In the Deepwater Gulf of Mexico we have 2 new Exploration prospects to be drilled with operations currently ongoing at Troubadour which is about 5 miles east of our East Bend -- of our Big Bend discovery.
And then followed by an additional Exploration well in the Gulf later this year right now likely to be a large prospect called Dantzler which is approximately 14 miles southwest of Big Bend.
So this is turning into a very active area for us.
We're also looking forward to commencing frontier Exploration drilling on our initial Nicaragua prospect during the third quarter with a gross resource range of 210 million to over 1 billion barrels of oil equivalent.
The Paraiso prospect is anticipated to be at total depth in the fourth quarter.
An initial farm-out of our position there was recently completed and is subject to final government approvals.
And we're also continuing negotiations with additional parties for the further farm-out prior to drilling this prospect.
In the Eastern Mediterranean we're currently drilling the appraisal well to our Cyprus discovery and we'll be looking to perform our first production flow test after completing drilling operations.
Results from the appraisal well will help confirm the resource size and are important in the decision-making for domestic market planning as well as an LNG export project there.
In support of these efforts we've already completed pre-FEED studies and have executed a memorandum of understanding with the government regarding a potential one-train LNG development.
We've been very pleased with the country's desire to aggressively move forward planning for both the domestic and export options.
New Exploration drilling offshore Cyprus and Falklands is anticipated for the second half of next year.
And we've recently completed or are currently conducting significant 3D seismic programs in both areas in support of these drilling plans.
While we've certainly had a strong first half of the year we're also positioned well to set new records through the remainder of 2013.
Our substantial third quarter production growth can be seen in the chart on Slide 8 which shows an anticipated 30 000 barrel equivalent per day increase versus the second quarter with new contributions coming from nearly every one of our core areas.
Just a reminder as well that while this quarter-on-quarter projection is quite impressive we're still on a multiyear journey for growth here at Noble Energy.
We'll be highlighting more of that journey at our December 17 Analyst Meeting that is planned in Houston.
So now I'll turn the call over to Dave who will give you some more details on our ongoing operations.
Thanks Chuck.
Let me start by commenting on the U.S.
onshore region where we are currently experiencing record levels of production in both of our core areas the DJ Basin and the Marcellus.
For the second quarter DJ Basin production averaged approximately 90 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day an increase of 22% versus the second quarter of last year.
Liquids volumes continue to be a major driver of our activity in the area comprising 62% of our production and 84% of our revenues.
On the drilling front we have increased our rig count to 11 operated rigs which can be seen on our DJ Basin map on Slide 9.
We will operate most of the remainder of the year with 10 drilling rigs in the play as the 11th rig will drill only a few pads before moving to Nevada to commence drilling our Wilson Exploration prospect late in the third quarter.
Through the first half of the year in the DJ we spud over 130 horizontal wells targeting the Niobrara and Codell formations including 16 extended-reach laterals with the entire horizontal program continuing to be very encouraging.
As mentioned in our call last quarter we continue to see the performance of the 9 000-foot extended-reach laterals on average in excess of the 750 000-barrel equivalent type curve.
And a number of the wells are performing in line with 1 million-barrel equivalent EUR.
As we continue to appraise new areas of Northern Colorado we are testing the potential of extended-reach laterals in areas where vertical wells were uneconomic and even a few standard length laterals performed below average.
Of particular note are 2 recent wells in the Cummins area where EURs from extended-reach laterals are estimated to be more than 3x standard lateral well in the area.
This is encouraging and a positive sign for areas in Northern Colorado outside of those that have already proven productive such as East Pony.
Throughout 2013 we're continuing to focus on understanding the optimum recovery plan in regards to well density lateral lengths multiple layers and well patterns throughout different areas of the basin.
Of our total 300 horizontal wells planned for 2013 we anticipate more than 10 to be focused on the Codell and more than 80 to be targeting the Niobrara A or C bench.
Horizontal Codell wells in the greater Wattenberg area are performing in line with what we are seeing from similar length in Niobrara wells.
And we're currently testing our first long lateral at Codell.
With the entire 300-foot vertical column through the Niobrara and Codell observed to be productive we have yet to see any production interference amongst tightly spaced Niobrara B wells and A C and Codell completions.
Our primary focus remains areas with high liquid content including the Wattenberg oil window and Northern Colorado where total liquids represent over 80% of the production stream.
We'll also continue to transition to larger pads more centralized production and water handling facilities and gathering systems to support our increasing levels of activity.
We estimate that over 60% of the water utilized in our completion so far this year has been piped to location rather than trucked resulting in an elimination of approximately 44 000 truckloads or an equivalent 3.3 million miles taken off the Colorado roads.
Recent infrastructure improvements along with our active development program are resulting in record production levels for Noble Energy in the DJ Basin.
To illustrate the high levels of current activity we completed 31 wells in the month of June with 604 stages pumped a record for us and significantly above our prior record of 26 wells and 500 stages pumped in October of last year.
On Slide 10 we highlight our net horizontal production in the DJ averaging a record 50 000 barrels equivalent per day in the second quarter and already currently around 55 000 barrels equivalent per day.
In total our DJ volumes are currently between 95 000 and 100 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day.
Reflecting back to where the DJ was just 1 year ago versus the third quarter of 2012 the production levels are up about 30% and the horizontal volumes are up over 75% highlighting the tremendous impact that our program is having.
In support of continuing growth from this leading U.S.
onshore play additional near and long-term infrastructure expansions are being brought online.
An in-field oil gathering trunk line is scheduled to begin service with up to 50 000 barrels a day of capacity in September.
This line will help us deliver crude oil efficiently to the White Cliffs Pipeline and the plain's rail facilities which combined are adding 140 000 barrels a day of capacity between now and the end of next year.
On the gas side DCP is bringing on the LaSalle plant in September of this year which will initially add 110 million cubic feet per day of capacity.
And the plant will then be expanded in the fourth quarter by an additional 50 million cubic feet per day.
Further midstream projects are also planned for 2014 and 2015 including Noble Energy's own Tioga Gas plant which will service our wells in Northern Colorado and our adjacent LNG facility.
And the LNG facility the first of its kind in the state will mainly provide fuel for our drilling and completion operation starting in late 2014.
Moving over to the Marcellus.
We're in the process of rigging up our fourth wet gas rig.
Two of these rigs are operating in the Majorsville area with one rig drilling each of our first pads in the Pennsboro and Oxford areas of West Virginia south of Majorsville.
We anticipate adding a fifth operated rig to our program later in the third quarter which will initially focus on delineating a new wet gas area just west of Majorsville in the Moundsville area.
We're continuing to focus drilling efforts on optimizing lateral lengths and completion designs with a recent highlight that we drilled our longest lateral on the play to-date in fact our longest lateral ever drilled by Noble Energy in any play with a total end zone pay length of over 10 400 feet.
First production from this pad is anticipated late this year.
With our drilling plans in the wet areas along with the 2 rig dry gas program operated by CONSOL we remain on target to participate in about 80 wet gas wells and 40 dry gas wells in the Marcellus this year.
In June we brought to production the 11-well WEB 4 wet gas pad which represents our fourth operated pad on production in the Majorsville area.
Results have been very encouraging with initial gross production reaching a maximum of more than 50 million cubic feet of natural gas and 3 000 barrels of condensate and NGLs per day.
Combined with recent completions on the gas side by our partner we've seen our current net Marcellus production increase to a record 150 million cubic feet equivalent per day which represents an increase of over 30% from the beginning of the year.
The outlook for continuing our production growth in the Marcellus through the remainder of the year is excellent supported by our increasing activity levels.
Right now we have completion operations ongoing in various stages on 8 wet and dry gas pads combined including our first pad in the Normantown area which is testing the southern extension of our acreage.
Continuing to execute on our plans will enable us to exit 2013 with Marcellus production above 210 million cubic feet equivalent per day net to Noble.
Shifting offshore to the Deepwater Gulf of Mexico our development teams are making significant progress moving forward plans for our Big Bend and Gunflint major projects which represent the next leg of production growth for our Deepwater Gulf assets.
We're targeting a sanction of both of these projects later this year with initial production estimated around the end of 2015.
In the near term our third quarter volumes in the Gulf of Mexico will be affected by 2 weeks of downtime at Galapagos for regular pipeline inspection as well as approximately 20 days of downtime at Ticonderoga for the tie-in of a recently drilled development well and the installation of gas lift.
The Ticonderoga #4 well where we have a 50% working interest is currently being completed with plans for first production early in the fourth quarter of this year.
Bringing the well online is anticipated to add 3 000 barrels of oil per day net to our production.
As Chuck mentioned earlier we are currently drilling the middle Miocene-Troubadour prospect which is adjacent to Big Bend.
And results are expected to -- in the latter part of the third quarter.
Discovery at the 30 million to 60 million-barrel equivalent prospect could be incorporated quickly into our development and sanction planning with Big Bend.
Following Troubadour we'll drill an additional Exploration prospect and are currently selecting between several candidates.
A leading possibility is an upper middle Miocene prospect named Dantzler which is located only 14 miles southwest of the Big Bend-Troubadour area on Mississippi Canyon 782.
Dantzler has a gross resource range of between 50 million and 220 million barrels of oil equivalent and results would be anticipated towards the end of the year.
Moving over to the International side.
A big highlight of the second quarter in West Africa was the early startup of our Alen gas condensate project which commenced production late in the quarter.
Since startup we've been slowly ramping up volumes optimizing all of the major component systems including our gas separation and compression facilities.
We anticipate reaching full operations at the field late this quarter 3 months ahead of our original schedule.
As a reminder the produced condensate volumes from Alen are being transported by pipeline to the Aseng FPSO for storage and offloading.
Also continuing to progress the appraisal and predevelopment of Diega and Carla with a well currently drilling at Diega and plans to perform a long-term flow test following total depth.
In Carla we drilled an appraisal well in the southern area in the second quarter encountered oil in the upper zone and then lower zone was wet.
Our early development planning for these discoveries is focused on the potential for subsea tiebacks to existing infrastructure at Alen and Aseng.
In the Eastern Med we're very pleased with the performance of Tamar which drove strong second quarter production volumes in Israel will be a significant contributor to our growth through the remainder of the year.
As a result of the startup deliverability of natural gas to the Israel market now exceeds the average daily demand bringing us back in a position of providing for the swing in the market.
For example this month we have delivered approximately 1 BCF per day gross on certain peak load periods during the work week while the overall average for those days is closer to 800 million cubic feet per day again highlighting the flexibility and deliverability of this world-class field.
Weather continues to have an impact on the overall electricity generation demand in Israel.
And thus far in 2013 it's been generally milder than in 2012.
This has been evidenced in the third quarter with July electricity demand down about 7% versus the same period last year.
Natural gas sales in the third quarter will also be impacted by this year's holiday calendar in Israel with very few higher demand workdays in September.
That being said we continue to see a strong long-term demand outlook for natural gas in this region.
With respect to Eastern Med Exploration discovery of Karish marked our fifth discovered field of greater than 1 Tcf and brought total discovered gas resources and basin to approximately 38 trillion cubic feet.
Perhaps of greater interest was that Karish contained higher condensate yield than our previous discoveries -- in the order of 7 to 10 barrels per million cubic feet.
Subsequent lab analysis indicates the condensate is thermogenically sourced and provides further encouragement for the potential of oil in this basin.
Construction of the Atwood Advantage drillship remains on schedule for delivery late this year.
As we've mentioned before capabilities and efficiencies of this rig will enable us to drill a deep Mesozoic oil prospect in the first half of 2014.
With the potential for the deep oil prospect under a number of our existing discoveries in Israel and Cyprus we're very excited about testing this substantial new play as soon as possible.
Let me wrap up with some comments on our outlook for the third quarter and remainder of the year.
As previously discussed significant growth in the U.S.
onshore regions production capacity in Israel and the ramping volumes from Alen will all provide additional contributions moving forward.
We remain in good position to meet our full year guidance with current production already close to 285 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day.
And third quarter volumes anticipated to average between 285 000 and 295 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day.
The midpoint of this range reflect the 12% increase from the second quarter of this year.
Overall our rapid production growth multiple major projects targeted for sanction Exploration drilling in the Gulf of Mexico Nevada and Nicaragua as well as our ongoing appraisal programs provide a strong second half and great momentum for 2014.
These are just some of the many reasons we have planned another Analyst Day late this year to update and highlight what we are building at Noble Energy.
Tim at this time we'd go ahead and open the call for questions.
[Operator Instructions] And we'll go first to Charles Meade with Johnson Rice.
L.L.C.
Research Division</strong> Let me start with one kind of a financial one.
Your deferred or I should say your adjusted deferred tax rate for the quarter was a little higher than you guys had guided to and I think most people were looking for.
And I'm sure there are some idiosyncratic view -- reasons for why that happened in Q2 but I wondered if you could just give some detail on why that moves around and how that might affect the outlook for that item in the back half of '13? Sure.
Charles this is Ken Fisher.
The deferred rate came in at about 19%.
That's a calculation that we do quarterly projected on the full year's provision tax provision and the -- we had forecast some less utilization of some foreign tax net operating losses in the foreign jurisdictions and -- but if you look at it on a full year basis the guidance range we give is 5.
L.L.C.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So if -- is it kind of a fair simplification that it's kind of like a quarterly mark-to-market on where you expect you're going to be in the year? Yes yes.
We were high in the first quarter a little lower in the second quarter.
But yearly guidance stays the same.
L.L.C.
Research Division</strong> And then shifting to the operations and maybe this is a best question for Dave I was a little bit -- I know you guys had guided to lower -- higher downtime in both the -- in the DJ and the Gulf of Mexico for Q2.
But the -- you had a string of 5 or 6 or more consistent U.S.
oil growth broken here.
And as I'm looking at the breakdown to that it seems like with some of the -- both the slides you have on the DJ horizontal volume growth that growth trend is attacked.
And so I think what we're left with is maybe the legacy production of the DJ maybe underperforming.
Or perhaps as Chuck mentioned the -- I know there was some anticipated downtime at Swordfish for Q2 but it sounds like maybe there was the Galapagos host tieback in Na Kika might have had some unexpected downtime.
So I wonder if you could decompose that? Yes.
I think that -- I mean let's start with -- the best news is what we're at now.
So when I mentioned where we're at on overall company production and also where the DJs back up to in that 95 to 100 range.
But what we saw a little bit in the second quarter was we had probably a little longer downtime on that Na Kika getting the Galapagos production back up.
So that had an impact.
Obviously that's what 12 000 barrels a day -- any extra week of that has a big impact in the quarter.
And then in the DJ the other thing we saw is as we were doing some of these plant as -- say we -- the operator was doing some of the plant facility downtime.
We had a little extra plant facility downtime in the DJ on that but that's all back up and running now.
And the exciting thing up there is we're on the verge of bringing on a big new facility up there with that LaSalle plant in September.
So I'd say all of that was just temporary Charles.
And that's why we're excited about where we're back up to on the DJ volumes and actually how that overall horizontal production's performing.
But when you have any of that period of downtime and then bringing anything back on it does affect the legacy wells much more than the horizontal producers.
And we'll take our next question from Leo Mariani with RBC.
LLC Research Division</strong> You talked about on the call having some tightly spaced multi-zone wells in the Niobrara basically producing from the A B C and the Codell.
Can you give us a little bit more color on kind of what you saw on that? And if you can elaborate on what you think there the potential is for multi-zone development across broader areas of the Niobrara-Wattenberg? Yes.
I mean and we've been talking Leo for a while here or I guess this year on how where a large part of the focus is testing these different multi-layer horizons.
And what we're seeing so far is that they look every bit as good as the Niobrara B especially when you adjust for the various thickness of those intervals in these particular areas.
Like one of the comments I had in the notes here today was particularly on the Codell horizontal wells where they're looking as good as our Niobrara wells.
And we're actually going to now start to test that on a little longer extended reach basis on some of that.
So I think what you'll see us evolving into is we're continuing to test some of these other zones we'll start to mix in some of these longer laterals in with some of these zones on some of this.
So I'd say all of that's been very encouraging.
I think we're still optimistic at the end of the day.
When you settle on a complete pattern out here you'll have a mix of different zones in some of these areas.
And that's why we're continuing to say on a base horizontal B program up here in Northern Wattenberg and in the oil window the base program that we've been focusing around is that kind of 16 wells per section for the B.
It's not going to surprise us if we don't have more wells per section where you've got a combination of the B and some mix of these other zones depending on their thickness in different parts of the field.
LLC Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
And I guess you also talked about the LaSalle facility.
Is that going to potentially debottleneck any production for you guys? Do you think we would see production increase maybe more significantly in the fourth quarter as that's up and running there in the Niobrara? Yes.
I mean that's a good point.
It'll be a big help up there as a lot of our focus has been here in the Northern Wattenberg piece.
LaSalle will help to pick up a large part of that volume up there it's what I think a little bit southwest of the Wells Ranch area if I remember correctly where it's located.
So it actually will come into play in an area where we've had probably our largest activity here recently.
So it'll be interesting to see how that ramps up.
And as I've said it's kind of in 2 phases that that's coming on here in late third quarter and into the fourth quarter.
So the real impact of that'll be seen in the fourth quarter.
Just as a reminder that plan is part of a multi-plan expansion that's ongoing there.
And we expect further expansions in 2014 as well.
So this is all about staying ahead of the production and managing the overall program to a very broad area.
So there's been a lot of projects underway not only that but some compression and some other work to accommodate the gas production.
So we're very encouraged by the additional facilities that are going in.
And they're going to be needed because we're growing our production very rapidly.
And as I mentioned we're putting some of our own facilities up there into Northern Colorado for that area.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And I guess just in terms of Israel real quick here.
I guess I'd heard some chatter on potentially some incremental taxes levied on export gas.
Wanted to get you all thoughts on that.
I guess is there any potential still to develop Cyprus jointly with Leviathan? Any read on the new export policy whether it allows for that? Yes.
I think on the -- I think you characterized it correctly is the chatter on taxes is our sense is that was really more of a reiteration of what's already included in the existing Shishinksy.
And so we're not anticipating from our perspective and from our plans anything incremental on that side.
On the thinking on the Cyprus LNG and the possibility of developing that with Leviathan right now the export policy that's been issued basically provides that LNG would be in Israeli territorial waters but there are some possible provisions where you could go back to the government and seek to do something differently.
We're not at that point yet.
We're right now moving as we noted moving forward with the appraisal at Cyprus.
That will give us a good handle on that.
We've already entered into a memorandum of understanding that is the basis of an LNG project the one-train project at Cyprus.
So we're continuing to look at all the options on Leviathan.
But as just a reminder we see some of the regional and domestic gas sales options for Leviathan.
They're most likely going to be some of the early projects that we move forward because we've got increased demand in Israel and other regional demands that is -- been growing.
So it's our thinking right now is that Leviathan is going to be a combination of an LNG export as well as domestic sales.
And we're continuing to move those plans forward.
And we'll take our next question from Dave Kistler with Simmons &amp; Company.
Research Division</strong> Real quickly in the Niobrara you mentioned in your remarks and in your release that you've drilled about 131 wells year-to-date.
Target's still 300 completions.
You've done about 113.
I know you're at 11 rigs now and dropping down to 10.
Can you just walk through is it efficiencies in drilling that are going to be driving your ability to execute to that 300 wells? And any kind of color on how that 300 wells drilled ties into wells that are completed as well? Yes.
David I'll give you a little bit of color on that.
If you remember that the first part of the year we had some late winter storms which affected some of our completion timing and activity.
And that's why I mentioned the amount of activity here in June.
We had over 30 wells I think that we actually completed.
So we're going to see a much higher level of completion activity here through the second half of the year catching up with some of the drilling.
At the same time on the drilling side we've added what 2 rigs I think since we last talked.
And one of those which will stay for a short period of time and then go to Nevada.
So when I look at it and I look at the monthly schedule we're right on track for that full year delivery with much more heavy second half of the year weight especially on the completions which were affected by that timing in the late first quarter early second quarter.
So the key thing there is look at what happened here in June and what we'll be doing going forward.
Research Division</strong> Great appreciate that clarification.
And then just one more with respect to Israel and the export decisions right now.
If I'm not mistaken the decision that they placed was relative to export from offshore facilities.
When you think about that and you're bringing gas in domestically into Israel does that apply to exports out of country through Israel? I think that we're still doing some more work on that because they are working on some accommodations for regional exports as part of that.
So I think I'm probably going to wait until I see the final final before we make a decision on that.
But clearly there are some opportunities as you know in adjacent countries.
I think initially as they were working through a preliminary export policy they had considered -- considered -- exempting those from the export.
But they were concerned that the volume could grow very large.
And so the policy as it is now involves those but there are some procedures that you might be able to go through to get certain allowances for it.
So it's -- I know that is a really complicated answer but it's -- the simple way is I'm not sure right now.
Research Division</strong> Okay I appreciate the clarifications and I completely understand that that's something that's going to be in flux for a while as you're working through the government.
But I think just as a follow-up you have pointed out one thing that's very important.
And that is the regional markets have grown and the potential for regional markets are growing very quickly.
And it's changing our own thinking and our plans.
And it's changing Israel's thinking as well.
So it's an opportunity that is much larger than what we thought even just 6 months ago.
And we'll take our next question from Doug Leggate with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> Dave I wonder if I could back to your -- some of the comments you made in your remarks regarding stepping out into I think you mentioned the Cummins area.
I'm just kind of curious as to how you would characterize the running room you think you have beyond what you've already disclosed to us? Because you referenced East Pony and I'm wondering if we should be thinking that you believe that some of these former vertical areas could have the same kind of characteristics as greater Wattenberg or more like the East Pony.
Again I'm just trying to get an idea as to what you're trying to signal to us there in terms of potential.
And I've got a follow-up please.
It's a good question Doug because that is one of the things I'd say I've come out of this quarter probably most excited and interested in is the additional potential that we continue to uncover up there.
And we're seeing that as -- you pick that Cummins area for example.
Vertical wells didn't look very good in that area.
The original couple standard lengths horizontals that we tried were I'd say marginal there.
And we went in and drilled a couple of long laterals 9 000-foot laterals in there.
And they looked very good in that area especially when you look at the economics of that and the F&amp;B improvement that you potentially can see in that area.
And then you couple that with some of the appraisal testing that we're doing up in Northern Colorado outside of East Pony.
And so far we've had the chance to get some semblance of testing on maybe another 20 000 to 25 000 acres that -- I would put that in that category of more encouraging also at this point.
So there's still areas to go up here and I think we have probably in total this year we'll drill 15 to 20 of what I'd called these appraisal wells up here in Northern Colorado and areas that we really haven't defined or really included yet.
So there's a lot more to come on this and we're still very encouraged and why we keep going back to.
We're still early in this game of unlocking all the resource value up here.
Let me just follow on that just one thing.
Even in East Pony some of the early work in that area was perhaps initially discouraging.
And then we went in and really started working it and really applying the learnings we had.
And it's turning out to be an outstanding area.
So it's not only testing new areas but it's also bringing our latest techniques on completion work in these areas.
And we're just as Dave said it's been a nice positive surprise that these are opening up some opportunities that we didn't perhaps 6 or 12 months ago didn't think that were going to be that prospective.
I'm sorry you had a follow-up.
Go ahead.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
Sorry Chuck.
Yes it's kind of a related follow-up and maybe a little cheeky actually ahead of your Analyst Day in December because what we are seeing anyway and I think what your results are showing is that the type curves you've given us both for these longer laterals and for your kind of base greater Wattenberg I could be forgiven I guess for thinking that well results you've had to-date are going to ultimately push those numbers higher.
Can you give us some indication as to whether directionally that's how you're seeing things right now and ultimately what that could mean for your stated resource potential? I think there's a couple of billion barrels up there currently? Well Doug you're right on the first part of that.
We probably won't really get into updating numbers until the December piece.
But I'll you some direction or indication on some things.
I mentioned that we're still seeing a lot of encouragement on these longer laterals.
And we've got a number of them now that are getting closer to that million-barrel type curve.
We've probably got twice as many now that are approaching that million-barrel type curve as we showed last time probably up to 6 or so.
But the whole issue with that is we don't want to get too far ahead of ourselves.
A lot of this is still early data.
But everything we're doing up here is still very encouraging.
I'll put it this way since they never will share numbers with me because I write them down.
But when I look at those curves my expectation is the numbers are going to go up.
And we'll take our next question from Brian Singer with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to ask a follow-up on the first of Doug's questions with regards to the connection between the Cummins' successes and potentially expanding the footprint in Northern Colorado.
Are you seeing similar geology outside of East Pony? And is this something where we can just look at the north the northwest and the western portion of Northern Colorado and draw this connection or I guess thinking a broad point of hey there are areas in where horizontals initially don't work or where verticals don't work and we can make these extended laterals work? Yes.
The first part of that Brian it's not blanket.
There is variations there is changes on some geology porosity resistivity some of this thickness of these various intervals as you're going through some of this.
So we kind of have to break it down in what we call kind of pod-by-pod or piece-by-piece on this.
And kind of where we've started is kind of west of East Pony.
And in that area and we'll kind of start there and work our way north from that.
So the first part of this is that first 20 000 25 000 acres I've talked about that we'd kind of concentrate on first is kind of just slightly west and northwest of East Pony.
And then we still have to go from there.
Research Division</strong> And is this something where you'd have decent additional color on by say year end or perhaps December 17? Well we'll have some more color on that.
And it's -- I think there's still -- portions of that will be in very early stages of testing.
And portions of that will have some more established production history by that time.
So we'll be able to get some update on what we're learning as we go.
Just depends how far along we are on some of these bringing new wells on.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And lastly in Equatorial Guinea with Alen coming on earlier and then I think you referenced in the press release Aseng has come off plateau can you just refresh us on what we should expect e.g.
net oil production to do next year versus this year when we layer in the growth from the growth from Alen and then it would appear some declines at Aseng? Well yes.
I haven't even looked at next year's yet.
I'd have to go back and look at that.
But when you think about Aseng we've talked about it's kind of come off its plateau.
And you have to remember we actually brought it on and actually increased its early volume higher than we originally anticipated.
And then it kind of had a step function down somewhat as the first well as expected when it started to see water.
And then I'd say going forward on Aseng you can probably look at kind of 10% to 20% per year type of decline which is what I would expect just in general.
Alen we bring that on hopefully get that out.
Well we plan to get that ramped up to full volume by the end of the quarter.
So starting in the fourth quarter you're in that I don't remember what it was -- high teens 1 000 barrels a day type net.
And then it should hold fairly constant for kind of like Aseng for close to a year at least.
And we'll take our next question from Arun Jayaram with Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Chuck Dave I just wanted to talk a little bit.
Obviously lots of headlines on the export decision.
What I'm trying to understand is as you guys interpret the export rules today trying to understand how many trains of LNG do you think you have support for today? I think you found call it 37 Tcf of gross gas.
As you interpret the rules for large field small field is -- how many trains of gas do you think you have today to support? I think the answer to that is 2 to 3 that -- but the key on that is that -- and it came up in an earlier question is we have this regional export that is really growing in demand.
So as a result that might move some gas from an LNG export to a regional export.
So that's the variable in this.
But keep in mind and I mentioned that this is on a field-by-field basis and so for Leviathan it's higher than that 40%.
So we've still got a lot of resource at Leviathan that can source a multi-train type of facility.
Research Division</strong> And Chuck just to elaborate a little bit.
I know Jordan has been a place which has been short gas.
If the stars were aligned could you export gas to Jordan for say sooner than 2018 2019? Or would the timing be similar? No.
It would be sooner because you've got the ability to not only develop but also produce.
And pipeline access is a lot easier depending on which route you go.
And there's a couple of different ways you can go.
But keep in mind there's a pipeline in Israel that already goes to the Dead Sea area.
So there's some possibilities that we can easily we would expect to easily be able to export to Jordan much sooner than that.
And like everything else it's early on.
It might be smaller volumes.
We've got a lot of our capacity committed right now but we're working to expand the Tamar capacity.
And we'll be working on Leviathan which is expected to have a domestic component and could also help bolster these regional exports as well.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then my follow-up question is just on Gunflint.
I guess you had previously Chuck talked about maybe a 90 million-barrel type of discovery there.
Based on the most recent well I'm just wondering if you could maybe comment on that resource range? And maybe some thoughts I believe it will be a tieback on the initial production and timing of that -- as soon as 2015.
Yes.
When -- and we updated I think the resource size after our appraisal.
Keep in mind the deep opportunity there was not present.
So we're looking now at something that's around 65 million to 90 million-barrel.
So it's in that range and yes it's going to be a nice tieback.
We're working on the host options currently on it.
Yes.
When it starts up you should probably -- it should probably start up with 2 of those prolific Miocene producers kind of towards that late 2015 early 2016 timeframe.
And that would be coupled with at the same time a nice Big Bend well.
And if we were fortunate to have a discovery at Troubadour you could have 3 to 4 wells coming on around the same time out of these Miocene producers.
And we'll take our next question from John Malone with Mizuho Securities.
Research Division</strong> Just on Israel is there anything that we can anticipate coming out of the legacy fields Mari-B Noa and Pinnacles or is it pretty much all just a mar [ph] from this point? I mean it reads like that was 94% of the gross production in Israel this year anyway.
Is there anything left in those fields that we can see over the next 12 18 months? Well I think you can see a little bit yet this year and it'll pretty much deplete most of that off.
I think between them you're maybe making about 150 million a day between Pinnacles Noa and Mari.
We actually had a little work-over on Pinnacles here in the second quarter that enabled us to continue to produce that some this year.
But I think by the end of the year most of that will all be depleted.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just to ensure I heard you correctly.
Nicaragua you do have a farm-down agreed? You're just waiting for government approval? Yes.
We've got a farm-down with one company and we're still talking with several others who are interested.
And yes this is -- they're subject to government approval but we expect to obtain those approvals.
And we're set to begin drilling that well this quarter.
Yes towards the end of August early September.
Research Division</strong> Do you anticipate getting a carry on that? Or would it just be a straight up split in the cost of risk? No.
Because of the terms and their clause in there I don't want to discuss the specifics.
But yes there is a promote involved and a recovery of some costs as you would expect on a prospect of that size.
And we'll take our next question from Bob Brackett with Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Yes following up on Nicaragua can you talk about gas versus oil risking? And what would the economic threshold be if this is a gas discovery? And then I've got a follow-up.
Well I think our expectations is that this is an oil prospect.
And it's a large structure and everything we know about the depth and the temperatures that we would expect it to be in the oil window.
If it's gas that's -- we would just have to look to see what the size of it is.
But clearly we have gone into this with the thinking that this is an oil opportunity.
Yes with multiple oil large oil prospects down here is the way we're looking at it.
Right.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> So when you quote that 1 in 4 geologic chance of success that's for an oil discovery or a hydrocarbon discovery? Yes.
That's -- yes because basically our model is based on it being oil.
So it's tied to being the geologic chance of that -- of discovering that.
You can always be surprised but a lot of things would have to happen for that to turn into gas.
And quite honestly I think we would expect to see probably some different seismic responses if that was a gas prospect rather than oil.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> And I can't remember if you've disclosed are you chasing the cretaceous age source or is it a tertiary age? I'm not -- it's cretaceous I think.
And I'm not sure what else we have said on that but...
Yes the best -- the most we've said about was probably when we had our call last October where we talked specifically about all the big Exploration plays.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> And I guess the final if you hit -- it's a carbonate -- if you hit poor reservoir quality but you see evidence of hydrocarbons would you sidetrack that well right away? It all depends on what we saw.
I'm not sure if you saw poor reservoir quality that you would just sit there and sidetrack it at that location.
You'd probably want to step back and come up with a process as to why you believe the quality might improve and then decide in what direction you would go.
But I'd -- to me the best opportunity for a sidetrack would be is if you saw something that was perhaps quite positive and you wanted to see -- try to check on it yes.
And we'll take our next question from Irene Haas with Wunderlich Securities.
Research Division</strong> I would like to ask a question on offshore Israel.
When you mentioned earlier the Karish discovery you found biogenic gas and yet you have condensate of thermogenic source.
So I just want to have a little color.
How does it fit with your migration model? And it certainly would be a positive indication that you could have another system working in the basin.
Yes.
I think your conclusion is right along ours.
And that is as you've -- it's just more evidence that there's a second source in this basin a thermogenic source.
We talked about as we were drilling deeper in the Leviathan we did not reach their primary objective there but we saw signs of thermogenic.
We have seen it in some of the condensate samples I believe in Leviathan.
But Karish is probably the biggest example so far because the condensate yield is so much higher than anywhere else.
And yes and it's because it's through the analysis that shows it came from a thermogenic source.
We've got a different source that migrated into that trap.
And our job is to chase that down and find out if it's productive at its origin.
And we'll take our next question from John Herrlin with Socit Gnrale.
Pretty much everything has been asked but some quick ones.
With Nevada once you move the rig in are you just going to drill a bunch in core or drill and frac? When will you start releasing information about results? Yes.
John what -- the plan is we're going to drill 2 vertical wells first and understand the reservoir a little better and based on that decide how we want to actually test this play.
Now if you remember we're expecting a pretty thick section.
It could be anywhere from 1 000 to 2 000 feet.
So the real question's going to be what's the distribution of hydrocarbons? Are there hydrocarbons where at? What kind of reservoir quality are we seeing? And then come back and design do we want to test this with a horizontal program? Do we want to offset 1 or 2 of these vertical wells into a horizontal program? Do we want to contact a thick part of the section and slant forward? Do we want to do a vertical program and frac it somehow or not even frac it aspedize [ph] it? That's what we need to see depending on the reservoir quality how we want to set up our completion.
But we -- first step is to get some real real true reservoir information of a couple of wells vertical wells in the area.
So I would say information will come out slowly on this one as we set up a plan for this.
Okay.
One other one.
With respect to what the discussion in Northern DJ with horizontal is working versus -- extended horizontals working versus regular horizontals or verticals in the case of the formations is this an issue in terms of the heterogeneity being more diogenic depositional or is it kind of both? Is it just going to be heterogeneous because of all of the above? Well you would -- because it -- I'll give you some suspicions and that is with extended laterals working so much better than the normal laterals that you're somehow through the extension maybe you're connecting up with some better quality at some point in it.
But there's more work to be done on that.
We do know there's variability up in these areas.
And so we're trying to understand that variability.
And maybe it's just helping us to ultimately to find the sweeter spots to go after.
And probably minimizing any natural completion damage if you will by minimizing drawdown down these wells with the longer lateral.
That seems to still be a prevailing theory on what's really helping on these.
Yes.
We'll take our last question from Dan McSpirit with BMO Capital Markets.
I'll be brief.
What's your estimate of the decline rate on the legacy vertical production from the Niobrara? Yes.
I think you're now far enough away from the drilling on that you're getting more into the established lower level of decline maybe 15% or so plus or minus.
Again those are the wells that get impacted first on anything that changes in the field dynamics.
So I think as we bring some of these new facilities on and you get into next year you'll get a more established decline on some of those.
But that's what I'd kind of expect maybe that 10% to 20% range.
Got it.
And then as a follow-up what do you estimate to be the economic limit or the economic breakeven price for your dry gas Marcellus operation today? Dry -- I mean it probably continues to move a little bit because we're still seeing opportunities for increasing efficiency out there on an -- even on the production piece on just the performance production performance.
And you see that as you look at some of the overall Marcellus performance.
You're down probably in the area -- and I'll temper it somewhat by what net revenue interest you're working with because a lot of what we've been drilling in the Marcellus dry we have a very high net revenue interest that came with the CONSOL piece.
So with that you're probably down in the 2s.
So I want to again thank everyone for participating in the call today and your interest that you've had and will have in Noble Energy.
And I'd like to suggest you all have a great day.
And that concludes today's conference call.
We appreciate your participation.
Good morning.
Welcome to Noble Energy's Third Quarter 2013 Earnings Call.
I would now like to turn the call over to Mr.
David Larson Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you very much.
Good morning everyone.
Welcome to Noble Energy's Third Quarter 2013 Earnings Call and Webcast.
On the call today we have Chuck Davidson Chairman CEO; Dave Stover President COO; and Ken Fisher CFO.
This morning we issued our third quarter earnings release and hopefully all of you have had a chance to review our results.
A few supplemental slides for the call were also posted on our website.
If you have not downloaded them already you will want to do so as they will be good reference material for the discussion today.
Later today we expect to be filing our 10-Q with the SEC and it will also be available on our website.
The agenda for today will begin with Chuck discussing our very strong third quarter results and providing an update -- updated view of the remainder of the year including a number of significant exploration activities.
Dave will then give a detailed overview of all of our 5 core operational programs and near-term plans.
We'll leave time for Q&amp;A at the end and plan to wrap up the call in less than an hour.
[Operator Instructions] I want to remind everyone that this webcast and conference call contains forward-looking statements as well as references to non-GAAP financial measures.
You should read our disclosures in our latest news release and SEC filings for a discussion of those.
As a reminder we will be hosting our 2013 analyst conference on December 17 here in Houston.
This is going to be an opportunity for us to provide a deep dive into our core assets and our new venture exploration opportunities.
We will have a number of our management team reviewing their thoughts and plans for creating differential long-term value to our many stakeholders.
With that let me turn the call over to Chuck.
Thank you David.
Good morning everyone and thanks for joining us today.
Before getting into our third quarter results I thought I would step back and put things into a bit of a broader context.
Some of these themes you'll hear more about at our upcoming analyst meeting that David just mentioned.
But first is that we're not where we are today by accident.
We arrived here through a unique strategy as well as unique execution.
We have established ourselves as a diversified company excelling in 2 lines of business the first being in onshore unconventional developments and the second in offshore exploration.
I believe we're positioned extremely well today in the onshore U.S.
business with core positions in premier oil and natural gas plays which are delivering huge and valuable growth for our company.
You can see that growth delivery on Slide 4 which illustrates that in under 2 years' time our horizontal production in the DJ and Marcellus has grown by over 60 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day.
In the offshore exploration business we've also had tremendous success with multiple major discoveries now online and the next set of projects being sanctioned.
These significant resources including 35 trillion cubic feet in the Eastern Mediterranean nearly 1 billion barrels equivalent in West Africa and now 2 more major projects in the deepwater Gulf of Mexico are normally found in much larger companies.
In addition we have a lot of material exploration in front of us which is providing huge running room for future growth.
This portfolio coupled with our ability to execute results in very unique growth for a company of our size.
This growth is not a 2013 event alone but rather a sustained multiyear profile.
So Noble today is a large company growing value very rapidly.
This is highlighted by our delivery of record volumes and record discretionary cash flow in the third quarter.
I want to stop for a moment and touch on the recent and devastating Colorado floods that affected many communities in and around our areas of operation there.
We remain steadfast and completely committed to helping affected communities in Colorado recover.
For us this is an opportunity to live out our corporate purpose of energizing the world and bettering people's lives.
And so we're doing exactly that partnering with a number of support agencies across Northern Colorado and devoting significant human resources to help in the process.
Our teams did an amazing job in preparation response with safety always our highest priority.
I think it's a tremendous accomplishment that we had 0 safety incidents related to the flood.
And I want to thank our employees not only for their work at a very challenging time for own business but also for their outstanding community support shown to their neighbors.
Focusing in on our third quarter we experienced great quarterly results.
On Slide 5 you can see that our sales volumes were up 13% from the second quarter of this year.
Discretionary cash flow was up 29% and adjusted earnings per share of $0.97 a share was up 40%.
We had record sales volumes of 293 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day with high quarterly marks set in 4 of our 5 core operating areas.
This was a 26% increase versus the third quarter of last year after adjusting for the sales of certain noncore onshore U.S.
assets.
Crude oil sales volumes were up 14% from the second quarter this year with significant contributions coming from the DJ Basin the Alen project as well as strong oil liftings at Alba.
Our natural gas volumes were also up double digit on a percentage basis driven by activity in the Marcellus DJ and Israel.
Revenues were $1.4 billion for the quarter up 21% from the second quarter this year with 80% coming from liquid products.
Discretionary cash flow from continuing operations was at a record of $984 million and we ended the quarter with $940 million in cash total liquidity over $4 billion and net debt-to-book-cap ratio of 29%.
The majority of our costs were in line with our expectations including lease operating expense and DD&amp;A.
Continued success through the drill bit at Troubadour the Cyprus A-2 appraisal well and our Diega appraisal in West Africa resulted in no dry hole expense for the quarter.
Our interest expense shown on the income statement increased this quarter due to the completion of Tamar and the early start of Alen.
This lowered the portion of interest that we capitalized.
Our effective tax rate for the quarter was a bit higher than our annual guidance range largely due to a change in the Israel corporate tax rate as well as adjustments related to our annual tax provision.
Before handing the call over to Dave I wanted to provide some recent highlights and things to look forward to between now and the end of the year.
I mentioned major projects earlier and most people typically associate major projects with our offshore business only.
However we're also taking a major project approach to our onshore and conventional developments.
We believe this is where we can drive differential value for our company.
Now this is all about our Integrated Development Plan or IDP approach which is being implemented in the DJ Basin.
We have recently completed our first central processing facility startup at the Wells Ranch IDP and have a number of other IDPs identified for the DJ Basin.
This strategy ties in very well with our recently completed acreage exchange which will ultimately allow for a more focused and contiguous development in this leading oil play.
We believe that achieving significant scale will ultimately be a very competitive advantage in onshore resource plays.
Small players with more scattered acreage positions may still be able to drill good wells but in our opinion will lose long-term competitiveness through higher infrastructure and operating costs.
That is why we see the trade with Anadarko as so positive for both of us.
We're applying this major project approach to our Marcellus acreage as well beginning with our large position in the wet gas Majorsville area.
And later this year we should have our first pads online from the new areas in West Virginia and Southwest Pennsylvania which will further delineate our large Marcellus position.
Combined between the DJ and the Marcellus we'll have a deep inventory of high returns lower risk unconventional opportunities representing years of drilling with a lot of value to create.
We continue to streamline our portfolio and reached an agreement to sell our San Juan assets in New Mexico for gross proceeds of approximately $65 million.
Our portfolio optimization remains an important part of our strategy and we're continuing to pursue the sale of our remaining noncore properties.
In total we have generated about $1.4 billion in gross proceeds from the sale of noncore assets since the beginning of 2012.
In our offshore business we've now approved the sanctions of 2 deepwater Gulf of Mexico major projects: Gunflint; as well as the first phase of development at Big Bend which is part of the Rio Grande complex.
Two great projects both showing really high value per barrel.
Both are subsea tiebacks that could come online in an accelerated timeframe.
In West Africa we continue to ramp up the Alen project.
We're close to completing commissioning and processing of the reinjection -- excuse me we're close to completing the commissioning of processing and reinjection facilities.
We're also making progress on the next liquids developments in EG at Diega with a flow test that's currently underway.
Moving to the Eastern Med we couldn't be more pleased with operations at Tamar and how the field continues to perform.
Beyond Tamar which is primarily dedicated to the Israeli domestic market we continue to work predevelopment on many fronts on the 18 Tcf Leviathan field.
We experienced a true breakthrough this past year -- excuse me we experienced a true breakthrough this past week with the Israeli high court ruling in favor of the government thus solidifying the natural gas export policy issued earlier this year.
We can now move forward in a number of areas related to Leviathan.
Leviathan is almost certainly going to be composed of multiple major project phases initially supporting the Israeli domestic gas market which is expected to continue to grow.
In addition we continue to have multiple discussions related to the development of regional gas exports to nearby countries for both near-term interruptible supply as well as long-term baseload opportunities.
We anticipate having an LNG project as well which could take many forms.
The options being studied include stand-alone LNG in Israel either onshore or floating offshore as well as a possibility of a combined project with our large Cyprus discovery.
We don't want to forget our portfolio also includes new high-impact exploration potential.
We're in the midst of a number of important exploration test with our first wells currently drilling in Nevada in Nicaragua and a large Dantzler prospect drilling in the Gulf of Mexico as well.
Off the coast of Nicaragua the Paraiso prospect has been drilling for several weeks now and we anticipate results by the end of November.
The prospect ranges in size from 200 to more than 1 billion barrels of oil equivalent.
We have recently completed an additional farmout of interest during the quarter bringing our working interest down to 70% from the well with our paying interest substantially below that.
Results from the first well will help to define the potential of additional oil prospects we've identified on our nearly 2 million-acre position.
Offshore Israel we've moved our drilling rig to the Tamar southwest prospect which is a standalone structure with gross on those resource range of 500 billion to 900 billion cubic feet of natural gas.
Back in the U.S as I mentioned earlier we advanced our drilling currently in the Gulf of Mexico and are drilling our first well in the Wilson oil prospect in Elko County Nevada.
With several results expected in the next couple of months I would hope we will have a very nice exploration story to talk about in December.
And we continue to move forward on a number of other opportunities for future drilling as well.
We've recently completed 3-D seismic over the majority of Block 12 offshore Cyprus and we're preparing for additional 3-D acquisition offshore the Falklands and Nicaragua as well not to mention our ongoing deepwater Gulf program in the deep Levant opportunity.
As I mentioned earlier the results we're realizing are not by accident or not just simply a result of the environment we're in.
We've been very deliberate in our strategy how we have optimized the portfolio and how we execute.
Our teams are already busy preparing for the analyst conference in December which will show I believe a very bright future for Noble Energy.
So now I'll turn the call over to Dave.
Thanks Chuck.
As you highlighted our onshore U.S.
unconventional programs are delivering [Technical Difficulty] Welcome back.
Sorry for the interruption.
It looked like there was a technical difficulty there.
I was just finishing up on my comments and I believe where we lost it where I was turning it over to Dave.
So Dave is going to start again at the beginning of his section.
Okay Chuck.
Let me pick up where we left off there.
As Chuck highlighted our onshore U.S.
unconventional programs are delivering substantial growth and value for our company.
In the third quarter our core positions in the DJ Basin and Marcellus contributed on average 125 000 barrels equivalent per day an increase of 16% in just one quarter's time frame and over 35% from the equivalent period a year ago.
Our third quarter in the Marcellus continued to show the momentum we're building in the play.
Production averaged nearly 170 million cubic feet equivalent per day up 50% from the second quarter as a result of new pads and wells brought on production.
In the wet gas area as seen on Slide 9 the SHL 8 and WFN-1 pads commenced flowback during the third quarter bringing 18 new wells online and production of over 90 million cubic feet equivalent per day gross.
We've increased our operated rig count in the wet gas area to 5 with 2 rigs drilling in Majorsville and one rig in each of Pennsboro Oxford and Moundsville delineating new areas.
Combined with our partners activity on the dry gas side we remain on target to drill approximately 120 wells in the Marcellus this year.
Capital efficiency continues to be a major area of focus including the drilling of longer laterals optimizing our completion designs and utilizing consolidated gathering and processing facilities.
Slide 10 highlights the continued transition to longer laterals with our 2013 average thus far at approximately 7 000 feet versus 2012's average of 4 600 feet.
This is resulting in lower cost per lateral foot drilled down approximately 15% this year.
In fact we've recently drilled some of the longest laterals in the Marcellus to date with 5 greater than 10 000 feet.
Initial production from these 5 is anticipated late this year.
We're also continuing to optimize a number of wells per pad with all of our pads drilled to date including between 4 and 11 wells.
Performance of our wells remains in line with or above our 5.6 billion cubic foot equivalent type curve standardized for a 5 000-foot lateral.
Late in the second quarter we brought online the WEB 4 pad in West Virginia which includes 11 wells on production with an average lateral length of 5 700 feet.
These continue to perform consistent with type curves and show a recent flattening of decline which suggests a potential for higher ultimate recoveries.
On the dry gas side our partner CONSOL is drilling and completing some outstanding wells in Southwestern Pennsylvania and Northern West Virginia.
Of recent note is the Nineveh 38 pad.
These wells were completed with shorter-stage spacing of 150 feet between stages versus typical 300-foot spacing resulting in elevated production rates.
In fact one well the 38C with a lateral of 7 200 feet IP-ed at 19 million cubic feet per day.
In addition late in the second quarter CONSOL brought on the first joint venture Upper Devonian well which was drilled in the Burkett Shale.
Production started at 3 million a day with essentially no decline in the first 3 months of production.
Strong pipeline and market access to exit the basin we have not seen the large differentials that have impacted operators in the northeastern part of the play.
Factoring in our growth realized to date and the outlook based on drilling and completion activities I feel very confident that we will exceed our prior projection of exiting 2013 with net production of 210 million cubic feet equivalent per day.
In our other core onshore asset the DJ Basin our production averaged over 97 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day for the third quarter.
In just 1 year's time we have increased our total production by 23 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day with 70% of the growth coming from oil.
On Slide 12 we have included an updated map reflecting the recently announced acreage exchange executed with Anadarko.
You can see from the pre- and post-map that the exchange has resulted in much more contiguous acreage positions for both companies with Noble receiving approximately 50 000 acres in the north and eastern areas of greater Wattenberg.
We expect to realize significant efficiency improvements from the trade with benefits coming from centralized field facilities streamlined operations and reduced sand work.
The large contiguous acreage blocks will also provide the opportunity to accelerate and optimize drilling activities and add more extended-reach lateral wells to the program.
Even with the 8 000 barrel equivalent per day impact of production near term we expect our DJ Basin production to grow by at least 20% next year.
During the third quarter we spud over 90 operated horizontal wells in the DJ and remain on target to drill close to 300 wells for the full year representing nearly 1.5 million lateral feet drilled in the Niobrara and Codell formations.
As a result of some logistics challenges in the basin following third quarters floods we estimate that we'll exit the year with a number of drilled locations which have not yet been completed.
This represents a near-term timing delay in bringing this production online and we plan to be fully caught up on the backlog in the first quarter of 2014.
Fourth quarter incremental operating costs associated with the flood repairs are estimated to be between $6 million and $8 million.
In support of our aggressive long-term growth for the basin we're in the midst of seeing a number of significant infrastructure projects come online expanding capacity on both the natural gas and crude oil side.
Our partner for natural gas processing has recently started up the O'Connor facility previously known as LaSalle.
This plant is ramping toward initial capacity of 110 million cubic feet per day and will be expanding to 160 million a day early next year.
On the oil side the Wattenberg trunkline delivering crude from the northern part of the basin to our Platteville facility with access to the White Cliffs pipeline began line sale in early October.
Property -- progress on the White Cliffs expansion is moving forward for completion in the second quarter of next year.
Delivery to the Plains' rail facility is anticipated to commence in the next month or so.
Combined the White Cliff's expansion and Plains' rail project are increasing oil transport out of the basin by approximately 150 000 barrels of oil per day.
Standard- and extended-reach laterals throughout the basin continue to perform well.
We have highlighted on Slide 13 the standard-reach laterals that have been brought to production in 2013 in our Wells Ranch and East Pony areas.
The green line represents the 2013 wells the blue is 2011 and 2012 and the dash line is the equivalent type curve.
The 2013 wells continued to be consistent or better despite having averaged 20% tighter spacing.
Same is true for extended-reach laterals program where we continue to see ultimate recoveries in excess of the 750 000 barrel equivalent type curve.
This continues to highlight the quality of our inventory.
The startup of our own Wells Ranch Central Processing Facility in the third quarter is a significant milestone for Noble Energy.
Slide 14 shows these facilities including oil gas and water processing as well as recycled water storage.
This central facility is currently capable of processing 22 000 barrels of oil per day and 50 million cubic feet of gas per day with plans to double capacity by mid next year.
In Northern Colorado our next Integrated Development Plan is the East Pony area where we continue to see very positive drilling results.
Earlier this year we performed a 40-acre downspacing test in this area drilling 8 standard-length laterals and a half section.
Included in the 8 are 5 wells in the Niobrara B zone one in the A and 2 in the C bench.
Results have been very encouraging and while early the wells are performing at or above our type curve.
In addition we have just recently commenced production on our first long lateral in East Pony with a lateral length of approximately 9 000 feet.
The well has been on production for 2 months and is currently producing 800 barrels of oil equivalent per day with 80% oil.
Shifting offshore to the deepwater Gulf of Mexico.
Production during the quarter was 19 000 barrels a day equivalent 90% was crude oil and natural gas liquids.
Of specific note during the quarter Ticonderoga #4 well was successfully completed and commenced production in late September.
At full rate it is anticipated to add over 3 500 barrels of oil per day net to our production.
Chuck mentioned our recent sanctions of both Gunflint and the initial phase at Rio Grande which provides the next leg of production growth to our deepwater Gulf business.
Rio Grande will initially be a one-well tieback of our Big Bend discovery with first production estimated in late 2015.
Gunflint is planned as a 2-well tieback to come online in the middle of 2016.
Combined our initial net production from these 2 fields is estimated to be 20 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day.
Moving to our International businesses.
In West Africa the Aseng oil field continues to perform very well having averaged approximately 47 000 barrels of oil per day gross in the third quarter with expected decline.
At Alen our production ramp has taken somewhat longer than anticipated as commissioning of the processing and compression facilities has been extended as we worked to operate both of our large gas compression trains in parallel.
This should provide for a full test of facility capacity within the next month.
I've been very pleased with the integration of production storage and offloading utilizing the Aseng FPSO.
Alen will be a significant contributor for 2014 liquids growth for Noble.
During the third quarter we successfully drilled an appraisal at the Diega oil field.
The I-8 appraisal well came in better than expected encountering 39 feet of vertical pay and good reservoir consistency along our nearly 1 400-foot lateral.
Reservoir quality is very good and we're currently performing a nearly month-long flow test to assist in ultimate determination of reservoir size.
Diega represents the next liquids development for us in West Africa and is likely a subsea tieback to existing infrastructure at Aseng.
In the Eastern Mediterranean Tamar continues its outstanding performance as we set a record quarterly sales volume of 255 million cubic feet net per day for the third quarter equivalent to around a gross volume of 775 million cubic feet per day.
As we mentioned in our last call the early part of the third quarter was relatively mild summer period and September was impacted by a number of holidays.
Despite these effects we did have some periods of very high demand during the quarter with a single day max of over 915 million cubic feet gross and certain intra-day peak load periods where the field averaged over 1 billion cubic feet per day.
We continue to make significant progress on our compression project at the Ashdod onshore receiving terminal which is designed to increase capacity and deliverability into the growing Israel domestic market.
Slide 16 is a walk-through from our third quarter to our anticipated fourth quarter volumes.
On the far left bar we've adjusted the third quarter volume for the production associated with the DJ Basin acreage exchange as well as the sale of our San Juan assets.
This accounts for about 10 000 barrels equivalent per day difference from the third quarter to our anticipated fourth quarter volumes.
On this slide you can see our significant underlying onshore unconventional growth representing a combined DJ Basin and Marcellus 10% quarter-on-quarter increase and also higher volumes in the Deepwater Gulf as well.
Natural gas demand in Israel is normally lighter in the fourth quarter than the third and sales volumes in EG that's Equatorial Guinea are expected to be less than production as a result of the timing of liftings.
We've also shown the impact of storms in the DJ Basin and Gulf of Mexico properties for the fourth quarter.
Our updated sales volume range for the fourth quarter is 280 000 to 285 000 barrels equivalent per day and we expect to exit 2013 with production volumes in the range of 300 000 barrels equivalent per day.
As a reminder the portfolio adjustments we have made this year including the DJ acreage exchange as well as the sale of noncore properties through the year represents approximately 4 000 barrels equivalent per day on an annualized basis.
In closing there's certainly a lot to review and discuss in December at the analyst conference.
This will include our updated thinking on accelerating our growth plans in the DJ Basin and Marcellus and how we're implementing our Integrated Development Plan approach.
We'll also focus on our offshore core businesses and how we have uniquely created substantial value in the Deepwater Gulf of Mexico West Africa and Eastern Mediterranean.
In each of these positions there's a platform from which to grow even further.
I'm also excited about our global exploration portfolio which includes significant running room opportunities in many of our core businesses material upside and multiple new venture projects which have the potential to become new core areas for Noble.
We look forward to the opportunity to share more about how we continue to build and unlock value as we discuss our business in greater depth in December.
With that we'd now like to open the call for questions.
[Operator Instructions] And we'll take our first question from Doug Leggate from Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> Dave I'm guessing some of these questions will be addressed in December but I'm going to try one and one follow-up if I may.
You mentioned that you're quite pleased as -- I guess you're encouraged by what you see on the different bench drill tests in the Wattenberg.
But I just wanted to get some clarification are you assuming the same type curve for the primary zone as you are for the different benches? And that's my first question and I have a follow-up on activity please.
Yes.
The answer to the first one is pretty easy.
Doug yes we are.
We're basing everything off the same type curve again tied to different lateral lengths.
But as a reminder we have multiple type curves throughout the field.
So you can't go from one area to another and use the same type curve.
It's a broad array of type curves.
And as we've also talked about the benches they have different impacts and contributions in different parts of the field.
In other words in some parts of field we'll concentrate on an A and a B; in other parts we'll concentrate on a B and a C for example based on their geology.
Research Division</strong> Got it okay.
So I'll look for clarification in December.
My follow-up I guess is can you help us with what is the limiting factor for the activity level? I think you've talked about having 1 or 2 rigs over -- in last year's presentation.
But is it actually a limiting factor or is -- are we likely to see you address the pace a little more aggressively as we come up on the Analyst Day? I'd say near term it's getting these Integrated Development Plans in place and tying everything in from an overall facility structure and infrastructure tying everything in together.
I'd say in the long term it's going to definitely accelerate the pace of activity when you look out over the next few years and I think that's something that we'll talk even more about here in December.
But what you're trying to tie in is everything from staying on schedule with your gas plants and staying a year or 2 in front on that along with now these big central processing facilities tying those in together and concentrating on the pace of development that you're looking at in each different area.
What it's going to enable you to do as you pull these IDPs together is really get more efficient as we go down the road here.
And so our anticipation is it will allow us to accelerate activity over time here.
I think also Doug we just have to keep reminding ourselves that while it -- we can change and pick up rigs with just a few months' notice that -- especially in gas processing facilities with the permitting and everything that goes along with it those can be 2- and 3-year lead times.
So we're working with our partner our processing partner to not only -- as we accelerate our activity to -- for them to also be accelerating theirs.
But we have to take a longer-term approach when it gets to those big pieces of infrastructure.
And we'll take our next question from Dave Kistler with Simmons &amp; Company.
Research Division</strong> Real quickly.
Looking at CapEx on the quarter and relative to the slide you provided that showed 2Q as well looks like it would be running ahead of kind of the guidance you gave back at your Analyst Day last December of $3.9 billion.
How should we be thinking about that for next quarter? And generally how should we be thinking about that CapEx looking forward? Well I think we're actually maybe closer to on track than what those numbers would show.
And the key factor is that as we noted with the acreage exchange with Anadarko we're getting a refund of a little over $200 million of capital.
That -- it will be cash.
So this will -- that capital that we'll spend for those wells it'll stay on the books.
But really when you deduct that from our year-to-date capital that puts us closer to about $3 billion year-to-date and with a run rate per quarter of about $1 billion.
So the way we're looking at it when we adjust for the refund that we got on the acreage exchange we're at a run rate of about $4 billion which is I think pretty close to on the money from our guidance of -- I think it was $3.9 billion.
Research Division</strong> Perfect perfect.
Well I appreciate that clarification.
And maybe switching over to the Niobraras I think you're going to be sharing more on the -- excuse me shifting over to the Marcellus as I think you're going to be sharing more on the Niobrara at the Analyst Day.
When you look at the growth that you're showing today and you project going forward now running 5 rigs in the wet gas area any concerns with respect to the need to blend dry gas or be able to deliver that wet gas without experiencing any kind of ethane rejections due to the high BTU content? No Dave.
I mean that's something we looked at pretty hard.
And I'd say at least for the next couple of years we seem to be in pretty good shape there.
We're -- one of the things we're able to blend some gas that CONSOL has from some of their legacy piece too.
So I think when you look at it and you look at the pipes we're on and where we have our firm transportation and how that's all tied together I think we're in good shape for the next couple of years at least.
And we'll take our next question from Leo Mariani with RBC.
LLC Research Division</strong> Yes.
Just -- you just made an earlier comment about the possibility of joint LNG development with Israel and Cyprus.
I was hoping you guys could expand upon that a little bit.
Is that something you think that both governments are amenable to at this point in time or is it still kind of in negotiation? It's -- I think it is an open item for discussion right now.
It's one that we have brought up and certainly the government of Cyprus has brought it up as well.
There are benefits to both countries to interconnect their gas systems.
Because we have to remind ourself gas can flow 2 different directions and so in effect you can end up with the discoveries in each country backing up each other in terms of their domestic needs.
So there's some benefits on that but it's by no means a decided path.
As I mentioned we're looking at several options as we go forward here and that's one of them.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And I guess just jumping over to the Niobrara.
Obviously you guys have got some initial results there kind of in the A to C in the Codell.
In terms of how you guys think about it I know it's probably early in the well results but would you guys expect to see some interference between the traditional B zone or some of the other zones in terms of how you're thinking about it? We haven't seen it.
I'd say Leo we -- at this point we've not seen as we've gone down to 40-acre spacing and as we've gone to these different horizons.
We just really haven't seen any production interference at this point.
And we'll take our next question from Evan Calio with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> I appreciate the update and good news earlier in the week from Israel.
Just a question if could you just provide any more color on the next steps or timing on the closing of the Woodside partnership and moving forward to development and whether that -- the 40% export level is more reflective of the higher domestic demand? Or does that alter anyway that you think about -- a potential LNG project? Well I think on the latter part of the 40% that was the adjusted policy that was issued by the cabinet and that's -- we believe that that is supportive of all the export options that we're looking at there which as you know include not only LNG but also some regional gas sales also.
So there's a lot that can be accommodated by that 40%.
So I think we can certainly work within the framework and certainly the policy has some adjustments that allow you to move allocations between fields.
And so when you go through that it actually results in Leviathan being closer to 50% eligible for export.
So that all fits with what we're planning.
So as you pointed out we received some very good news earlier in the week and that's now allowing the parties to get back together to really see what our plans are next.
I mean this is not only the closing of the Woodside deal which we're very eager to do but also in moving forward with some of these projects.
Again there's a lot of work to be done.
There's other government approvals that will be necessary in terms of how the fields are developed and where they will be delivered how they will meet domestic gas needs.
So we're -- we'll have to work through all those details with our partners and the government.
But the big roadblock that we were facing which was an export policy was resolved for us earlier in the week.
Research Division</strong> Great great.
And if I could just to follow up on the DJ.
And just to confirm the prior question you were saying that you have not seen any communication the 40-acre downspacing test in East Pony? Was that what you were referring to there? And then any color on the lower Niobrara liquid volumes in the quarter? I think it was 60% versus mid- to low-60s expected.
Is there any -- I know there are a lot of moving parts in the quarter.
Have you had any thoughts on how that might change the outlook or that was more of an anomaly? Yes.
I'd say on the first part whether you look at the 40-acre spacing in say Wells Ranch area or East Pony or any place we've tried it out there we just haven't seen with any extended production history here any interference yet between -- so yes very encouraged with all that.
I'd say as far as the liquid volumes there may have been some small impact from the flood piece and what was shut in for various pieces or whatever.
But it shouldn't really have been a big difference one way or another.
We're not seeing any changes in trends in oil versus gas.
This is -- with all the moving pieces we had in the quarter I would view that as just...
It can get influenced somewhat by where you're predominantly bringing wells on in each quarter.
That's -- you remember East Pony area is higher oil content than it is kind of in the Wells Ranch and so forth.
So it's just the mix.
And we'll take our next question from Arun Jayaram from Crdit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Dave this one's for you.
I know according to the '13 plan you plan to do about 10 Codell wells and 80 Niobrara A and C wells.
So I was wondering if you could maybe comment on how the Codell and A and C wells are comparing towards your B bench wells which were the type curve in the 335 range.
Yes.
I mean what we've seen -- I think the first couple of Codell -- and this one goes back to last year.
We're kind of in areas that weren't quite as good as performance but the ones we've seen this year that we've brought on have looked very strong relative to the type curves.
I'd say the A and the C performance has been very similar to the B in the areas especially where we're concentrating.
As I mentioned it varies as to what were concentrating on depending on where you are in the basin because the thickness of those 2 benches can vary somewhat.
But we've been very encouraged by how well they've matched the B performance if you will.
Now we're just getting ready to bring on our first long lateral Codell I think here shortly so we'll get some more long-lateral type performance on some other places.
And then as I mentioned earlier we've just started to bring on our first production on long lateral up in East Pony.
So I'd say going back to your original question or the AMC performance...
[Technical Difficulty] And we'll take our next question from Charles Meade with Johnson Rice.
[Technical Difficulty] We'll continue with the Q&amp;A session and we'll go back to Charles Meade with Johnson Rice.
L.L.C.
Research Division</strong> Let me just ask I think it'll be 2 questions.
One I'm sorry if we're torturing this a bit on the East Pony 40-acre spacing but I just want to make sure I'm thinking about this right and have the right expectations for what we can learn.
Is it right to think about that you're doing something close to 80-acre spacing in the B and then you're doing kind of a sawtooth offset with the A and C? And if that's the case are we really going to learn more about how the A and C zones perform there versus the B? Thanks.
You're right on the aspect Charles.
It is somewhat of a sawtooth piece.
So they're not completed right above each other if you think about it.
They are kind of offset a little bit.
But I think we are learning a lot about the ability.
I mean you think about the ultimate development of these sections and we initially talked about 16 wells per section when we were concentrating on one interval.
I think what is again giving us information is that eventually we could easily have patterns out here that provide 32 wells per section for example where you're combining 2 intervals 2 different layers in that type of sawtooth-type pattern something similar to that.
I think this is -- and of course everyone is interested in -- and we've gotten the question a number of times on just the fact that we're not seeing interference.
And this will be something we will certainly be talking a lot more about in December because it's really -- the prize here is in how these wells are completed and their configuration across the patterns and so that's the key to unlocking this.
L.L.C.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
As then as a follow up if I look at your slide that you offered which was very helpful Slide 16 on the walk up and the walk down on the quarter-over-quarter volumes.
Just eyeballing it it looks like that West Africa lifting aspects is -- it's roughly the same size as that DJ Basin bar on the right.
So that's about 10 000 barrels a day if I'm kind of estimating that correctly.
And that strikes me as a little larger than the overlift that you had or twice as large as the overlift you had in 3Q.
So I'm wondering are you expecting to miss another lift at the end of the quarter or is that perhaps also related to the slower ramp-up of the Alen processing.
When you think about it you've got to think about it from quarter-to-quarter.
And if you were over 5 in third quarter and then you're under 5 in the fourth quarter you got a 10 delta on quarter-on-quarter impact there.
And we'll go next to Irene Haas with Wunderlich Securities.
Research Division</strong> All right.
Maybe 2 questions.
Wattenberg what's going on in the East Pony area now that you have core up your empire towards the north? Then secondarily maybe a little color on Nicaragua.
Have you drilled your second well yet? And that's all I have.
Well I think in terms of the -- you mentioned about coring up.
The trade area was in the greater Wattenberg area so it really didn't affect our East Pony acreage area.
I mean we're doing a lot of development in East Pony and things like that.
I may have misinterpreted your question.
But the trade was in the greater Wattenberg area which is outside of East Pony.
I think in terms of Nicaragua what's happening there is we're just -- we're in the process of drilling the well and we expect to have results by later in November.
Research Division</strong> You're drilling 1 or 2 wells? We're still drilling the first well.
I'm sorry.
I thought...
We don't -- we won't have to make a decision on whether we want to drill a second well or not until after we reach TD and have a chance to look at things.
Yes I apologize.
I was talking about Nicaragua and you were talking about...
Yes.
So we're not far enough along to make a decision on a second well yet.
And we'll go next to David Heikkinen with Heikkinen Energy Advisors.
Every time you drop off the call your stock goes up.
So we probably ought to just keep doing it.
Thinking about the swap with Anadarko how does that add to extended-reach laterals kind of in the Wattenberg and kind of coring up the opportunity set? Is that something that you saw as a benefit? And how should we think about that as kind of that blocking up acreage and now your success with longer laterals? Well what it does is that you're not having to have sections that are kind adjacent to each other where you operate one section and they operate the other and then you're trying to figure out how you're going to set that up from a development pattern.
Now if you have control of the contiguous sections then you can set that up ahead of time and plan for that.
Like we said especially these longer laterals take much longer planning.
And if you know you've got this set up you can lay that out so that you're considering both sections together.
And so do you expect to drill more long laterals as a result of the swap? Absolutely.
One of the real benefits of this transaction.
And we'll go next to Peter Kissel with the Howard Weil.
Research Division</strong> Initially I had one on the oil targets you've identified next year in the Eastern Med.
And in particular I was wondering if you could compare and contrast those versus the recent Yam wells that were drilled by another company targeting oil down by Mari-B.
Any sort of differences in source rock depth location? Anything like that would be helpful.
Well I think first of all we weren't a party to the Yam wells so all we've got is basically what you've got which is the public information on it.
We don't see the prospects as related and I think that's kind of the most fundamental thing on it.
And I think going beyond that it's pretty hard to make any comparisons between what they were exploring for and what we would hope to explore for deep in the Mesozoic.
So I think we're treating it as basically not being either a positive or a negative to what we're exploring for in the deeper Levant Basin.
And we'll go next to Brian Singer with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Back to Wattenberg area.
You seem to be on track for 32 wells per section over 2 intervals in the Wattenberg oil window and it seems like based on your comments that may be where you're heading for East Pony as well.
I guess is what you're seeing in both these areas almost connect -- obviously there are some geological features in between.
But do you have now a more widespread view of the potential for this type of development between Wattenberg oil and East Pony? And how are you viewing the northern and northwest portions of your Northern Colorado acreage? Yes.
I'll tell you Brian -- just to back up on that.
I said what we're testing is the potential for up to 30-some wells per section up in the northern part in fact you said in the more oily part of the play in northern part of Wattenberg and up into East Pony.
So still early in the production phase of that and we'll continue to get more information on that.
But again that's all about how do we increase the recovery out of this.
When you go back to what we've talked about on 16 wells per section and you're still getting probably less than 10% of the hydrocarbon in place recovery on that.
And we continue to get encouraged on just how much of a hydrocarbons there are actually in the interval.
So I think we'll continue to test that especially in the more oily parts of the play.
As you talked about we'll continue to test it with multiple benches here.
But we're still thinking we have some running room here that we haven't fully tested.
And we'll continue to expand that and we'll talk more about that in December.
I think as you look up into the north and northwest parts of the field some of things that we haven't really tested that much yet.
We haven't been in a rush to test some of that yet this year as we concentrated on kind of optimizing patterns and setting ourselves up for these Integrated Development Plans in what we call our development area.
But as we continue to go we'll continue to push out on some of that.
Some of the encouragement we saw earlier this year in that Cummings area where we did some longer laterals in an area that probably wasn't quite as productive on the normal laterals as we've seen in some of the areas we've been focusing on.
That was real encouraging.
And so what we'll be looking at as we move forward to test some of these areas to the north and northwest is do we want to do that with a little longer lateral program at some point than the normal lateral.
But again it's not a rush.
It's not a hurry.
We want to work with at the point that we can actually test them and actually produce them with -- in the infrastructure.
We don't have lease timing hanging over our head.
So we'll continue to do some of that and we'll probably do some more of that next year that we highlight as we talk about our whole program for next year in December.
Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
Shifting to the Marcellus.
You mentioned I think it was Slide 10 the rising lateral length.
What's your target lateral length and variability we should expect around that? And when we think about the relationship between EUR and lateral length is it 1:1 or is there some other ratio? Yes.
I'd start with the latter part of that.
I mean right now we're still assuming a 1:1 relationship but we need to get some longer lateral wells online and see how that changes.
I'd say overall we've seen it move from on average 5 000 or so that we're now -- we're probably up closer to 7 000-foot lateral length on ours.
We've actually talked about a pad where we've drilled 4 or 5 wells of 10 000 foot.
So it kind of varies by area.
Again that's somewhat driven by land position out there and how much room you have as far as contiguous acreage around you.
So it'll depend by area.
But I kind of -- our preference as you've seen from what we've talked about is moving to longer laterals in the Marcellus as we've implemented out in the DJ where we can.
And we'll go next to John Herrlin with Societe Generale.
Yes Societe Generale.
Anyway getting to the DJ you have a lot of resource potential.
You're doing more localized Integrated Developments Plans or a CPFs.
Have you thought about plateau volumes or how big your really could get your output to grow on the liquid side to then maintain it? Have you been thinking bigger picture? Well I think we're not in the -- thinking about plateau volumes.
What this is really all about is managing multiple major developments and being able to do it in a fashion that you can do it in parallel as you move forward.
So that you -- as we keep talking about these Integrated Development Plans these planning areas which there's now several of them identified through the field it's really -- it's all about being efficient not only being efficient in how we develop them and the capital we use but also being efficient in how we can operate them going forward and manage all the pieces associated with it.
So it's -- I mean it's -- I think from our view it's a very exciting step forward in our thinking on how to develop a large resource play such as we have in the DJ Basin.
And I think it will -- as we talked about it it will provide a lot of advantage as we go forward.
But it's all about being more efficient and being able to put in place the infrastructure that will allow us ultimately to continue to accelerate this program.
But Chuck do you think that the sizes that you're gearing for now are optimal or they could be larger in terms of the CPFs and your planning needs? Yes John.
That's the nice part about the way we're designing this is that their scalable I guess is the way I would put it.
So with additional opportunity as we go we'll be able to tie in and expand these facilities in segments.
Yes.
Some have -- it's probably -- train is not the right word.
But they're certainly built into their designs a capability to as Dave said add additional critical facilities.
When we look at Wells Ranch we're already planning an expansion there.
Okay.
How much do the CFPs run about just gross cost? Somewhere around oh $35 million to $50 million.
You're just talking about the basic facilities? Yes that's all.
Or maybe about -- yes.
For about -- that would probably handle about 700 wells.
Hang on...
Okay.
Last one for me on the DJ.
What were the number of wells that were going to need to be completed in the first quarter? You broke up.
Okay let me back up.
First of all I misspoke on the 700.
It's more like maybe 300 for a thing.
And then you were -- you asked another question John? Yes.
You said that you're going to have some wells that weren't going to be completed that were drilled in the fourth quarter that would be completed in the first quarter.
Approximately how many will there be in the DJ? Yes.
I think what the flood did it put us back about 20 wells on the completion activity side.
And that's what we'll be catching up in the first quarter.
We've already brought a third frac crew in to help with that.
So we're well underway on getting -- moving forward when that catch up if you will.
Okay.
Last one for me is on Nevada.
Will you have any information to discuss in December or is it still too early? If any it'd probably be very small amount information.
Our plan there still to drill 2 wells to get some actual infield information if you will.
And based on the expectation of the type of reservoir and type of play we're dealing with this will just be some information that'll help us design how we want to test this play going forward.
So until we really get into that test mode there probably won't be a whole lot to report.
And we'll go next to Joe Magner with Macquarie.
Just a few others.
In addition to the longer laterals and the tighter spacing that you're testing in the DJ can you provide any initial details or insights into other completion designs enhancements that you're adopting? Yes.
Over time and if you look back you've seen some of the performance improvement over the last couple of years.
A lot of that has come from the optimization of not just longer laterals but even the tighter spacing of fracs of stages if you will.
And so we're continuing to look at that and continuing to optimize fluid capability.
I mean that's very sensitive out here in the basin in our minds so we keep a very close eye on that.
What we had gotten to in the basin was kind of a 200-foot interval as we had started at probably double that and got down to 200.
We've tried some at a little less than that and we'll probably continue to work on that and tweak that a little bit as to whether 200 is optimum or whether there might be something maybe a little lower or tighter spacing even stage.
But that's just something we'll continue to work at.
Okay.
And in the Marcellus I realize you've got some firm transportation laid out and you're not seeing any impact on being able to get volumes out of the basin.
But what have you done to protect bases and how are you thinking about that issue going forward or other types of firms sales agreements that would go alongside those firm transportation agreements you have lined up? Well I think we continue to a look at whether or not we should hedge bases but we haven't seen the need to do that so far again because of where we are located in the play and the fact that we're not having to complete as much for that northeast market that has seen some larger differentials going forward.
But also there's -- we're certainly hopeful there's been a couple of attempts of -- by the pipelines to add some additional capacity.
And of course there is a lot of capacity being built in the Marcellus but more importantly for areas that serve us.
And I know that in the past we have looked favorably on those and we'll continue to look favorably on them if they're proposed in the future.
But right now we're not hedging any of that bases.
Okay.
And just one last one Paraiso sell down at 70% level.
Is that something you're comfortable with or should we anticipate additional farm-ins there? I think right now we're pretty comfortable with -- given the transactions we've entered into.
And the fact that the well is drilling I think it's -- we're all really now just want to get the well completed and see the results and carry forward.
So that's what we're comfortable with.
And we'll go next to Rehan Rashid with FBR Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> Just on Nevada.
The path forward so the initial program is that just kind of vertical wells? And if so when should we think about horizontals? Yes.
That -- we're drilling -- we will drill 2 back-to-back vertical wells here.
We're on the first well now but we should finish those by the end of the year.
And then we'll step back and look at -- actually the rig will go back to the DJ Basin is the most likely plan while we take a short timeout to digest what we learned there and then decide how we want to go forward on a testing program.
Do we want to come back and drill horizontal wells concentrating on a particular interval based on what we see? Do we want to do something and actually test something try to complete something on a vertical basis? And all depends on what we learned from these initial 2 vertical wells but I would say we would be back in there -- with some infringement here we'd be back in there by mid-year next year or so.
Research Division</strong> Okay okay.
On deepwater real quick.
Dantzler fine.
Beyond Dantzler are there -- kind of how should we think about kind of relatively higher impact inventory that you might have that you could test sometime next year? Yes.
I would think after Dantzler we'd probably have at least a couple similar type-sized opportunities that we'd be moving to next year.
But I think it'll be a real interesting exciting program in the Gulf here for the next -- well through next year from what we see.
Between these wells that -- the exploration program that now probably has actually a little more size to it on the next couple of wells and then the development activity that's going to be going on.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And Dantzler if it's a success is there kind of close by capacity to kind of process produce? I'm sorry I missed the question.
Research Division</strong> So how would you develop Dantzler? Depending on the size it has the potential size that it could be its own host if you would.
The nice thing it's also in a neighborhood where you could tie back to a number of other potential opportunities.
So it could go either way depending on the size and it has the size potential to put it in either category.
And we'll take our final question from Phillips Johnston with Capital One Securities.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just wanted to follow up on Brian's question.
Wondering what current AFEs are running for your 7 000-foot lateral wells in the Marcellus? And I also wanted to ask just how AFEs are trending in your standard lateral wells in the Wattenberg as well? I think what we're looking at for 7 000-foot laterals in the Marcellus when you consider pads facilities drilling and completion not everybody reports those the same.
But when you include all 3 phases of that for us it's about $8 million per well in the Marcellus for a 7 000 footer.
I think in the DJ on our typical 4 000 to 4 500 footer you're in that $4.3 million to $4.7 million range.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And it sounds like this would be the last question on the East Pony 40-acre pilot.
Just wondering what type of production history you guys are going to need on those 8 wells before we have any sort of conclusive results.
Well we've gotten a pretty good base over the first few months here.
It's always nice to get out 6 months or so and see how things look.
But -- and then get -- start to see some other pilot areas produce and compare results.
I'd say we're -- we'll have an update in December on kind of all the activity and what we've seen.
But whether you look at the pilot results in East Pony whether you look at the continued results in Wells Ranch or even the extended laterals we've been extremely encouraged with what we're seeing.
And when you throw in the different performance from the different benches it's -- we haven't seen anything to discourage us at this point.
I'd say East Pony in particular will be -- we're looking through right now the programs for next year and we'll talk more about that in December.
And this does conclude the question-and-answer portion for today's conference.
I'd like to turn the conference back over to our speakers for any additional or closing remarks.
Yes.
Well I appreciate everybody's interest in Noble Energy and really want to thank you guys for hanging in there with some of the technical difficulties that we had today.
Have a good day.
Thank you.
This does conclude today's conference.
We appreciate your participation.
Good morning.
Welcome to Noble Energy's Fourth Quarter and Year End 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
I would now like to turn the call over to Mr.
David Larson.
Please go ahead sir.
Thanks Shannon.
Good morning everyone.
Welcome to Noble Energy's fourth quarter and year end 2013 earnings call and webcast.
On the call today we have Chuck Davidson Chairman and CEO; Dave Stover President COO; and Ken Fisher CFO.
This morning we issued our year end 2013 earnings release and it does include our proved reserves which you have hopefully had a chance to review.
A few supplemental slides for this call were posted as well to our website this morning and they'll be a good reference point for today's discussion.
The agenda for today will begin with Chuck highlighting our performance in 2013 and an outlook for 2014.
Dave will wrap up with a discussion of our 5 core operational areas.
We will leave time for Q&amp;A at the end and plan to complete the call in less than an hour.
[Operator Instructions] I want to remind everyone that this webcast and conference call contains forward-looking statements as well as references to non-GAAP financial measures.
You should read our disclosures in our latest news release and SEC filings for a discussion of those.
With that let me that turn the call over to Chuck.
Thanks David.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us.
Today we find ourselves fully engaged in executing our 2014 plan and it is one that I find very exciting.
Before moving to discuss the current year I think it's appropriate to reflect on some of our notable achievements for 2013.
Starting with production we are up 20% over 2012.
That's excluding the impact of non-core asset divestitures.
Reserves were up 19% to over 1.4 billion barrels of oil equivalent at the end of 2013 and discretionary cash flow was also up 19% to $3.4 billion for the year.
It's no surprise these are all record levels for Noble Energy driven by the acceleration of our onshore unconventional opportunities as well as the delivery of multiple major project developments in the global offshore areas.
It was an outstanding year on the major project front as we started up our first central processing facility at the Wells Ranch integrated development plan area in the DJ Basin and commenced production at 2 offshore major projects.
We also extended the project pipeline with the sanctioning of 6 new major projects during the year including Big Bend and Gunflint and the Deepwater Gulf of Mexico Tamar Southwest and our compression project at Tamar in the Eastern Mediterranean as well as the Kyoto gas processing facility in East Pony integrated development plan area in the DJ Basin.
2013 was also a year of further exploration momentum as we added 4 new discoveries: 2 in the Deepwater Gulf of Mexico and 2 in the Eastern Mediterranean which provided additional opportunities for growth in the future.
We also continued to optimize our portfolio in 2013 divesting a number of assets that were no longer core to our business.
At the same time we were able to further enhance our core areas in the onshore area of the U.S.
through the addition of the Allegheny Airport and Dominion acreage in the Marcellus and the completion of a strategic acreage swap in the Greater Wattenberg area.
It's all about focus positioning ourselves with sole attention on premier return opportunities and eliminating the distractions that drain resources.
Quickly wrapping up 2013 we finished up the year with a very good fourth quarter delivering sales volume of 293 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day which tied our previous quarterly record and was substantially higher than our original fourth quarter guidance.
Highlighting our performance was the DJ Basin with production of 100 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day an increase over the third quarter despite the impacts of the devastating Colorado floods and the asset exchange mentioned earlier.
Our Marcellus Shale assets are delivering as well averaging almost 200 million cubic feet equivalent for the quarter and exiting the year at over $210 million per day.
In Israel production was impacted positively by high seasonal demand due to cold weather and cold plant maintenance.
Tomorrow's reservoir performance and reliability have been outstanding at times supplying up to 70% of the fuel needed for electricity generation in Israel.
We also experienced strong liquid volumes in the Deepwater Gulf of Mexico and West Africa despite being underlifted during the period.
In summary all 5 core areas contributed above expectations for the quarter and ended the year in great fashion.
Revenues were over $1.3 billion for the quarter with liquids representing 80% of the total.
Discretionary cash flow from continuing operations was $925 million up 10% from the fourth quarter last year and we ended 2013 with $1.1 billion in cash and total liquidity of over $5 billion as well as net debt to book cap ratio of 29%.
These strong metrics include the impact of a $1 billion 30-year bond issuance during the fourth quarter which further strengthened our financial position.
On the cost side lease operating expense was slightly lower than our expectations averaging under $5.10 per barrel equivalent and DD&amp;A was $15.70 reflecting strong reserve bookings at year end.
Transportation cost was up slightly from the prior quarter primarily a result of U.S.
onshore growth and the startup of the Wattenberg oil trunk line in the fourth quarter.
Exploration expense included significant seismic expenditures in the Falklands and Eastern Mediterranean as well as costs from our initial well offshore Nicaragua.
I'll also point out that taxes on an adjusted basis were higher than our third quarter level resulting from the full year true-up of the tax provision and the impact of Nicaragua well in the fourth quarter.
Besides our usual adjustment for unrealized derivative activity this quarter there were a couple of other adjustments to GAAP earnings resulting from our continued portfolio optimization.
Prior to year end we completed the sale of deep gas rights in the Powder River basin in Wyoming which resulted in a realized gain.
This was essentially offset in terms of the impact to the P&amp;L by an impairment recorded on our tri-state shale gas properties which have now executed a sales agreement.
Our portfolio work continues in 2014 with our having also executed a purchase and sale agreement to divest our natural gas assets in the East Texas -- North Louisiana Hainesville play and we're working on additional non-core divestments as well.
As I mentioned earlier we ended the year with total reserves of 1.4 billion barrels of oil equivalent an overall increase of 19% versus year end 2012.
Total reserve replacement including additions and revisions was a very strong 369%.
In the U.S.
onshore we added nearly 280 million barrels in total approximately 190 million barrels equivalent from discoveries and extensions another 50 million barrels equivalent of positive performance revisions and the remainder primarily from the Marcellus acquisitions mentioned earlier.
The very strong performance that we've been experiencing in the DJ and Marcellus are now starting to show -- starting to be reflected in reserves and thus the positive reserve revisions this year.
Offshore we booked reserves as a result of sanctions at Big Bend and Gunflint in the Deepwater Gulf of Mexico and Tamar Southwest in the Eastern Mediterranean.
Our offshore businesses accounted for nearly 60 million barrels of extensions and discoveries and over 30 million barrels of positive performance revisions.
The startup of Tamar and Alen also contributed to a significant conversion of proved undeveloped approved developed which resulted in our overall PUD percentage decreasing to 40% from 61% at the end of 2012.
All in reserve replacement cost was approximately $12 per barrel equivalent.
At the end of last year we provided an updated 5-year plan at our Analyst Conference including a deep dive into each of our core business areas.
It's an aggressive plan but one we are certainly confident in delivering with essentially all the resources necessary to deliver the plan having already been discovered.
Slide 6 highlights the major outcomes from the plan.
Production is planned to grow at 18% compound annual growth rate over the next 5 years delivering more than 620 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day in 2018.
Discretionary cash flow was planned in excess of $8 billion at the end of the 5-year planning period more than double our 2013 discretionary cash flow.
Proved reserves and return on capital employed are also anticipated to grow dramatically and we'll execute the plan with significantly lower committed capital than what was assumed in our previous plan.
These are exceptional outcomes for a company of any size.
Before handing it over to Dave I wanted to just highlight some of the exciting things to look forward to this year.
First our capital budget reflects substantial acceleration in the onshore areas significant investments for the next round of major projects and continued commitment to material exploration.
Production is anticipated to increase significantly in 2014 led by the onshore core development programs in the DJ and Marcellus and then our Israel gas is expected to be up with growing domestic demand there.
Our onshore U.S.
programs will receive approximately 70% of our capital investment in 2014 as we target the drilling and completion of over 500 wells this year.
Beyond the growth in both programs the DJ and Marcellus will also see significant down spacing activity in 2014 increased drilling of long laterals and further focus on reducing drilling and completion costs.
Success in these areas has the potential to significantly increase our captured resources and enhance already strong rates of return and net present values per well.
We will also continue exploration in the Wilson new venture play in North East Nevada this year having recently finished drilling our second vertical well in the play and taking a vertical core for detailed analysis.
Drilling results thus far have confirmed the existence of a thick Elko reservoir section hydrocarbon saturation and thermal maturity.
By midyear we anticipate completing at least 1 of our 2 drilled wells and we are currently preparing additional drilling locations for wells in the second half of 2014.
In our offshore business after bringing on Tamar and Alen in 2013 we're moving forward aggressively with the Big Bend and Gunflint developments.
In addition we're progressing multiple discoveries towards sanction in 2014 including Dantzler in the Gulf of Mexico and Diega in Equatorial Guinea.
Both will ultimately be tiebacks into existing infrastructure with first production targeted in 2016.
We're also planning for multiple exploration prospects this year including wells in the Deepwater Gulf of Mexico and Cameroon which provide the opportunity for new discoveries this year.
Our new ventures teams are progressing multiple opportunities towards first drilling and we are supporting those programs with significant seismic and processing this year.
In the Falkland Islands we're nearing completion of our northern 3-D seismic acquisition which will bring our total 3D data acquired to nearly 5 000 square miles.
Sizable prospects are being matured and I would anticipate a rig contract being secured shortly in support of drilling in 2015.
In the Eastern Mediterranean it will certainly be a very busy year for Noble Energy.
On the production side we're expanding the Ashdod onshore receiving station through the addition of compression which is designed to increase the deliverability of gas to Israel.
This year we will also begin developing our newest discovery at Tamar Southwest tying it in to the existing Tamar infrastructure for first production in 2015.
We continue to work predevelopment on many fronts for the Leviathan field and we are working to obtain all necessary approvals to sanction the initial phase of development this year.
Discussion and negotiations regarding the Woodside farm-in are progressing now in that we have an export policy approved and other regulatory approvals are moving forward.
We look forward to the tremendous value this partnership is capable of delivering.
It's also important to point out that we're close to finalizing an agreement with the Israeli antitrust authority which is likely to result in the sale of a couple of our smaller discoveries to another operator.
The Canada fields Tanin and Karish total approximately 3 trillion cubic feet of gross natural gas or just over 1 trillion cubic feet net.
We expect to have this matter resolved shortly as well.
The demand for our discoveries in Mediterranean natural gas continues to ratchet up.
We are in very active negotiations with several potential regional customers and I would expect us to execute a number of sales agreements this year.
We also expect we'll make substantial progress towards an LNG or FLNG solution for not only the Israeli discoveries but also for our Cyprus discovery as well.
At the same time we'll be preparing for a return to exploration in the Eastern Mediterranean later this year or early next year or the natural gas prospect being matured for drilling in Cyprus and the high impact deep Mesozoic oil opportunity as well.
Well it's a lot to cover and to pay attention to in 2014 what I see is a lot of possibility in all areas of the business.
So with that I'll now turn the call over to Dave.
Thanks Chuck.
As you pointed out it is an exciting time for the company and especially thrilling to be part of creating something special.
For each of our core areas I'll cover current activity and highlight new information.
Beginning with the DJ Basin we had a strong fourth quarter led by record production and activity levels new infrastructure coming online and continued efficiencies as we implement our Integrated Development Plan strategy.
We ended the year with 45% year-over-year oil growth in the basin and approximately 100% increase in our total horizontal production over the same timeframe.
Fourth quarter volumes of 100 000 barrels equivalent per day is a great wrap up to 2013.
Our underlying growth in the DJ more than offset the impacts of the September Colorado floods and the volumes conveyed as a result of the Greater Wattenberg exchange in October.
We've accomplished this through acceleration of both drilling and completion work having spud over 70 wells in the fourth quarter completed more than 85 and turned a record 90 wells to first production in the period.
I will highlight the performance of a number of these Wells including both standard and extended reach laterals after describing the infrastructure activity in the quarter.
The expansion of both crude oil and natural gas infrastructure in the basin is supporting our growth.
Multiple major facilities started up in the fourth quarter beginning with our own first central processing facility within the Wells Ranch IDP area.
Maximum daily oil sales from the CPF have reached nearly 20 000 barrels per day and we're already under construction with Phase II which is planned to double the facility capacity later this year.
The Wattenberg oil trunk line Tampa pipeline and Plains Rail facility all started up as well reducing trucking costs and delivering Noble oil to multiple end markets.
You can see on Slide 7 our strategic approach to diversification of market for crude.
Approximately 90% of our oil was either exported from the basin or tied to longer term local pricing contracts.
On the gas side the startup of DCP's Wells Ranch compressor station and their O'Connor plant has increased gas capacity in the Greater Wattenberg area.
During the first quarter of this year DCP is anticipated to further ramp-up the initial phase and add an expansion as well.
DCP is already moving forward with plans for the next facility having approved the construction of the Lucerne II plant a 230 million cubic feet per day facility scheduled to be online in the first half 2015.
Operationally we're continuing to drive efficiencies and cost savings through our integrated development plan approach.
As we discussed at the Analyst Conference and highlight on Slide 8 the implementation of IDPs across the DJ Basin has the potential to deliver over $1 million in net present value impact per well resulting from reduced development and operating costs.
And when you have an inventory of thousands of locations to be drilled that's a huge impact to an already robust operating program.
Our recent highlight is the drilling and completion of a 10 well pad in one of the best areas of Wells Ranch with an average lateral length of 4 700 feet.
These wells averaged around $4 million per well about 5% less than what we showed in December and early production is very strong.
8 of the 10 wells are tracking a 400 000-barrel equivalent curve with the other 2 consistent with our average Wells Ranch type curve of 305 000 barrels of oil equivalent.
Our activity levels are increasing in the DJ Basin in 2014 and we anticipate that we will generate positive cash flow in the play this year.
Our drilling program is planning for approximately 320 operated wells this year with an increasing focus on extended-reach laterals.
Approximately 70% of our operated wells will be in the Wells Ranch and East Pony IDPs with another 20% planned in the core Greeley Crescent and Mustang IDPs which are being moved forward for sanction.
Now that we have relocated the rig from our Nevada play back into the DJ we're operating 10 drilling rigs and 3 full-time completion crews in support of our 2014 activity.
We highlighted during the Analyst Conference our strong level of confidence in drilling a minimum of 16 wells a section throughout the majority of our 6 000-acre position.
This year we're implementing an active down spacing program with between 30% and 40% of our total wells to be drilled at a higher density level as shown on Slide 9.
These wells will be in at least 5 of our identified IDP areas which total more than 50% of our DJ Basin acreage.
With continued focus on multi-zone development including the various Niobrara intervals and the Codell the down spacing activity exposes us to even further upside and I would expect first production from these wells beginning in the middle part of the year.
Shown on Slide 10 are a number of other recent well results including extended reach laterals which continue to exhibit strong performance.
Our first Codell medium length lateral was drilled in the Wells Ranch IDP area with a 7 000-foot lateral length.
The well has been online for over 2 months with current production fairly flat at over 500 barrels equivalent per day.
We have also recently brought online our first long laterals in East Pony which are equally as exciting.
The first of these was a 9 000-foot horizontal which is currently producing over 700 barrels equivalent per day after 90 days.
3 additional long laterals which have been producing for less than a month are performing strong as well with similar total production at very high initial oil cut over 95% of the total volume.
We've also highlighted some standard length lateral wells in Wells Ranch and the core IDPs which are performing very well.
The Marcellus delivered a record quarter for Noble Energy with production averaging nearly 200 million cubic feet equivalent per day and exiting the year over 210 million per day.
The fourth quarter average was up 17% from the third quarter as a result of strong continued performance from existing wells and the impact of 19 new wells commencing sales during the period.
We continue to operate 5 drilling rigs in the wet gas area with 3 in Majorsville one in Pennsboro and the fifth rig drilling our first wells in the Shirley area.
Our partner CONSOL is operating 3 drilling rigs on the dry gas portion of our joint acreage and combined we drilled a total of 42 wells in the fourth quarter.
In 2014 the joint venture plan is to drill around some 175 wells in the Marcellus up nearly 50% from last year.
More than half are planned in the wet gas portion of the play including our first wells in the Allegheny County Airport IDP.
We'll be drilling higher density wells testing 500-foot spacing in multiple areas.
As a reminder this is equivalent to 65-acre spacing compared to our more typical pattern of 100-acre spacing.
Together with CONSOL we also plan to drill several Burkett wells this year following on our initial Burkett well last year which continues to perform well.
Similar to the DJ this down spacing and multi zone activity provides substantial upside to our position.
A recent highlight on the wet gas side is the 6 well SHL-17 pad which includes the longest laterals we have operated as a company averaging over 10 000 feet in lateral length.
These wells were drilled and completed at an average cost of $9 million which represents more than 35% reduction in total cost per lateral foot completed.
The application of longer laterals and continuing to drive down absolute well cost is significantly reducing our finding and development cost across the play.
Production from the SHL-17 pad commenced in December and started up at nearly 40 million cubic feet equivalent per day.
On our partner operations the application of shorter stage lengths and reduced cluster spacing is delivering very positive results.
Initial 24-hour production rates on wells utilizing this completion design have been as high as 18 million cubic feet per day and averaged 12 billion cubic feet per day per well for 8 wells brought online in the fourth quarter.
These initial rates are up to 40% higher than the previous completions and 4 of the wells had 30-day averages of more than 10 million cubic feet per day each.
A large portion of the dry gas wells will be completed with this modified completion design this year and we're implementing the reduce spacing on our wet gas acreage as well.
Our first operated wells with reduced stage and cluster spacing are expected to be online in March.
I'm also looking forward to commencing production from the Oxford/Pennsboro/Shirley delineation area in West Virginia which is expected in the second quarter.
The initial pad including 6 wells will include tests of 550-foot down spacing and reduce stage and cluster spacing.
Another highlight in the fourth quarter was the bolt-on acquisition of a relatively contiguous 90 000 gross acres in West Virginia.
This acquired acreage directly offsets an area where we have seen some very strong wells come on recently including the Philip I-13 [ph] Pad where the average 24 hour IP for the 6 wells was more than 10 million cubic feet per day.
We've already identified 350 drilling locations with net risk resource potential of approximately 2 trillion cubic feet equivalent.
Combined between the DJ and Marcellus we're allocating approximately $3 billion in 2014 to the acceleration and development of our core onshore unconventional plays.
These programs are anticipated to deliver tremendous growth this year.
In addition we are pursuing significant upside in both areas that is not assumed in our current long-term outlook.
Combined with testing our Frontier play in northeast Nevada 2014 will certainly be an exciting year for our onshore business.
Shifting offshore to the Deepwater Gulf of Mexico.
Production during the quarter was 21 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day 90% of which was crude oil and natural gas liquids.
Growth from the third quarter was driven by the addition of the Ticonderoga #4 well a development well which commenced production in late September.
As Chuck mentioned the 2013 sanctions of both Gunflint and the initial phase at Rio Grande set the stage for the next leg of production growth for our Deepwater Gulf business.
Rio Grande will initially be a one-well tieback of our Big Bend discovery with first production estimated in late 2015.
Additional phases of Rio Grande will include the tie-in of our recent discovery at Dantzler in 2016 and the possibility of an expansion at Big Bend.
At Gunflint we're planning for first production in mid-2016 as a 2-well tieback to existing infrastructure.
Combined these discoveries are estimated to double our Deepwater Gulf of Mexico production base over the next few years.
We're currently completing the Big Bend #1 well and expect our first exploration well will be the Katmai prospect in Green Canyon.
Towards the end of the first quarter the Atwood Advantage drillship will join our Deepwater Gulf of Mexico program and will be primarily devoted to our extensive development activity including work on Rio Grande and Gunflint.
Moving to our International business.
In West Africa net sales for the fourth quarter were 80 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day.
Aseng continues to perform well and Alen production ramped up in the fourth quarter exiting 2013 at about 28 000 barrels per day growth.
Alen is expected to continue to grow in 2014 to a level of 30 000 to 35 000 barrels per day.
In the fourth quarter we completed our extended flow test at the Diega oil discovery.
The well flowed at a constrained rate of 7 300 barrels of oil per day confirming deliverability of around 10 000 barrels per day at production.
Information gathered during the test indicates a larger reservoir than anticipated and project sanctions targeted for later this year.
The field will be developed at the tieback to the Aseng FPSO infrastructure with first production planned for 2016.
In the Eastern Mediterranean Tamar continues its outstanding performance and we had a very strong fourth quarter producing 248 million cubic feet net per day.
The demand for our gas in the Eastern Med both Israel and Cyprus continues to grow.
Chuck already mentioned multiple ongoing negotiations with a number of potential regional customers.
Even within Israel we're continuing to see new potential buyers interested in natural gas.
We've recently executed multiple contracts to sell Tamar gas to local distributors who resell to industrial customers.
The continued demand for our gas in both Israel and other regional areas combined with the potential for multiple LNG or FLNG solutions sets us up for some dramatic growth in this region over the next decade or longer.
We're making significant progress on our compression project at the Ashdod onshore receiving terminal which is designed to substantially increase capacity and deliverability in 2015 to meet Israel's growing needs for natural gas.
Coinciding with the expansion of the onshore terminal we're also planning a tie-in of the Tamar Southwest field to the Tamar infrastructure for additional deliverability in 2015.
As I wrap up I'd like to comment on reserves and take a quick look at first quarter guidance.
As Chuck discussed we had significant reserve additions at year end 2013 which were driven by execution across all of our core areas.
The U.S.
onshore was up 34% Israel up 10%.
The Deepwater Gulf and West Africa were essentially flat combined.
I'm particularly pleased with the sizable performance based revisions which alone replaced more than 80% of our 2013 production.
With just 3 years of PUD booked in the DJ and actually less than 2 years booked on average in the Marcellus we have huge discovered unbooked resources yet to convert to future reserves in the U.S.
onshore areas and a number of offshore areas as well.
Nothing has been booked yet for Dantzler or Troubadour in the Gulf a number of our West African discoveries and then of course the Leviathan Cyprus and other discoveries in the Eastern Med.
This provides a platform of low-risk resources from which we will grow into the next decade or more.
On Slide 14 we've provided detailed first quarter guidance including both volumes and expenses.
We have not changed any full year expectations and in fact a lot of our ranges for the first quarter match what we have previously provided for the year.
But as usual there are a few things that can move around on a quarterly basis that you'll want to pay attention to.
Although not shown I will add that we expect first quarter 2014 Israel overall gas price to increase from fourth quarter 2013 to an average of $5.40 to $5.50 per MCF based on the blend of Tamar and older Mari-B contracts.
When you look at our strong fourth quarter volumes this year our 10 000-barrel equivalent per day outperformance versus initial guidance benefited from a couple of special items along with the strong performance in each area.
A large portion of the improvements resulted from coal plant maintenance in Israel and we have now seen those coal plants come back online which affects our first quarter expectations.
In the fourth quarter we also benefited from some year end true-up of plant volumes in the DJ Basin.
For first quarter 2014 taking into account winter weather we expect to average between 280 000 and 288 000 barrels equivalent per day.
The mid-point of this range is an 18% increase over the first quarter of 2013 right on track with our expectations and consistent with our overall 2014 growth rate.
The sales of our tri-state and Haynesville gas properties which total 30 million cubic feet per day of current net volume are expected to close during the quarter.
As in prior years our volume profile is expected to continually increase through the year exiting 2014 around 330 000 barrels equivalent per day.
So let me conclude by saying it's really a dynamic time at Noble Energy.
2014 is off to a strong start and there are a number of important milestones and opportunities in each of our core areas.
Execution is the key.
We sanctioned 6 new major projects in 2013 and we now expect to sanction a similar number this year.
This positions us to maintain our strong track record of delivering both in the onshore and offshore areas as we create a special and unique future for our company.
Shannon we'd like to now open the call for questions.
[Operator Instructions] And first we go to Doug Leggate with Bank of America Merril Lynch.
Research Division</strong> Chuck gas prices obviously have ticked up here a bit.
Can you give us an update on the current status of the carry arrangement with CONSOL and how that might change your activity level on a go-forward basis? Well a couple of items obviously gas prices have ticked up and as you recall the threshold at which the carry kicks in is when Henry Hub gas prices average $4 or above for 3 months consecutive.
So certainly as we look at the forward curve it appears that we're headed down that path.
I know Dave may comment a little bit on what impact that may have on our capital program this year but I think I would just add that we have reached an agreement already with CONSOL on the program that we expect to execute this year.
So I think it's safe to say that right now we're not anticipating any change in that program knowing that the 2 companies if they chose they could mutually agree to make some adjustments down the road.
Yes.
And I guess Chuck just to add to that as you've mentioned we've set the budget we've got our plans.
And I don't see that changing based on any near-term outlook on pricing on that.
I think the overall carry impact and we've included that in some of the numbers I think if it went in place here in March and carried for the full year that's about a couple of hundred million dollars.
But that's offset somewhat probably at least by half by the additional cash flow we'd see so...
Research Division</strong> Sure great.
Just one other if I may fellows.
The -- Dave the color on your activity levels in the DJ is helpful.
I'm wondering if you could maybe peel back the onion a little bit further in terms of the long lateral activity as a proportion of your overall program.
And how do these -- well it looks like fairly encouraging wells in the Codell.
Has that been figured into your guidance for this year and how it might not change your development planning if you continue to see the kind of success that you saw with this first well? Yes Doug I think the plans for this year call for drilling somewhere between 55 to 60 extended-reach laterals and there's a mix.
There's Codell like we've seen.
Probably just a few at most.
Codell that's planned in there right now.
We've also had a mix of some of the A and the C interval wells also.
In fact we've also done a few of those.
I think probably 20% to 30% of our extended-reach laterals have been outside the B interval that we've already done.
And that's probably similar to what we've got planned for this year.
So everything that we've laid out is based on kind of that outlook as we go forward.
As we start to get into more of the Integrated Development Plans and you start to see those come together you'll start to see a growing increase of activity of an extended reach.
But that would probably be more into 2015 and '16.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So there's no change to the plan part of the guidance you gave us in December? No change to that plan.
I think the thing that we kind of highlighted today there's a significant amount of activity that's really moving now towards this down-spacing.
We're moving beyond the 16 wells per section.
I think we mentioned and we show that on one of the slides and that's throughout the field not just in one area but in -- essentially in 5 different of our potential IDP areas.
So I think that's a key component of this year's program.
And next we go to Arun Jayaram with Crdit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> My first question -- I just wanted to ask you quickly on guidance.
Dave if I heard you correctly you're anticipating kind of a year-end '14 kind of exit rate of 330 000 is that correct? Right.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then you talked about -- also Dave about 6 000-barrel equivalents of asset sales in the first quarter.
So if we -- does that 330 000 exclude those asset sales so you would have been at 336 000? Is that -- I'm just trying to understand the exit rate.
I'd say it's around 330 000 there.
I mean again those properties tail off some.
There's a little bit of decline in it.
But when you look at it overall as far as when we will close on those I'd say you're probably looking at some time in March.
So with or without those you're still going to be close to that 330 000 range by the end of the year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Fair enough fair enough.
Chuck my second question you may as part of the antitrust be -- have to sell some properties in Israel.
Talked about 1 Tcf net to Noble.
Could there be some meaningful proceeds -- and obviously some good demand in Israel.
But could this be -- could we anticipate some good proceeds from these properties in Israel source of...
Well of course we -- we're still in the process of finalizing our agreement with the antitrust authority but we do anticipate they'd involve the sale of a couple of those smaller properties.
So we would expect certainly proceeds from it.
Now this is a process that will go for a period of time.
So right now we've not included those in any cash flow projections or anything like that that we've shown for guidance this year.
But it's like our ongoing portfolio optimization.
These are the things that as we move through provide some of our additional cash and liquidity as we go forward.
But I don't have any estimate right now as to what might be potentially the proceeds on the sale of any properties there.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just my final question obviously there's some investor concern around DJ Basin differentials.
You obviously have some good outlets outside of the basin.
If you're going to ballpark what you thought your estimated differential from WTI would be in '14 can you give us a range? I think when -- we've actually been looking at how is it running now versus how it ran in the fourth quarter.
And it looks like for January at least it's very similar to what we saw in the fourth quarter.
I think you'll start to see some help on that when you see the White Cliffs expansion go into place in the second quarter.
It's also been impacted somewhat up there.
There's been some facility turnaround and maintenance on some of the local refineries.
I think those are starting to come back on somewhat.
So I think a real change in the netbacks and locally up there probably starts to get some alleviation of pressure on that when you see the White Cliffs expansion come into play later in the second quarter.
So I don't see it changing from what we've seen in the fourth quarter for the first quarter anyway.
And next we will go to Charles Meade with Johnson Rice.
L.L.C.
Research Division</strong> I was wondering on the Diega flow test.
That sounds like a pretty strong rate but I'm curious -- two things.
One how did that come in versus your expectations? It sounds like it was better at least on the pressure drawdown or something but -- or the buildup.
But also is there a gas injection that you're going to have to do there? And is that -- kind of does that play into the 2016 start date? Yes it does.
I mean it -- these reservoirs when you start looking at things like Diega and Carla Charles they're a little more complex than some of the [indiscernible] and so forth.
So we've had to go out and take a measured approach of testing some of this.
What we saw on this flow test was very encouraging probably at least as good or better on flow rate that we saw probably closer to the high end of maybe what we would've expected.
And the other thing that we really saw here it provided some insight into -- from a size standpoint we weren't seeing boundaries that we maybe would've expected from just some of the seismic and so forth.
So both of those things were very encouraging.
But you do have to -- and it is a reservoir you're going to have to do pressure maintenance on.
You're going to have to recycle gas most likely.
So it adds that complexity that takes a little time to bring it online.
L.L.C.
Research Division</strong> Okay got it.
That makes sense.
And then going back to the DJ there if I -- just to make sure I got this right so a lot of the big bump we saw in NGL volumes in the fourth quarter was really just the annual true-up from your plant processing? Right.
L.L.C.
Research Division</strong> And then I think Arun touched on this.
I -- there's a lot of talk even from other operators in the basins [ph] about that weak spot pricing in the DJ.
And so it was -- that was a great slide you guys but -- Slide 7 talking about all your takeaway there.
But you're not seeing that in Q1 at this point? I guess that's what you're saying.
What we're seeing in Q1 is about the same thing we saw in Q4.
And one of the nice things of having that diverse supply -- and actually that marketing strategy really builds on the commitments that we made to get this Plains Rail facility in and get the White Cliffs in and now get the expansion underway on both of those.
So as we mentioned I think actually we're moving probably 80% of our volume out of the basin.
And next we go to Leo Mariani with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just trying to get a sense of kind of current Niobrara production and maybe you guys can walk us through your first quarter production guidance in a bit more detail.
I guess that's down a little bit from the fourth quarter.
Or maybe you could kind of help us a little bit with some of the pieces there to get there.
Yes.
Leo no problem.
You have a number of kind of nonrecurring or one-off items if you look at them.
It will start with one of the bigger items which I mentioned on the call.
I think Chuck and I both mentioned is over in Israel where in the fourth quarter you had the coal plant maintenance where it was down.
So we were providing a -- if you call it disproportionate amount of gas at that point in time.
We also benefit in the fourth quarter from some of the colder weather.
If you remember some of the pictures over there of snow in Jerusalem and so forth.
So there's kind of a step-down as those coal plants have come back on over there.
So that's a -- probably at least 6 000 barrels a day or more of impact there.
And then you have on infrastructure and facility infrastructure in both of Gulf of Mexico and EG.
In the first quarter you have some maintenance items there along with the weather piece.
I'd say what we're assuming for weather is probably around 3% to 4% of our volume for the first quarter similar to what we've seen and used in the past up there.
So I mean that's kind of what's impacting kind of the DJ and Marcellus portion when you look at it.
And also as we mentioned the DJ benefited from some of these plant true-ups in the fourth quarter.
So a few things moving around there but really right on track.
First quarter is really right on track with where we expected and right on track to deliver the growth rate that we've laid out this year.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And I guess just focusing on the DJ a little bit I think in your prepared comments you talked about how you had somewhere around 30% of your extended laterals coming from the A C and the Codell sort of outside of the B bench.
Could you expand upon that a little bit more? I'm really just curious as to kind of in your different key areas there in the DJ where you think the A may be derisked the C derisked and the Codell.
And just some color on where you think it's prospective will be helpful.
I'll tell you probably Leo the best thing to do is look at Slide 9 that we've put in there where we talk about some of our down-spacing testing and we kind of highlight the benches that we're focusing on on the down-spacing testing.
And you can see there's a mix of different intervals in each of those 5 IDP areas.
For example in the Wells Ranch our base program is down to 16 wells per section in there with a lot of B activity.
So what we're moving to on down-spacing is picking up the A and C.
It's all getting back to how do we get a greater percentage of original oil in place recovery here.
If you go back to what we showed on analyst day we were still under 10% on 16 wells per section with as much as the oil in place has grown up there.
So if you go back to there you get on to 24 wells per section.
I think you got us back up to about 12% and you get down to 32 wells per section.
You're getting closer to 15%.
So that's where we're moving towards.
LLC Research Division</strong> And I guess do you think that's all going to be sort of flushed out here in 2014 where by the end of the year you'll have a really good idea of the -- sort of how you're going to develop everything? Or do you think that some of the A C and Codell and different areas are still kind of more in exploration mode and there's still a question mark? Just trying to get a sense of what you think has been kind of proved up or is it still kind of in test mode here.
Well I think what we've seen and we've had a mix of wells in each of these different horizons so what we've seen is -- is we're taking this down-spacing into moving it closer more towards development.
I sure wouldn't call it exploration on any of this.
And when you look at the different intervals in each area that we're testing I think we're going to aggressively move through that.
Now with 30% to 40% of the wells this year focused on this down-spacing piece we'll have learned a lot by the end of the year.
You look at the number of wells we're bringing on each quarter.
And I'd say when you look at these 5 IDPs we're talking about I would anticipate we'll have those 5 IDPs fairly well proved up by the end of the year.
And next we go to Brian Singer with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> On Israel you mentioned that you would be likely to sign some contracts with regional customers for Israeli gas.
I just wanted a little bit more color were you referring to customers to take gas who are not in Israel? And can you just give us a status on the viability of non-LNG solutions within the region? Sure I think when we refer to regional customers what we're talking about is markets that would be outside the Israel domestic market.
So some of the countries we've talked about in the past have included Jordan Egypt Turkey and even -- we also consider the recent announcement of gas to Palestine for our power plant there.
That falls in that category of regional outside the domestic Israel market.
So our view is is that in the past year Brian those have strengthened substantially just because of changes in the region.
And that's what we point to as a lot of optimism as we go through this year of being able to firm up additional sales to those markets.
We obviously are in discussions with a number of potential customers.
Don't have anything to announce at this point.
But again we're seeing strong regional demand and as a result what it does is -- our belief is is that there still is a need for an LNG solution here.
But it may not need to be as large as what we were anticipating a couple of years ago.
And as a result some of these regional markets give us an opportunity to not only market more gas but also to accelerate the development.
Obviously sales through pipelines in the region can be done at an earlier date than waiting for LNG.
So that was our thinking and of course that was part of what we outlined in our December analyst meeting as well.
That's what it's all about.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then just following up on that do you expect as you sign these negotiations this year that you would make capital commitments on the midstream side to getting the gas from point A to point B? Or would that be done by someone else? And how should we think about the pricing relative to what you've been reporting or what you've [indiscernible] in Israel? Well I think in terms of midstream investments it appears for some of these is that we will likely not need to be making any midstream investments that in the case -- there could be some connections that will be made through the Israeli pipeline system in which case they would be making those expansions and of course then charging a tariff for the movement of that.
In some of our other discussions with potential customers we've actually talked to them about coming to us.
In other words they making some midstream investments again pretty early on this since these are all under consideration.
I think that we do see a strong market demand there as a result versus what we're selling in Israel that we would expect pricing to be at least that or even higher.
And next we go to Irene Haas with Wunderlich Securities.
Research Division</strong> A little question on Nevada.
What is your #1 option if it turns out to be a successful venture? Are you still looking for the West Coast? I think yes.
I think we've mentioned in the past there's been a lot of interest from some other refineries out West to pick up this type of crude if we're fortunate enough to have a significant play here.
So the next step out there is to complete a well and see what we can flow out there.
And we'll do that before midyear and then set up our plan for drilling some of these and actually probably testing some of the other areas that we haven't ventured into yet out there in the second half of the year.
And next we go to David Heikkinen with Heikkinen Energy Advisors.
LLC</strong> Just thinking about the Wells Ranch area as a whole and the longer laterals plus kind of higher sustained IPs it seems like after 90 days kind of the initial rates that you're talking about there and at East Pony and in the Codell are a little higher.
Are you getting better completion designs? Or what's driving a little bit better 90-day rates? I think as we've evolved David we take the combination.
We do a lot of technical work.
I mean believe me between the geoscience and the engineering placement of the wells and then that also goes into the completion of the wells.
And we've also done a lot of work on just how we flow these wells back.
If you recall and I think Gary's talked about some of this in the past too we've really gone to bringing these wells back online slowly minimizing the drawdown.
And we've seen really fantastic results from that.
So yes I mean you're right.
The characterization upfront is exactly right.
We're very pleased with how the performance has continued to develop out here on these new wells and the wells we're bringing in and we're starting to bring in more and more of them each quarter.
And next we go to Pearce Hammond with Simmons &amp; Company.
Research Division</strong> Just one question for me.
Can you provide just a quick outlook on service cost and availability in the DJ and the Marcellus for this year? I don't -- I haven't heard of any big changes on anything there.
I mean and that's helping us obviously continue to bring costs down in both of those plays.
One of the things I mentioned was that 10-well pad and Wells Ranch for example where the average well cost drilling completion cost is now around $4 million.
And if you recall it wasn't that long ago where they were $4.5 million or more.
Same thing when you look at that plot that we provided in Marcellus and how we continue to bring costs down in both of those areas.
So I think overall as far as pressure on service cost it's been fairly consistent or fairly level.
I haven't seen a big change there.
And next we go to John Herrlin with Societe Generale.
Yes 2 quick ones.
What would the ballpark be on an FLNG facility? Do you have any sense of that? And also when would you have to really commit to that on a cost? Well I think on FLNG with the engineering work still proceeding it's probably a little bit too early on that.
We are looking at FLNG that would probably be a little bit smaller than you would see in an onshore maybe somewhere around 3.5 million metric tons per annum.
But again there's a lot of engineering work that's still going on with that.
Overall I think our -- there's really not much change from what we presented in December in terms of our overall thinking on schedules going forward for the foreseeable future.
Again this is all going to be a combination of -- as we sequence in Israel just thinking about it starting with the additional work that we're doing on compression at Tamar and some additional expansion work there and then moving into regional sales as well as domestic demand for Leviathan.
And then the LNG -- FLNG solution is really the -- one of the final phases there.
And there's still multiple options.
I know Keith talked about these in December multiple options that are being looked at.
So that's a bit down the road.
And I know Dave you may want to comment a little bit more on that.
I mean you mentioned it Chuck.
The work is ongoing right now on FLNG pre-FEED work if you will.
So we'll have a much better handle on that later in the year.
But it's too early to focus on a number yet.
Okay that's fine.
Regarding something you said Dave about PUDs in the DJ and also the Marcellus it seems like a 3-year or 2-year time horizon is kind of short.
Why didn't you book more? It seems very conservative.
Well John the way we approach it we look and we only book specific well locations that are tied to development plans.
And that enables us to maintain flexibility in programs.
What we don't want to do is to get in there and book a number of specific locations that we then have to pull off and -- as things change over time.
So we don't want to get into a number of revisions if you will.
So we tie it specifically to well locations that we have tied up the development plans and laid out specifically.
And we will take our final question with Peter Kissel with Howard Weil.
Research Division</strong> Yes one quick question.
Really it goes back a bit to the analyst day but beyond 2016 the free cash flow generation gets to be pretty stout.
And I'm just curious to see if internally you've been able to rank what ability you have to redeploy that cash.
Or is it going more towards debt paydown share repurchases? Or any sort of color you could give there will be great.
Well I think anytime we have a free cash flow we're going to look at all the options.
We have been -- as we highlighted we've continued to grow our dividend.
And so we've had strong growth and we compare very favorably with peers in the past on that.
And certainly in the past we've looked at a number of options but at the same time we're -- we want to keep a very strong balance sheet.
So we're not getting too excited too quickly about that free cash flow.
We know it's coming.
At the same time we want to make sure we maintain a very strong balance sheet.
And if there's opportunities to retire some debt we can do that.
If there's some other things like you mentioned those are certainly possibilities.
But we haven't made -- certainly we've not made any decisions at this point as to exactly what we would do.
2016 is still a ways away.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
And another thing you mentioned in your prepared remarks were just the ongoing portfolio management and how successful that's been over the last couple of years.
But looking into 2014 should we expect it to be a bit less drastic and maybe focus on some smaller noncore packages versus some larger ones? [indiscernible] Well I think we've...
Go ahead Chuck.
Yes I was just going to say that we've continued to work through our portfolio.
So there's the -- as we've mentioned we've got some few cleanup items that are left and that we'll continue to look at it.
But when you look outside as we move through the year and you've looked at what we've done the last couple of years so we've really got ourselves highly focused down to our 5 core areas plus what we have reserved outside those for new ventures.
So with that certainly our biggest program was a year ago and we're getting our portfolio I think thinned down now.
So I wouldn't expect to see as significant of a program this year as what we've done and perhaps a couple of years ago.
Dave you were going to add something on that.
No I was just going to say when we talked about this at the analyst day we kind of placed our divestitures for this year in at the end of the year.
And the focus is on anything we can do to accelerate that process on some of those and pull those up earlier in the year.
In our minds that would actually be a positive.
But they're not large pieces but there are some cleanup noncore pieces both internationally and domestically that allows us to continue to focus on resources and everything else on the core areas that we're continuing to develop and deliver on.
So that's the focus on the portfolio piece this year.
And that does conclude today's question-and-answer session.
I would like to now turn the conference over to management for any closing remarks.
Thanks again for everybody participating in the call today as well as your interest in Noble Energy.
I hope everybody has a great day.
Thank you.
And that does conclude today's conference.
We do thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Good day everyone and welcome to the Noble Energy's First Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
I would now like to turn the conference over to David Larson.
Please go ahead sir.
Thanks April.
Good morning everyone.
Welcome to Noble Energy's first quarter 2014 earnings call and webcast.
On the call today we have Chuck Davidson Chairman and CEO; Dave Stover President and COO; and Ken Fisher CFO.
This morning we issued our first quarter earnings release which you hopefully have had a chance to review.
A few supplemental slides for this call were posted to our website this morning as well.
They will be a good reference material for the discussion today.
The agenda for today will begin with Chuck reviewing the quarter and providing an outlook for the remainder of the year.
Dave will wrap up with a discussion of our 5 core operational programs.
We will leave time for Q&amp;A at the end and plan to complete the call in less than an hour.
[Operator Instructions] I want to remind everyone that this webcast and conference call contains forward-looking statements as well as references some non-GAAP financial measures.
You should read our disclosures in our latest news release and SEC filings for a discussion of those.
With that let me turn the call over to Chuck.
Thanks David.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us.
The opening of 2014 has gone by very quickly and we've certainly had a good start to the year.
As we look across the energy landscape we continue to believe that Noble's strategy of having a diversified and balanced portfolio and that's both from a commodity as well as a basin perspective is the best strategy for sustainable multi-year success.
We also continue to believe that within specific basins companies such as ourselves with scale and size that have the ability to implement integrated development plans and those that are best positioned in terms of market access will differentiate themselves over the long term.
That is why I continue to be excited about the portfolio at Noble Energy which is comprised of 5 core areas with significant and transparent growth profiles for many years into the future.
This is combined with a material exploration program that is testing significant opportunities to grow further our already extensive discovered resource base.
So let me start by providing a quick review of our first quarter financial and operational results and then I'll spend some time talking through our accomplishments to date.
Sales volumes for the first quarter were 286 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day.
That's a 16% increase over last year's first quarter and is up 20% after removing noncore asset divestiture impacts.
Our volume growth versus last year was driven by our horizontal drilling programs in the United States as well as from higher volumes in Israel and West Africa due to major project start-ups there at Tamar and Alen during 2013.
Highlighting our performance was the onshore our U.S.
assets where total horizontal production in the DJ and the Marcellus averaged 100 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day a quarterly milestone for Noble Energy.
You can see on Slide 5 that these programs have delivered growth of over 70 000 barrels equivalent per day in just 2 years' time.
20% total organic company growth quarter-over-quarter is a great start and right where we need to be as we move through 2014.
We expect this volume growth will continue throughout this year and Dave will go through our second quarter guidance and expectations for the remainder of the year in just a bit.
Total revenues were up 21% to approximately $1.4 billion for the quarter supported by strong liquids pricing both crude and natural gas liquids and natural gas prices as well.
On the cost side most items were right in line with our expectations or slightly lower primarily reflecting continued efficiency gains in the onshore programs.
Adjusted earnings per diluted share was $0.82 for the first quarter.
We remain in a very strong financial position.
In the first quarter our capital expenditures of $950 million were just north of our discretionary cash flow for the period.
We ended the quarter with $1.4 billion in cash total liquidity of $4.9 billion and net debt-to-book cap ratio of 29%.
We're still projecting $4.8 billion to $5 billion in total capital for the year with a variance on that range associated with a Marcellus carry which is now in place as Henry Hub has been above $4 since December.
Our Board of Directors recently authorized a 29% increase in our quarterly dividend reflecting our strong performance and continued confidence in our future growth.
This marks the eighth year out of the last 10 where we've increased our dividend to the shareholders.
We've continued our portfolio optimization process which is focused on divesting the remaining noncore assets in our portfolio.
During the first quarter we closed on the sale of the Tri-State as well as East Texas North Louisiana assets and we executed an agreement to sell our Powder River shallow gas assets.
In addition we're finalizing an agreement to sell our assets in China and anticipate closing that transaction in the middle of the year.
Combined these properties were producing in excess of 10 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day at the beginning of the year.
As a result of these divestitures we have adjusted our annual volume guidance moving the midpoint of the range by 6 000 barrels equivalent per day which is the full year effect of the divestitures.
It's important to point out that the production -- projections that we have for 2015 through 2018 that we provided you last December remain unchanged as we had assumed in those projections that these noncore properties would be divested at the end of this year.
This just represents an acceleration of the divestment process that was included in our long-range plan.
We've also made good progress on the next round of major projects.
Here I want to start off on the international side.
On March 31 we celebrated the first anniversary of Tamar being online in Israel.
In the first year of operation Tamar produced 256 billion cubic feet of natural gas with an uptime of over 99% and 0 lost time incidents.
At times the field has produced up to the capacity rating of 1 billion cubic feet per day.
It's been a tremendous first year of operation at Tamar with outstanding performance from both the reservoir as well as the facilities.
And we are taking Tamar to the next level with increases in capacity planned for the next 2 years and the first phase of Leviathan then planned for late 2017.
Dave will walk through the lineup of how we're increasing our Israel gas deliverability in each of the next 3 years which will position us with combined capacity between Tamar and the first phase of Leviathan of approximately 3 billion cubic feet per day gross.
At Leviathan we see nice forward movement in the last few months following the export policy approval last year.
In March we reached a successful agreement with the Anti-trust Authority and also received a final 30-year development lease for the Leviathan field.
The anti-trust agreement will now go through a public hearing period of 60 days before finalization.
These are major accomplishments that will allow the development of Leviathan to move forward.
In addition on the marketing side we've made some great progress with multiple regional opportunities continuing to emerge.
Discussions with natural gas buyers are well underway and I would anticipate over the next 6 months we will enter into a number of major long-term agreements for Leviathan gas.
Woodside negotiations continue regarding our entry into Leviathan and we're hopeful an agreement will be reached shortly.
In the meantime we and our existing partners are moving the project forward targeting a sanction of the first phase late this year.
We've also made great progress on our sanction projects at Big Bend and Gunflint in the Gulf of Mexico with both on schedule for first production in 2015 and 2016 respectively.
We're also preparing for project developments this year for Dantzler in the Gulf of Mexico and Diega in West Africa as well.
In the onshore U.S.
programs we're in the midst of aggressively developing our resources while at the same time pursuing additional upside.
This is being done through active downspacing programs in both the DJ Basin and the Marcellus.
In the DJ Basin we've highlighted in the earnings release our first wells testing beyond 16 wells per section and the results there look very strong.
In addition we're continuing to maximize the application of extended-reach lateral wells in both plays which brings forward substantial value through cost efficiencies and enhanced recovery.
We've shifted our drilling program in the DJ Basin to a higher percentage of extended-reach wells based on the positive well performance we're seeing.
We are now planning to drill over 90 long-lateral wells this year.
That's up from our original plan of 55 wells.
This is a major acceleration of value to Noble in the basin.
We've had great results in the Marcellus in the first quarter including our first reduced stage and cluster completion which is now on production.
In addition we are close to bringing on production in a number of new areas and we'll be testing our first lateral downspacing to 500 feet in the near term as well.
So we anticipate having a number of new items to discuss with you in the second quarter as well.
Another focus of our 2014 program is to maintain our high-impact strategic exploration program.
We're currently drilling the Katmai prospect in the Deepwater Gulf of Mexico and are preparing for a very active offshore program beginning later this year and into 2015 with multiple tests planned in our existing core areas and new frontier opportunities as well.
Some of these new frontier areas have the potential to be a new core area for Noble Energy.
You can see an updated exploration calendar on Slide 6 including multiple wells in the Gulf of Mexico the Eastern Mediterranean and the Falkland Islands upcoming.
I wanted to spend a minute on the early encouragement we've had with our Wilson play in Northeast Nevada.
Following the drilling of 2 wells in the center area of our acreage we've now completed the first of those wells which encountered a thick 700-foot primary target interval.
We performed completion operations over a gross interval of about 175 feet recovering oil of 35 degrees API flowing from each of the 3 completion stages.
So we're now installing artificial lift preparing for an extended production test of the well.
In addition we're currently evaluating the potential for completing our second well in the play.
And in the second half of the year we'll be drilling at least 4 additional wells 2 to the north and 2 to the south compared with where our activity has been focused so far.
This will give us additional information on the continuity of the output across our acreage.
So it's still early but certainly positive.
It's a lot of activity to keep up with but we're well on our way towards a big growth and an enhanced base of resources for development.
So with that I'll turn the call over to Dave.
Thanks Chuck.
As you mentioned the first quarter really sets the stage for a very strong growth profile in 2014.
In addition to volume growth we continue to focus on delivering increasing returns through improved capital and operations efficiencies.
Now I'll provide highlights as I discuss each core area.
Beginning with the DJ Basin we produced 95 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day in the first quarter which included the impact of severe winter weather.
Colder-than-normal temperatures affected our existing production and we consumed more of our produced natural gas to keep major facilities running.
In addition the timing of bringing a number of wells online was delayed as a result of the storms and facility upgrades.
All of these wells are now online and producing.
We are continuing to operate 10 drilling rigs in the DJ Basin and expect to maintain that level into the third quarter of this year.
At that time one of our DJ rigs will move over for a period to the Northeast Nevada Wilson play to perform additional drilling there.
During the first quarter we spud 67 wells in the DJ with an average lateral length of nearly 5 400 feet.
20% of these wells were extended-reach laterals.
Looking forward for the remainder of this year our teams are extremely focused on accelerating value and pursuing the upside to our long-range plans.
This includes 2 primary activities: downspacing tests where we are developing beyond our currently assumed 16-well per section spacing plan and continued optimization of extended-reach laterals in the basin.
With the strong and sustained results we have seen we're highly focused on maximizing our extended-reach lateral program.
You can see the change and acceleration of our long-lateral plans for 2014 on Slide 8 where we have also highlighted the potential economic benefit of these wells.
Using our Wells Ranch integrated development plan as an example long-lateral wells have seen estimated ultimate recovery 2.5x a standard-length well with a net present value close to 3.5x a standard well.
Concentrating on continuing to improve the returns of the program provides huge value to Noble Energy.
On the chart on the left we have highlighted the shift from normal-length wells to long laterals of greater than 8 000 feet.
In total we are planning for approximately 96 medium or long laterals this year compared to our original plan of closer to 58 wells.
Nearly half of these extended-reach laterals will be in Wells Ranch and East Pony and the remainder focused in the other integrated development plans which are moving towards sanction.
Another upside area is the downspacing program where more than 40% of our wells are targeting either 24 or 32 wells equivalent per section.
The first of these tests included a couple of wells in the core IDP as seen on Slide 9 and results look stellar.
These wells were drilled in the fourth quarter last year at a spacing equivalent of 24 wells per section and have now been on production more than 100 days.
They are standard-length lateral wells and are tracking at 600 000 barrel equivalent type curve consistent with the average of all 5 wells we drilled on the Loeffler pad.
We're excited about these results and look forward to additional downspacing activity in multiple IDPs through the remainder of the year.
Positive results will lead to an enhancement in recoverable resources as well as increased efficiencies as we determine the optimal development of our IDPs.
Between the downspace activity and extended-reach lateral program over 60% of our wells are focused on upside in the DJ.
I want to add a few comments on infrastructure in the basin including both gas processing and oil export which continue to support our long-term growth plans.
The DCP O'Connor plant expansion to 160 million cubic feet per day is underway and progress is being made on additional projects and sizable new plants that we expect will lead to over 1 billion cubic feet per day of capacity on the DCP system in 2016.
On the oil side we continue to export over 80% of our volume out of the basin to minimize any in-basin price volatility.
Additional capacity is currently under construction including a doubling of the White Cliffs oil pipeline which will be online by midyear.
Also the Pony Express oil pipeline is moving forward for early 2015 which will tie in our East Pony integrated development plan and provide additional market outlet for oil.
So I'm excited with where the DJ program is headed.
The second half of the year should experience 15% to 20% growth over the first half as winter is behind us fuel facilities are in place an increasing percentage of extended-reach laterals come online and gas processing and handling capacity is expanded.
Shifting to the Marcellus.
Production averaged 227 million cubic feet equivalent per day a new quarterly record for Noble Energy.
This is more than double our net production from the first quarter of last year.
The joint venture is currently running 9 drilling rigs in the play with a total of 36 wells drilled in the first quarter.
Existing production from pads online in Majorsville on the wet side and Southwest Pennsylvania on the dry side continue to exhibit strong performance and relatively shallow decline.
On the wet gas side we drilled 19 wells in the first quarter averaging a lateral length of approximately 7 500 feet.
Our team continues to drive down well cost through optimized drilling efficiencies highlighted by the recent drilling of 2 8 000-foot lateral sections in less than 48 hours each.
A year ago these lateral portions would've taken over twice that amount of time.
In our Majorsville integrated development plan area we anticipate over 60 new wells to commence production this year including our first operated wells utilizing reduced stage and cluster spacing.
Our initial test of this completion design was at the West Finley #3 pad which commenced production in late March.
This 4-well pad averaging 7 500-foot laterals came online with a rate of 35 million cubic feet equivalent per day.
We utilized this new completion design on one of the wells and are seeing initial rates over 25% higher than similar wells with our standard completion design on the same pad.
In our other operated areas outside of Majorsville I'm looking forward to our first production from the Oxford/Pennsboro/Shirley area planned to be online in the second quarter.
The activity in this area will include our first lateral downspacing test to 500 feet and we'll continue our testing of the reduced stage and cluster spacing design as well.
We're also excited about first production from our Moundsville area which is expected to be some of the most liquids-rich opportunities in our acreage.
We anticipate initial drilling this year in the Pittsburgh International Airport area as well as a number of Burkett interval tests spaced throughout our acreage position.
Our first Burkett well continues to be very strong with over 9 months' production now and the well still producing about 3 million cubic feet per day essentially flat from start-up.
As we look at the long-term expansion plans for natural gas from the Marcellus we continue to believe being in the southwestern part of the play is advantageous for market access.
Maintaining market diversification is important.
And we have highlighted on Slide 10 the multiple pipelines and pricing points we utilize in combination with our existing firm transportation position.
This has helped inflate us on the differential side and we have not seen some of the larger deducts experienced in the northeast part of the Marcellus.
In addition we have recently secured 200 million cubic feet per day of firm capacity via an open season on Columbia pipes starting in 2017 which will ultimately deliver to the Gulf Coast.
And we continue to pursue additional out-of-basin projects as well.
So it's a similar message on both the DJ and Marcellus: strong growth outlook combined with cost and recovery performance focus that will develop material upside.
Combined between the 2 areas I'm expecting around 25% growth in the second half of this year compared to the first half alone.
This will provide great momentum for entering 2015 and our 5-year delivery outlook.
And as Chuck mentioned our initial Nevada flow test was encouraging and provides further interest in our onshore activity.
Moving offshore to the Deepwater Gulf of Mexico production during the quarter was 18 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day with about 90% crude and natural gas liquids.
Our development at Big Bend in the Rio Grande area remains on schedule for first production in late 2015 and we recently completed our discovery well.
Dantzler is moving forward as well and will ultimately tie in to the Big Bend infrastructure with first production targeted in 2016.
We anticipate sanctioning Dantzler for development by midyear.
We now have 2 rigs working in the Gulf following the arrival of Atwood Advantage late in the first quarter.
This rig will be focused primarily on development work at Dantzler and Gunflint.
Between Big Bend Dantzler and Gunflint we will double our existing production in the Deepwater Gulf in the next few years.
On the exploration front we've spud the Katmai prospect in Green Canyon.
Our working interest in Katmai is now 50% with a lower paying interest in the initial well.
We should have results in the third quarter with time to drill another Deepwater Gulf of Mexico exploration well yet this year.
We further expanded our Gulf of Mexico exploration portfolio as apparent high bidder on 12 Deepwater blocks in the March lease sale.
Our share of the lease bonus is approximately $16 million adding multiple new prospects to our already deep exploration inventory.
Our Deepwater Gulf program is in great shape with a robust growth program coming from new production in each of the next 2 years and 4 to 5 new exploration prospects through 2015.
Internationally production in West Africa was 81 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day for the quarter and was impacted by underlifting of oil volumes at Alba.
During the quarter Aseng produced approximately 44 000 barrels of oil per day gross.
In the second quarter our sales volumes will be impacted by some maintenance at our methanol facility and Aseng which will likely keep us in a slightly underlifted position for overall second quarter Equatorial Guinea oil volumes.
Alen continues to perform well and is expected to grow this year to a level of 30 000 to 35 000 barrels per day gross as we finish planned workover activities.
Following on our successful appraisal well and flow test appraisal well and flow test at Diega we're targeting submitting a plan of development to the government later this year.
We'll be conducting a seismic shoot over our existing blocks L and I during the second half of this year to further evaluate exploration potential on -- in EG.
This will also help to enhance current development and appraisal work.
In the Eastern Mediterranean net production was nearly 220 million cubic feet equivalent per day during the first quarter.
The expansion of our deliverability remains on schedule as we're over 50% complete with the Ashdod compression project and are working towards the tie-in of the Tamar Southwest discovery as well.
These projects will be the first part of a multi-year step-up in total deliverability from Israel with the initial expansion next year adding capacity installation at Tamar in 2016 and then the first phase of Leviathan in late 2017.
On the gas contracting side we have recently secured 4 new contracts for Tamar which total over $2 billion in gross sales over the life of the contracts.
These include a number of new independent power plants as well as the first export agreement for Tamar to sell gas into Jordan.
I want to echo Chuck's earlier comments on the progress we have seen recently for the first phase of development at Leviathan.
Our plan for Phase 1 development is a 1.6 billion cubic foot per day FPSO which will support additional domestic gas sales in Israel and large regional contracts as well.
And beyond Phase 1 we continue pre-FEED work on an FLNG project for Phase 2 of Leviathan.
On the drilling front we anticipate bringing a rig back into the Eastern Mediterranean late this year or early next year for a multi-year program covering additional Cyprus exploration deep Mesozoic oil exploration and development activities at Tamar and Leviathan.
On Slide 12 we've provided a walk-through of our total company volumes through the remainder of the year including the impact of the asset sales mentioned earlier and our anticipated growth projections.
As Chuck mentioned we adjusted the midpoint of our annual volume guidance by 6 000 barrels equivalent per day for the estimated full year impact of the sale of noncore U.S.
assets in China.
We've also tightened the annual range a bit leaving the bottom end of our range in place reflecting our confidence in our delivery through the remainder of the year.
Our profile through 2014 is similar to what we delivered last year.
For the second quarter we have removed 6 000 barrels equivalent per day associated with the Tri-State East Texas North Louisiana and Powder River Basin asset sales.
From there we anticipate substantial growth from the DJ and Marcellus.
After adjusting our noncore asset divestitures our second quarter guidance at midpoint is up 16% from the second quarter last year.
Slide 13 will be helpful for those who are modeling our business as it lays out detailed second quarter and full year guidance.
So let me conclude by saying everything is right on track for 2014 in our longer-term plan.
We're aggressively pursuing the upside in our onshore programs while adding to our major project portfolio all with a focus on execution and performance enhancement.
So with that April we'd like to now open the call for questions.
[Operator Instructions] And we'll first hear from John Malone of Mizuho Securities.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of real specific questions for me Dave.
Looking at the Loeffler pad you talk about the 5 wells you've got there that are going over a 600 MBoe curve.
What exactly are you doing at those wells? Is it downspacing and just different completion? Or what's different about those that they stand out? It's really an area where last year was probably the first of the program.
We went in and started to look at something that would be equivalent to a 24-well per section test if you will John.
So I mean that's really what we're doing.
That's down in that core area of the field.
And so really what -- we went in and drilled 5 lateral wells all really normal lateral lengths if I remember correctly and they're all performing very well.
The main point of that is that the 2 wells that really are testing the equivalent 24-well per section versus 16 are performing every bit as well as the other 3.
Research Division</strong> Right right.
Okay that's impressive.
And then just on the Marcellus as well just talking about wells the one which you got the 25% increase in the rate.
You mentioned this before in your prepared statement but can you elaborate on what was done differently there and how replicable it is in the rest of your acreage around Majorsville? Yes that's where we talked about doing this reduced stage and cluster spacing completions and we've actually -- our JV partner out there has also been doing some of that on the wet gas side so we're trying to apply this now on -- I mean on the dry gas side so we're starting to apply this now on the wet gas area.
So this is the first well where we did that where you're essentially narrowing the area and impacting the area that you're affecting.
If you go back to what we've normally been doing on 300-stage lengths with 60-foot cluster spacing this has taken it down to about 150-foot stage lengths with 30-foot cluster spacing.
So you're just getting a lot greater density on the completion there.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
What does that do to the CapEx per well? I mean your 25% increase how much did the CapEx go up for? It's slight increase.
I'd have to check on that number.
Research Division</strong> So not a comparable increase compared to the rates? No no not anywhere near that.
Not anywhere near that.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just last question on that are you changing the amount of proppant you're using? I mean other than just -- and now you're using the total well.
How does that change the proppant use? Yes and we can get you more specifics on that but it increases the amount of proppant actually because you're putting more into a smaller -- into the same area.
When you look at the same effective area you're putting more proppant into that area and the idea is to create more connection within that same 300-foot space if you will.
And next we'll hear from Arun Jayaram of Crdit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Chuck I just wanted to ask you a little bit given some of the geopolitical tensions in Ukraine are you having some dialogue regarding some customers regarding gas in the Mediterranean? And how do you think about Cyprus as being a strategic asset given some of these geopolitical concerns? Well I think certainly with what's happened on the course of the last month or so there's greater interest in the Mediterranean gas.
And clearly we're seeing and we've already pointed out that the regional market there is very strong.
There's certainly a lot more work to be done in terms of possible European markets.
Yes there's interest there but we've also got tremendous interest from our customers in the region as we've noted Jordan and the potential for markets in Egypt.
Cyprus is -- it nicely blends into the mix although I think our view still is that Cyprus would be based on an LNG solution.
But we have to keep in mind that LNG out of this region can be taken to Europe as well.
It doesn't have to be through pipelines.
It could be through LNG as well either floating or land-based.
So I guess the bottom line is yes we get calls.
Yes we're getting a lot of interest but right now we see Leviathan Phase 1 being strongly supported by the regional markets that we've been developing here in the course of the last year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And Chuck just to follow up can you provide us an update? I know you're relatively close to completing the Woodside deal.
I know export taxes appear to be the last hurdle.
Can you give us an update on what the government wants and kind of where you're at in terms of getting the export tax issue taken care of? Well there's a couple of tax questions that came up on it.
And really on the export tax the government has provided a framework a template of what they plan to do on that.
So we're actually in terms of moving forward with Woodside and our project we're fairly comfortable with what that framework is.
They still have to put it into final legislation.
But that they actually -- the government published the I'll call it the framework or the template for how that would work in late March just before we were working on some other things.
There are some other tax issues that both Woodside and ourselves were working on and they have to do with how the transaction itself is taxed proceeds that we receive how Woodside would be allowed to write off their investments.
I think from our perspective we're satisfied.
We've got things sorted out.
And I'll leave it to Woodside.
I hear encouraging things but I'll leave it to Woodside to report on where they ended up on their tax issues.
Next we'll hear from Leo Mariani of RBC.
LLC Research Division</strong> Guys just looking at the DJ here.
Clearly it sounds like you lost some pretty significant volumes in the first quarter.
Would it be possible for you guys to quantify that all and maybe give us a sense of now that it's recovered sort of where current DJ production is currently trending? Yes.
I think when you look at the first quarter -- and we had anticipated a good bit of that when we put the guidance out Leo but it was probably affected when you look at just the weather portion 5 000 barrels a day or so.
And then the other element of that was it just pushed back some timing on completions and so forth.
But like I mentioned those that had been delayed a little bit we've now got on.
So we're catching up pretty quickly here in April and moving into May.
But if you look at it really and you look at first quarter and even second quarter relative to the second half of the year it's the same type trend we're seeing this year as we saw last year.
I mean you see that seasonality impact there in the first part of the year and we probably saw even more of it this year.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I guess in terms of some of the asset sales you all talked about I guess multiple packages in the U.S.
it sounds like some of those closed.
It sounds like PRB is closing maybe later this month or something.
Do you guys have kind of a proceeds number to Noble for those asset sales at this point? It's roughly around $100 million or maybe a little over $100 million for the onshore U.S.
portion.
LLC Research Division</strong> All right.
And I guess is China still kind of in negotiations in terms of asset sale price? Just wanted to get a little bit more color in terms of where we're at on that process.
Yes.
We're still working through that.
I mean we're expecting -- and kind of like we laid out there we expect to have that all completed and make good progress on that towards midyear.
Yes.
That's probably one until we get it all wrapped up we wouldn't want to disclose the value on it.
LLC Research Division</strong> All right.
And I guess just lastly on the DJ.
Any kind of comments on sort of where things are in terms of potential frac regulation that may be coming on referendum ballots and kind of what you guys are hearing as kind of the latest and greatest out of there? Well I think I mean our communication efforts are fully engaged.
As I think many know we've formed with Anadarko and are getting support from other industry partners; a group Coloradoans for Responsible Energy Development.
And they're fully engaged in terms of communicating the benefits of development in Colorado and as well as a lot of our employee programs.
Where we stand right now is there were a number of ballot proposals to go on the ballots that were submitted.
They are just now going through the final review process.
Some of them have already been pulled down either duplicative or the sponsors felt they were not necessary.
So we should have a better feel in the next few weeks as to what the emerging set will be.
But then they still have to collect signatures.
And so the deadline for signatures is early August.
So we're really not going to know much more until then as to what may be on the ballot and what won't be on the ballot.
We have through -- I would say that there have been sponsors who've submitted what I would call 4 countermeasure ballots.
These are ones that are more I think supportive of development.
And so we're going to have to see how those go and see which one of those collect the necessary signatures.
But I think we're prepared for a full communication effort.
It's going to be a lengthy summer and we'll see.
There's a lot of political dynamics that are happening here and it changes daily.
And next we'll hear from Dave Kistler of Simmons &amp; Company.
Research Division</strong> Real quickly just thinking about the DJ Basin and moving to the longer laterals there and the impressive results can you talk a little bit about how that shift from shorter to longer impacts CapEx in that region and what that does in terms of the production profile? I would suspect longer laterals will lead to a little bit more lumpy production profile going forward.
And I think you're seeing some of that Dave with the bigger increase in the second half of the year as you start to bring more of these longer laterals on.
I think on the overall cost basis we've adjusted the program and relooked at it in such a way that we don't see actually any increase to this year's capital program.
We're still expecting the same overall cost.
It's fewer wells now but actually the same or a little more total footage.
Research Division</strong> Great.
I appreciate that clarification.
And maybe shifting over to Nevada just for a second.
You talk about having 700 feet of kind of identified play and completing about 150 feet if I got those numbers correct.
Quality of the crude 38-degree did it have a hot paraffin content in it? And did the quality of the crude vary at all amongst the various intervals that you completed? I think we picked 3 different intervals to test.
And we tested each of those separately at least initially to let them flow a little bit recover some of the fluid and see the oil content come up on each of them.
All had very similar about 35-degree gravity.
It is somewhat waxy as we expected so no real surprise there.
And now what we're going to do now is put artificial lift on and get an extended production test.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just as a standalone on verticals and I apologize for having a follow-up but is it commercial on a stand-alone basis just as verticals? Or is this really just way too early to tell? I'm just trying to think about how we extrapolate that in terms of what it could look like longer term.
Well and that's some of the information we really need to see from this more extended test here.
That's why we're going to put it on pump get an extended test Dave and continue to look at it because that's one of the unknowns yet.
Is this going to be potentially a vertical program and will it stand on its own on a vertical basis? Or even as we look at it do we see enough of a sweet spot or something that we want to target a horizontal program? Those are some of the things we don't know yet and probably we'll need to get more answers as we see how this play develops and we drill.
Probably the next couple of wells we'll drill a couple wells to the Northeast and a couple wells to the Southwest and we'll start to get a feel for the continuity of the formation as we move over a wider area along with getting an extended production test.
Both of those things will be really helpful in us determining what type of play we move forward with here.
Our next question comes from Brian Singer of Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> On the DJ you talked about the increased use of longer lateral wells there.
Can you talk more to both the impact on production you expect that to have and the impact on CapEx? Maybe in the context of Noble it's less material but one would think there would be a positive impact on both.
Well I think longer term what we're seeing is this should create more value as we go forward the more we shift the program from normal length to longer length as long as we can continue to duplicate the kind of results we've seen initially on some of this.
But I'd say for this year by the way we've timed this in and laid it out we aren't changing our expectations on volume or capital.
As we continue to build the program into more longer laterals I think it can have a positive impact on both.
It definitely has a positive impact on overall if you will F&amp;D per well here if you just look at those numbers that we laid out there.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then on the production trajectory you talked about in your slide if we exclude the impact of seasonally higher Israel gas demand in the second half can you talk to the key milestones or items on your critical path for you to get that wedge of about 30 000-plus barrels a day of growth in the second half over the second quarter? I mean the biggest portion of that is the onshore programs.
I think I mentioned in my discussion that we're expecting about 25% growth from our combined onshore programs DJ and Marcellus second half versus first half of the year though it's going to be bringing on these additional pads in these new wells as we ramp up through the second half of the year here.
Research Division</strong> I guess are there a specific couple of dates that we should look for specific pads that are major contributors within the onshore piece particularly as we look at the DJ? And you had talked to a number of wells that I think seem to be drilled or behind pipe.
No I mean if you go back to -- and I think we've shown it on some of our indications of some of the downspacing that's spread out through these probably mainly the initial 5 IDP areas.
I mean that's where the majority of the drilling is.
I think Wells Ranch and East Pony still have a large percentage.
But you're breaking out more wells in the Mustang the Core the Greeley Crescent IDPs.
So it's going to be across all of them.
Yes.
So just a lot of consistent execution on this Brian.
There's no real -- not one particular pad per se or anything which makes it actually good which also gives us a lot of confidence because it's got a lot of pieces that are contributing and a lot of diversification to it.
So we're not at risk by one unique project.
Our next question comes from Irene Haas of Wunderlich Securities.
Research Division</strong> Two questions.
DJ Basin we have a lot of great news about the Niobrara in terms of the extended lateral downspacing and such.
How should we think about Codell? Is this a sort of more porous formation? The second question has to do with Marcellus.
Are you transporting your extended lateral completion techniques over to Marcellus and getting even better results? Okay.
Starting with the Codell Irene I think we've drilled approximately 14 Codell lateral wells prior to this year.
We have probably 10 planned for this year.
I think when you look at it probably 2/3 of them are in kind of a downspacing pattern test and probably another 3 to 4 are extended-reach laterals.
So we'll start to get another mix of Codell like we've done Niobrara on kind of each element of this program.
So more to come on that.
I think when you look at the discussion on moving extended-reach laterals to the Marcellus we're doing that.
We've been doing that now for the last year.
I think our average Marcellus lateral length is now up to 7 000 feet or so.
And if you go back to the origin of this play they probably started at 3 000.
We've moved to 5 000.
And now we're probably up over 7 000.
I think we've actually drilled one pad out there that averaged around 10 000 if I remember.
So yes we're seeing great results out there and we're moving more of the program to that extended reach.
It's a little more complicated there from land issues.
But that's where these contiguous acreage positions really pay off acreage positions with scale.
Our next question comes from Charles Meade of Johnson Rice.
L.L.C.
Research Division</strong> Well I apologize if this is a little bit kind of down in the weeds on the left of the pad.
But it's really a remarkable result even compared to -- especially for standard-length laterals versus the type curves you guys put out.
And I'm curious were those all in the same bench of the Niobrara? And is it a useful distinction to make which bench you're in in the Niobrara? Yes.
My impression -- and I'll double check it Charles.
But my impression it is all in the same bench.
And the thing that you have to remember even in the Niobrara and you see more consistency in the B but especially in the A and C and so forth the thickness does change somewhat in different parts of these IDP areas.
And down here in the Core it's probably I think on these wells they're probably 50% liquid content but they're also -- what was interesting I think there was some vertical wells around this area too.
So it's very encouraging.
But again it's still early and it's a couple of wells right now.
We're anxious to get a number more of additional of these downspacing tests in place and see some results second half of the year on a number of other patterns here.
L.L.C.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then shifting over to your Eastern Med stuff I recognize that it's difficult to speak about someone else's negotiation going on.
But could you maybe offer what your characterization would be of this kind of protracted negotiation? Is this more along the lines of the final haggling at the stall in a Middle Eastern bazaar? Or is this the sort of thing that Woodside might really just might decide they don't get the tax treatment they'd like and walk? I think right now what held up our final signing late last month was primarily an unresolved tax issue that Woodside had with the state of Israel and they've continued with those discussions.
And I'm very encouraged by what I hear.
But again as I noted earlier I'll leave that to Woodside to discuss what final treatment they are looking for there.
But this is complicated.
We had a number of things that we had to resolve as well in terms of how this transaction would be taxed for us and we did get those resolved.
There have also been as I point out a huge number of accomplishments that were achieved.
The resolution of the antitrust issue which is now out for public comment was a big hurdle that we needed to make sure that we had taken care of that because it paves the way for us to develop Leviathan and to market Leviathan gas in Israel.
We've now got a final lease.
And you say "What's important about that?" That gives us the development plan.
That basically gives us the roadmap of what is going to be approved by the petroleum ministry in terms of the development of Leviathan so it allows us to move forward on that.
So there have been a number of things as well as moving forward on the marketing side.
So I'm really encouraged.
And as far as the transaction with Woodside this is -- it's down to the fine details.
And hopefully again it will get resolved.
We would like to have them as a partner as a part of this project.
But right now with all of the other things that have been cleared out we and our existing partners are moving forward and we're starting to take steps to make sure that we can deliver this project.
Our next question comes from Gail Nicholson of KLR Group.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just a real quick question.
When we look at the downspacing tests are any of the downspacing tests in the Niobrara utilizing extended-reach laterals? Or are they all standard lengths at this point? Yes.
There are a few that are -- will use some extended-reach laterals.
So you'll have a test of both concepts I guess if you will on some equivalent patterns.
Doug Leggate of Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> I've got a couple of quick ones if I may.
First of all Dave it's only 4 months since you did your Analyst Day and you've already more than doubled the plan on long laterals.
I'm just wondering what -- how is the thought process changing in terms of how much further and how much more running room you've got to really pick up the pace of long laterals as opposed to the standards? And I've got a follow-up please.
Yes I mean to that point Doug we actually started last year even as we were reporting the budget to put plans in place to look at how could we increase the number of long laterals if it made sense and we continued to see the continued performance that we've been seeing.
So on that regard as we got into the year and started to look at the year and we got into the first quarter we started to ask the question of how could we continue to expand that not only in Wells Ranch and East Pony but into some of these other IDP areas and building on some of these things like some of those good results we saw out at Mustang and so forth.
So we started to push the folks a little more to see if we couldn't shift the programs some to mix in a larger number of extended-reach laterals because the opportunity and the economic value is just so great that potential there.
So we wanted to get a more extensive test around the field on some of these areas.
And so the team did a great job at shifting the program and building a lot more of that into there because we kept pushing how many could we accelerate into this year.
Research Division</strong> So we obviously -- we're all trying to figure out what the value of this asset is.
And obviously it's a huge difference between the long and the under the standard I guess.
So what I'm really trying to understand is how should we think about how you develop the asset going forward? I mean is this going to be -- is it kind of difficult to plan it and predict it? Or is it something that's just going to evolve you know what I mean? Or should we think of more ratable kind of balance between activity between the 2 types of wells? Well I think we'll start to get an even better idea as we go through this year when you look at all the different things we're developing and testing this year.
And we'll update that at the end of the year as based on the results we're seeing.
But we're testing a number of different intervals.
We're testing a number of different spacing.
And you look at the long lateral I think when we talked about what we sanctioned for our East Pony development for example we talked about the fact that we were going to continue to gravitate to more longer laterals.
In fact I think on the East Pony sanction we discussed the fact that we could see that potentially being about 50% of those lateral wells being extended-reach laterals whether it's at 7 000 to 9 000.
So that's going to continue to evolve.
I think also digging through my notes here I'm looking at the potential.
And just some of these different horizons as we continue to focus on vertical recovery here will be interesting to develop.
For example looking back through here the Loeffler pad was actually the Niobrara C interval.
All 5 of those wells were actually in the C.
Those weren't even in the B interval.
So I mean it's just another data point.
And we'll continue to get many data points through the year that will continue to build this plan.
Yes.
Doug I think I'd just also kind of just add one more thing.
And that is as we've kind of noted in the past when we lay out a plan like in last December it's based on what we know at that time.
We try to be very careful about not speculating where it might go and trying to roll some of that in.
So generally we are laying out a plan that we think is very deliverable that's got certainly upside to it.
And these long laterals and as you're starting to now and we're starting to see the increased density are providing some really good hints that we need to keep pushing the program in that way.
And that's going to mean that there will be an evolving growth.
And as we say this should certainly lead to some great improvement in value and certainly resources and opportunities going forward.
But again all of that overlaying with this thought process of treating these like major projects laying them out in integrated development plans with large central facilities minimizing the surface footprint and tying in the whole pipeline network to all these pads and wells.
So it needs to be a well-thought-out plan and this is all contributing to how we're going to lay it out.
And next we'll hear from David Heikkinen of Heikkinen Energy Advisors.
LLC</strong> Just a question.
As you think about accessing the Egyptian market both the local markets and ability to access BG's underutilized LNG export facility do you have any thoughts or comments you can provide around that as an option for East Med gas? Well it's certainly a very real option.
We're at the early stages.
But clearly -- and you really highlighted what the big opportunity is and that is the underutilized existing LNG plants that are in Egypt.
And you've got 2 major opportunities there with the BG facilities as well as Unin Fenosa.
And so those discussions are underway.
I mean the Tamar partners are actually pursuing one of the options and the Leviathan partners are pursuing the other.
The huge value here is that these are LNG plants that need natural gas.
They're built.
They're operational.
So really it's your critical path.
In the case of Leviathan the critical path is developing Leviathan and the connection which would probably be a new pipeline offshore to deliver the gas over there.
But you don't have to wait for a market development or you don't have to wait for an LNG plant to be built.
So it's one of the things that we see as the emerging regional markets that have really created some uplift in value.
LLC</strong> And how -- as I think about the diversity of kind of security of pipeline 2 offshore pipelines 1 that goes onshore to Israel and 1 that goes to Egypt how do you think about security for basically offtake as well and the value of that? And then how would the Israeli kind of overall market and export think about it as well? Well I think certainly our view is that as you look at -- for instance Egypt having offshore pipelines provides a lot of security from the standpoint of its -- we just -- for obvious reasons.
Physically you're in deepwater and it's a better asset.
I think in the case of for instance the Jordan market we'll be utilizing the existing Israel pipeline infrastructure.
They've got a small segment that they need to connect over to Jordan but it's using the Israel onshore system.
So I think the key in this whole market is diversification looking at multiple outlets looking at multiple delivery points to both the onshore Israel as well as you look at these outside regional markets as well.
I think also is just going beyond Phase 1 of Leviathan we have to keep in mind also there's an LNG phase of the project a potentially floating LNG which then gives you access to global markets.
That's in a second phase but it's certainly very real because we've got the resources to support all of this.
Next we'll hear from Dan McSpirit of BMO Capital Markets.
And I have just one.
Turning to the Appalachian basin you state that firm transportation is expected to increase what is it by 500 million a day in 2017? Can you review how much of that takes gas out of the basin whether to the Gulf Coast or elsewhere? Yes Dan.
I think I mentioned around 200 million a day for our share that would actually move gas out of the basin most likely to the Gulf Coast.
April this is David.
We're a little past our stop deadline so that will be the last question that we have today.
So let me just say that I'd like to thank everybody for participating in the call today and appreciate your interest in Noble Energy.
Have a good day.
And that does conclude today's conference.
Thank you all for your participation.
Good morning and welcome to the Noble Energy's Second Quarter 2014 Earnings Call.
I would now like to turn the call over to David Larson.
Please go ahead sir.
Thanks Cameron.
Good morning everyone.
Welcome to Noble Energys second quarter 2014 earnings call and webcast.
On the call today we have Chuck Davidson Chairman and CEO; Dave Stover President and COO; and Ken Fisher CFO.
This morning we issued our quarterly earnings release which hopefully you have had a chance to review.
A few supplemental slides for this call were also posted to the website and they will be good reference material for the discussion today.
The agenda will begin with Chuck reviewing the quarter and providing an outlook for the remainder of the year.
Dave will wrap up with a discussion of our five core operational programs.
Well leave time for Q&amp;A at the end and plan to complete the call in less than an hour.
(Operator Instructions) I want to remind everyone that this webcast and conference call contains forward-looking statements as well as references to non-GAAP financial measures.
You should read our disclosures in our latest news release and SEC filings for a discussion of those.
With that let me turn the call over to Chuck.
Thanks David.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us.
Well time passes quickly another earnings call and more than halfway through the year already.
In a very busy quarter for us and so weve got a lot to cover today.
Hopefully youve seen our recent highlights in the earnings release that we issued this morning.
I thought I would discuss a few of these before running through the financials.
First off our onshore programs continue to perform very well setting a new combined quarterly production record from the Marcellus and the DJ Basin in the second quarter.
Total volumes were up 35% from the second quarter of last year after adjusting for the impact of the DJ Basin asset swap that was completed late in 2013.
The horizontal component of our production in these core areas was up even more dramatically 56% year-over-year.
Well performance in the DJ Basin remains consistent with our type curve assumptions across the number of the integrated development plan areas including both standard length and extended reach lateral wells.
Over in the Marcellus strong legacy production combined with new well out performance in our operated areas as driving an increase in our type curves for wells with standard completion designs.
Highlighting our continued performance improvement is the West Finley 6 pad in Majorsville which began production during the second quarter results there are outstanding performing more than 50% of our type curves for the area.
Were also extremely encouraged by results from new completion designs in both core areas that look very positive for both resource and production upside.
In the DJ we have performed plug-n-pref design in a couple of areas and have installed our second underground laboratory which includes testing of various additional completion ideas.
And in the Marcellus results from 2 pads then included reduced stage and cluster spacing wells are very strong.
Dave will provide more details on the vast amount of technical work going on in these onshore plays but we are pleased with the results today and are expanding our usage of new completion techniques to the reminder of the year.
During the second quarter we also announced plans to form an MLP for our midstream assets in the Marcellus.
In this mornings release we announced the new oil discovery in the deepwater Gulf of Mexico at Katmai prospect in Green Canyon.
Drilling operation so far a resulted in over 115 feet of oil pay encountered in secondary targets that are above the primary pay zone.
Reservoir quality in these Middle Miocene sands is excellent.
Although we have further drilling and evaluation ahead of us weve already got a commercial discovery in another project to work on.
The question now is how ultimately  how is  the question now is of course ultimately how big will this discovery become.
After logging and running a line we anticipate reaching the primary lower Miocene target over the next few weeks following total debt which is planned at 28 000 feet plus we'll commence an extensive logging program.
So we expect to have final well results by the end of August.
Katmai represents the latest of a significant string of new field discoveries in the deepwater Gulf for Nobel Energy.
It certainly appears headed to move into the development queue along with Gunflint and Big Bend and Dantzler and will further solidify our plans for a deepwater Gulf of Mexico production to more than double over the course of the next several years.
We also substantially expanded our Gulf of Mexico lease position during the second quarter acquiring a number of new exploration opportunities on 17 Atwater Valley exploration licenses.
The first of these prospects is called Bright.
Bright is currently drilling targeting upper Miocene reservoirs with a large resource potential range of 90 million-barrels to 350 million-barrels equivalent.
Results are expected in the third quarter.
In the Eastern Mediterranean before discussing recent performance I just wanted to take a moment to discuss the ongoing conflict there.
Clearly the humanitarian impacts of this conflict have been tragic.
A number of our employees and contractors have been affected including several that have been called into service.
We have experienced this before in our long tenure in the region and as in the past.
Our team has continued to perform superbly under adversity providing an uninterrupted supply of natural gas to Israel.
I'm extremely proud of them and we all hope for a rapid resolution.
Our facilities are well protected and they remain unaffected.
However we do feel it is appropriate to slightly reduce our estimates for near-term sales volumes there due to the situation.
Moving into the regional update last week an updated resource estimate for the Leviathan field was provided by Netherland Sewell on behalf of all partners and no surprise the resources have gone up.
Leviathan is now estimated with gross mean 2C resources of 21.9 trillion cubic feet of natural gas an increase of more than 15% from our earlier estimates.
3C resources are now estimated by Netherland Sewell to be 26.5 trillion cubic feet.
Our teams have made tremendous progress capturing the expanding regional demand for natural gas.
Weve recently executed two very substantial letters of intent to sell gas to existing LNG facilities nearby one which supports the first phase of our Leviathan project and one which aggressively moves forward in an expansion of the Tamar project.
Combined these LOIs represent over 1 billion cubic feet of natural gas to be sold per day to regional customers.
In addition we are closing in on securing additional customers that will further support the first phase of development at Leviathan.
And In West Africa we've had production milestones reached for both Aseng and Alen so we have a lot of forward progress across all areas of the business during the first half of the year and I believe we're positioned very well for the remainder of the year and into 2015.
Quickly second quarter financials sales volumes were 290 000-barrels of oil equivalent per day a 14% increase over the second quarter of last year after removing non-core asset divestitures.
Our volume growth versus second quarter last year was driven by four of our five core businesses with increases in the DJ and Marcellus onshore as well as the Gulf of Mexico and West Africa offshore.
In Israel volumes were essentially flat.
As Dave will discuss volumes would have been even better particularly in the DJ had we not run into midstream capacity and timing issues.
As painful as it is we decided it was prudent to provide a more conservative outlook until we are comfortable that all of this is sorted out.
Revenues for the quarter were 1.1 billion supported by strong liquids pricing both crude oil and natural gas liquids and natural gas prices as well.
The majority of our cost items were relatively inline with our expectations although our adjusted effective tax rate of 22% was a bit lighter than expectations primarily as a result of our outlook for foreign tax credit usage due to the remainder of 2014.
Exploration expense was also lower than our guidance with the impact of the successful Katmai well in the deepwater Gulf.
Adjusted earnings per diluted share was $0.87 for the second quarter after removing the impact of certain adjustment items.
These items included a gain on sale which for the second quarter was primarily China a couple of impairments on the retirement obligation for non-producing assets and then the impact of our non-cash commodity hedges.
As a reminder regarding the China asset sale these assets produced approximately 4000-barrels of oil per day and had total reserves of around 6 million-barrels of oil equivalent at the end of 2013.
Proceeds from the sale were $186 million with final cash payment received in early July.
Capital Expenditures for the quarter were approximately $1.3 billion and discretionary cash flow for the period with nearly $900 million and we ended the second quarter with total cash of $960 million and $3.4 billion of available credit capacity.
So total liquidity remains well over $4 billion.
Before handing over to Dave I wanted to spend a couple of minutes discussing the regulatory environment for oil and gas development in Colorado which certainly gathering a lot of attention right now.
As many of you are aware certain initiatives had been proposed for inclusion on the November general election ballot which if adopted by voters would become amendments to the State of Colorado constitution.
Over the past several months we along with the number of other companies have work with the Governor's Office on a sensible legislative solution that would provide local communities a stronger regulatory voice and support responsible oil and natural gas development.
Unfortunately time for the legislative solution has passed.
So while there is no still assurance on what will or will not make its way to the November ballot we remain focused on our original plan which we have been implementing for well over a year this includes working with others in the industry Coloradans for Responsible Energy Development and many non-industry stakeholders to ensure that voters understand the importance of defeating these ballot measures.
We are wholly committed to ensuring that Colorado voters are fully informed.
The potential amendments include a proposal for greater local regulation and oversight of oil and gas development as well as a measure for increase setbacks.
We support the input of local communities in the development of oil and gas but that must be balanced with an overall regulatory framework that supports responsible recovery of hydrocarbons.
Partnering with local communities including surface and mineral owners city and county authorities and other governmental body has been and will always be critical to our success in all of our locations worldwide.
We believe the ballot measure proposing a 2000-foot set back is a step in the wrong direction for Colorado.
Existing setback rules which require 500 to a 1000 foot distances from occupied strictures were just put into effect last year and they are some of the most aggressive regulations in the country.
The 2000-foot setback while a four-fold increase in direct distance is a 16-fold increase in terms of total surface area affected.
This would have a significant impact on development of oil and gas in certain areas of the state perhaps not a substantial and near term as companies could shift their focus to areas not as affected.
I know you like for us to provide a specific number of potential locations at risk; however without clarity on how the ballot measure would be implemented including the potential for obtaining wavers quantifying the impact would be pure speculation at this point.
This type of constitutional amendment could ultimately result in a loss of many jobs throughout the state reduce revenues to surface and mineral odors and obviously reduced tax revenue to many local and State jurisdictions as well.
This ballot initiative is not just about the oil industry.
As Governor Hickenlooper pointed out recently this initiative could harm all businesses due to its broad prohibitions.
For that reason there are many other business organization that have joined us to defeat this proposal.
So we will do everything we can in our power to provide the necessary information of voters to fully assess the impacts of these ballot measures with the ultimate intention of having them defeated November and I certainly believe will be successful.
So let me ramp up with a few comments on number of exciting things for the reminder of 2014.
The exploration program has a number of meaningful catalysts near term with final results due in at Katmai and Bright perhaps in the next month or so.
In addition we will have new drilling results in our Wilson Play in northeast Nevada later this year along with longer term production history from our first well which is now just coming online.
Im also particularly excited about the 2015 exploration program that should include multiple game-changer wells with our first operated Falklands well the deep Mesozoic oil test in the eastern Med and several Gulf of Mexico wells.
I'm also very excited about the Gulf of Mexico major project line up with the first of a number of fields being ready for new production next year.
As well as the continued opportunities for our natural gas at are emerging in the Eastern Mediterranean.
And then of course the second half of 2014 is all about delivering growth in the upside from our onshore programs.
So when you put it all together I believe we're on the cusp of delivering the next major step up for Nobel Energy.
As I look at the picture as a whole we're delivering substantial long-term value for our stakeholders including record production volumes and double-digit growth for the foreseeable future.
So with that I'm going to turn the call over Dave.
Thanks Chuck.
I'll just mention I've been fighting a head cold so I'll try to speak up and make sure everybody can hear me well.
Weve a lot to cover this morning so I'll jump right into it.
With our core U.S.
onshore areas total sales volumes in the second quarter were approximately 140 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day.
You can see on Slide 5 we have attached the comparison of just the horizontal volumes from the DJ Basin and Marcellus over the last couple of years and the substantial growth delivered in both core areas.
Total horizontal volumes from these plays were a record 112 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day in the second quarter up 56% and more than 200% respectively versus the same quarter in 2013 and 2012.
In the DJ Basin we average 98 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day in the second quarter.
The overall liquids component as a percent of total DJ volumes as really ramped up over the past two years as we have concentrated our production in the more liquid rich portions of the basin.
The 68% liquid contribution this quarter is a record an increase from 62% one-year ago and 57% two-years ago.
On oil infrastructure the doubling of the white cliffs oil pipeline 250 000 barrels per day is in the commissioning phase and should be fully operational in August.
On the gas side at times during the second quarter we saw record throughput on the DCP System following facility expansions earlier this year.
Throughput is further benefited by the start-up of additional compression this month.
The addition of another field booster station in Lucerne 2 plant in the first half of next year will add an additional 270 million cubic feet per day of process and capacity to the system.
While the capacity additions have been helpful we also experienced during the second quarter higher than expected third-party processing down time at multiple facilities which result in reduced throughput and higher line pressures in certain areas of the basin.
This impacted primarily our legacy vertical well production.
We continue to be affected by third-party plant and pipeline down time with two incidents just this week impacting current volumes and as a result our guidance for the second half of the year includes more conservative assumptions for midstream capacity.
Also during the second quarter we delayed or shut in production from 12 pads totaling over 65 wells as we altered our Econode production facility design.
This was done to allow greater capture of flash gas volumes and further reduction of error emissions in areas that are not yet tied into a central processing facility.
We do not expect these design changes to have a significant impact on our cost or schedule going forward.
So while we've had temporary impacts to our second quarter volumes and ultimately our full-year contribution from the DJ Basin well performance across our integrated development plans remains very strong.
And I believe we are on an exciting path of growth through the reminder of the 2014 and beyond.
I'll discuss more of the outlook in a few minutes.
We're continuing to operate 10 rigs in the DJ Basin.
Late in the third quarter one of our DJ rigs will move over to Northeast Nevada to resume our exploration drilling on the Wilson prospect.
Speaking of Wilson play our first vertical well has now been producing for about a week.
While it's very early I've been pleased with the 300 barrels of fluidity is producing per day with a roughly 45% oil cut while it's still cleaning up.
Back in the DJ Basin our teams are working extensively on increasing the long-term value of this premier Basin.
We continue to drill multiple down spacing tests including 24 and 32 equivalent wells per section in a number of our IDP areas.
The first of these tests the Loeffler pad in the core IDP continues to perform exceptionally well.
While we have drilled and completed a number of additional down space tests we don't yet have much production history so that is something to look forward to in the second half of year.
In area where we do have some new results is in our ongoing completion design program where our teams are continually looking to maximize ultimate recoveries and economic return.
The most recent example is a three well pad in the core IDP where two wells utilized a plug-n-perf design in place of the traditional sliding sleeve technology.
Initial results are shown on Slide 6 with production on the two plug-n-perf wells outperforming the standard design well by more than 50%.
These were standard length laterals with 20 stages each and three clusters per stage.
We also have initial results on a 12 well econode in Wells Ranch which is substantially outperforming our type curve for the area.
With these wells we're testing various completion ideas including different fluid and proppant designs and wells in multiple zones.
In addition we have down hole fiber optic cables in a couple of the wells and are measuring recovery down to the individual stage level to evaluate the effectiveness of our completion designs.
Still a lot to learn here but some strong early encouragement.
Our other core area onshore in the U.S.
the Marcellus continues to perform extremely well with production averaging nearly 250 million cubic feet per day net for the Second Quarter.
This week the joint venture production ramped in North of 700 million cubic feet equivalent per day gross which is an increase of 40% in just the last couple of months and more than 100% since this time last year.
We've been able to accomplish this dramatic growth through a continued development of our assets the application of enhanced completion designs and strong underlying well performance.
During the Second Quarter we brought on production from WFN6 pad in Majorsville and you can see its performance Slide 8.
This eight well pad averaged 6100 feet in lateral length and had an initial 30-day production average of over 65 million cubic equivalent per day it is our strongest operated pad to-date.
Included in the pad were six wells with a standard completion design and two wells testing enhanced completion techniques.
One of the two enhanced completion designs utilized on this pad was our second test of the Reduced Stage and Cluster Spacing technique or RSCS as I'll refer to it.
Utilizing 150-foot stage spacing and five clusters per stage results are very strong.
Not only on WFN6 but also on WFN3 where we now have more than three months of production data.
Initial rates look to be 15% to 30% better for these wells utilizing RSCS so we remain very encouraged about the application of this technique in our program going forward.
We've also tested an additional completion design on WFN6 that on this initial test is performing as strongly as the RSCS technique at a lower comparative cost.
While encouraged on this single well test we want to see results in a few more tests of this completion design before talking too much about what we're doing here.
Between the RSCS and this new completion design we're now transitioning our remaining 2014 program to utilize these enhanced completion techniques on over 50% of our remaining wells.
We continue to be encouraged by the production performance of our operated assets in Majorsville.
This has driven an increase in our type curve for standard completion design wells in the Majorsville IDP by approximately 10%.
Our standard 7 000 foot lateral length well is now estimated to recover approximately 10 billion cubic feet equivalent.
You can see all of our Majorsville wells on production to-date compared to our historical and updated standard completion design type curves on Slide 9.
Our team continues to deliver improved drilling efficiency and during the second quarter we drilled a 170-foot lateral section in just 24-hours which I believe is an industry record not only we are continuing to achieve higher rate and ultimate recovery wells but we are also driving down relative cost which is all moving in the right direction.
In our other operated areas outside of Majorsville we're in the early stages of bringing on production from our first pad in the Oxford Pennsboro Shirley area.
This pad includes our first lateral of down spacing test to 550-feet as well as additional testing of enhanced completion designs.
In the dry gas area our partner CONSOL continues to deliver a number of strong pads as well including additional RSCS wells that are delivering a substantial production upside.
We've also been encouraged by recompletion operations in the Greenhill area in Southwestern Pennsylvania.
The six wells that were recompleted too and turned on to production with initial rates in excess of 4 million cubic feet per day each and average 15-fold production enhancement for these wells which were originally brought online more than five years ago.
On the marketing side were continuing to pursue a number of options to further diversify our markets from Marcellus gas.
And we're close to adding some near and long-term firm transport that will expand both our in basin and out of basin capacity.
So I couldnt be more pleased with how the Marcellus team is delivering value.
Our activity is providing dramatic growth in this area.
Moving offshore the second quarter was very active for our deepwater Gulf of Mexico business on both exploration as well as the development of multiple major projects.
Production was 19 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day with a majority of our volumes coming from our Galapagos Swordfish and Ticonderoga fields.
Were making good progress advancing our next round of major projects where we expect to ramp up of our production to commence in just over a year from now.
The first to come online will be the Big Bend project in our Rio Grande discovery area which remains on schedule for first production in the late 2015.
You see on Slide 10 the graphic of the Rio Grande development plans including not only Big Bend but also our Dantzler discovery as well.
The proximity of these discoveries will allow for Dantzler benefit from the production infrastructure being installed at Big Bend.
We've now ordered all of the necessary long lead items for both fields and are finalizing the subsea installation contracts.
During the second quarter we continue to progress the development of Dantzler and are now accelerating first production into the first quarter of 2016.
A rig is currently on location during the extension well with the results expected in the third quarter of this year.
Following the Rio Grande development we anticipate having our Gunflint field on production as planned in the middle part of 2016.
So the project teams are quite busy with three new fields to commence production all within a year of each other.
Adding an incremental 20 000 to 25 000 barrels of oil per day to our production volumes by mid 2016.
With an initial success at Katmai and the Bright well scheduled to reach total debt this quarter.
Exploration program is positioning us with good opportunity for new resource discovery and continued long-term growth.
Internationally our assets in West Africa continue to strong performance as we sold 82 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day net in the second quarter.
At our operated Aseng oil field total cumulative production is now on excess of 50 million barrels gross in start up just 2.5 years ago.
Weve highlighted on Slide 12 the fields production profile and you see our cumulative actual volumes above original expectation by more than 3 billion barrel gross through June this year.
Weve been able to accomplish this accelerated value through active field and well management and facility uptime.
Im particularly pleased with our stable recent production flat at slightly more than 40 000 barrels per day gross over the second quarter.
Weve recently celebrated the one-year production anniversary at Alen where condensate production reached record highs of approximately 30 000 barrels per day gross following facility turnaround and modification procedures.
Additional work over activities at Alen are ongoing including a sidetrack of one of the production oils which will enhance our productive capability even further by the end of the year.
In the Eastern Mediterranean production was 220 million cubic feet equivalent per day during the second quarter.
Tamar continues its strong performance with essentially no downtime during the quarter.
Power generation demand for natural gas in Israel is highly depended on weather and as we move into summer period we anticipate increased sales volumes for the third quarter.
Although we have slightly tempered our prior estimates due to the current situation in the region.
Were in the midst of a multi-year increase in our deliver ability based on continued growth in demand in Israel and in various regional markets nearby.
Our expansion plans between now and 2018 are shown on Slide 13 which highlight a more than tripling of todays capacity.
Our initial increase comes next year with the addition of compression at the Ashdod onshore receiving terminal which currently handles natural gas produced from Tamar.
Construction remains on schedule to provide an incremental 200 million cubic feet per day of capacity by summer next year.
Additional expansion at Tamar is planned for late 2017 tied to our recent letter of intent with union Fenosa gas for gas sales to their LNG facility on Egypt.
The LOI is for 440 million cubic feet per day over 15-year period and represents a significant acceleration of value for the Tamar asset.
We are currently working on the gas purchase and sale agreement with the UFG targeting to finalize by the end of this year.
Also included in the chart of the expanded plans for the first phase of development at Leviathan which is being progressed as a 1.6 billion cubic feet per day FPSO.
This is up significantly versus our thoughts as of the end of last year when we were planning on an initial project half that size.
The Leviathan FPSO project is being designed with two outlets one through Israel domestic grid providing an important second entry point for natural gas into Israel and regional markets beyond.
We also anticipate direct connection of the Leviathan FPSO via subsea pipeline to the BG LNG facility in Egypt.
During the second quarter we announced LOI with BG to provide at least 700 million cubic feet per day to their facilities for 15-years.
We are also close to securing additional customers for Leviathan.
From a technical perspective the Leviathan project is very well advanced including subsurface in facility design readiness.
First production at Leviathan is likely at the end of 2017 or early 2018 as we balance the technical and Marketing pieces with necessary regulatory approvals.
As part of the earnings release this morning we provided an outlook for our sales volume through the remainder of the year.
Slide 14 shows the primary components to our second half growth outlook where we estimate our core U.S.
onshore plays will deliver more than 10% growth from the second quarter to the third Quarter and then again from the third quarter to the fourth quarter.
You can see that we have already delivered a portion of that growth from volumes so far in July averaging over 150 000 barrels equivalent per day.
This slide also shows the transition in our timing of wells coming online impacted by facility enhancements that I mentioned earlier and the change in our programs through the course of the year to a large percentage of long laterals in both plays.
A very strong fourth quarter in terms of new wells on line will ensure we deliver a larger exit rate for 2014 than we had previously planned.
Slide 15 shows the total companys key quarterly sales component.
Overall our volumes in the second half of the year are lower than earlier expectations primarily as a result of three items impacting the DJ Basin.
A more conservative assumption on third-party midstream processing and line pressures the carryover impact from facility enhancements and the timing of wells coming online versus the second quarter or third quarter will be impacted by a significant under lifting in EG Equatorial Guinea as well as the China asset sale which combined account for a 12 000 barrel of oil per day difference we've also temporarily reduced to our natural gas sales assumptions in Israel due to the current conflict there.
As mentioned earlier the fourth quarter is still anticipate to be very strong with the ramp in activity levels and the onshore assets delivering a higher year-end exit rate than our prior projections.
Executing on this plan puts us in great shape when we think about 2015 growth.
On Slide 16 we are excited about the future for Noble Energy.
The U.S.
onshore program is delivering substantial growth while the offshore programs are aggressively advancing multiple major projects for development and at the same time we have an impact of exploration program which is positioned to test large resource potential over the next two years.
With that Cameron we would like to go ahead and open the call for questions.
(Operator Instructions) And we will take our first question from David Heikkinen from Heikkinen Energy Advisors.
Please go ahead.
LLC</strong>  Good morning guys.
Dave I think you hit some of it on the Slide 14 but the change from the plan in December to now of just shifting so many wells towards fourth quarter.
How much of that is just what percentage is extended reach laterals and then what percentage of that is the downtime or shut-ins of as you upgrade facilities?  Its actually a combination of all of that Dave and it's hard to put a percentage on any one piece that's all somewhat connected.
You've got the movement as you referenced on more longer laterals you actually have with the down spacing more wells prepared now and so forth too so if you look at back to where we were late last year versus how we continued to adjust the program with more down space and more longer laterals as you've got larger pads and all of that contributes to kind of the shift in when wells are coming online.
LLC</strong>  Maybe are better well results leading to out pacing some of the surface capacity and that's why you're seeing some of the problems that were expected to be really solved around third-party processing and pipeline pressures last year is it well results that are leading to more problems or constraints?  I think obviously you're getting very good well results.
I think the other piece there too when you look at the overall processing capacity there may be enough processing capacity but it may not be in the places we need it based on the activity and how the activities ramped up in different parts of the field by all of the industry and some of that.
So a lot of the effort right now is going to line looping inner connecting and so forth and getting this gas moved and bringing high pressure areas down.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And then can you just specifically hit what do you expect to produce in third quarter in Israel what volume versus the 220 in second quarter.
Well I would have to look here a minute.
I think let me just look here a minute Dave for you.
I think you're probably up to probably in that 250 range or so.
LLC</strong> Okay.
Thanks.
And well take our next question from Dave Kistler with Simons &amp; Company.
Good morning guys.
Good morning.
Real quickly with the Katmai discovery can you talk a little about ultimate size of the prize and just what actual resource level would support your comment that as it currently stands its a commercial development.
Well as we identify when we first set up the Katmai prospect there is really two prospects there and that what we're testing right now is the original four-way and then there's also another three-way that's a follow-up to that.
Our comment on commercial is our comment on commercial is the fact that we've already it's with the infrastructure we have in the area and with the 150 net oil pay weve already got a commercial well.
We've run through the analysis of what if we found nothing else we just carried this through it would be fine.
So on our original if on our original outlook for the four-way we still got a primary target to test so were but were moving or making nice progress against that range of resources that we first identified.
So we're going to wait until we finish the well before we put out a full resource estimate for it but it's significant enough that we want to just highlight that we're already past the commercial threshold by a nice amount.
Perfect I appreciate that color and then maybe switching over to the Eastern Mediterranean.
Obviously significant progress with the LOI that you guys announced over the last bit here.
Can you talk about what are the gating mechanisms between converting that from an LOI to a final purchase agreement as well as any other regulatory hurdles required to make that II transition as well.
Sure you bet.
Really immediately following the execution of the LOIs our team started working together with the potential purchasers here because its really its hammering out all the definitive agreements and that includes as you would expect a lot detail terms that go through but I mean thats just part of the process of moving to.
The primary structure behind those LOI is known in terms of how the gas would be moved who would be paying for what components and some things like that.
So in the case of for instance the BG LOI that also allows them to start doing some detailed engineering work on their side too to really make sure theyve got the projects scoped out.
So the process of moving from an LOI to a final sales agreement is getting all the details down and in this case also were working towards agreement that will be helpful in ultimate financing of the project for ourselves and the partners so thats important as well.
Regulatory approvals clearly fall on the category of government approvals.
I mean we received the export policy from Israel but specific exports will have to be approved and while conversations particularly by the purchasers have started on the Egyptian side we would expect their support and approval to be required as well.
So that will be all part of the process of moving these forward.
Okay just one more clarification.
So pricing as far as on a hydrocarbon basis that's already agreed to and the rest is kind of just details obviously complicated details but details around the framework of how its executed?   The pricing and it varies by agreements as to how far that is worked through so there will certainly be further details on that because it's all part of when you may have pricing points but at the same time our desire to participate in upside and downside because in the case the once we have talked about they are oil linked prices.
So it's important that you fully define the full breadth of the curve as part of that.
Now all will be worked out as well.
Perfect well I appreciate the clarification of guys.
Thank you so much.
Thank you.
And well take our next question from Arun Jayaram from Credit Suisse.
Please go ahead.
Good morning gentleman.
Good morning.
Gentlemen I wanted to first start off with kind of your longer-term thoughts on DJ Basin growth at your Analyst Day you talked about kind of a 23% CAGR over the next five years including 28% in 2014.
Obviously in 2014 you may not get there given the infrastructure issues that you talked about but I wanted to see if you could maybe comment on perhaps years two and five of the program.
Is there anything other than perhaps the starting lower starting part in 2014 when you think well performance or infrastructure or time to drill and complete kind of the extended reach laterals which would cause you to maybe have a different view of long growth from the basin?  No I am tell you Arun when I look at and I think I briefly mentioned it I'm confident we're going to end the year even stronger than we thought right now with some of the things were implemented and what we are doing out there and especially some of the things we're seeing on all this completion work.
So when I look over the next five years Im just as positive and optimistic in 2015 as Im 2018 from what we have laid out before.
Like you said we've gotten half to a little slower start on some of this but I think you'll see the pace pick up especially in the fourth quarter on this and we'll end the year in a very good spot.
I guess if I look back to me on whats changed and we are working through the infrastructure pieces we actually have a major projects team now and place to help us work that and we are truly treating this area and now the major project especially when you look at these big infrastructure facilities.
But when I look at it the biggest thing that I'm seeing here is just this potential in completions whether you look at it in the DJ Basin or in the Marcellus to me there's probably more opportunity here.
They continue to fine tune and enhance completion than I would have understood before and I think especially when you look at it in combination with tieing into the down spacing activity and tailoring your completion specifically to some of that down spacing activity for to get here your biggest near well bore impact and adjusting some of that that's a lot of the work were going on now.
And we are putting a lot of signs into it we talked about the about the fiber optic cables that give us realtime performance monitoring and some of the wells up and the DJs.
We are learning a tremendous amount this year that I think is going to pay huge dividends for the future.
Okay just a quick follow-up Dave you talked about two plug-n-perf wells obviously meaningfully out performing what you're doing on a sliding sleeve basis.
Are these the first wells that you've drilled on this basis and I wonder if you could talk about how much longer does it take to drill and complete under plug-n-perf design and versus what are the efficiency losses you'll get obviously it will take a little bit more time I wonder if you could put the 50% into context from cost and timing perspective? Yeah I think the time piece is all on the completion on the fracking and it probably takes about 40% more time plug-n-perf than the sliding sleeve time completion but when you look at it I think these are the first couple that we've tried up there.
I think you're also seeing and hearing from some other places where they're doing some of the same things and seeing some good results in other field.
but in our plan would be to do a number of more of these here in the second half of this year and get a bigger database and really start to get some extended production history on some of this.
So initially bodes well but we continuing to test some of this but it's all part of that same thing that I mentioned before which is getting your frac to be even more effective and getting that near well bore frac treatment and that concentration around the near well bore as great as you can get it.
I think just to follow-up in looking at it again and just echoing Dave's comment earlier about the excitement of the plan going forward is I just see these enhanced completion techniques really supporting the upside that were seeing in reduced spacing because they are really allowing us to get improved results and so that's all those enhancements Dave was talking about that gave us a lot of encouragement on our forward plan that there's a lot of upside in these areas.
The other thing too that's exciting when you look at it and really dig into it a little bit we showed you the example of the Wells Ranch 21 Echonode with I think 12 wells.
When you look at the mix of different completions within that you've got Codell you've got B chalks B Marls Codell chalks all of those performing  C chalks all of those performing above the type curve so far.
I mean that's extremely encouraging.
Thanks both of you thanks.
Well take our next question from Leo Mariani from RBC Capital Markets.
LLC</strong>  Hey guys I hope that you could give us a little bit more color around your statements regarding potential impact from the conflict in Israel.
Clearly you guys are adding productive capacity next year at Tamar I guess mid-year and then at year-end and do you have confidence in all that capacity can be absorbed by incremental Israeli demand over the next year or two? Maybe you can just speak to that.
Yes thanks and right now we're not really seeing impacts on sales as a result of the conflict but we did want to be a little bit more conservative at least in the third quarter going forward but the demand for gas in Israel is very strong very strong.
At this period of time and again as we go into the kind of the peak heating season we max out.
Frequently we'll hit our maximum production rate so there's no question about the increased demand.
In fact weve entered into a number of contracts with additional customers that we are not able to supply they are on basically an interruptible basis we can't supply them today because we don't have the gas so we've got great support for the expansion as you point out that we're doing at Tamar and that project adding compression at Ash Dot is moving along nicely and should start up next year.
So it's a real demand and we see there is additional demand even beyond the Tamar expansion that we're doing right now and that will certainly be an element of the support for Leviathan in the future.
LLC</strong>  Okay and I guess just another unrelated question here.
Can you talk a little bit about your plans for the MLP here in terms of what assets are going in there and just any expectations around sort of size of that obviously guys are a pretty big company.
It wouldn't seem to be a giant MLP in the short-term but maybe there's a larger plan to really grow this over a number of years.
Could you speak to that in a little more detail? Well unfortunately we're in an S1 process that we filed confidentially so the rules pretty much limit us to just stating what we announced on the press release until that all gets worked through.
LLC</strong> Okay thanks guys.
You bet.
Thanks.
Well take our next question from Irene Haas with Wunderlich Securities.
Inc.</strong>  Yes hi good morning.
Very good morning Irene.
Inc.</strong> Congratulations on the success in the deepwater Gulf of Mexico.
My question is actually on the Marcellus I heard you guys are doing some refrac.
Is that true and if yes sort of what are the mechanics involved can you go in and do your RSCS configuration and then really to think a few steps further if this worked for the Marcellus horizontal and what would be the inventory impact per refrac in terms of BCF and then can you kind of replicate the same thing in the water burg some years down the line?  I mean that its a good question Irene.
Its one of those things is it in another opportunity Ill tell you whats weve done so far whats been by the partnership is a few wells as I mentioned that are fairly old wells I think they are almost five year vintage they were very short laterals I think they were only less than 2000 foot laterals and what you saw from those which as I mentioned is a huge increase I think it was like a 15 fold increase from what they were producing before what they came back on after the refrac.
Now what was interesting in a number of these wells when you refrac them or recompleted because we added I think there was perforations added too that was kind of the recompletion refrac if you well that actually some of these  couple of these wells came back just as strong as they started out originally or better in some of these things so its something that continue to follow how much of an application can you do across the field down the road I dont know I think thats probably another phase yet to come and its something well continue to test on basis where it seems appropriate and well continue to look at it for a possibility in the DJ down the road.
Inc.</strong> Hello Just the configuration do you have to go back in the borehole the horizontal part? Do you actually use your original perf interval or can you change that? Well I think what we did in these or what they did in these they are actually added some perforations to some of this too.
So they opened it up a little bit more and then.
So you have a combination of what you originally completed a long list some additional exposure here.
Inc.</strong> Gotcha thank you.
Thanks.
Well take our next question from Joseph Allman with JP Morgan.
Please go ahead.
Good morning hi this is actually [indiscernible] for Joseph Allman.
All right.
I had a brief question on the environmental issues.
I know you guys can't quantify anything right now but is there any other impacts that you guys might be seeing coming from this going forward? How will they impact the IDPs? Are there any other environmental concerns that you guys have? Are you just referring to where we were capturing some additional emissions and redesigning some of our facilities.
Next I was referring to the Colorado ballot initiatives initially? Oh on the ballot initiatives from an environmental standpoint I think that really the key on that is the setback initiatives and thats just a matter of reducing the area that would be available for development around some occupied areas.
And as I mentioned we really can speculate this point because there is a waver process involved in that but its really I dont think we view that is an environmental issue is just a  it would be a further restriction on places that you could drill.
Okay.
And then other environmental concern? So Ive read that Nevada is a nesting ground and I know you guys are exploring out there that going to have any impact on that? I think its safe to say that  in all the areas we work as part of our plans and schedules we anticipate getting the right permits and requirements.
So I think weve already got certainly in Colorado we have a strong regulatory environments so no I think they are all part of our schedule and plans.
And then were still moving ahead with our plans to drill some additional wells in Nevada later this year so that still moving forward so no change to that plan.
Okay great.
And can you guys help us think through the DJ Basin Downspacing Program a little bit from this four wells per section and 32 wells per section would that be applicable across your entire acreage and the early horizon going forward? Well as we said before we are trying it in different parts of the field and we will just need to get some more information later this year and then certainly how it expand from there.
Okay.
All right great thank you.
Well take our next question from Charles Meade with Johnson Rice.
Good morning gentlemen.
First you start a quick one on Katmai what you guys found so far the 150 feet to pay that in the same trap as your primary objection? Its a four way closure.
And so the structure is generally is there but it wouldnt be and I think our view is it would be in a different pressure sale one is in I guess would be a middle Miocene and then the one that we've got to drill is in a lower Miocene.
So it's all Charles it's all part of the same structure but it would be in a completely different interval.
Completely different interval  Got it.
Different pressures so.
That makes sense with the liner that you guys still have to set there.
Thanks for that and then if I could go back and try to dig in a little bit more on the pepler peaks pad.
Dave I know you said in your prepared comments both of those  that all three of those peoples were 20-stages with I think you said three clusters per stage but were there any other differences that perhaps were necessitated by just the different kind of completion technique you use and I'm thinking the size of the job you pumped whether they are all three in the same zone that sort of thing?  Yes.
That I mean weve got  I think you've got one in the A and two in the C if I remember it correctly but as far as size of job I think they are very similar.
Okay so well that looks like a promising.
Well the other difference there Charles too and we pointed out one was a sliding sleeve and two were plug-n-perf.
Right.
Right.
So you have a comparison in the C and a sleeve sliding sleeve so that will give us something to compare on that basis too.
Within a single zone?  Right.
Right.
Yes.
That was the detail I was looking for thank you Dave.
Okay.
We'll go next to Michael Rowe with TPH.
Pickering &amp; Holt</strong>  Hi good morning.
I was wondering if you could just provide an update on your down spacing test in the Marcellus.
No.
I think what I mentioned we just did our first well were just bringing our first pad on in that 550-foot down spacing so it will be probably next quarter or so before we really have results on that.
It's just coming online.
Pickering &amp; Holt</strong> Okay great.
And then just real quickly back to the DJ Basin.
I know you commented about this a little bit earlier but just maybe wanted more color on what you think  what your initial indications are on what these completion enhancements could mean for your ultimate spacing patterns in the Basin? Well I think part of what were doing there with the completion enhancements is as you go to some of the down spacing as you continue to test some of this down spacing part of these completion enhancements are tailored for this increased density to plug-n-perf or some of the other things were trying to just get a higher concentration of propane around the well bore and get you better recovery which is even more critical on these tighter spacing wells.
So it just it's all it's all about continuing to improve our ultimate recovery up into the mid-teams from single-digits probably that were actually using right now.
Pickering &amp; Holt</strong> Okay.
Great thank you.
And next we'll go to David Tameron with Wells Fargo.
Please go ahead.
LLC</strong>  Hi good morning.
Just a couple quick questions.
First some of new completion techniques and the plug-n-perf and sliding can you just talk about any additional costs associated with those or I know you're in early R&amp;D phase but can you address that.
Yes.
I mean I think here as we done the first couple years looking at 400 000 or so difference on the in the DJ on those plug-n-perf and I would expect you continue to know the gap overtime as you get more of the even and get that lined out even more but a lot of its tide into additional time in the down the completion side obviously.
I think in the Marcellus we're looking at an alternate design to this RSCS piece that right now at least the first one or two has been about half the cost of that so it will be interesting as we continue to compare results for this all of the design versus some of the improvement weve seen on the RSCS so we'll keep a close eye on that too.
LLC</strong>  Okay.
And then I know we're up against 10 O Clock.
One last quick question.
The infrastructure That was half the incremental cost just to be clear on that.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And the infrastructure issues in the DJ it sounds like most of the facility upgrades  it sounds like most of the stuff is happening I guess more what you define as or people would define as core Wattenberg rather than East Pony.
Is that fair or are you seeing infrastructure issues up in around the East Pony area as well? You're pretty accurate there because I mean when you think about it the impact of the industry and all the activity all tie into these big central facilities is mainly down in that core Wells Ranch and the other areas down there.
Up in East Pony we have a little more control of our own infrastructure up there.
Yes we have that Kiota plant that we'll be putting in later this year.
So that will help us out a lot up in that part of the field too so you cant ask to look at it in different portions here.
LLC</strong>  Okay all right.
That's all I've got.
Thanks.
I appreciate it.
Thanks.
And we take our next question from Brian Singer at Goldman Sachs.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
I just wanted to follow up on the DJ here.
At the Analyst Meeting you highlighted the IDPs that give Noble a cost and execution advantage from a wellhead-to-processing perspective.
Can you just talk more about whether you feel like there is a similar midstream advantage that can mitigate the impact expansion will have on volume growth and realizations relative to the others? Maybe Keota which you just referenced is that.
But can you talk more about the midstream mitigation? Yes I think Brian on a midstream when we other than in the Northern area we have more control over destiny but in that  as you move into more the core regions Wells Ranch area there we are dedicated to third-party processors so the key there is to work in coordination with the third-party to make sure that we got the timing all worked out and as Dave pointed out is making sure you got the infrastructure in the right places and you got volumes connected and moving towards there is capacity so it means there's going to be a lot of coordination work between third-party processor and our own people.
The other there Brian which was part of what we alluded to in talking and talking about the IDPs and some of the benefits what that really allows us to do is to put some real pipeline infrastructure in place like on oil hauling and water handling and so forth and really takes a lot off the road and simplifies our operations when you consolidated like that.
As that continues to expand is there a point six months one year three years down the road where you could say  here the IDPs are in place.
It's giving us this advantage and we are now seeing much less volatility and more consistency in terms of not just getting the oil to the IDP but getting it all the way to market relative to others? Absolutely thats where we are heading with.
That's why we look at this whole thing as a major project and we have organized and staffed accordingly to handle this because there is the big price there for the future.
I think also once you have that capacity there were you really start to also see competitive advantage as you perhaps going and look at down spacing drilling there you got the capacity you're not having to build-out new as much on the pads because you got it already in a central facility.
And reduce your whole cycle time over time also.
When is that point of critical mass? Is that six months away a year away? When did you say you would expect to reach critical mass there? Well I think it depends on IDP and Wells Ranch we have got a central processing facility in place.
We are expanding that so there you'll be more to that point within the next year or so here and then it says you move through these other IDPs and get their central facilities in place which is kind of probably about one a year.
Thanks.
And one last quick one in Nevada.
You talked about the most recent well results.
Was the liquids quality in line with expectations or is there any change one way or the other? No no surprise there.
We have actually sold some oil now.
Great.
Thank you very much.
Thanks Brain.
Thanks Brain.
Next we have Gail Nicholson at KLR Group.
Please go ahead.
LLC</strong>  Good morning.
Real quickly when we look at the break-down that you guys give the second half of 2014 of the well count are those evenly split on a quarterly basis between the Marcellus and Niobrara? Gail I dont have the breakdown here with me.
I would check that with Brad and David on that.
LLC</strong> Okay perfect.
And then in regards to the second well at  can you talk about by drilling that well what any potential increase in the standpoint of production coming online? I know that Dantzler now got moved up into the first quarter of 2016 but do you think that peak rate of that field might increase to that second well?  Well it's an extension well and it's testing another block.
So yes it would be further upside to the field and it's one of the reasons we're moving forward with it now because it would allow us to modify our facilities as we develop the original Dantzler.
And the facility plan is set up such that if that's successful we'll be able to tie it in quickly so that's another big advantage for that.
LLC</strong>  And then just one quick other question if I may.
What we seen with the gas price coming off and the wide differentials we seen in Appalachia do you guys when you look forward on your activity plans on 2015 forward does that change anything in your minds as how you'll develop the Marcellus?  I think as far as 2015 well be sitting down with our partner our joint venture partner and start to look at that probably starting over the next couple months but it's probably a little early to speculate on what we're going to do activity wise next year.
Historically as the market has moved around we've made some adjustments with our partner between the distributions of wells in the wet gas area versus the dry gas area so you can imagine that as Dave referenced as we get into the detailed discussions for 2015 that will be part of the conversation as well? LLC</strong>  Thank you.
And well take our next question from Rehan Rashid with FBR Capital Markets &amp; Co.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
Just two quick questions.
On page 14 this is in the Niobrara fourth quarter 172 wells.
Is that good operating capacity of the platform? How should we think about it as we go into 2015? And then second on Katmai I'm not sure if I missed this or not but from a development standpoint where would it get tied in? That's it.
Thanks.
Okay.
First of all on the 14 that's a combination of both Marcellus and the Niobrara so sorry about that but it's the sum of the two so we are just giving you an idea of the flow through that co-horizontal program and again I think we had a question early on the break out and maybe check with Brad or David they can give you some of the break out on that on the Katmai there is a couple of existing facilities in the region that have capacity and so the plan always was that if we had success at Katmai we would engage in securing capacity so it would be  well we'll see how the primary  Like a multiple choices.
Yes.
I got a lot of choices there and we'll see how it goes but certainly with what we have now that could be developed through subsea tie back.
Got it.
So cycle time should be pretty short.
I would say it would be typical of what we have seen in things like Big Bend as an example.
That's a good example now we've still got a primary target to drill and the size could go up and that could alter our thinking but certainly with what we've got you would expect cycle times similar to what we've seen in other subsea tie backs.
Got it.
Last question if I may.
In the Niobrara legislatively speaking let's just say worst outcome 2000 feet away.
Is that on the surface limitations or subsurface?  That is surface so that's where your well side is versus an occupied structure.
So once youve got a clear location on the surface then you can move with the horizontal development.
So then the loss of location should  I mean you can simply extend your lateral length right to offset any surface loss of locations?  There is lot of different things that have to be looked at as you would work just like we work it now with the existing setbacks that's why we dont speculate on the impact on locations but obviously has an effect because 2000-feet is greater than 500-feet to 1000-feet so thats we dont believe its appropriate while were I think in greater position to help make sure that these dont pass.
Okay thank you.
Thanks.
Next we have John Herrlin with Societe Generale.
Please go ahead.
Yes hi three quick ones.
With Katmai Chuck if you did find more is it potentially enough to justify standalone facilities that would you kind of alluding to or would it be subsea as well if you do find more?  Well I think where you start thinking about standalone and when you go to the three-way.
So weve got to drill out the four-way closure now and I think what the range of resources we had on now.
I think we would still view that as a subsea tieback but when you start considering the three-way thats where if you had success in that case you probably step back and rethink that and maybe start thinking standalone but thats a waste down the road.
Right.
Okay thanks.
Within the data what was the gravity in the oil Chuck? Or Dave?  I thought it was low-to-mid 30s John but I would have to double check that.
It does have a  as we said is as expected it has a higher Parafin content.
So you would ship to Salt Lake? It would go less three of those refineries yes.
Okay got it.
Last one for me in terms of the CapEx could you give me a spilt of how much was unconventional and how much kind of conventional if thats possible for the quarter? 69% John was the US onshore business? Okay thanks thats it.
Thank you.
And this does conclude our question-and-answer session.
I would like to turn the conference back to Mr.
Larson for any closing remarks.
Great thanks again for everybody participating in the call as well as your continued interest in Nobel Energy.
I hope everybody has a great day.
Thanks Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude todays teleconference.
We thank you for your participation.
Welcome to Noble Energy's Third Quarter 2014 Earnings Call.
At this time I would like to turn the call over to Mr.
David Larson.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you.
Good morning everyone.
Welcome to Noble Energy's third quarter 2014 earnings call and webcast.
This morning we issued our quarterly earnings release which hopefully you have had a chance to review.
A few supplemental slides for this call were also posted to our website and they will be good reference material for the discussion today.
Following remarks by Chuck Davidson and Dave Stover we will open the call for Q&amp;A and with the executive team.
We would ask that all participants limit themselves to one primary question and one follow-up.
Finally I want to remind everyone that this webcast and conference call contains forward-looking statements as well as references to non-GAAP financial measures.
You should read our disclosures in our latest news release and SEC filings for a discussion of those.
With that let me turn the call over to Chuck.
Thanks David.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us.
My opening comments are going to be brief today.
Our leadership transition that we announced last April remains on schedule with the announcement this past week of the election of Dave as our new CEO.
Dave will be an excellent CEO for Noble Energy and is perfect to lead the Company through its next phase of growth.
He's been an integral part of our success to this stage and has all the skills as well as an outstanding leadership team to support him as we move forward.
I'll continue as Chairman until next May when I will be retiring from Noble Energy.
My job between now and then is to work closely with Dave and the executive team to make sure that this transition continues to unfold smoothly and seamlessly and I have all the confidence that it will.
I do want to take a step back for a moment and share my thoughts on where I believe Noble Energy is today and where we are headed.
Noble is a Company that is built for the long-term.
We have said that many times in the past.
We've established ourselves as a diversified exploration and production Company that excels in onshore unconventional development as well as offshore exploration.
In the U.S.
we have core positions in two of the premier unconventional oil and gas plays which are delivering value for our Company and its shareholders.
Offshore we have three core areas which provided meaningful volume and cash flow growth through exploration success and project execution.
In addition weve a material exploration program in front of us which will provide running room for the future.
Our diversified portfolio of assets is designed to deliver value in a variety of operating environments.
As we've said before we are not a single play Company nor are we limited to a single commodity market.
We have a portfolio of opportunities around the world that is well-balanced between liquids as well as both domestic and international national gas which gives us choices to effectively allocate capital and create value.
This portfolio results in a very unique multi-year profile for a Company.
It's why I believe that Noble Energy is well-positioned to deliver positive differential performance over the coming years.
So with that quick introduction let me turn the call over to Dave and the team.
Thanks Chuck.
I appreciate those nice comments and before I launch into the quarter let me make a few comments of my own.
The time goes by so fast that it is hard to believe I worked with Chuck for about 25 years now from ARCO to Vastar to Noble.
One of the things I admire about Chuck is his ability to handle adversity and always be thinking of long-term implication.
It is a testament to him that these traits have become part of the DNA of Noble Energy.
I've been at Noble now for close to 12 years and it's been amazing to be part of the transformation of this Company and I truly believe the best is yet to come.
When I think about doubling our volume in four of our five core areas in the next few years and at the same time having an exploration program focused on delivering a new core area Noble is well-positioned for the future.
Another of Chuck's strengths is his focus on succession planning and I owe him a great deal of gratitude for mentoring me all these years.
I believe we have a leadership team that provides a competitive advantage for years to come.
We mentioned some of the additional adjustments in our press release last week and I'm pleased with the operations leadership that we've built.
Some of them are here with me today Gary Willingham Susan Cunningham and Keith Elliott.
Now to talk about the quarter I plan to keep my prepared remarks a bit shorter than in the past since we have expanded the operations section of the release with more highlights and details.
I'm sure David would appreciate your feedback on this change.
It was another exciting quarter here at Noble energy.
Sales volumes for the quarter were above the mid-point of guidance driven by record sales in three of our five core areas including the DJ Basin Marcellus and Eastern Mediterranean.
Our U.S.
onshore assets continued to deliver outstanding results as our understanding of the DJ Basin and Marcellus grows.
Our major projects in the Gulf of Mexico remain on track to deliver significant growth beginning in 2015.
And in the Eastern Mediterranean our teams continue to make progress capturing more gas markets as the regional demand for our natural gas continues to grow.
It's definitely been a busy quarter for Noble Energy.
Let's talk about our core areas.
Starting with the U.S.
onshore we delivered record production in both the DJ Basin and Marcellus on the back of some strong execution of our horizontal programs.
As you can see on slide 4 the horizontal programs have outstanding growth over the last year up 50% over the equivalent period a year ago when adjusted for asset sales.
During the third quarter we brought online 123 wells.
We expect to bring on an additional 172 wells horizontal wells during the fourth quarter putting us on track to meet our planned year-end exit rate.
In fact we have already brought online more than one-third of the planned fourth-quarter wells this month alone and are currently producing 145 000 barrels of oil equivalent from the horizontal program in the U.S.
onshore.
In the DJ Basin production was up 15% from the third quarter last year.
Our volume was reduced by a few thousand barrels per day as a result of facility downtime some of which was mentioned in last quarter's call.
We continue to work closely with our midstream partner to increase capacity and improve reliability.
Recently new compression and dehydration capacity has been added which has contributed to new system throughput records and several other incremental projects are expected to start up in the coming months.
We feel good about where third-party infrastructure is heading and its ability to keep up with our activity levels.
We continue to focus on improving well performance in three ways.
The first is through extended laterals where we are clearly seeing better investment efficiency.
In the quarter 30% of the wells drilled were combination of mid and long laterals.
Another focus is increased density.
We have highlighted on slide 5 the initial results of our down spacing test in section 30 of the Wells Ranch IDP results from this test are very encouraging and while early the wells are performing at or above the type curve.
We have additional down spacing tests coming online in other areas during the fourth quarter.
The third focus for improved well performance is enhanced completion techniques.
We are also seeing encouraging results in this area.
Our initial Plug-n-Perf completions at the Peaks/Peppler pad in the core IDP continue to out-perform the type curve after five months of production.
Late in the quarter we brought online an additional four wells utilizing Plug-n-Perf completion design and we plan to bring online an additional 20 Plug-n-Perf completions by the end of 2014.
Ultimately we have a huge platform of resources to work from as we continue to improve investment efficiency and ultimate recovery.
We're making progress on a number of our Noble operated infrastructure products that will enable us to meet our long-term growth productions.
We recently expanded the oil infrastructure at the Wells Ranch Central Processing Facility.
This facility is tied in to the DCP Rocky Compressor station which is expected to come online in the first half of 2015 with a capacity of 100 million cubic feet per day and in the northern Colorado area the Keota gas plant remains on schedule to start up in the fourth quarter with an initial capacity of 15 million cubic feet per day.
Plans are then to double its capacity in the first quarter of 2015.
This facility will provide significant incremental capacity in the liquid rich area of East Pony.
The story in the Marcellus is very similar to the DJ Basin and it starts with a great execution and includes improving well performance enhanced completions and down spacing.
In the quarter production was up an impressive 31% over the previous quarter and the liquids component has now increased to 13% of this area's production.
During the quarter we had some very encouraging results delineating a new area in West Virginia.
We began flowing back wells from the Oxford number Oxford-1 and Shirley-1 pads and the Oxford-Pennsboro-Shirley area and you can see their performance on slide 6.
These are the first two pads online in the area and the initial performance is above type curve.
The Oxford pad is our first 550-foot down spacing test in the area and we are encouraged by the high initial liquids contribution.
The next pad coming online in this area is Missouri is the Pennsboro-1 in the fourth quarter.
We continue to manage our portfolio of assets and look for opportunities to bring value forward.
During the quarter we successfully completed the CONE Midstream MLP Initial Public Offering which generated over $200 million in net proceeds to Noble Energy.
In fact CONE's current market capitalization stands at $1.7 billion of which our share is $550 million.
The proceeds from this transaction along with our non-core assets divestment program have contributed to our strong balance sheet as we continue to invest in our major products and onshore horizontal development programs.
So as we look toward fourth quarter and the significant growth ahead for the U.S.
onshore area we are confident that we're in a position to deliver and enter 2015 in great shape.
Let's move onto the Gulf of Mexico an area that is a bit underappreciated in our portfolio today.
Over the last year we have had tremendous performance from our legacy fields maintaining flat production levels with active reservoir and well management plans.
Of specific note the Galapagos field continues to outperform expectations averaging 9000 barrels of oil equivalent per day net in the quarter.
Cumulative gross production from Galapagos has reached 36 million barrels of oil equivalent in just 25 months.
The result is more than two times payout of the investment in two years with the strong current production and up hole zones still to be produced.
Earlier in the quarter we announced final well results at the Katmai discovery and Dantzler appraisal well.
Katmai represents our fifth operated Gulf of Mexico discovery in a row and provides another meaningful project to our lineup of Gulf of Mexico developments.
With the appraisal success at the Dantzler providing an increase in resource size and the development work being done at Big Bend the Rio Grande development will lead a sizable oil volume increase from the Gulf of Mexico over the next couple of years.
We're looking forward to the near-term impact from our Gulf of Mexico developments.
All major contracts have been awarded and offshore facility modifications have commenced for all ongoing projects.
The project line-up can be seen on slide 7.
First production is only about a year away for Big Bend.
The initial net production rate from each field is expected to be in excess of 10 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day with over 80% oil.
By designing Big Bend infrastructure carefully we were able to make Dantzler part of that development and accelerate first production to the first quarter of 2016.
On the exploration front we expect to spud the Madison well any day now which is an acceleration of our original plans.
Madison is another meaningful exploration test in the Miocene trend where we have a proven track record of success.
The well is located near the Galapagos field and if successful will be a tie-back to a nearby facility results from the well are expected early 2015.
Internationally our assets in West Africa continued to perform extremely well.
The decline rates at our fields in Equatorial Guinea have lower than expected as a result of strong reservoir performance and production management.
I'm particularly pleased with how the teams are managing these liquid rich assets which provide significant cash flow for the business.
Looking ahead we will be resuming exploration drilling in West Africa with the Cheetah prospect offshore Cameroon in 2015.
We recently added Woodside to our partnership for this well.
In the Eastern Mediterranean over the course of the last six months we have executed letters of intent for regional gross daily volumes of over 1.5 billion cubic feet per day and total volumes of over 8 trillion cubic feet of natural gas to these customers.
These agreements highlight the long-term demand for Tamar and Leviathan gas and all parties are focused on completing them as soon as possible.
We've shown on slide 9 our expected regional sales for Tamar and Leviathan which includes an LOI for interruptible sales from Tamar to Egyptian domestic customers.
We anticipate we could be in position to provide around 200 million cubic feet per day at off-peak hours to Egypt as soon as regulatory approvals are received.
The compression project at the Ashdod onshore receiving terminal which handles gas for Tamar remains on schedule to be complete by next summer.
Once complete peak capacity at Tamar will be 1.2 billion cubic feet per day.
This is part of a multi-year expansion at Tamar which will increase capacity to 2 billion cubic feet per day by 2017 to meet growing demand in the Eastern Mediterranean.
Looking ahead to the fourth quarter slide 10 highlights our anticipated production growth.
We expected to bring on a record number of horizontal wells in our U.S.
onshore program which underpins our production ramp.
Natural gas demand in Israel is normally lighter in the fourth quarter.
Our sales volume range for the quarter is 307 000 to 327 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day consistent with earlier guidance but adjusted for the non-core divestiture recently competed in the Piceance Basin.
It is worth noting that our fourth-quarter oil volumes are expected to be 36% of the mix up 3% from the 33% in the third quarter.
This is driven by West Africa and DJ volumes.
We look forward to a strong close to 2014 setting us up well for 2015.
While it is too early for details we plan to remain flexible with our 2015 capital program as we monitor the commodity outlook for oil and domestic natural gas.
Our diverse portfolio of oil domestic and international gas combined with a strong balance sheet provides us options to continue to build value in a variety of operating environments.
With that Cassandra we would like to go ahead and open the call for questions.
The first question following up on your last comment on 2014 CapEx I know what your investor presentation in December at several slides that describe your risk management and those potentially relevant for today was cash flow at risk slides and in the slide you tested it down (indiscernible) for all '14 and '16 at $75 GI 320 and I think it was a $5 (indiscernible) and that was $2.5 billion cash flow swing and you stated there was a minimum risk of breaching your key debt metrics and so I know youve a significant liquid hedge and liquidity to maybe just kind of thinking back to that slide can I conclude how Noble would operate in a $75 WTI environment or maybe explain how you think about that liquidity and willingness to draw on that liquidity to deliver the five-year and longer term growth plan.
I think Evan as Ive mentioned it's little too early to get into exactly what we'll do next year.
We're going to look at different sensitivities to commodity price obviously versus where that now both down and up on that and we will continue to do that cash flow at risk analysis as we've always done.
I think when you look at our program for next year the main levers are the major -- when you look at the capital portion the major project timing on that exploration program size and pace of the onshore development.
I think as you mentioned we also have a nice hedge book for next year that kind of minimizes some of that impact on pricing swing.
So we'll continue to look at all of that.
Okay.
Maybe a different CapEx question that relates to your recent and successful CONE IPO.
I know you put forth different pie charts on facilities CapEx with a pretty big wedge in that $3.3 billion U.S.
onshore 2014 CapEx but how much of that or what did you spend this year? I mean Marcellus facilities CapEx given the CONE vehicle now gives you an ability to convert that CapEx investment to get back into cash at a reasonable timeframe.
I don't have the number with me right now but it -- what you've seen in both the Marcellus and the DJ has been kind of increasing facility spend as we've gotten further down the road on some of these facilities.
I mean in the DJ we have talked about the integrated development plans up there and in the Marcellus we're actually adapting some of that thought process into the Marcellus.
So youve seen an increase on both of those and obviously that led into the Marcellus to a CONE IPO which was very advantageous and highlighted some value in that area.
So I think you'll continue to see some facilities spend increase but I don't have the exact numbers with me here.
But it will continue to ramp up in both areas over time as both areas continue to grow.
And just one other follow-up just to that -- given the success there and it is still more recent -- does it change your thoughts of potentially using that structure to monetize or to better capitalize infrastructure spending in other parts of your U.S.
onshore or actually offshore (indiscernible) it will be onshore.
To your point we've additional infrastructure coming on offshore too with big major projects.
But we will continue to look at as I mentioned in my notes that helped unlock value in the Marcellus we will continue to look at in the other parts of our business as the facility spend continues to grow and become a bigger part of the business.
I've two questions also if I may Chuck it's kind of a follow-up to Evans CapEx question.
There is a chatter around breakeven of shale economics in the U.S.
I'm just curious as to how if you could share your perspective on your portfolio.
In other words is there a level or recourse to a level where you would consider at least a mid to high grade your capital allocation I guess in the DJ in particular and Ive got a follow-up.
I was trying to get your perspective on how you see the (indiscernible) breaking even for U.S.
unconventional production really specifically to your portfolio and whether there is a level that you would consider that you need to hydrate your capital allocation within the DJ particular.
I'm going to let Dave carry on with that but I'll just continue with the theme that Ive had before is that in many instances in the unconventional it's not so much the breakeven economics it's managing your cash flow and your balance sheet.
And I think that's where for many producers we will see as they look at a particular commodity environment.
We've seen this cycle on natural gas several times the past couple years.
Oil we've seen the cycle as well and I think it's a matter of managing cash flow and in some of these unconventional plays have very strong economics even at lower oil prices but you want to manage your balance sheet.
And I'll leave it to Dave to comment on Noble's portfolio and how he looks at it.
I think it was designed this way but we're set up to be in two of the best unconventional plays in the U.S.
and I think that's borne out when you look at a lot of the analysis of breakeven economics that various folks do on these plays and especially in the DJ it looks very good against that.
Obviously there is different portions of it that have different economics as you have different oil and gas mix across the play but we're very comfortable and very pleased that we've got the portfolio we have whether it's our onshore portfolio or the other components of our core areas.
I mean thats the whole basis for that diversified portfolio but it starts with high quality assets in each of the core areas.
My follow-up is really in the longer term production outlook.
I realize that the commodity outlook is clearly challenging a lot of folk's expectations I guess but as you pointed out Dave you have a lot of bouncing your portfolio specific to the Mediterranean and since you give us the update in December you have clearly had substantial progress in contracting Leviathan on gas in particular.
So I'm just wondering if you could give us an idea how does the event of last several months in terms of Leviathan change your production expectations your development expectations and if I may but what headroom do youve left to max out I guess you're getting pretty close on your export alone and (indiscernible) whether there is any effects of that.
I'll leave it at that.
Let me start on that and Keith can talk a little more about where were on the whole Leviathan marketing.
But when you think about the biggest difference is when you look at the end of that five year outlook and into the 10 year outlook kind of that 2018 and beyond period we're now looking at volumes from Leviathan potentially they are significantly higher than what we talked about a year or so ago.
We originally were talking about an initial Phase 1 of Leviathan that was about $800 million a day and now we're planning for something that has the capacity of 1.6 bcf a day with the plans to operate kind of on average up to 1.2 bcf a day and that's kind of what a lot of the contracting and LIIs [ph] and what we're moving on additional volumes but again that's just the first phase of Leviathan.
There is still a big component of Leviathan that won't be marketed in that first phase part of it held for domestic but there is still additional export volumes also.
So Keith may just update you a little bit on where were in our thinking there.
Thanks Dave.
Yes I think that's exactly right Doug.
When you look at the LOIs that we have in place on Leviathan and just now were moving to -- well it's about 5.5 tcf that are in total under LOI which represents a little over half of the exportable allocation from Leviathan-based on the most between '13 export policy.
So we still have ways to go and we still have -- the good thing is we continue to see growing demand in the region and we also see the growing opportunity for even extra regional export there.
So we're very encouraged by what we've seen in the marketing activities in the region.
The other thing I would add Doug is not just Leviathan it's Tamar also.
We don't have this LOI with Union Fenosa which is substantial volume of gas.
I think it's about over 400 million a day and close to 2.5 tcf and that's somewhat additive to what we were originally thinking about a year and year and half ag.
Again it's kind of in that same timeframe late '17 and getting full impact but in the '18 and beyond.
So thats been the biggest difference it's not just the clarity of the delivery of the overall five year plan but it's more clarity around what a 10 year plan looks like.
Just a clarification so it's the resource at Leviathan expanded with export ceiling expand also? Yes.
The export policy is written such that it's a percentage of overall total resource and the percentages vary by size of field but in scope of Leviathan it's roughly 50%.
Just hoping to kind of ask a few follow-ups here on Israel you guys have any sort of better clarity on when you think you might be able to sanction Leviathan project.
Additionally can you just give us your current thinking around the potential for LNG in the Eastern Mediterranean I guess just finally with respect to Israel is there any update on when you may spud your deep oil prospect below the Leviathan field? On the Leviathan sanction I think we're still progressing towards the sanction but a number of things to fall into place those are the things that we're working on right now.
The contracts taking these big contracts from an LOI to a GSPA whether it's the contract with Jordan whether it's the contract with BG.
Those will be key items and then on the back of that then getting the regulatory where it's export approval agreement with what we've signed up for between the different countries but I think the thing that we're seeing is a lot of support for all of this by the timing of it's all got to come together.
So that would be into -- most likely into next year sometime with the first piece of that being -- moving the LOI to actual gas sales agreements.
I think on -- which kind of then leads to the next second phase which is your question on the LNG piece.
I think that gets into what is the best way to handle the second phase of marketing here.
Part of that will be dependent on what we see for additional opportunities and regional but part of it will also be tied to how much do we want to play on a world market and I think when you're looking at LNG for the Israeli gas it's probably the most likely scenario on LNG would be an FLNG type project so we keep that alive.
We keep that option alive and we will continue to keep that option alive as we continue to see how much the regional market continues to grow.
And we've not by any stretch of the imagination captured all of the regional market with Phase 1 on this.
I think on the deep oil part of this I mean we're still excited about deep oil propsectivity over there but the timing is going to be dependent on when we bring our rig capable of drilling the deep oil prospect into to go along with the additional Leviathan and Tamar development and then in what sequence we do those things.
So that all have to fit together.
Can you just give us a little bit more on Nevada? You talked about commencing production in July.
I just want to see how many wells would that be? And it looks like you're adding three increments wells to the budget here in the second half just trying to get a sense of those horizontal wells just maybe some more color on Nevada will be helpful.
I mean thats still a big opportunity for us.
I will let Gary talk just a little bit about what were doing currently and Susan may expand a little bit about her thoughts going forward as she is getting more involved in this now to from the frontier new venture aspect of this actually trying to turn this into a new core area.
So we have had one vertical well thats been producing since July initially came on at fairly high rate declined off fairly steeply and has been producing around 10 to 15 barrels a day for a while now fairly flat.
We've moved the rate recently back to Nevada recently TD our third well in the southern prospect area the Huntington prospect area and are now in the process of moving the rig to the northern prospect area Mary's River where we'll drill our first test up there.
So we're encouraged by what we saw in the well in Huntington on the logs a little bit thicker section than we saw in the middle prospect area where the first producing well is and we expect to start completion operations on that new well in the next 4 to 6 weeks probably.
We do have three wells that we talked about that's not a change to the plan that's been the plan all along and at least these first two again are vertical wells.
We are evaluating the potential maybe of drilling a horizontal well in the future but that still remains to be seen.
On your Plug-n-Perf completions how much outperformance are you seeing after 150 days from those first two wells in the core? I know the EUR [ph] youre looking at on average there is 480 000 boe so what are these wells looking like and then could you talk about the implications of transitioning to Plug-n-Perf across the entire program if you're thinking about that and also what other completion design changes are you testing? I mean in one of the things we're excited about is continuing to look at the opportunities here for tweaking if you will the completion especially as we move to more down spacing activity.
I will let Gary kind of tell you a little bit about what they are doing and what they have gotten in front of them there.
Yes Joe those first two wells that we announced a while back are still performing strongly as you mentioned.
I don't have the plots right in front of me but I think they are outperforming the sliding sleeve probably that 25% to 30% range.
Were very excited about that we do have plans to do quite a few more of those.
Weve recently completed four more they are not online yet.
They will be coming on in 4Q and then we have plans for another 20 or so beyond that still for the rest of the year.
And we'll see where we go from there.
Certainly the early days are encouraging.
We think they provide a lot of benefits over the sliding sleeve and a number of ways so were going to continue to test those.
The cost is about 400 000 more per well so we want to get comfortable that the economics are there for that incremental recovery but it sure looks encouraging to-date.
As far as other completion things we're trying not to get into a lot of details but we're testing other fluids were testing other sand concentrations perf strategies.
So a number of things we're trying and we had mentioned prior our second underground laboratory in the Wells Ranch area we tried a number of different things in the area and we're starting to get quite a bit of data coming in from those.
So we will probably have more to talk about on the 4Q call from that.
In terms of down spacing and will play to declare victory with down spacing using 32 wells per section at Wells Ranch and elsewhere and could you discover basically what you've done so far in terms of down spacing.
Are you doing it in the Niobrara C or the A or the Codell can you describe that.
And then should we assume some degradation when you go down to 32 wells per section even if youre not seeing much right now.
Yes Joel I think it's still pretty early on a lot of those questions.
The pad that we've released this quarter the Wells Ranch it's a combination of Niobrara A B and C and you can see that the 32 well per section wells are performing right in line with the 16.
So obviously very encouraged by that I think it's going to be a case-by-case basis across the basin.
It's way too early to declare victory and certainly declare victory based on wide but we've got quite a bit of down spacing still to come on this year of the wells that are still coming on in the DJ this year roughly half of those are down spacing wells either 24s or 32.
So we'll get those online we will see how they perform relative to not only the tight curve but the normal spacing wells in those areas and pass judgment for that.
If I could go ask some questions about the Marcellus was at I believe has been touched on it.
Those two pad that you had in Tyler and beverage County looks really strong and I know you said they were as good as some of your the best wells you had in majors ago but can you talk about how those wells perform versus your expectations predrilled and perhaps what the factors were that are contributing deleting to have they are performing whether that be the completion design I think you mentioned reduced stage of cluster spacing or perhaps the rock properties or whatever else may be at play there.
Right.
I think if you look at the slide and see relevant to the type curve how well they've done which the type curve is usually more of a predrilled type estimate.
The other thing we have commented on the slide we have a little higher liquids content at least starting out.
So both of those have been positives but I'll let Gary expand a little bit on what he is seeing in there.
Charles very excited about the area.
As we have said these two pads are the first two pads in the area and definitely outperforming our predrilled expectations which are the type curves that are shown on the chart.
Just as excited that they are performing very similarly to each other.
So we do see some consistency across the area already in performance and as we mentioned they are performing every bit as good or better than our best pad ever back in major.
So all very exciting.
We are doing some different completion design tests down there as well including the reduced stage and cluster spacing and then as we mentioned earlier we've also got down spacing testing going at Oxford those are 550 foot spaced laterals and so to see this level of performance on a down spaced wells in a new area obviously very excited about that.
And looking forward to the next pad that comes on in that area which is the (indiscernible) pad coming on in 4Q.
I guess it wasn't clear on whether that type curve applied to these areas.
But thanks for that clarification.
That is specific to this area.
And Dave if I could go back to a point you are making earlier into Q&amp;A when you mentioned the three levers that you have for 2015 CapEx I believe you said it was major project timing.
The exploration program and then the pace of the onshore unconventional development.
The way I understand you guys is all three of those are going to remain important to you in any commodity price environment.
Can you talk about how those what the sequence of ratcheting it down and back up might be whether if the commodity prices go down from here or whether -- or if they were two back up from here is there a sequence the going.
I think you have to look at all of it.
If you to look at the whole portfolio.
It starts with where are you on the timing of the development where are we on sanctioning timing of the big Eastern-Med projects.
How the timeframe that to the gas contracts come into place the government approvals and that's kind of your first big piece that you're keeping an eye on.
And the rest of it's all -- you have options on how you look at both the pace of onshore and the size of the exploration program.
But as you said they're all important.
They are all significant contributors to us and we'll look at it from a whole portfolio of the whole team will continue to look at it but the nice part is you continue to have more things out there to do then we'll spend money on.
It continues to high grade the portfolio at no matter what the price environment wherein.
Right.
That's better than the other -- than the alternative I suppose.
And are you on your regular capital budgeting timeframe this year? So we should expect something may be December January? We are.
As we've been talking about it's not the year to accelerate the timing of that given everything out there but this is our normal course that we look back we've usually put out something by the late January timeframe at least.
At the risk of hammering the point if I could just carry on asking about the sensitivity to your price environment.
You mentioned that you would be managing towards balance sheet could you just remind us what the parameters are what the ratios are that we should look at and what your tolerances on the specs [ph]? We laid out in the Analyst Day last year that we will continue to maintain strong liquidity level and that we would keep our work to keep our rating as it is.
And we didn't give any specific targets around debt levels but we did show a forward projection kind of a range so I think thats an appropriate way to think about it.
We continue to think BBB is a good place to be and we work to keep it there.
Right and then the outlook given there would imply obviously that you would stay at BBB within that range? Yes.
And then I think the other thing is building on the point is we have a very deep portfolio with a lot of investment flexibility and then we have -- were well hedged probably differentially hedged for 2015 versus the competition at prices that are now well above the strip.
So that sets us up well going into next year.
And then if I could just clarify I know youre speaking of the costs but did I hear right to an early question that you are saying that this is sort of a priority list we should be number one major projects number two exploration and number three onshore activity would be the set of stuff that would look at or is that a misinterpretation.
I wouldn't interpreted that there is a priority where we're going in any particular order there.
The comment was around that those are the three things that make up the levers that we have on capital adjustment or flexibility if you will as Ken put it.
And the piece that we will continue to watch first is the timing of how these major projects that haven't started up how they come together.
But that's not a priority order of preference of where you put your money by any stretch of the imagination.
All three of those are strong attributes.
The question today has to do with the Marcellus.
The Marcellus has become quite a bit of your gas production so I'm looking at sort of price realization for both natural gas and NGL.
It seems to have declined during the third fourth quarter versus the first half.
So my question is this somewhat seasonal? Should we expect a little better price realization for gas during the fourth quarter same for NGL and then you actually talked about quite a bit on how you ship your gas out if you can give us a little bit more color on that and also some similarly what do you do with your NGL bucket where does it go right now? Is it mostly local? And sort of what kind of pricing you're getting for that?  Let me see if I can start on some of that Irene on the pricing realization I think first half of the year with a little bit stronger than second half.
As you started to see more volume in the basin and trying to get out of the basin.
I think fourth quarter and in the first quarter hope it will be a little better then that's as you start to see some more winter impact and you're starting to see some folks getting more of the products starting to move out of the basin.
I think what we've talked about is getting a larger and larger percentage out of the basin over time.
I think we've got about 30% of our gas right now kicked out of the basin and we're in -- were either in some arrangements or talking about some arrangements over the next few years to get a larger percentage even out of the basin which will help with pricing.
And I've seen those anywhere from $0.40 to $0.90 on different scenarios type of thing.
So that will continue to change as you go forward but I think directionally for everybody up there and just that part of the world that youre seeing a number of new pipes.
You're seeing some things looking at being reversed down to the Gulf coast.
You're seeing new pipes that go up to the Midwest some even up further Northeast some to the Southeast and some to the Gulf.
I don't know Gary anything else on that? No I think that pretty well covered it Dave I mean for us it's just diversity where the product can go.
So we highlighted in the press release a couple of new firm capacity deals that we've done all the areas that Dave just mentioned as well as the Great Lakes.
So when you look at our firm transport firm sales today were sitting at about $350 million a day and by 2017 the end of 2017 we expect to be up over or right at 800 million cubic feet a day so that's a very well diversified portfolio of transport.
So how about a little color on your natural gas liquid.
Right now where do they end up? This is still mostly sort of in the middle of the continent and what pricing are you getting for those products? Well the NGL gets mainly handled through the processing facility there and where it ends up? I think it's a blend of pricing whether it's Mount Belvieu or others.
That you said blend of pricing obviously you saw a little more ethane in the mix in the last quarter so that had some impact on the overall pricing when you look at just percentage of pricing.
When we transition from the macro to some of the DJ specific stuff and you alluded to this a little bit but you talked about the frac and flow back procedures and some of the slides being different on the tighter spacing wells.
Can you give us more detail exactly what you're doing there?  Yes David not to get into a lot of details that we talked in the past about as we go to tighter and tighter spacing our goal obviously is to stimulate more of the rock volume near well bore.
So we've done a number of things to try and achieve that thats to obviously reduce any potential impact of interference as we drill tighter and tighter and laterals but those things include many of the things that we have already talked about the Plug-n-Pref we have run some tests on sliding sleeves where we have continued to use sliding sleeves but with tighter stage spacing.
We've done some test where we changed the way in which we pick and space our perfs out along the laterals.
We've done a number of tests on different fluids and sand concentration.
So it's really a good combinations of things.
I mentioned we brought our second underground laboratory on recently and the DJ Basin in the Wells Ranch area.
Those underground laboratories are designed to gather data strategy throughout the lateral length of the wells of those fiber optics are in and the wells that we ran the fiber optics in we've actually done different completion technique tests along that lateral.
So for instance we may do three stages using one technique the next three using another technique and so on and with those of fiber optics down haul we can actually determine the performance difference between each of those techniques which allows us to further optimize as we go.
So probably a lot more to come on that on the year-end call.
Okay and can I just -- you talk about in the DJ longer laterals some operators have talked about difficulty in essentially drilling up the plugs once you get beyond some specified 7000 feet.
Are you guys seeing that in the once you've done or did you see that in the wells you have drilled longer laterals with the 8000 foot type wells or can you talk a little about that? Yes David I'm not really aware of any problem with -- any significant problems we have to-date.
Okay.
And last question on the DJ if I think about the vertical well production obviously horizontal is up 30% the vertical cause a little bit of your drag on your overall DJ number.
Is that a natural decline issue.
Is that a wells being shutting because of line pressures? I'm just trying to about how to think about that wedge of the production piece going forward.
Yes it's a combination of both the vertical are a lot more susceptible to height line pressures and third party downtime.
When you look at the roughly 3000 barrels a day impact that we had in 3Q from third party issues and higher line pressures about two thirds of that was actually on the vertical program.
They are just a lot more sensitive to those high line pressures not only in the moment in which they are flowing but if pressures get high enough that they're actually unable to flow then it takes a number of days for them to come back even once the line pressures drop.
So it's definitely a disproportionate impact on the vertical wells.
We have been doing a lot of work that only obvious with our midstream partner to alleviate the line pressure but on our own wells ourselves and optimizing how we are producing those to try and try and alleviate as much of that as we can but it is a greater impact.
Okay so with all the compression you talked about that you've added whatever DCP whatever midstream is doing out there we should see that start to moderate the steepness of that decline on the vertical? Is that fair? Yes certainly in everything that DCP is doing as well as what we're doing on our own pad facilities to reduce pressures and provide greater reliability of service is certainly going to help.
It's probably fair to say in the fourth quarter you got a sizable portion of your wells that aren't even tied to DCP infrastructure but they are in our own system right? Right.
When you look at the slide that shows the number of wells coming on in 4Q for that DJ number roughly a third of that is up in Northern Colorado.
So that's on our own system.
We've already got capacity up there through our own Lily Plant as well as some different third party arrangements and then we're bringing in our own (indiscernible) plan on in the fourth quarter and that will service those wells as well.
So a good chunk of the remaining well to be brought online are off of the traditional Greater Wattenberg DCP kind of system.
Just had a question that youve have the plan of development submitted for Leviathan.
Can you update us on the expected gross investment and then timing of spending? I think timing of spending is obviously dependent on everything comes together for the sanctioning.
But I think you'll start to see a ramp up over the first year after timing and probably a majority of the spend and I'll let Keith follow-up on that prior end of the second year or so after sanctioning.
But plan of development was a big step to get through there and I'll let Keith kind of walk you through how he sees expenditures flowing from sanctioning.
So we'd expected to be ramping up from the point of sanction primarily the course of the development plan is now as you have heard at 1.6 bcf a day FPSO and that is the subject of a lot of front end work thats continuing to go as we take the final investment decision on the project.
We would be committing to that and I think you'd see a ramp up peeking really in the 2016 and early 2017 timeframe.
And what was the gross investment expectation for this FPSO.
The gross investment for the total of Phase 1 is about $6.5 billion.
And there is additional investment -- that includes the investment in the Leviathan upstream development with all drilling and everything in.
There is an additional investment that would be in the form of export pipelines to the Egypt LNG plants and that's to the account though of the purchasers they will be laying that line to the FPSO.
And so as you think about from a year ago to now that's actually perfect segue.
How much was that investment in the export lines to Egypt and how much did that change the gross investment to get you to the 1.6 bcf a day.
I dont think when you looked at a year a year and half ago that we even had the scenario of an export line to Egypt as our base scenario and the whole development has changed over that period.
So you can't compare a cost of that versus what it was a year and a half ago.
So the whole development has changed the whole market has changed over there.
I mean just think about it from where we are now with about a bcf a day and by into 2018 between the combination of Tamar going up to 2 bcf a day and Leviathan at 1.6 bcf a day youre now looking at 3.6 bcf a day of capacity in that timeframe completely different than what we were looking at a while ago.
And before we were the first phase and the pieces we were looking at and talking was more focused around LNG projects.
And how to factor that into the equation.
So now we have the opportunity to maybe take advantage of existing LNG structures.
It seems that you're getting to a higher volume at a lower capital amount because you don't have the LNG in the plan at this point I was just trying to reconcile the Leviathan development before and that seems pretty clear.
That's exactly right.
I just wanted to ask you my first question on the Marcellus clearly a macro-environment where spare capacity is rising in the oil and gas market.
So I just wanted to see if you could comment how you're thinking about capital allocation to that Marcellus in '15.
I do believe the carry now is often but just thinking about '15 because I do believe under your five year plan the Marcellus is probably the biggest free cash flow negative piece of your growth profile.
Right.
I mean when you think about it the carry now as we get through October and were almost through October we would envision the carry coming off for November when you look at forecast for next year it could easily stay off for all of next year.
I would say when we look at the capital we have good meetings with our partner just as we've done every year where we sit down and look at the environment and look at what we want to do both on the dry gas and wet gas side and that's what we'll be doing and continuing to do over the next month or two.
So it's too early to speculate on where we will go on that but we will be looking at all of those pieces.
I would say the encouraging thing that we've seen out there is what Gary's talked about on just overall well performance in some of these items.
And it's just been amazingly when look at how much that thing has continued to evolve from when we first got into that play.
Okay.
Just a quick follow-up you highlighted an improved oil mix in Q4 versus Q3.
What's the driver to that? Is that focus on East Pony? Anything else? That the piece of it very mentioned that the large number of new wells coming on East Pony but it's really driven by probably 60% of that increase is driven by the DJ and 40% of it's by the West Africa lifting schedules and actually everything being on full board for the fourth quarter.
So you see a nice uplift in oil volumes from both international oil and domestic oil for the fourth quarter.
Following up on Dave Heikkinen question of kind of doing more with less.
If you look at CapEx in the third quarter it came in well below expectations yet you brought a couple more wells online in the domestic portfolio than the prior schedule.
4Q same number of wells scheduled to come online as the prior schedule but running nine rigs.
Can you talk about this being a reflection of ongoing efficiency gains both on the drilling and completion side maybe provide some color around the latest digital times cost etcetera.
We are seeing continued especially on the drilling side just some remarkable continued efficiency and improvements on drilling times.
I think they continue to set a record about every quarter for lateral length per day drilled in the Marcellus especially as the teams really continue to increase the learning curve in that area but also seeing in the DJ.
We mentioned the nine rigs in the DJ.
The difference there from what we had previously with 10 was the one rig we moved over to Nevada.
But the forecast and what we've laid out in the fourth quarter has for the nine rig program in the DJ basin but continued to be impressed how they've increased efficiencies.
Don't know where the technical limited yet but we've got to be getting close to it as much as we've seen the improvement on but continue to be amazed by how just focusing on each aspect of the drilling curve and the drilling leg each interval if you will and looking at what's the technical limits for each interval and continuing to push towards that we continue to see improvements.
But Gary can expand on that if he has something.
Yes I guess the only thing I would add you mentioned our 4Q well online targets is unchanged from before.
We moved the rig to Nevada that was part of the plan all along.
So that's probably why it didn't change.
And then the reality is that most of the wells that are coming on in 4Q have already been drilled.
So dropping a rig there wouldn't have any impact anyway.
But Dave is exactly right the efficiencies keep coming.
We do continue to see new records being sent especially in the Marcellus and so we look forward to the benefits of that greater efficiency on both capital as well as our being able to drill more wells with fewer rigs.
And one last one just in the DJ.
With respect to the production you're seeing on each one of the intervals either in Niobrara A B and C or Codell.
How are those tight curves bearing? Are they maintaining consistency kind of across the board? Is there one area thats better than another that you might target instead in 2015 to enhance capital efficiency? Anything you can comment on that side would be great.
I guess all I would say is that performance of the zones across the basin is different.
They're not the same all the way up in East Pony as they are down in the core part of the field A B or C.
We certainly aim to target the best intervals in each area to impact capital efficiency as you mentioned.
So at the same time as we continue to test down spacing and how were laying out those wells what types of patterns we're using were testing multiple intervals in each area.
So way too early to say were only going to focus on one or two of those four potential zones in any one area but we're continuing to focus on the best ones.
I wanted to follow-up on an earlier question with regards to some of the midstream related constraints.
This was an issue you highlighted last quarter for a slower second half growth outlook.
Can you just talk about how you see the growth trajectory in the DJ into next year? It's a little but a follow-up on one of the David Tameron's questions.
And add any more specifics on the DCP constraints.
In other words based on the trajectory -- based on the various plants that you highlighted that are coming online how much room do see to increase the day production sequentially over the next three quarters.
Well I think DJ is going to be a big driver of next year's growth.
If you just look at how you're going to ended there this year with the big ramp up through the fourth quarter and then combined with the large facility they are coming online next year you have 200 million a day or so plant of DCPs coming on about the second quarter next year.
We mentioned some of these big compressor projects and other things.
We mentioned our facilities that are coming and going in starting fourth quarter this year into first quarter next year.
It will be a big increase in capacity overall that will continue to set us up for DJ to be one of the big growth drivers next year and not just growth driver but value driver when you look at that oil and gas mix there.
And it's sounds like the second quarter is when that DCP plant is starting up in your-- It should be.
I think probably early second quarter to ramping up through the second quarter by mid-year it should be fully up and running.
And then a lot of questions were asked earlier with regards to how you're thinking about next year.
Maybe I will try to ask it a slightly different way which is how do you think about your tolerance for outspending cash flow.
Is there a specific number you fix? And does that tolerance actually rise in a lower oil prices environment versus a higher one.
I don't know Brian I mean it there's always a tolerant level at some point but that's not been established yet until we've moved to some of our analysis and look at some of the sensitivities.
As Ken mentioned were going to be sensitive to our balance sheet.
Were going to be sensitive to investment grade.
So were going to look at all those different factors and then were going to look at the project mix and what's the appropriate spending level to drive that given what we see the cash flow outlook to be as we talked about we have a good hedge book.
We've got a good position on both oil and gas and (indiscernible) are on especially the oil side of that equation and you got a good mix of international oil and domestic oil domestic gas.
But you also -- when it's nice to have that components of gas in Israel at nice prices too.
So that's a nice cash flow to continue to count on.
So it all gets back to that portfolio and again I think especially in this type of environment diversified portfolio that's all underpinned by high quality assets in each area is a -- I don't want to call it a luxury but it's sure nice to have.
Great thanks.
I want to thank everybody again for participating in the call today.
As well as your interest in Noble Energy and I hope everybody has a good day.
Thank you.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you! Please stand by we're about to begin.
Good morning.
Welcome to Noble Energy's Fourth Quarter and Year End 2014 Earnings Call.
I would now like to turn the call over to Mr.
David Larson.
Please go ahead sir.
Thanks Melanie.
Good morning everyone.
Welcome to Noble Energy's fourth quarter and year end 2014 earnings call and webcast.
This morning we issued two news releases: one covering the fourth quarter and full year earnings and the second one laying out our outlook for 2015.
A few supplemental slides for the call were also posted to our website.
Following today's remarks by Dave Stover we'll open the call for Q&amp;A with the executive team and hope to wrap things up in less than an hour.
We would ask that participants limit themselves to one primary question and one follow-up.
Finally I want to remind everyone that this webcast and conference call contains projections and forward-looking statements as well as references to non-GAAP financial measures.
You should read our full disclosures in our latest news release and SEC filings for a discussion of these.
With that let me turn the call over to Dave.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</strong> Thanks David and good morning everyone.
I'll start out with a few highlights of Noble Energy's fourth quarter before focusing on our plans for 2015.
From an execution perspective it was an excellent quarter where we delivered significant growth in our U.S.
onshore programs and progressed a number of deepwater development projects toward startup.
Sales volumes averaged a record 315 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day a 14% increase versus the fourth quarter of 2013 after adjusting for asset sales highlighting our performance with our U.S.
onshore horizontal volumes up more than 50%.
We ended the year with total proved reserves of 1.4 billion barrels of oil equivalent as production and non-core asset sales were offset by additions and revisions in our core areas.
Over 90% of the reserve additions came from the execution of our low-risk U.S.
onshore program with the remaining coming from the Gulf of Mexico.
We replaced 200% of our production in the U.S.
even with PUD bookings reflecting future drilling activities based on the current price environment.
On the financial side of the business we remain highly focused on maintaining substantial liquidity protecting our balance sheet and sustaining our investment grade rating.
Late in 2014 we proactively issued $1.5 billion in long-term notes at record low coupons for Noble and ended the year with $5.2 billion in liquidity including $1.2 billion in cash and $4 billion on our undrawn credit facility.
Over the last three years we've been very active in generating cash flow to the business through portfolio optimization realizing over $2 billion in after-tax proceeds from non-core asset sales and our CONE MLP IPO.
And I think it's important to mention that looking forward we will continue to seek additional ways to protect our financial strength and flexibility and monetize assets that feel are undervalued.
We've been very proactive in our hedging for 2015 with approximately 70% of global crude oil and 48% of U.S.
natural gas hedged at attractive prices.
Our Israel gas is also acting as a great natural hedge an important contributor to our cash flow during the year highlighting the benefits of our diverse portfolio.
Obviously everyone is focused on how the energy landscape has changed in the past several months.
I believe the combination of our high-quality assets deep drilling inventory strong balance sheet and fiscal discipline have us well positioned not only for the current year but for the long-term as well.
A key to our success and forward focus remains diversification which has proven to be a competitive advantage in volatile markets.
Our portfolio of opportunities around the world is well-balanced between liquids and domestic and international gas.
It includes thousands of drillable locations in two top-tier U.S.
unconventional plays both of which are well positioned on the industry cost of supply curve.
These assets are essentially held by existing production so we're not restricted in our ability to ramp up or down when appropriate.
Offshore our assets do not require large amounts of maintenance capital but contribute significant cash flow to the business and provide running room for future growth.
This combination of assets gives us a tremendous amount of optionality in how we allocate capital and manage risk.
As we look at the uncertainty surrounding commodity prices and service costs it is clear that now is not the time to push near-term production growth.
The rapid decline in commodity prices has caused industry margins and project economics to be squeezed.
With commodity prices at depressed levels costs must find a new equilibrium with product prices before we resume investing for significant growth.
The depth and duration of the current commodity cycle is unknown.
So we believe starting 2015 with a capital budget of $2.9 billion allows us to retain our financial strength and flexibility for an extended period of time.
This program aligns us with the investment environment and cash flow and we continue to be very disciplined in capital allocation and focused on cost management.
We're intensely scrutinizing our costs and have already captured significant cost savings and reductions from our service providers.
While these are primarily focused on achieving immediate cost reductions we're also looking at the opportunity to implement some structural cost changes where we'll have a long-term impact on margins and the efficiency of our business.
Now let's walk through some of the details of our 2015 program.
We've talked previously with many of you about the capital optionality in our portfolio including the U.S.
onshore program major project spending and exploration as our primary levers in the allocation process.
This year's program allocates approximately 60% of our CapEx to our core U.S.
onshore and about 35% toward development of our offshore sanction major projects which deliver substantial cash flows and value to the business.
Exploration is set at around 5% of the budget although we're still testing a couple of very material prospects that we're excited about.
In the DJ Basin we're coming off a year in which we delivered about 30% growth in our horizontal volumes and further advanced our understanding of the value upside from long laterals downspacing and enhanced completion techniques.
We're currently running a four-rig program and have focused our activity in the Wells Ranch and East Pony development areas where we can drill a higher percentage of long laterals and can optimize the use of existing infrastructure.
Total capital allocation to the basin this year is around $900 million.
In 2015 we will continue to evaluate well performance from our 2014 downspacing tests to assess incremental value in the basin above our standard 16 well per section development plan.
We now have high density tests across all of our development areas with early performance meeting and in certain areas outperforming expectations.
We're not anticipating a one-size-fits-all downspace program across our acreage.
Additional production data collected this year will help fine-tune our understanding of high density spacing and ultimate recovery throughout the basin.
Early indications from downspacing continue to suggest there's a huge prize for us in the DJ.
Our capital budget assumes a $4 million average well cost for a standard length lateral in Wells Ranch and East Pony which is down meaningfully from prior years.
This has been achieved through supplier price reductions use of existing infrastructure and sustainable efficiency improvements much of which has already been captured to-date.
Our teams have been on the forefront of testing multiple completion methods in the DJ and we continue to see evidence that our sliding sleeve design is the best value.
In 2015 we will continue to modify this design for optimal stage length and fluid type both of which have the potential to reduce well costs even further.
Another factor driving efficiency enhancement in our program is the ability to drill extended reach laterals which continue to deliver higher recovery and lower well cost per lateral foot.
Approximately 50% of our 2015 wells will be extended reach.
Overall the program lateral length will average 6 500 feet per well a 20% increase over last year.
These are all components of a very competitive unconventional liquids play.
And the economics even at today's prices remain very attractive with before tax rates of return of approximately 40% and payout in under two years.
We expect third-party infrastructure to improve in 2015 beginning with the startup of the 70 Ranch compressor station which commenced in the first quarter of this year.
The Lucerne-2 plant and Rockies and Trout compressor stations are progressing for startup in the second quarter providing necessary expansion of infrastructure in the Northern Greater Wattenberg area.
In addition we have recently committed to a third-party low-pressure gathering loop in Greater Wattenberg which will have a positive impact to the overall operation of the field as early as the beginning of next year.
On the operated side we continue to build out our infrastructure in the basin and will investigate strategic opportunities to monetize these assets.
In the Marcellus total capital for 2015 is currently planned at $900 million with about 15% of the amount for midstream infrastructure.
We're continuing to work with our partner on the optimal investment for 2015.
This is not the time to be accelerating gas production therefore we've reduced Noble operated activity in the Marcellus to two rigs while retaining the ability to accelerate drilling should that make sense in the future market.
Performance in the Marcellus shows that it is a world-class asset that is being even further enhanced with completions such as Reduced Stage and Cluster Spacing.
The RSCS design continues to outperform standard completion by approximately 30% on our operated wells and we will continue to increase our use of this design in our 2015 program.
Recently gross daily production from the joint venture reached 1 billion cubic feet equivalent per day with the major contributor to our growth in 2014 being the wet Noble operated volumes.
As mentioned earlier we're completing our sanctioned oil projects in the Gulf of Mexico.
Our estimated Gulf of Mexico development budget is $600 million with three new fields to come on in the next 15 months.
The lineup of production includes Big Bend startup in fourth quarter Dantzler which has moved up to around the end of 2015 followed by Gunflint by mid-2016.
While these projects don't have a meaningful impact on 2015 average production they're certainly big contributors to our yearend in 2016 liquids rate.
We're currently finishing completion operations at the Dantzler-2 well and expect all drilling and completion operations in the Rio Grande area to be finished by mid March.
Remaining 2015 investment is focused on subsea pipeline installation at Big Bend and Dantzler and drilling and completions operations at Gunflint.
In West Africa the majority of the development capital will be directed to the Alba compression project in Equatorial Guinea which will create additional value by lowering decline and extending the life of the field.
We plan to resume exploration in West Africa with the Cheetah prospect offshore Cameroon.
Cheetah is an oil prospect with a 47% working interest targeting over 100 million barrels of gross resources and representing Noble's first Cretaceous test in the Douala Basin.
Moving to the Eastern Mediterranean Tamar continues to perform exceptionally well both from a reservoir and facility standpoint.
Seasonally high demand and debottlenecking of the facilities has resulted in recent record production days in excess of 1 billion cubic feet of natural gas in gross sales.
I want to spend a couple of minutes discussing the regulatory environment in Israel.
For over 15 years we've been working with the government and people of Israel to explore for develop and produce natural gas.
Our success has delivered substantial value to Israel in terms of reduced fuel and electricity costs as well as new energy security.
Early last year Noble Energy its partners and the Israel Antitrust Authority reached an agreement for the consent decree that included the divestiture of the Tanin and Karish gas fields in an effort to support competition of supply and move forward the development of Leviathan.
A recent decision by the Antitrust Authority to not submit the agreed consent decree for final approval was a direct reversal of their prior agreement and another example of the uncertain regulatory environment in Israel.
As a consequence we have suspended essentially all investment in Israel except for our Ashdod compression project which is nearly complete.
Resolution of the antitrust matter along with progress on a number of additional regulatory matters is required before we can proceed with significant further investment in Israel's energy sector.
A predictable and stable regulatory environment is critical requirement in decisions related to major energy development projects.
We continue to have discussions with the government in an effort to establish the regulatory framework necessary to progress development of these world-class resources.
While no agreement has been reached to-date we remain committed to finding appropriate and workable solutions.
However we are also prepared to vigorously defend our rights related to our assets in Israel.
It's worth remembering that Israel has only been producing gas for just over a decade.
The discoveries of the giant Tamar and Leviathan fields provide the opportunity for substantial regional exports which is changing the energy landscape of the Eastern Mediterranean.
We're excited to be leading the way as further expansion of Tamar and initial development of Leviathan have the potential to materially expand energy economic and environmental benefits to Israel and the region.
We were able to sign multiple LOIs for regional export in 2014.
The most recent of these was an LOI with a customer in Egypt to supply interruptible volumes from Tamar.
The terms of the LOI include up to 250 million cubic feet per day with pricing equivalent to other export LOIs that we signed.
It's an opportunity that can have near term impact requires very little capital and would provide relief from gas shortages in Egypt.
We have not assumed any of these potential sales in our base guidance but are hopeful to commence exports this year pending government approvals.
To wrap up the Eastern Mediterranean we continue to progress plans for development in Cyprus with our discovery there providing another option to meet growing regional demand.
Our exploration investments this year companywide will be about 5% of total planned expenditures lower than past years given the environment.
While the budget is reduced the program will test an underexplored area in the Falkland Islands with multibillion barrel potential as well as our large prospect in Cameroon.
We will use 2015 as an opportunity to further strengthen and enhance our exploration portfolio.
I am confident that our best-in-class process and talented employees will continue to deliver exploration projects that will be a key contributor to the long-term growth of Noble Energy.
As I mentioned earlier now is not the time to be pushing near-term production growth.
We have scaled our capital program back and expect modest growth of approximately 5% from 2014 driven primarily in the U.S.
onshore business as well as Israel.
In the U.S.
onshore we expect meaningful growth with more than 5% growth in the DJ Basin and 40% plus in the Marcellus.
Natural gas sales from Tamar in Israel are expected to rise 10% or so year-over-year.
Volumes are anticipated to be down about 10 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day year-on-year in West Africa with approximately half of this amount being attributed to natural field decline and the remaining from plant turnarounds.
In the Gulf of Mexico we anticipate flat to modest declines through the year until the Big Bend startup in the fourth quarter.
While quarter-to-quarter volumes for us can vary quite a bit contribution from our Gulf of Mexico development project sets us up well for 2016.
In fact excluding whatever Israel investment turns out to be we can maintain and even slightly grow 2016 volumes at even lower capital levels than this year.
It is this portfolio and diversity of projects that provides Noble a differential advantage going forward.
For the first quarter of 2015 we expect sales volumes to range from 305 000 to 315 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day with the primary variance from the fourth quarter of last year being the timing of liquid listings and planned facility downtime in West Africa.
Our U.S.
onshore business at both the DJ basin and the Marcellus are anticipated to show growth with deepwater in Israel relatively flat.
Due to uncertainty as to the depth or duration of the present cycle we believe the prudent approach to 2015 is to manage the spend more closely to cash flows.
While this plan provides us with a more modest growth rate than we previously projected our actions will continue to be focused on ensuring that we exit the current cycle with substantial operating and financial strength that will allow us to either resume a more accelerated pace of activity or pursue other opportunities that may arise.
I believe this strategy is the appropriate course of action in a volatile market.
Our U.S.
onshore development major project execution and exploration capabilities have us uniquely positioned to differentially outperform over the coming years.
Melanie at this time we'd like to go ahead and open the call for questions.
Thank you.
We will take our first question from Doug Leggate with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Pierce Fenner &amp; Smith Inc.</span></strong> Good morning.
This is John Abbott calling in for Doug Leggate.
We appreciate you taking our questions.
If I could start off what proportion of your Wattenberg inventory is economic in the current price environment before hedges? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well what I talked about in the inventory that we're drilling this year has about a 40% average return on that.
So what we're focusing our activity this year is in what we would consider our best economic areas which are Wells Ranch and East Pony.
And as I mentioned it allows us to also take advantage of infrastructure up there.
Pierce Fenner &amp; Smith Inc.</span></strong> Appreciate that.
And this is a follow-up here.
A number of your competitors have been delaying completion.
Why not do the same? And also as a follow-up to that coming into the year what is your uncompleted backlog in both the DJ and the Marcellus? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well we had a number of  if you go back to what we talked about last year we had a number of completions that were coming on towards the end of the year into the beginning of this year.
What we've done is we've looked at our inventory for this year and how we've laid the program out for this year.
We've actually set it up so we've spaced out our completions more through the year.
Part of doing that was tailoring that to some of the discussions on with the suppliers and service companies that went along with how we implemented some of this cost reduction very quickly here into the beginning of the year.
And part of that was also tailoring then the pace of the completions.
So we've actually slowed down and tailored that completions to tie it in with the  what we had set up from a frac crew standpoint that went into the discussions on how we implemented some very quickly reductions and completion costs here at the beginning of the year.
Pierce Fenner &amp; Smith Inc.</span></strong> I appreciate it.
Thank you very much.
And we'll go next to Charles Meade with Johnson Rice.
Good morning guys.
Thanks for taking the question.
The DJ is really interesting but I think you did a good job explaining what's going on there Dave.
I wondered if you could give us a little bit more detail on how your conversations are going on the Marcellus.
And there's language in your press release that you're still working to figure out the plan for 2015 and one other kind of wrinkle to it seems to me is that it seems to me that actually because of the NGL pricing and some of the infrastructure problems up there actually the dry gas areas seem to me to be more attractive right now at least for 2015.
And so could you work that in to your discussion? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah Charles it's a good question and one we've continued to be in discussions with our partner up there on what is the right activity level.
What we've got built in right now reflects probably a decrease over where we started last fall when we started in this budget process and I'd say it's an ongoing discussion to kind of optimize what the program should be.
I think we're probably still in the camp that we could probably continue to push that down a little and I think we'll see how that progresses over time but it's a good healthy discussion.
I think in any good partnership even if you aren't completely aligned up front the structure of a good partnership is you continue to have good discussion and that's where it's going.
I mean and we've continued to bring down the program over time when you go back to last fall.
So...
Got it.
And would it be fair Dave that bringing the program down would be more on the non-op side for you guys than operated? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well we've already brought the operated side down.
We brought that down to two rigs on the wet gas.
So I think the discussion now has continued to move around what is the right amount of activity level on the dry gas portion.
Okay.
Thank you.
And then if I could ask a question about Cyprus and this may be too far afield but I thought I'd try.
Given the hurdles that have been thrown up in Israel you're  as I look at it the find you have in Cyprus is not that far west of your Leviathan find and you were talking about doing some pipeline exports from Leviathan.
So I wondered is that a possibility to do pipeline exports from Cyprus now and I'm thinking that where you didn't quite have enough for an LNG facility but that was really before this regional export market popped up and I wonder if the Cyprus find can plug into that possibility.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> No I think we believe Cyprus can still play a role in that whole Eastern Med regional picture there.
I mean one of the things we're working with them on what would be the development plan in Cyprus as you mentioned was kind of moved away from an LNG project and probably more something that would be more of a regional piece.
I think the other thing I would mention and remind you too when we talked about even the regional market on what we were looking at for our Israel volumes as we were marketing that and looking at what the size of that market could be we were seeing a market that was potentially double the size of what we even were having in those LOIs.
So I'd say there's definitely a role to be played for additional gas there.
Okay.
Thank you very much Dave.
We'll go next to Irene Haas with Wunderlich Securities.
Inc.</span></strong> If I may I would like to ask you about your year-end reserve booking.
It's a little flat.
So I want to kind of pick your brains on how you have approached the PUD.
It sounds like you are taking a pretty conservative approach probably using some pretty low pricing.
Then also how did the events in Israel might or might not have impacted your year-end booking in 2014? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Okay.
Yeah on the first part of that Irene yeah we could be approaching  we don't to be in a position where you happen to if this is an extended low price environment that you're having to bring reserves off the books.
So we actually made sure when we looked at our five year projection of activity levels that we took into account the current environment without knowing when this current price environment would end.
So we were looking at it more from the aspect of being in this environment for a while.
So that influenced our onshore PUD bookings.
I think when you think about it from an Israel piece that the next big booking there will be with either some expansion at Tamar or the sanctioning of Leviathan and I think we all know we still have some regulatory hurdles and things to get in place on Leviathan to get that sanctioned.
So that will be the next big booking from Israel.
So I guess when you look at PUD bookings and especially with this five-year rule and then whatever price you want to assume it's kind of moved away from the PUDs representing any change in quality of asset or anything but more of how you're looking at tailoring your timing of your activity depending on what environment you want to project it through.
Inc.</span></strong> Gotcha.
So you're really taking a very cautious approach assuming the worst and hoping that things wouldn't turn out that way but regardless your booking's pretty solid.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Absolutely.
And then it gives you the room for as the environment turns up you're adding to it.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay thank you.
We'll go next to Michael Rowe with Tudor Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</span></strong> Yes.
Good morning and thanks for taking my question.
I wanted to maybe just outline a little bit about your anticipated cash flow outspend in 2015 and you mentioned earlier in your comments that you could look to monetize assets that you feel are undervalued.
And so is your intention to plug the cash flow outspend gap with those asset sales and if so which assets should we be thinking about? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well I think obviously anything we can do on some asset monetization helps with that.
I think the real driver in how we've set up our program and what we're looking at this year is to move as quickly as we can irregardless of those other kind of portfolio levers as we'd call them to get our cash outflows more in line with our cash inflows.
And with what we've set up and realizing it takes little bit of time based on spending last year that rolls into this year that we expect by mid-year we should be in a good place on matching up our outflows and inflows.
And then anything else we can do with other portfolio of things can just supplement that and keep us in an even better position.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
And we're planning it at conserve  this is Ken Fisher.
We're planning at a conservative deck.
When Dave says that.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
When Dave says that.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah we're working off that 50 to 55 range.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Great.
And then just one follow-up would be you mentioned earlier trying to achieve some structural cost changes that may be distinct from just the service price reductions you're seeing as activity and rig levels are falling.
So is the thought here that these costs that you're getting on the structural side could actually continue to stay low even if we do see commodity prices rebound and then potentially get service cost inflation picking back up again? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well I think it's a great opportunity to make sure everybody's laser-focused on the efficiency part of the equation and what we're working on.
I mean one of the things we put in motion a couple years ago and talked about was these integrated development plans and so forth.
And what you're saying is a large part of our drilling for example on the DJ this year is focused in areas where we can start to see more advantage of that.
We're already seeing some advantage of that on capital savings coming from the result of how we're handling facility costs water handling and so forth.
We're also seeing some of that impact on LLE and that's a little bit of what I reference when I talk about how we want to continue to embed more of these structural changes into how we go forward.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Thank you.
And we'll go next to David Tameron with Wells Fargo.
Hi.
Good morning.
A couple questions and you've referenced this a number of times.
But as we start thinking about going forward if we look at the macro one of your competitors put a slide out today saying at $65 oil they could earn the same return as they did at $95 oil in 2012.
How do you view that internally? How much more cost reduction or efficiencies do you need to get back to say in a normalized $80 oil price environment a year ago? Now you're  that number becomes $60.
I'm just trying to get some framework around how you're thinking about the longer-term cost curve in the U.S.? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
Well I'm not going to sit here and tell you I can match a current certain price with a certain cost reduction.
I can say that the emphasis this year is starting to see more of this cost reduction.
You've seen folks talk about 10% to 20% reductions on cost.
You wanting to embed more reduction on an LOE basis too in some of this.
So I think just this cost focus this year as folks have moved away more from an activity focus that was driven by growth but now a chance to step back a little bit and look very hard at the cost side of the business the efficiency side of the business how we optimize things.
We'll see the ability to change the economics at different prices.
By how much we'll have to continue to watch as we go through the year.
Okay.
All right.
And I guess for a follow-up if I think about your cash flow CapEx I know there's some assets in the DJ that could be monetized from a midstream standpoint.
Can you just talk about what those opportunities look like how much of your portfolio you think you could monetize? Just anything around that as far as divestitures.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well I think the first thing you look at is the non-producing asset piece and you kind of hit on one that's high on our radar screen is the infrastructure in the DJ Basin.
We took the first step last year in what we did with our Marcellus infrastructure and I think that's turned out to be a very nice business opportunity for us.
So I think we'll continue to look at things like that.
I think the infrastructure in the DJ lends itself.
I mean we continue to look around at our growing infrastructure in the Gulf even for example.
Who knows but that's something else that we'll continue to look at.
So there's various pieces of the business that still lend themselves to highlighting what their value can be and potentially unlocking some real value here.
All right.
Thanks for the color.
I'll jump off now.
Appreciate it.
We'll go next to Arun Jayaram with Credit Suisse.
Hi good morning gents.
Dave I wanted to start off talking about the DJ.
I know you guys at some of the analyst meetings have talked about your view of the DJ kind of under a major project type of umbrella where you're introducing the IDPs.
I was just wondering with the IDPs at how nimble you can be in a down cycle given your development approach that you're taking there.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
Well I mean the nice thing is we have a huge inventory in a large playing field out there when you think about the 600 000 acres or so.
When we've talked about the IDPs and what we've implemented we kind of started with Wells Ranch and then we've been moving towards East Pony.
So hand-in-hand with that is where we're going to concentrate this year's activity.
So I think we have the ability to be pretty flexible.
I think we've got the ability to adapt either way pretty quickly.
I think in this environment we probably won't do as much front-end loading of facility capital right now.
I think what it does is probably move us back just slightly on when we will see some of these other IDP bigger facility capital come in place.
But I think it is a great time to benefit from this facility infrastructure that we've put in place and that we've already built.
And I think we're going to capture some tremendous benefits of that as we match our drilling program to where we have this facility infrastructure in place this year.
That's helpful.
Just a quick follow-up just on the completion count that the guidance is based on.
I was wondering if you could just give us a ballpark of  I know you're going to four rigs in the DJ and two rigs in the Marcellus at least on the operated side.
What is the year-over-year change in completions in those two areas? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah I think just off the top of my head I think in the DJ it's probably about half close to half of what we had in 2014.
In the Marcellus I'm trying to think here and look and see if I've got something on actual completion inventory.
I don't know if I got the completion number on the Marcellus here right off hand.
If I could sneak one more in Dave I just wanted to get some details around Israel.
Obviously there's been a U-turn in terms of the anti-trust decision.
What do you think drove that and what are the potential  what are some of the remedies that they're potentially seeking in terms of your assets there? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well obviously as far as remedies we're in a lot of discussion with the government and even anti-trust on this.
So it's as far as remedies and what they're trying to accomplish they're concern is about competition over there and that really was driven by the fact that when you go back in time we were the only ones that were really successful and we were successful on a large scale over there.
I think  so where we are and I think we were surprised.
I think a lot of people over there were surprised with the reversal on that decision.
And the thing that we're focused on now and what that's highlighted is the need to put together a comprehensive framework to provide some regulatory certainty and stability going forward to make the investment decisions.
I mean when you go back to the discussions with the anti-trust commission and where we had gotten to last year we essentially agreed to and thought everybody had agreed to the resolution to that competition was selling Karish and Tanin.
When you think about that Karish and Tanin in total is about three times the size of what Mari-B was and Mari-B produced about 600 million a day for a number of years.
Right.
Okay.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> So we thought that was a pretty good solution at that time.
So right now what have entered into the equation is a discussion now of okay so how do we move forward on this.
The good part of it is that it's brought the ministries together to even better understand the situation and better understand even the importance of resolving this and resolving this quickly for the betterment of Israel and actually the whole region over there.
Thanks for your comments Dave.
And we'll go next to David Heikkinen with Heikkinen Energy Advisors.
Good morning guys and thanks for taking my question.
Your comment on 2016 growth on lower CapEx was encouraging.
One of the things we've been trying to think about is I know you have deepwater projects that are coming online but with a lower activity level in the Wattenberg do you have a shallower base decline at an exit at 2015 as opposed to where you're exiting 2014 on a higher activity level? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well yes Dave.
I mean the base question of that is you've got a lower amount of new production coming on.
So it lowers your delta on absolute volume coming off obviously.
I think the other piece and it points to our diversified asset base and why we think that is especially a strength in volatile price times.
One of the decisions we made was to continue with the completion and the development of our Gulf of Mexico projects.
That's going to add significant volume by the end of this year that gives us a year-on-year nice improvement out there for 2016.
The other piece not to forget about is the Tamar volumes over there and that continues to have growth potentials based on in-country demand without additional investment.
So I mean that is a -two pieces of a portfolio that we think are definitely differentiators for us.
And then on the political landscape in Israel clearly has weighed on you valuation some but thinking about where Israel is now with Tamar online and the revenues that the country generates where does that go to whenever a planned Leviathan development comes online whenever that may be at this point.
But I'm just trying to think of how much value is created to kind of the nation of Israel and why they  what is the incentives that they're thinking about from a Leviathan development? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
There's a huge incentive for them to get these projects on.
When you think that they actually capture over half the value that comes from any volume of gas whether it's sold in-country or sold in an export arrangement.
If you remember on a Leviathan we're talking about a capacity  a facility capacity of 1.6 Bcf a day and probably a run rate that would be closer in that 1 Bcf a day to 1.2 Bcf a day.
A large part of that would be targeted from  would be targeted to go to export with some portion for fill-in with whatever is needed in the domestic demand.
But you think of that relative to the perspective of Tamar and what it's doing now we've seen the figures that indicate that's 1% of their GDP growth over there.
So it's a huge impact.
Yeah David and...
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Ken can add some color.
When the export rules were passed there was external study done by McKinsey and if I remember correctly the delta value to the citizens in GDP was $230 billion.
So over the life of exports and also it was 20 more  it was estimated to be 20 more years of domestic supply because of further exploration activity.
So it's a material impact on the nation and the citizenry.
Thanks guys.
We'll go next to John Herrlin with Socit Gnrale.
Yeah.
Thank you.
Regarding the U.S.
Dave you've given us your budget and activity for 2015.
If prices are sustained should we consider current planned activity levels to be kind of the new normal if prices stay weak or would you even cut back further? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well I think in this environment we'd say  we'd monitor that as we go through the year but I'd say we just assume this kind of a level into next year.
The thing that would change is we'd drop out this capital from the Gulf of Mexico developments and that's where I made the statement that you can see flat to increasing production growth next year based on the way our portfolio's set up with even less capital when you think of taking the Gulf of Mexico development piece out.
Right.
Are the service companies at all willing to do term deals yet or is it still just basically discount from book? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> I think that's probably all across the board I think.
One of the things that we did was focused in pretty quickly with our top 100 suppliers and service companies and engaged in discussions with all of them very quickly.
I think some of it's been some immediate change.
In fact I think we're up to talking to our top 300 now.
Some of it's been immediate impact some of it they're trying to get some costs rolled through to them that hopefully we can go back and also get some portion of that also.
So everybody's in discussion with their suppliers.
Okay.
That's fine.
Regarding the exploration budget that you cut back originally you had two wells planned in the Falkland as it could be two or one and then could you describe what the structure is at Cheetah Cameroon? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> In the Falklands we're still assuming the two wells down there.
So we've got two wells still in there and we've got the one for Cheetah probably about mid-year.
It's a Cretaceous  it's our first Cretaceous project over there.
Right.
But is it three way four way? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> If I remember it right John I think it's a four way structure.
Okay great.
Thank you.
We'll go next to Bob Brackett with Bernstein.
Yeah quick question on the Marcellus.
It looks like that's the lion's share of your production growth this year.
Does that wedge assume a 6-rig program or are you already paring that down to less than that? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> It assumes current activity levels out there.
So.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Go ahead.
Yeah.
So we should sort of  if you achieve a reduced program out there will that impact your full-year growth? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Probably I mean the tail-end of the year not a whole lot for this year because most of the volume in there is associated with completions that get staggered probably about six months or so from when you drill them.
So anything that changed activity levels in the latter part of the year probably has a bigger impact on the following year.
Okay.
And in terms of Israel if you're generating free cash flow in Israel because of investment difficulties can you use that cash anywhere or is that preferentially spent in West Africa or in international exploration? Yeah.
The Israeli cash is CFC or controlled forward corporation cash but we have a pretty flexible structure built that allows us to fund around the world.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Other international.
Yeah.
So I think we've got a lot of flexibility there.
But you can't necessarily bring it home without getting a hit.
We have a structure that's allowed us to bring significant  we bought $1.3 billion back in 2014 without paying any incremental tax.
So we have pretty flexible structure.
Okay.
Thank you.
We'll go next to Brian Singer with Goldman Sachs.
Thank you.
Good morning.
On Wattenberg it looks like you have some line of sight to some of the third party midstream opportunities or bottlenecks getting into place and then online in the second quarter.
Do you see this clearing the deck on midstream bottlenecks or are others emerging? And should we see a step change in second half Wattenberg production or is that just offset by reduced investment? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> I think when you look at the bottlenecking portion I think there's a lot of things as we mentioned Brian that are going in place in the second quarter.
There's also that what we call the Grand Parkway System which is a big loop if you will to debottleneck and be more efficient on how gas is distributed around the field that will come into place towards the end of the year beginning of the next year is when we'll really see the impact on that.
So there's some staggered things that will be coming in place and then you start to get into the next plants beyond that.
So we'll continue to have to keep our eye on what else can be done as we move through the cycle here.
And I guess the quarterly trajectory should we then expect once some of the plants are on in the second quarter that we'll see a step up in third quarter volumes or how do you think about the trajectory? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> I mean that's going to have to be matched with the activity.
I think when you think of the trajectory for the DJ for example the second half of the year is probably going to be lower than the first half at this activity level.
I think when you think of the company overall I think the fourth quarter will probably be our what we would foresee now probably be our highest volume quarter when you consider the influx of some Gulf of Mexico production.
Yep.
Got it.
And then one last one.
In Israel just wanted to clarify the level of investment in your CapEx that you are planning here for this year.
Would that sustainably keep volumes flat before future expansion projects or is there some point at which your reduced level of investment would lead volumes to decline? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> No I think actually what we are investing in this year is completing the compression project so that actually gives us a little more capacity.
So I would say at this level of investment or essentially minimal to no investment going forward you ought to be able to stay flat to grow and that's going to depend on the demand up to the level of what that Ashdod compression capacity gives us.
So up to about that 1.2 Bcf a day or so.
Got it.
Thank you.
We'll go next to Joe Allman with JPMorgan.
Mr.
Allman your line is open.
Please check your mute button.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> We'll go to the next question.
We'll go next to Dave Kistler with Simmons &amp; Co.
Morning guys.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Hey.
Morning Dave.
Really appreciate all the color on 2015 and certainly understand the adjustments to CapEx seems prudent et cetera.
In the past you guys have given us longer dated plans that go out as far as five years.
Any ability to update that forecast for folks right now in terms of how we should think about going through the model? I know you're being super conservative with a $50 to $55 deck but just trying to help triangulate the next several years.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> I don't think we ought to be going out too far in this environment Dave because I think we've got to tailor that to what activity levels are you going to assume and how quickly are you going to ramp back up.
I think what we wanted to do is give folks some perspective on how we see 2016 at certain level of investment to just give them some comfort on how we can sustain ourselves and even still grow some in 2016 at very low investment levels.
I think starting to project beyond that's going to depend on where you start to ramp up especially your onshore programs.
What I will say when you go back to that five-year outlook none of the resources in there have changed at least to the downside.
If anything what we've learned through our drilling programs it continues to put upward pressure on that.
So the nice thing is the resource is there.
Now the timing and pace of activity is going to be dependent on how we handle and how we match up with the financial aspect of it and that's going to be dependent on price environment and cost structure.
Yeah I appreciate those clarifications.
I know it's a difficult question obviously in the current environment.
But maybe tying that a little bit to the financials and the current liquidity position actually it seems like your target or at least what you're communicating here is to just be pushing forward that liquidity position into 2016 2017 when the environment does change so that you can ramp at that point given that the resource base is as you just highlighted actually increasing during this time period.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
I mean when you think about it we've got a wealth of inventory here.
So it makes sense for us to maintain our liquidity such that when the time is right we can move as rapidly as we want to move to start to capture this additional value.
So I think you got to tie the whole financial management with the operational management.
And the thing I like about our position is we've got a very strong financial position.
We're committed to keeping a very strong financial position.
We got an inventory a huge inventory of opportunities and we've got a great proficiency in onshore developments offshore developments exploration and major project execution.
And we're going to continue to fine tune and improve those efficiencies and proficiencies as we go.
It's one of the nice things about even our program this year.
Even at this reduced capital level we still are exposing ourselves to some very significant material exploration prospects even at this level.
So we continue to keep that exploration proficiency going.
We continue to move the major project proficiency along as with these developments in the Gulf of Mexico.
So it's not like we've set any portion of our programs and capabilities on the shelf.
I certainly appreciate that and makes sense in the current environment.
We'll go next to Leo Mariani with RBC Capital Markets.
Hey guys.
I was hoping you could follow up on what type of pricing we need to see here on the oil side and I guess the natural gas side for the Marcellus to where you'd start to feel comfortable with activity increases.
And could activity increases happen during 2015 if we saw a nice rebound as we moved into the second half? How quickly can Noble respond? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah well I think what we've talked about Leo is making sure that we're in a position that we can respond quickly.
I think when that will be is open to interpretation at this point but two things are going play into effect is what's the outlook on commodity price and how much cost are we seeing being able to pull out of the business that we feel we can sustain being out of the business and continue to keep out of it.
And how does that world match up both on commodity price and cost as we look forward.
But our objective is to maintain our flexibility so that when that time is right we can move very quickly.
All right.
I guess let's just throw in a hypothetical.
If costs are down another 10% over the next three or four months and oil's $65 in July will you guys add activity in the DJ? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> We could.
That'd probably be the first place where we'd look at it.
Okay.
And I guess just in terms of Israel can you maybe just put a little bit more color around the situation? Is it one where you guys are negotiating with the government and the ministry on what the potential outcome may be? Or is it more of one where you're awaiting the government to tell you what they need on their side and can you maybe discuss what Noble's legal rights are with regards to its assets as well? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> No.
I think where we are in discussion is we're engaged in discussion.
We always think it's helpful to be engaged in discussion.
So we're engaged in discussion with this government committee that's been pulled together that represents the ministries.
And I think one of the things I mentioned earlier this is probably the first time we've had the opportunity to be truly engaged in a discussion with a group that represents all the ministries all the folks we need to get in the room together.
And that discussion's centered around setting up a comprehensive solution that has a regulatory framework that can sustain the investment in development for future projects.
And that's really the nature of the discussion.
Part of that whole discussion has been also  it's not just us in that discussion.
They've had to bring in  if you think about this and the way we've talked about our investment our future investment in Israel we've talked about ring fencing that about it being tied to financing and project financing and so forth.
So that's lent itself to where some of these folks who would potentially finance some of this type of activity the banks and so forth financial institutions around the world are also weighing in on what it takes to have a sustainable investment climate.
And what are Noble's legal rights in this situation here? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> I don't think we'll get into that in the call.
We're very comfortable with our position let me just put it that way.
All right.
Thanks.
And we have no other questions at this time.
I'd like to turn the conference back to Mr.
Larson for any additional or closing remarks.
I just want to close by thanking everyone today participating in the call and their overall interest in Noble Energy.
Hope you have a good day.
This does conclude the call.
We thank you for your participation.
Good morning and welcome to the Noble Energy's First Quarter 2015 Earnings Call.
At this time I would like to turn the conference over to our host Mr.
David Larson.
Please go ahead sir.
Thanks Joshua.
Good morning everyone.
I'm glad you could join us today for Noble Energy's first quarter 2015 earnings call and webcast.
This morning we issued our earnings release and also posted to our website a few supplement slides for this call.
Later this morning our 10-Q will be available.
Following the remarks by Dave Stover we'll open the call for Q&amp;A with the executive team and wrap things up in less than an hour.
Finally I want to remind everyone that this webcast and conference call contains projections and forward-looking statements as well as references non-GAAP financial measures.
You should read our full disclosures in our latest news release and SEC filings for a discussion of those.
With that let me turn the call over to Dave.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</strong> Thank you David.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us today.
I'm extremely pleased with how Noble Energy has performed in the early part of 2015.
This is highlighted by our production which has been strong across the board.
And while still early we're confident enough to raise our full-year volume outlook.
Our successes also include improving capital efficiency and reducing operating costs.
The results so far this year are right where we expected if not a little better.
Another major accomplishment was gaining alignment with our partner in the Marcellus to reduce our activity levels.
And in the DJ Basin strong results and continued operational efficiencies are driving additional capital allocation in the second half of the year.
Starting off with sales volumes we sold a record 318 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day in the first quarter an increase of 17% over the same period last year after adjusting for asset sales.
Full year sales are now expected to average between 300 000 and 315 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day as we have raised the bottom end of our range by 5 000 barrels equivalent per day.
This updated range now reflects the first quarter outperformance while maintaining our prior expectations for remaining quarters of the year.
Compared to the first quarter of last year core U.S.
onshore sales volumes increased more than 35% driven by record production in both the DJ Basin and Marcellus Shale.
Horizontal production in these two plays was up a combined 60% versus the same time period.
Offshore including the Gulf of Mexico and our international businesses volumes were relatively flat with the first quarter of last year after adjusting for asset sales.
Our offshore assets continue to perform very well with world-class runtime and lower than expected decline rate.
Highlighting this performance is nearly 100% runtime at both Tamar offshore Israel and Aseng in Equatorial Guinea.
It's the combination of these high quality low cost assets and managing a diversified portfolio that continues to provide Noble a competitive advantage.
Our U.S.
onshore development major project execution and exploration capabilities provide material resource opportunities and tremendous investment optionality.
As mentioned earlier we've made substantial progress towards lowering both our capital and operating costs.
We've worked closely with our suppliers to achieve an average of 20% savings seen most prominently in our U.S.
onshore business.
Our suppliers have moved quickly to assist in adjusting our cost structure and we continue to work with them in partnership to ensure these early achievements are turned into sustainable cost improvements.
Highlighting our production cost reduction was lease operating expense which is already down $0.50 per barrel from the fourth quarter a material change in such a short period of time and putting us on track to meet our full-year average expectation.
General and administrative costs are down from previous quarters as well.
We've also recently completed an organizational realignment which better positions our workforce for this current environment.
Capital expenditures for the quarter were a little over $900 million slightly below our internal expectations and trending lower as we move through the year.
Total capital for 2015 remains $2.9 billion with $1.8 billion allocated to the onshore U.S.
business.
The DJ Basin has increased to more than 60% of the onshore U.S.
amount with Marcellus now representing slightly less than 40%.
Focusing on our DJ operations growth in the first quarter exhibited our strong operating capacity.
Total volumes were a record 116 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day up 22% versus the first quarter last year.
Growth in the horizontal program is even more impressive up more than 50% over the last year and more than 110% in the last two years.
Slide four highlights continued drilling efficiencies being delivered by our teams.
And as you can see we're now averaging seven days from spud to rig release for a standard lateral length well almost as fast as we used to drill vertical wells.
In fact we recently drilled a 9 300-foot horizontal well in Wells Ranch in just seven days.
Compared to last year we're drilling 70% of the total footage while utilizing 40% of the rig count.
This is a result of our focus on drilling execution utilizing the best rigs and crews in the Basin and continuing to increase our average lateral lengths per well.
Reduced drilling times are resulting in an increased number of wells that can be completed this year and we're reallocating some capital here to keep up with the drilling pace supplementing our one full-time completion crew with a second completion crew in the second half of the year.
These efficiencies along with supplier cost reductions are driving a downward trend in our well costs.
Based on today's drilling and completion costs we're already meeting our budgeted well cost expectations for the year.
We have highlighted on slide five a $3.8 million Wells Ranch well.
Our overall cost reductions from 2014 include 5% to 15% sustainable cost savings from continuing to reduce drilling times and optimizing equipment usage and a range of 15% to 25% savings from our major suppliers.
It is worth noting that these well costs are all-in and include items such as pad construction and associated facilities cost.
And we have opportunities to continue to drive costs down further.
Using slickwater for fracs in certain parts of the Basin may allow us to save an additional $100 000 to $200 000 per well on a standard length lateral.
We recently brought online 11 wells in East Pony that were completed with slickwater and these wells are performing at or above expectations.
Third-party infrastructure uptime improved at the start of the year and I am pleased with the progress of the expansion projects that are currently underway.
The Lucerne-2 plant and additional compressor stations are on track for startup in late second quarter providing a material increase in processing and compression capacity on the DCP system.
The Grand Parkway low-pressure loop has been approved and is expected to start up by the end of the year which will have a positive impact on the performance of legacy vertical wells and earlier horizontal wells.
Operating performance in the Marcellus Shale remains exceptional as well.
And our production grew 73% versus the first quarter of last year to nearly 400 million cubic feet equivalent per day.
Similar to the DJ Basin we're seeing substantial reduction in drilling times and lower well costs through a combination of utilizing top hole rigs drilling longer laterals and supplier cost reductions.
Improvements in drilling times have resulted in a larger inventory of uncompleted wells than we had originally anticipated in both the operated and non-operated areas of the Marcellus.
This affords us the opportunity to reduce rig count in the second half of the year to one operated rig and two non-operated rigs while still meeting our planned completion and production goals.
Overall this is a $200 million net reduction to our prior Marcellus expectations.
We continue to diversify our natural gas markets and recently began transporting approximately 100 million cubic feet per day of gas out of the Basin including our first sales into Gulf Coast markets.
This firm transportation has a relatively low overall cost and gives us further access to better-priced markets.
Moving offshore we achieved a number of key milestones on our major projects in the Gulf of Mexico during the first quarter.
At Rio Grande all drilling and completion operations are now complete and pipeline installation is scheduled to begin in the second quarter.
Rio Grande remains on schedule for first production in the fourth quarter.
Development drilling operations at Gunflint are underway and are expected to continue throughout the remainder of 2015.
Pipeline installation will commence following the Rio Grande installation and first production from Gunflint remains on schedule for mid-2016.
Our Gulf of Mexico projects highlight the benefits of our diverse portfolio by providing strong oil growth exiting 2015 with another step-up in 2016.
The cash margins for these projects are very competitive with U.S.
onshore resource plays evidenced by nearly all of the production being oil and priced at a premium to WTI combined with attractive production costs.
Moving to the Eastern Mediterranean Tamar continues to exhibit exceptional reliability and set new milestones for delivery achieving a record weekly gross sales average of over 1 billion cubic feet of natural gas per day driven by seasonal demand and coal plant maintenance.
Our recently signed agreement to supply interruptible sales of up to 250 million cubic feet per day gross from Tamar to Egypt's domestic market is another example of the strong regional demand for our natural gas.
We and our customer are now working to finalize regulatory approvals and transportation agreements needed to start sales.
We believe these can be concluded in the next few months setting us up for initial sales later in 2015 by utilizing existing infrastructure.
Once we have those approvals we will provide an outlook for sales and adjust our production guidance at that time.
During the first quarter we received regulatory approval for export sales to the Arab Potash Company and Jordan Bromine Company in Jordan.
While relatively small volume this does represent the first formally approved regional export of natural gas from Israel and sets forward a path for additional agreements to follow.
Meanwhile we continue to work very intently to establish a comprehensive framework for energy development.
Our teams are meeting regularly with the inter-ministerial group established by the Prime Minister's office for this purpose and we're encouraged by their efforts to create a sustainable investment climate for energy development in Israel.
Early progress has been made and we look forward to working with the new government.
Resolution about standing regulatory matters including anti-trust concerns and export taxation along with a comprehensive framework for energy development is still necessary to enable additional project development.
We believe the inter-ministerial working group is on track to achieve this objective over the next few months following the seating of the new government.
In Cyprus we're working closely with the government and plan to submit a preliminary field development plan in the near future.
Our Cyprus discovery can be another important contributor toward meeting regional gas demand.
We've begun export marketing activities and are greatly encouraged by the level of interest expressed by potential counterparties not only for gas purchases but also regarding participating in export infrastructure investment.
Also within our offshore business you can certainly feel the exploration excitement around our office as we're nearing a very impactful 2015 drilling program.
In West Africa we recently signed a rig contract for the Cheetah exploration prospect in Cameroon and expect this low cost well to spud early in the third quarter.
Cheetah represents our first Cretaceous test in the Douala Basin and has a mean resource size in excess of 100 million barrels of oil equivalent gross.
A sizeable discovery at Cheetah would deliver a very attractive development in less than 100 feet of water depth where we can move very quickly to first production.
By the end of the second quarter we anticipate commencing drilling offshore in the Falkland Islands where we plan to drill two exploration wells this year.
Our first prospect Humpback which we operate with a 35% interest has a gross mean resource size of over 250 million barrels of oil.
If successful Humpback would de-risk other large prospects shown on slide 10 that have cumulative gross resource potential in excess of 1 billion barrels of oil.
We recently farmed into the Rhea prospect also with 250 million barrels of oil potential which will be our second exploration well in the Falkland Islands.
Adding the Rhea opportunity further diversifies our exploration inventory and enhances our overall chance of success as it offsets other oil discoveries in the Basin.
The prospect is anticipated to spud by year-end.
We operate Rhea and currently have a 75% working interest.
Let me now provide some insight into our volume profile throughout the year.
As mentioned earlier we have not made any production guidance changes to the remaining quarters.
Second quarter sales volumes are anticipated to range between 290 000 and 300 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day impacted by planned facility maintenance and turnarounds in West Africa and the Gulf of Mexico along with the usual seasonal demand softness for Israel volumes.
From there sales are expected to build in the second half of the year with strong seasonal demand in Israel in the third quarter followed by new oil volumes from the start-up of our major projects in the Gulf of Mexico in the fourth quarter.
Our diversified portfolio is setting us up to exit 2015 on a nice trajectory.
So in summary we're off to a strong start this year.
Performance on volumes capital efficiency and costs is where we expected if not a little better  not a little bit better at this point.
And we're on a path approaching cash flow neutrality around mid-year as we anticipated.
So Joshua at this time we'd like to go ahead and open the call to questions.
Thank you so much sir.
We'll take our first question from Evan Calio with Morgan Stanley.
Hi.
Good morning guys.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Good morning.
You guys delivered impressive efficiencies  drilling efficiencies in Wattenberg and Eagle Ford in the first quarter.
I guess two questions.
What do you see is the scope there to improve efficiencies further? And secondly how are you planning to preserve those efficiencies as activity increases in their off-cycle? It would appear that's more of a secular benefit than cyclical like service cost benefits you're enjoying today.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well Evan it's good to point out that the efficiencies are continuing to improve and I don't think we're done there.
I'll have Gary Willingham talk a little bit about his view up there.
But I've been extremely impressed and pleased with what the team has done by concentrating on each aspect of the drilling cycle if you will.
I mean if you think about it now we've actually drilled long laterals in the same time that we used to drill vertical wells four to five years ago.
So it's been a remarkable improvement.
But I'll let Gary talk about what he sees as far as trajectory this year.
Operations</span></strong> Yeah Evan when you look at the slide on page four you can see the improvement over time and especially focusing on that spud to rig release curve how that's continued to come down over time.
So we were able to do that even in a much higher commodity price environment obviously.
I think some of the recent performance improvement we've seen to be fair is we're running four rigs and we tended to keep the four best rigs out of the 10 but I think that's a fairly small part of the improvement that we've seen.
Most of it comes from just a continuing focus on how can we make each little part of the drilling process better? And as Dave mentioned while we average seven days for normal length laterals in the first quarter in the DJ we also drilled a 9 300-foot well in seven days.
And we also drilled a normal length lateral well in five days in East Pony so that gives us confidence that there's still more improvement to come and that's what we'll be chasing over the next quarters.
Great.
And my second question given you and CNX have reduced activity in the Marcellus how do you consider reallocating capital in the Niobrara beyond the completion crew added? And just maybe more broadly many companies have cited various approaches into a commodity price recovery with some looking to balance sheet repair earlier adding rigs in the back half of the year.
How do you anticipate responding in an improved commodity price environment? I'll leave it there.
Operations</span></strong> I mean for now for 2015 we're really still looking at just four rigs.
So the capital that we're shifting from the Marcellus to the DJ we're using that to kind of back-end load those four rigs that we've already got because again we're drilling wells a lot faster.
So that kind of back-end loads those rigs and provides for a few more completions this year.
Most of those completions incremental completions will be in 2016.
And then that's regardless of what the commodity looks like in the back half of the year so you're pretty set for this year or is it responsive or reflective of that environment? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
I'd say at this point it's too early to change anything for the year.
I mean the one change that you've noted is that we brought down the capital spending working with our partner in the Marcellus.
And then as Gary pointed out with the efficiencies of these four rigs and just assuming we stay at four rigs this year in the DJ we're going to drill more wells and now we're going to allocate more money to completion so we'll come out of the year putting ourselves in I'd say even a better position heading into 2016 there.
Great.
I appreciate the color guys.
Thanks.
And we'll take our next question from Doug Leggate with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Thanks.
Good morning everyone.
Good morning David.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Hey Doug.
A couple of questions if I may.
There's a comment in the press release about the efficiency gains in the DJ will result in more wells this year than perhaps you originally planned.
So I guess I've got two questions around that.
One is why continue to drill in this  I guess it's an improving environment we're in but why continue to drill when some of your peers have been starting completions? So what's your take on that? And secondly how does it change the mix of those incremental wells between long laterals and I guess your standard length wells? And I've got a quick follow-up please.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
And I'll start with that.
But I'd say where we are right now and as Gary has pointed out we continue to get more and more efficient with these four rigs than I would expect.
We continue to see that trend this year so we've kind of got a base load of operation now between what we're focusing on at East Pony and Wells Ranch with this rig activity with this four-rig activity.
And what it's enabling us to do now is to bring more wells ready for  more wells that we'll have drilled by the end of the year is more wells ready to complete by the end of the year which I think will give us some very nice momentum as we exit this year and look towards 2016.
So it just gives us a lot more capacity of what we can do there as we continue to gain efficiency.
And I think that part of that efficiency is driven by focusing on this continued improvement with these four rigs and with these dedicated crews that we have up there.
Gary another view? Operations</span></strong> Yeah.
And I think the only thing I would add to your point on how does it change the mix of ERLs.
We've been looking at increasing our spud count this year by probably about 15% in the DJ.
I think those incremental wells that will be targeted towards year-end will be roughly the same 50% ERLs that we've got in the budget.
But if it's off from that much it's not going to change the annual average that much either way.
Okay.
I appreciate the answer.
Dave my follow-up I guess is a pretty standard question around the regulatory situation in Israel.
I think you'd suggested that post the election things were perhaps looking a little bit more promising in terms of getting going again on Leviathan forward sales and so on.
Any update you can share to the extent you can and I'll leave it at that.
Thank you.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> I think the main thing while they've been going through their election cycle and pulling the new government together the work has continued behind the scenes with this inter-ministerial committee and I think we've been very pleased with the progress we've seen especially the focus on coming up with what we've talked about this comprehensive solution this kind of roadmap the sanction if you will.
And so I've been very pleased with the progress we've seen and the commitment to getting this thing ready so that we can start back up as things develop here.
And part of the reality of it is the new government is going to have to get in place going to have to get seated but the real positive part of that is nobody is waiting or has been waiting for that.
Everybody has been working diligently to address the things that need to be addressed so you can put this comprehensive framework together.
I can ask Keith.
Keith has been the one here Keith Elliott here that's been more intimately involved with it than me and he can give you his feel for his outlook on that.
Yeah.
I think Doug that the  my sense is that the government through the formation of the inter-ministerial committee is really reflecting the recognition that the establishment of this investment framework that blends itself to companies ourselves and other players new entrants into the Basin providing that sort of stable and attractive investment climate just leads us to be optimistic that they're going to deliver a solution in a reasonable timeframe here.
Guys the sales contracts that you had already are they (24:29) I guess that you'd already signed are they still good and obviously they're on hold but would you be able to go back to those in fairly quick order or have they been completely shelved until you get clarity? We've continued to be engaged with all of those potential customers.
We're engaged with them on an ongoing basis.
The LOIs are either in place or extensions have been agreed.
And all parties really continue to be very prepared to move toward consummation of these contracts once we can get the regulatory framework in place.
I mean I think the thing is that  and Dave alluded to it in his comments the thing that I would just call out is there really is a fundamental supply/demand imbalance that the resources in Israel and Cyprus are  can really lend themselves to help them to address and I think that hasn't been lost on any of the potential buyers.
I appreciate it fellas.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from Dave Kistler with Simmons &amp; Company.
Good morning guys.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Good morning Dave.
Real quickly in your prepared remarks you mentioned that you thought the decrease in service costs could be sustained over time.
Can you give us some more color on that specifically to the cost reductions? Not necessarily the efficiency gains.
And are you looking at locking down some of the service costs going forward in the form of contracts or anything like that? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well I think that gets all back to how we're working with our major service providers.
And I think the way we look at it is  this is a partnership.
It's not about just beating costs down but it's a partnership on how we do we do business not only for now but going forward in a way that we can make this more economical for all of us.
And so a lot of discussion when you look at actually the contracting and a lot of that is on an annual basis on some of our major suppliers.
It can be a little longer than that on some of this.
So we'll put in place some of that but we're looking at the combination of service costs and what else can we do just from improved efficiency on some of this and the combination of those to lock in a lower cost profile if you will for longer term here.
But it's  back to Gary's point earlier it's working on all aspects of that.
Okay.
I appreciate that.
And then one of the things I know I've talked to you guys about in the past but service companies are highlighting and that's the ability to go back and refrac wells which at this juncture some people are posing that that could be a significant driver to higher rates of return obviously for lower capital spending.
How are you guys thinking about that in the Wattenberg at this juncture and how are you studying that currently? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well as you would expect especially up in Wattenberg and the DJ Basin we've had a long history and our predecessors had a long history of utilizing existing wellbores especially in the vertical world where they were  we had been in the mode of refracs and even trifracs.
So there's a lot of history there.
I think in the horizontal world obviously it poses some other complexities if you will with using the long lateral especially on long lateral lengths.
But we did a few up there previously and we've also done a few in the Marcellus.
And I think it's probably going to take a little more time.
The ones we initially did were probably in areas that hadn't performed as well initially though we saw some benefit from that.
The real test will be when we start at some point trying to do this in areas that have had very good results but after three of four years or so like we did in the vertical program you start to look at can you go back in and bust open some more rock and get some more incremental recovery.
I think David it's just part of what's in the toolbox of things we're looking at as to how we take the percent recovery from single-digit to double-digits up there in the Basin and I don't know  Gary anything else on that? Operations</span></strong> I think as Dave said we've done some in both places the Marcellus we did some refracs as well as some re-perforating on some older wells.
And had some very nice results on those where the production rates came back up to actually the initial rates of the wells.
DJ we've done a number.
Results have been a bit more mixed there being able to mechanically isolate the fracs has remained the big issue there.
You've seen a lot of talk recently around different means of diverting.
We've tried some of those.
We're not really ready to comment on the results yet.
We're also working on a couple of other ideas that haven't seen mentioned too much publicly.
So we'll continue to chase a few things.
I think this is something that eventually a lot of smart engineers in the industry will figure out how to fix it and create a whole other wave of opportunity in these fields.
Okay.
Appreciate that.
One last one if I can just sneak it in.
How are you guys thinking about hedging in 2016 at this juncture with the movement we've seen in the forward strip? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> We've got some volume hedged in 2016 I think it's what 25%?.
Yeah.
It's about 29% David.
I think the way  our hedging program has been very successful over time in that we don't  we try to average in so we'll set up a plan rate and then we'll watch the market and go slowly.
So that's allowed us to be well hedged in  through time.
And we've had big hedge settlements in 2009 big positive hedge settlements in 2009 and of course this year and if this  again 2016 depending on how things play out.
At the same time we haven't given up much headroom or had negative settlements of any note.
So the program has been effective and we'll continue to do a current year plus two and typically about 50% of the volume and average in.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> I mean we'll continue to look for opportunities and an upswing in commodity market.
But as Ken said the target is 50% on global oil and 50% on U.S.
gas is kind of what we hold ourselves to.
Great.
Really appreciate the additional color there.
Thanks so much guys.
And next we'll move onto Charles Meade with Johnson Rice.
Good morning everyone.
I wondered if I could ask a question on the DJ.
With the 8% sequential production growth there quarter-over-quarter I think that's the highest we've seen in a while and I'm wondering if you can comment on whether that's maybe the beginning of a trend we see as you kind of unload the spring and get the midstream debottlenecked or maybe if it's more reflective of kind of a reduced operational pace and so kind of reduced offset well shut-ins is  fracs  and if you can kind of give us a sense of the bigger picture there.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Hi Charles.
I appreciate it.
I think it was a big quarter in the DJ obviously.
I think we benefited some from coming off the activity levels late last year which we actually dropped or reduced from 10 rigs late last year into starting this year off  or say starting this year off here in the first quarter moving down to four rigs on that.
So we'll see that change a little bit.
Gary can talk a little bit on how he sees the year playing out as we go through the year and we still have some of the big processing facility to come on here in the end of the second quarter too which will impact things.
Operations</span></strong> Yeah.
I wouldn't attribute any of it really or much of it to lower activity levels and less offset shut-ins with fracs.
As you probably remember a lot of our completions in 2014 were towards the back-end loaded so a lot of wells came on late in 4Q and we certainly got an uplift from that in the first quarter of this year.
We have dropped down from the 10 rigs to the four rigs so we're working off that completion backlog that we brought into the year as well.
I think when you look at our profile through the year we expect to  1Q to be the highest be fairly flat maybe through first half and then start to decline in the second half as we get back into more of an equilibrium that you would expect with only running the four rigs.
Now what remains to be seen on top of that is how much of an uplift we truly get from the startup of the Lucerne-2 gas plant that DCP is bringing on in June.
That's 200 million cubic feet a day plant we would certainly expect to see some recovery from our legacy program the vertical wells the older horizontal wells from reduced pressures when that plant comes on.
We've got a little bit of that baked into the plan but we could see more than that.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> And don't forget as we talked on the last call we've kind of level loaded our completions here for the year and so as we get more completions later in the year as I mentioned earlier that actually helps us on next year's volume.
Got it.
That makes sense Dave.
And Gary that's good detail on what you guys have kind of  that you have a portion of the Lucerne  portion of I guess I should say the possible Lucerne uplift baked in.
Operations</span></strong> Right.
Dave if I could get you to go back to talk about the Eastern Med and I recognize that maybe you guys don't want to go into too much detail but I'm going to try to see if we can...
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> You're going to push on that...
Maybe get a little more out of you.
But so you've got  I recognize that they haven't seen the new parliament and haven't worked out the new coalition that sort of thing.
But maybe you could talk a bit about how you got this finalized agreement because it seems like  I know this news came out a little bit earlier.
But that to me seems like while it's not a big deal it's an important hurdle that you now have exports approved to go out of the country.
But how did that come together in the absence of a seated parliament and how should we  does that have any implications for what the process looks like for your interruptible Egypt agreement? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Good connection there Charles.
I'd say that yeah even though it is a small volume it is important from the standpoint that it was the first real export agreement.
So we had a chance to work through the process if you will and get some of the kinks out in that process on how you approach that and how you get an approval of that type of thing.
So for that first agreement over there to Jordan.
Probably Keith can expand on that a little bit more since he's been closer to it.
Yeah Charles.
I think with respect to the Arab Potash-Jordan Bromine agreement that you're referring to that really is a result of ongoing engagement with the government really over a period of probably a year year and a half where we've been pursuing the really implementation of the export policy that the government established back in 2012 and 2013 timeframe.
So a number of these things are within the control of specific ministries.
And so this is the case in point where it's completely within the remit of the Ministry of Energy and Water Resources.
Others are more complex that require the alignment across ministries and that's really been the benefit that we've seen of this inter-ministerial working group.
It's caused a number of ministries that typically don't work as closely together as might be needed to create the kind of framework that investors look for.
It's caused  it's provided a venue for those groups to work together and that's been the real positive thing I think that's come out of this for us.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> But I think the second part of your question does it help with setting a pathway for the interruptible contract approval by the government and actually both governments Israel and Egypt for that.
And I think it does help with that and that's one we're continuing to keep our eye on and push because we think that could be another very important milestone if you will in how things are progressing over there.
Right.
Because  and just to sneak this in David because that would establish precedent for Israeli exports to Egypt even though it's  it would be an existing pipeline network and so if you get that in place then presumably you've got one big hurdle down on the idea of getting Leviathan gas through some new offshore pipeline to Egypt? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Right because then you would have had approvals on contracts precedent contracts if you will to both neighboring countries that are also going to be important for Leviathan.
Okay.
Thanks a lot guys.
And next we'll move on to David Heikkinen with Heikkinen Energy Advisors.
Actually the questions around Israeli exports are what I was aiming for so thanks a lot guys.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thank you David.
Thank you.
Next let's go onto Brian Singer with Goldman Sachs.
Thank you.
Good morning.
Couple of questions on the DJ.
The first you highlighted $3.8 million well costs for the Wells Ranch 4 500-foot lateral.
I just wanted to see where you think that can go based on the trends in service cost deflation and efficiency gains that you're seeing.
And whether you think as you allocate more capital and drill more wells given the rig efficiencies whether you actually see any upward pressure on costs as more of the operators seem to be willing to allocate or maybe willing to allocate more capital there towards the end of the year.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Okay.
Yeah.
I think Brian as you've pointed out we showed a $3.8 million Wells Ranch cost and case and that's reflective of what we've been experienced or experienced here earlier in the first quarter.
Is there room for it to continue to come down? I'd say probably as we continue to get more efficient but probably worth Gary talking a little bit about how sees that playing out.
Operations</span></strong> Yeah.
I probably feel a little even stronger about it than Dave.
The $3.8 million is what we had in the budget.
We essentially have achieved that by the end of the first quarter.
And when you look at other wells that we drilled in Wells Ranch since then by the end of April we were drilling wells as low as $3.4 million some in the $3.6 million to $3.7 million range.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> This is drilled and complete? Operations</span></strong> Drilled and complete yeah and continuing to drive that cost down.
So one thing worth noting and I think we had it in the notes but when we talk drilling complete numbers whether it's the $3.8 million on the slide or the $3.4 million that we've done since then that really is an all-in cost.
That includes all the pad costs allocated to the wells new facilities allocated to the wells as well as when we get into areas where there's vertical legacy wells that if any prep work needs to be done on those that gets allocated back to the wells.
So that truly is an all-in costs.
I think hitting the $3.4 million in April says a lot about our ability to continue to drive it down especially as we continue to drive drilling times down to those five-day records I mentioned on a normal length lateral and seven days on a long length lateral.
But the cost savings is really coming across the board.
It's coming in drilling efficiencies it's coming in supply cost reductions it's coming in greater utilization of consolidated facilities and we're just going to continue to push it.
We've got a technical limit case that's actually significantly below the $3.4 million even and we're working towards that.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> So I'd say Brian where we are and what we've represented is what we've done now on a fairly consistent basis for the first quarter probably too early to call victory on  beneath that yet but we've getting that we're getting some very good indications that there's more to come there.
Great.
Thanks.
That's helpful.
And then couple of months ago it seems like there was a level of either optimism or hopefulness that there would be some consolidation opportunities that may come up.
I just wanted to see with the oil prices and valuations higher how you're thinking about that and where you see opportunity? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> I mean I think like everybody we're continuing to keep our eye open.
We probably with some of our realignment of internal resources we've dedicated some more folks or business development group to continue to proactively look at what would be of interest to us.
I think as far as anything new it would have to be something that would have the scale to be in a core area or add to a core area and it would have to be something that had an inventory that would compete with the inventory we have from an economic development standpoint.
So as like  I'm sure like most everybody else if you've got a position of strength like a financial position that we have you'll continue to look for is there things that would be accretive to your opportunity set.
But too early to tell right now.
Great.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from Michael Rowe with Tudor Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</span></strong> Hi.
Good morning.
I just had a quick question on the Marcellus.
So I just want to make sure I understand the $200 million net reduction in capital is that just effectively deferring new spuds because you've reiterated your completion count and production volumes for the region in 2015? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> It's really a reflection of bringing down that rig activity on both sides the wet gas and the dry gas for the  really the biggest impact of that will be the second half of the year.
And with the efficiencies that we've continued to gain out there too we've continued to build up the inventory of completions.
So it just didn't make sense to continue drilling a lot of wells and stacking up a lot of completions out there at this point in time.
Operations</span></strong> Yeah.
This is Gary.
It's primarily on the drilling side.
I think we've reduced our new wells online in the Marcellus by about four wells for the year.
So it's pretty immaterial mostly on the drilling side.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Great.
And just one question on the Eastern Mediterranean program with the added capacity from the Ashdod compression project realistically how often do you think you'll be able to take advantage of that additional capacity? In other words do you see foresee enough domestic demand growth to allow for more net sales on top of just seasonal peaking needs for air conditioning in the third quarter? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well we saw I think quarter-on-quarter first quarter versus first quarter last year it was up about 10%.
I think as far as truly using all of that capacity it will just be during peak periods and that can be peak hours of the day or it can be more in the summer.
Third quarter is usually our highest quarter over there so that's probably when we'll see it the most.
The other piece of that that it's important for is it provides more capacity for this interruptible volumes once that's worked out and approved and moving forward.
So that will be the knock-on effect of it.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</span></strong> Great.
That's helpful.
Thank you.
And next we'll move on to Leo Mariani with RBC.
Hey guys.
I was hoping you could speak to well costs in the Marcellus.
You talked a lot about DJ but can you give us a sense of what type of costs you're seeing today both on an operated non-operated basis and the improvements you've seen? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Okay.
Gary do you want to provide any color on that? Operations</span></strong> Yeah.
I think our drilling and complete in the Marcellus it varies obviously across the basin but the average is probably about $8 million  $7 million to $8 million for a 7 000-foot lateral 8 000-foot lateral in that range.
Okay.
Operations</span></strong> It's pretty much $1 million per 1 000-foot lateral is the way to think about it right now.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
Okay.
That's helpful.
And I guess obviously you guys made a conscious effort decision here with your partner to reduce activity.
I'm imagining that probably part of that was due to weak gas prices that we're experiencing here.
Can you talk at all about what type of gas prices you and your partner think you guys would need to see before picking up activity again? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> It might not  I think what you're seeing is reflective now of coming out of winter and where the prices and the outlook for pricing are for the rest of this year coming out of winter.
I think we'll continue to meet with them regularly.
I mean we've got monthly reviews with them and more regular discussion on the longer-term outlook.
And yeah I don't think either of us are prepared to nail down a particular price for a particular activity yet.
Okay.
I guess just I'm going over the second quarter guidance here.
You guys obviously are expecting volumes to come down here in terms of sales volumes.
Could you kind of give us some granularity in terms of the level of maintenance you're expecting in the second quarter if you had kind of a number you could sort of throw out there? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> I mean the main part of that I think the vast majority of it is all  or the largest portion of it is the downtime and planned down time in West Africa between the planned downtime and lifting schedules there.
So I think that's kind of approaching 15 000 barrels a day equivalent or so.
And then you have some knock-on effects that as you've got some facilities that have some rig moves and so forth that affect our volumes in the Gulf of Mexico.
So those are the two big things along with the normal seasonal demand decrease as we expect and have seen every year in the second quarter in the Eastern Med.
So I mean that's what it's all attributed to.
No different than we expected going into the year.
Okay.
That's helpful.
And I guess you spoke a lot about well costs coming down in the DJ.
Have you seen anything in terms of improved well performance in the DJ other than just faster drilling times and more costs? Operations</span></strong> Yeah.
I think we continue to gather data from all the testing we did last year.
You'll remember we tested quite a few different completion techniques last year.
And we're starting to zero in on the ones that we are going to implement across the Basin for most of this year.
I think when you look at our performance really in the last six months to nine months with everything that we've tried we're at or above the type curves that we've been expecting to see as we test these downspaced areas.
So I'd say everything is pretty much on track right now.
We'll continue to look for ways to improve the completions going forward.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> And I think I mentioned Leo on my call 11 wells up there in East Pony that we did some different completion on.
And those have been a positive improvement too.
Okay.
That's helpful.
Thanks guys.
Operations</span></strong> That's a combination Leo of really looking for ways where we can continue to drive costs down without impacting the value of the properties.
So those 11 wells in East Pony that are slickwater that saves $100 000 to $200 000 per well off the D&amp;C cost and as Dave said they're performing as expected or better so...
All right.
Thank you.
And we'll take our next question from Paul Grigel with Macquarie.
Inc.</span></strong> Hi.
Good morning.
On the DJ noting that there was the asset sale during the quarter are you looking to sell other assets in the Basin outside of the IDPs? And if so any thoughts on what the use of capital would be if those came to fruition? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well I think as you saw from what we sold earlier this year it would be areas that are for us would be long-term development.
They'd be outside of the IDP areas things that we wouldn't have plans for for a number of years and somebody else that may fit into their portfolio sooner.
But there's not a whole lot of that up there that we'd be looking at.
It'd be around the fringes I guess.
I don't know.
Gary any other comment? Operations</span></strong> No.
That's fair to say.
It'd be around the fringes.
There might be some other small deals.
But I wouldn't expect anything of the magnitude of that one anytime soon.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
And on the capital budget for the year could you just remind us what your assumption was when you set the budget in terms of service cost reductions and then what you've seen to-date? And if your plan is to continue to reinvest those saving in completions in the DJ area or is it to keep it on the balance sheet going forward? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> I mean we'll have the opportunity of  we'll continue to drive savings down to continue to look at which makes most sense which creates more value.
Or as I think when you look at it it was the $2.9 billion was  and when we were looking at the budget we were looking at that relative to a $50 to $55 oil price and we were assuming probably on a full-year basis around 10% if I remember right on the average savings overall on those.
And you see a little higher savings that we're seeing on some of the completion part but you have to look at the total cost.
So I think it's too early for us to adjust anything yet which is why we haven't changed our capital outlook for the year but we'll continue to look at that as we get another quarter under our belt.
Inc.</span></strong> Great.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from Mike Scialla with Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Yeah.
Hi.
Gary in response to Leo's question you addressed this a little bit but I wanted to follow up on it.
You'd said that you're trying different things in the DJ.
And so far pretty much everything has kind of met your expectations.
You were doing a lot of testing on downspacing particularly in Wells Ranch last year and I'm just wondering with the slowdown in the drilling activity has that slowed that whole downspacing process or are you comfortable saying what the level of spacing is at least in Wells Ranch at this point  I realize that it varies across the field.
And if you're not ready to say do you have a timeline on how much data do you think you need to see before you will be? Operations</span></strong> Yeah.
We're not ready to say yet.
I'd say as far as when it'll be probably towards the end of this year.
I think what I would point out is that we said all through last year that we  we're devoting a large part of that program to testing downspacing at 24 wells per section and 32 wells per section and then we wanted to get the wells on and really gather some longer term data and we have ramped that downspacing program almost down to nothing this year.
That has doesn't really have anything to do with the commodity environment; that was the plan all along until we had gathered the data on the pilots that we did last year.
So all of the resource numbers everything we've ever talked about location counts for the field has always been based on 16 wells per section.
We've talked about  we do expect it to be different spacing in different parts of the field.
16 wells per section as an average is certainly still a very good number a conservative number I think.
We see some areas where we do expect it to be greater spacing than that more than 16 wells.
There may be some areas that end up being less than 16 wells and I still feel very comfortable overall with where we're at.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> I think the other part of that too and Gary alluded to the amount of downspacing of drilling we did last year that we've been bringing wells on now we'll start to have a sense of that across  I think it was all of the initial five IDP areas...
Operations</span></strong> Right.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> ...that we had some downspacing last year.
So it's  we'll get a much larger database here this year to compare and look at beyond just the Wells Ranch area.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Great.
That's helpful.
And to follow up on the slickwater comment sounds like working nicely in East Pony.
Is that potential for the rest of the field as well? Operations</span></strong> I think we'll just have to see Mike.
I think we're definitely seeing encouraging early results in East Pony.
We've done some slickwater tests in the past in other parts of the field and it's been less conclusive I'd say in the other parts of the field.
So we'll just to continue to test things in different areas and see what's the best application in each area.
But East Pony's looking good.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> And some of this may evolve too as you're getting down into  in increased density or tighter density where you're not having to carry your proppant as far away from the wellbore and you're getting that higher concentration near the wellbore that may drive some changes in how we use fluids then and just concentrations here.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Great.
Thanks.
And then last one for me the Rhea prospect in the Falklands are you comfortable keeping that 75% working interest or are you looking to sell that down at all? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> I mean we're probably comfortable with that for this first well.
I mean we would be looking at a project where we would get down into that 50% or so range overall and we're talking to some folks now out there.
But whether something changes before we drill the well or not is not dependent on drilling of this well.
That's a pretty low-cost well.
I mean it's in  I mean relatively it's in about 1 500 feet of water depth than  and the TD is 9 000 feet or so.
So it's a very nice prospect offsetting some recent discoveries.
So it was a nice addition to the portfolio and somewhat de-risking some of our play types down in that area.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Very good.
Thank you.
And next we'll move on to Gail Nicholson with the KLR Group.
Good morning.
I was just curious as to the standpoint of the lower service cost environment.
Does that accelerate the potential for sanctioning projects in the portfolio still in order to lock in lower costs for long lead items? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> I think the piece on as far as sanctioning projects would be for those big offshore projects; projects like in the Eastern Med.
It will be dependent on how the pricing environment holds up when we're getting closer to sanctioned.
I think directionally it's heading to where you'd potentially have the ability to lock in some lower cost projects than you would have a year or two ago.
We might have the opportunity just as a reminder like we did coming out of the 2008 2009 period when we were able to lock in kind of Tamar Aseng Alen and take advantage of a lower supply cost service cost environment.
So it's going to be dependent on where we are when we're really getting back to truly negotiating the final agreement.
Okay.
Great.
And then just on the standpoint of the Falklands.
What's the infrastructure like down there? You had mentioned that Cheetah was successful in Cameroon that you did that on relatively quickly.
I was just kind of curious on the  with the Falklands successful find down there what type of timeframe to bring the Falklands (58:37)? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> It would be a much longer timeframe.
You have to have large resources you have to have probably bring in something like an FPSO facility a standalone vessel.
And so it's a little  a much different environment than in Cameroon.
In Cameroon what you mentioned it's in very shallow water.
It's like taking a  putting a  setting a Gulf of Mexico very shallow water platform and you could do that very fast.
Falklands would be a longer time to development.
Okay.
Great.
Thank you.
Thank you.
And we'll take our next question from David Tameron with Wells Fargo.
Hi.
Morning.
Just a quick question acquisitions can you just give us your latest thought as far as what you're seeing what you're thinking et cetera? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> I think we're still early on this cycle here.
I think we'll  and as I mentioned earlier we'll continue to focus on what would make sense to add to the portfolio but it would have to be accretive from the standpoint that it would be an opportunity that had running room and inventory that competes with our current inventory because we've got a nice inventory already out there.
So I don't know.
It's early to say what that market could look like over time.
I think the benefit is and  that you  part of the benefit both for looking at new opportunities and being able to accelerate our own when you got a deep portfolio is maintaining that financial strength and that's why we've made sure we're in the position we're in now.
All right.
That's all I got.
Everything else has been asked.
Thank you.
Thank you.
And that will conclude today's question-and-answer session.
At this time I would like to turn the conference back over to Mr.
David Larson for any additional or closing remarks.
Great.
Thanks again everyone for participating on the call and your interest and participation in Noble Energy.
Hope you all have a great day.
This will conclude today's conference.
We appreciate everyone's participation.
Good morning and welcome to the Noble Energy's Second Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
Following today's presentation there will be opportunity to ask questions.
Please note today's event is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Brad Whitmarsh.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you for joining us today.
This morning we issued our quarterly earnings release and new guidance for the remainder of the year.
Following another strong quarter we have again raised our full year volume outlook for Noble Energy while keeping our capital program consistent with prior expectations.
Our new guidance and comments today also incorporate an outlook for these new Texas assets which we're excited to share following the closing of the Rosetta Resources acquisition in late July.
We also posted to our website a number of supplemental slides for this call which you'll find helpful as we talk through our prepared remarks.
Later this morning our 10-Q will be available as well.
Following prepared comments from Dave Stover Chairman President and CEO; and Gary Willingham Executive VP of Operations we'll open the call for questions and complete in about an hour.
We ask that participants limit themselves to one primary question and one follow-up.
Management members joining for the Q&amp;A session are Ken Fisher Executive VP and CFO; Susan Cunningham Executive VP Exploration and New Ventures; and Keith Elliott Senior VP Eastern Med.
I want to remind everyone that this webcast and conference call contains projections and forward-looking statements as well as certain non-GAAP financial measures.
You should read our full disclosures in our latest news release and SEC filings for a discussion of those items.
With that I'll turn the call over to Dave.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</strong> Thanks Brad.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us.
I want to share with you why I continue to have great confidence in our business and strategy.
While these are challenging times in our industry it does not diminish the fact that Noble Energy has exceptional assets as well as the financial strength and operational excellence to realize their potential.
Our positive momentum including the recent closing of the Rosetta acquisition gives us great optimism for the future as we continue to execute on our strategy of driving value from a high-quality diversified portfolio that provides investment choices.
Our core competitive advantages continue to be focused in U.S.
onshore unconventional development combined with material offshore explorations and proven major projects execution.
Additionally we have the financial strength to navigate through a volatile market and take advantage of opportunities.
All oil and natural gas companies are facing choppy seas right now but I believe investors are very well-positioned with Noble Energy.
We continue to effectively manage the things that are within our control and position the business for long-term value creation.
Our diversified portfolio underpinned strong performance in the second quarter.
Volumes again exceeded expectations and meaningful reductions are being realized on both capital and operating costs.
Sales volumes were nearly 300 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day even with the impact of scheduled facility maintenance in both the Gulf of Mexico and West Africa.
For the second time this year we've raised our Noble Energy legacy volume outlook for the full year.
This is a result of our flexibility to reallocate capital throughout the year as we continue to see efficiency improvements in the DJ Basin program.
Second quarter capital expenditures declined sequentially to under $800 million and we remain on track to meet our original $2.9 billion capital forecast.
Our capital is trending lower quarterly for the year as we manage the cash flow in the second half of the year.
I'm also extremely pleased with our progress in reducing cash cost specifically in the onshore business where lease operating expense was reduced to approximately $4 per barrel of oil equivalent in the quarter.
This is down more than 20% from the first quarter.
Total lease operating expense per barrel of oil equivalent for Noble Energy is now back to pre-2010 level reflecting our portfolio changes and an intense focus on reducing controllable costs.
Operational execution continues to be an area of keen focus as we look to maximize long-term profitability with a number of a major accomplishments achieved during the second quarter.
This included onshore horizontal production growth of 45% versus the same quarter of last year and record low drilling times in both the DJ Basin and Marcellus Shale.
Drilled and completed costs all in are trending below targeted well costs in both plays.
In our offshore business the Ashdod compression project in Israel has been completed increasing our peak deliverability and at the same time pipeline installation and top site facility modifications are progressing as planned on Big Bend and Dantzler in the Gulf of Mexico.
First production from these fields is expected in the fourth quarter and around the end of the year respectively.
On the offshore drilling side we have three rigs currently operating: one progressing our Gunflint development and two drilling material exploration wells including prospects offshore of the Falkland Islands and Cameroon.
So from an execution standpoint I am pleased with how our business is operating.
The acquisition of Rosetta enhances and further diversifies our onshore unconventional portfolio by adding two premier low-cost operating assets.
Strong underlying asset performance results from other operators in and around our acreage as well as recent M&amp;A activity in these basins continues to affirm the long-term value of our transaction.
It was the right opportunity at the right time for Noble Energy.
These high-quality assets provide prolific and low-cost production in the Eagle Ford with running room and a deep inventory of liquids-rich opportunities in the emerging Delaware Basin.
Without question these new areas will have a substantial impact to Noble Energy.
When you think about more than 60 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day of production at least 1 800 identifiable locations and around 1 billion barrels of oil equivalent potential that's a very sizable business that can grow materially into the future.
We've hit the ground running and we're already seeing more value potential than we originally assumed.
Combined our Texas assets will deliver 15% compound annual growth for several years within the operating cash flows of this business.
As such we aren't pulling capital away from any of our other strong return opportunities which is one reason this investment was so unique.
As shown on slide 3 we now have sizable position in four of the premier U.S.
unconventional plays.
This provides substantial flexibility in our future capital allocation and the ability to accelerate activity when appropriate.
We will also realize about $40 million per year in G&amp;A synergies while taking advantage of Noble's lower cost of capital.
Let me now hand it over to Gary to walk through an operations update.
Thanks Dave.
I'd like to start off by sharing my thoughts on why the Rosetta acquisition was such a great move for Noble Energy.
Our technical knowledge of these basins was built over the last several years as our business development and new venture teams have set all of the best basins in the U.S.
From this work two things became apparent.
First we needed to focus our existing onshore U.S.
portfolio on the DJ Basin and Marcellus Shale which consistently rank among the top basins.
This caused us to exit a number of other plays over the last few years.
Second we wanted to be ready to further enhance our portfolio by capturing opportunities in other competitive basins when they became available.
The Eagle Ford and Delaware basins are both top-tier plays and we've now obtained premier positions in some of the best parts of each.
Over the last few years we have dramatically improved performance in the DJ Basin and then transferred and accelerated those learnings in the Marcellus.
With the addition of the Eagle Ford and Delaware positions we are confident that our operational expertise will again unlock incremental value that otherwise would not have been delivered.
Our acquisition model applied value almost entirely to the existing production the Lower Eagle Ford inventory and the Upper Wolfcamp potential in the Delaware.
We see a lot of room to increase value further from multi-zone development in both plays refrac potential and additional locations that are not assumed in our current counts.
The high quality nature of our Eagle Ford asset is demonstrated on slide 5.
The map illustrates estimated recoveries per lateral foot in the basin.
You can see the outline of our acreage the largest being a core position in Northern Webb County where we will focus our Eagle Ford activity over the next few years.
This is a sweet spot of some of the most productive rock in the play with tremendous resource recoveries ranging between 1 million and 3 million barrels of oil equivalent per well based on a 5 000-foot lateral.
We have highlighted in the table our current assumptions including inventory counts based on current strip pricing and assumed spacing estimated ultimate recoveries and average well costs.
Highlighted on slide 6 is the 3 million barrel equivalent type curve for South Gates Ranch represented by the blue line.
This is an increase of 25% from Rosetta's prior type curve shown in red.
The green line is the average of two recent wells which are outpacing even our increased type curve by another 20%.
We've provided our detailed Eagle Ford activity plans on slide 7 showing accelerating well activity through at least 2018.
Our plan is to focus on the lower Eagle Ford for the next few years increasing well lateral length to an average of around 7 000 feet.
We are currently drilling our first Eagle Ford well and have already implemented improvements that have materially increased footage drilled per day.
Moving over to the Permian this is an area where we see tremendous value and upside as we accelerate appraisal activities and move quickly to development mode.
The Delaware is emerging as a world-class basin with multi-zone potential.
Development plans will include multi-well pad drilling centralized production facilities and the potential for long laterals none of which were being done in these assets.
We will rapidly incorporate and leverage learnings from the DJ Basin and the Marcellus as we plan the long-term development of the basin.
Our focus in the Permian will be on the Delaware Basin position which is a contiguous 45 000 net acres.
In the DJ Basin we've already experienced the significant value uplift that a large-scale systematic development approach can bring in terms of maximizing recoveries lowering capital and operating costs and minimizing the above ground impacts.
On slide 8 we have shown how this acreage compares to our DJ Basin East Pony IDP area in terms of size.
And so this is clearly a material position for Noble.
We've already identified over 1 200 gross locations based on current strip prices for development with 70% of these in the Wolfcamp A and 3rd Bone Spring and the remainder in Lower Wolfcamp zones.
Highlighted on slide 9 our recent Noble wells and those from other operators in and around our acreage.
For the Noble wells the peak 30-day average production rate from a normalized 5 000-foot lateral is nearly 1 300 barrels of oil equivalent per day on a two-stream basis and more than 70% of this production is crude oil.
These production rigs are impressive and consistent with other operator results in the area.
Similar to what we have shown for the Eagle Ford we have provided our 700 000 barrel of oil equivalent type curve again for a 5 000-foot lateral on slide 10.
This type curve is up 30% from Rosetta's previous type curve.
Recent well performance represented by the 14 wells in the green line gives us a lot of confidence in the potential of these assets.
We've also highlighted on this slide some of the anticipated operating efficiencies that Noble Energy will bring to these assets.
You can see the substantial reduction in drilling cost per lateral foot that we have driven in the DJ Basin and Marcellus versus historical performance in these areas.
Combining Noble's drilling expertise and knowledge of multi-zone developments with Rosetta's skill set and knowledge will no doubt deliver substantial operational improvements in the Delaware.
On slide 11 we have provided our detailed plans for acceleration in the Permian resulting in 70 wells drilled in 2018 and anticipating continued activity growth beyond that.
Under the current plan capital investment in the Delaware is essentially equivalent to the Eagle Ford beginning next year and exceeds the Eagle Ford beginning in 2018 with even earlier acceleration of the Delaware possible as our plans continue to evolve.
Our outlook for the combined sector's assets has production growing to more than 100 000 barrels equivalent per day in 2018 as shown on slide 12.
We estimate substantial annual free cash flow at the end of our forecasted period which would only provide additional investment flexibility.
I'll now transition to the DJ Basin where both our underlying operational performance and the infrastructure capacity continue to improve.
Spud-to-rig release time averaged just over six days in the quarter for a standard-length lateral.
Last quarter it was seven days which was already below our budgeted assumption for 2015.
Dave mentioned well costs are trending under our target for the year.
Second half 2015 all-in well costs including drilling completion and allocated facilities are expected to be $3.5 million in Wells Ranch and $3.9 million in East Pony.
These are both $300 000 below our budget assumptions.
In addition when you normalize our long lateral well costs back to a normal-length equivalent well we are slightly below $3 million for these more capital-efficient wells and roughly 60% of our drilling in the second half of this year will be extended laterals.
With current rig efficiencies and four rigs for the rest of the year we expect to drill a total of 240 equivalent wells in 2015 compared to our original budget expectation of about 200 with the same number of rigs.
That's an amazing increase in performance and a key contributor to our 2015 production uplift.
On the completion side we continue to optimize stage lengths proppant loads and fluid types across our IDPs.
Most recently we've seen very strong performance utilizing slickwater in East Pony with the majority of these wells outperforming similar hybrid gel completions nearby.
Our success in growth in East Pony has been tremendous.
Net production in the East Pony IDP is now approximately 25 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day up 100% from this time a year ago.
And as a reminder more than 75% of East Pony volumes are oil.
At the end of the second quarter third-party infrastructure in Greater Wattenberg got a much-needed boost with the start-up of DCP's Lucerne-2 gas processing plant which is ramping the full capacity of 200 million cubic feet per day.
The addition of Lucerne-2 is increasing third-party gas capacity on the DCP system by a third to a total of 800 million cubic feet per day.
Now earlier this year in certain parts of the field line pressures averaged north of 250 psi which created a tough producing environment for many of the legacy vertical and horizontal wells.
Since Lucerne-2 start-up we've seen line pressures reduced by as much as 50 to 70 psi in the early part of July.
And that should be even greater as the plant reaches full capacity.
Volumes through July averaged more than 110 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day with peak days greater than 115 000 per day.
Additional infrastructure projects in the basin continue to progress on schedule as well including the Grand Parkway low pressure gathering loop.
The combination of all of these projects position the basin well exiting 2015 and into 2016.
And while we remain guarded in our production guidance until consistent midstream performance is seen the early look is certainly very positive.
Finally in the Marcellus Shale our operations continue to improve.
Our drilling teams are performing extremely well and we drilled our longest lateral ever as a company in the second quarter nearly 14 000-foot horizontally.
In addition we're looking forward to production results from our first Utica well before the end of the year.
Given the price environment we're further reducing drilling activity in the basin in alignment with our joint venture partner.
In the middle part of the third quarter operated horizontal drilling will be reduced to zero rigs for the remainder of the year.
And on the dry gas non-operated side we anticipate going from two horizontal rigs to zero early in the fourth quarter.
These shifts in drilling do not impact our completion schedule for the remainder of 2015 and we are working with our partner on the right level of investment for 2016 with both companies focused on a cash-neutral program for the JV next year.
Let me now hand it back to Dave.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</strong> Thanks Gary.
I want to spend a few minutes on the progress on the regulatory front in Israel and our upgraded 2015 outlook before opening for questions.
Over the last several months we've worked diligently with the government on establishing a regulatory framework to provide necessary certainty for future investments.
The product is a comprehensive framework that addresses the needs and interest of all parties including Noble Energy the government and citizens of Israel and its neighbors who can all benefit from these abundant gas resources.
Both the Prime Minister's Office and the Minister of Energy have endorsed the framework and are working to achieve final approval.
For Noble Energy this framework should provide certainty around regulatory and fiscal matters necessary to support future investments in the expansion of Tamar and the first phase of development at Leviathan.
For Israel it provides price transparency and market competition.
These projects can develop additional gas supplies within the country and bring the financial and geopolitical benefits of regional exports.
We continue to engage with future export customers in the region on the potential to deliver both Israeli and Cypriot gas to market.
The opportunity for expansion of natural gas used in Israel and the demand for natural gas in the region remain strong.
I look forward to unlocking tremendous unrecognized value in Noble as these projects come together.
Company-wise there are a number of positive catalysts in the second half of the year which provides us near- and long-term benefits.
We are encouraged that production capacity in the DJ Basin will continue to respond positively as we benefit from important infrastructure expansions while we focus on long laterals and additional completion learnings through the remainder of the year.
As Gary mentioned the integration of the Rosetta assets was going very well.
With a strong second quarter where volumes were higher and costs lower than expected these assets are off to a great start and complementary to Noble's overall performance.
Offshore two new fields are anticipated to add 20 000 barrels equivalent per day by the end of the year in the Gulf of Mexico.
In addition we will have results on two material exploration prospects this quarter including 250 million-barrel-plus Humpback prospect in the Falkland Islands and 100 million barrels plus Cheetah prospect in Cameroon.
Success in either of these wells or with our Rhea well in the Falkland later this year would de-risk additional exploration potential provide new development opportunity and add significant value for Noble Energy.
As mentioned earlier we are raising our previous full year 2015 volume guidance.
I'm pleased that we can see this amount of increase while holding full year capital flat to original plan and maintaining flexibility in our onshore activity should conditions and cash flow outlook change.
We've also provided new quarterly guidance for the remainder of the year which includes the integration of the Eagle Ford and Permian assets.
Base guidance reflects the quarterly trend of lower capital and operating cost through the remainder of the year while underlying volumes growth.
Yes these are tough times but we are well positioned with exceptional assets and strong operating and financial capacity to navigate through these challenges no matter the duration.
We've been very thoughtful in our decision processes throughout the year as we continue to maintain strong capital discipline and manage the cash flow in the second half of the year.
I am convinced Noble Energy's future is very bright.
At this time we would like to go ahead and open the call to questions.
We'll now begin the question-and-answer session.
The first question comes from Doug Leggate with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Thank you.
Good morning everybody.
Dave I wonder if I could squeeze a couple in.
My first one is really just a point of clarification I think on one of Gary's comments relating to cash I guess breakeven or neutrality.
Obviously you're not there yet and you've got a bunch of start-ups in 2016 in the deepwater I guess back-end of this year and 2016.
So what should we think in terms of you getting to cash breakeven? Is that an objective for management? Or do you expect to continue spending for the time being? And I've got a follow-up please.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
Doug when you look at how we're managing the cash flow if you look how that plays out this year and especially when you  I refer you to the guidance we laid out for third and fourth quarter.
You see our capital spend continues to come down dramatically as we enter the fourth quarter.
A big part of that is the roll-off if you will of the capital spending on some of those Gulf of Mexico projects.
We'll actually have Dantzler on here by middle of the fourth quarter and  or I mean Big Bend by middle of the fourth quarter and Dantzler by the end of the year.
So you'll have two of the three big projects and their capital spend actually rolling off.
So we expect to be  even in this $50 to $60 world we expect to be managing the cash flow here by the end of the year and that will set us up very nicely for next year.
That's what I was hoping to hear.
Thanks Dave.
My follow-up is I'm sure there's going to be a ton of questions on Rosetta.
So I'm going to go to a different one if I may which is the Marcellus decision to take rigs away there.
I'm just wondering if you could tell us what the underlying decline rate is going to look like in the Marcellus with no rigs running.
And I'll let someone else take the other ones.
Thanks.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yes.
Doug I think the real decision there is that it's not the time to be continuing to drill wells in the Marcellus with the outlook on gas price till we see that change.
That being said with some of the completion inventory and some of the completion activity we'll still be ramping up in the second half of this year.
And I think we'll still be flat to up some next year with that inventory even with the drilling activity.
I think the real impact of the drilling activity is when you start to look at the late 2016 and into 2017 timeframe.
And then that will be dependent on  when we ramp back up will be dependent on our outlook for gas price.
So we shouldn't confuse no drilling rigs with no completion activity is that what you're basically saying? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Right.
Right.
Got it.
Okay.
Thanks very much Dave.
Our next question comes from Dave Kistler with Simmons &amp; Company.
Good morning guys.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Morning Dave.
Real quickly following up on the CapEx just a little bit for 2016.
If I look at your run rate in Q4 can I assume that that's kind of the run rate you'll be doing on a quarterly basis going forward plus incrementals associated with Delaware and Eagle Ford kind of round numbers? And I know you don't want to commit to a number but put you down year-over-year maybe around the 2.8 type number? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah Dave.
I think when we look at 2016 and you're right it's too early to get too far ahead of ourselves but when you at it and you look at how we're finishing this year and how we're set up for next year we've got a lot of flexibility.
I mean when I sit here and look at 2016 managing the cash flow we can be down significantly in capital and still realize low to mid-single-digit production growth.
So I think that positions us extremely well and that flexibility allows us to adapt to a changing environment and a changing cash flow environment to be ready to accelerate when it makes sense and to be able to have the flexibility to hold back if that makes sense but still have a growing business.
Okay.
I appreciate that color.
And then maybe one more just flipping over to the Delaware where you guys outlined your cost on an annual basis in the wells obviously when I look at 2016 if I just did the math on wells versus capital it would assume a pretty high cost that comes down dramatically by 2018 to about $5.4 million a well.
I assume 2016 is incorporating upfront infrastructure associated with kind of the IDPs.
And maybe if that's the case could you talk to us a little bit about the capital or cash flow savings benefits you see from IDPs? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah Dave.
We wanted to make sure we laid out for all of the Rosetta assets what our plan looks like for the next three years.
So I'd take a hard look at all that.
I'll have Gary add some color to some of this.
But I'll start with that  when you look at 2016 and even the future years on some of the Delaware piece you've got a mix of operated and non-operated spend in there and I think we asterisked that.
I think you also have some facility capital upfront as you put in some of this.
You brought up the point of the IDPs and I think  and we showed kind of the overlay how that Delaware Basin acreage compares to for example an East Pony acreage position up there.
I think it sets up extremely well for being able to apply the IDP concept in some that value that that will bring over time.
But let me have Gary just talk a little bit more.
Yeah Dave.
That's right.
I mean it's largely driven by fluctuations that we forecast in non-op activity in addition to some upfront infrastructure costs.
And Dave's right.
Our experience in the DJ Basin has clearly shown that pre-investing in infrastructure in these areas certainly pays off in the long run.
Every time we look at our performance in the DJ we see 25% to 30% uplift in the present value of those projects by our IDP-type concept in the integrated infrastructures.
So we do have some pretty investment in there for that as well.
Okay.
I really appreciate that added color.
Thank you guys and great work.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thanks Dave.
Our next question comes from Ryan Todd with Deutsche Bank.
Inc.</span></strong> Great.
Thanks.
Maybe if I can follow up on capital one more time.
As you think about the run rate into 2016 and the priority this outline up to this point if commodity prices were to be lower or higher can you talk a little bit about how you would prioritize either further reduction in capital? Or if the commodity price were a little bit higher where we should expect to see additional acceleration or capital increase? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well I think we've added some more flexibility and diversity when you look at our mix of onshore assets now.
I think between the Marcellus we've talked about our thinking about that going into the year.
On the DJ we'll continue to see the impact of the Lucerne-2 plant coming up.
We'll see the line-looping system later this year so I'll give some more insight on how we want to play off capital and match capital with capacity going into next year.
And then in both the Delaware Basin and the Eagle Ford we've laid out our base plan.
I'd say all of those we got the flexibility to adapt and adjust if it makes sense when you look at the commodity outlook.
Our big offshore projects the only one really we'll still have in play next year we'll be finishing Gunflint.
The majority of that investment will be done by this year.
We'll have Gunflint on line by middle of next year.
We finished the compression project at Ashdod this year so the next investment in Israel will be dependent on this framework coming together.
So I think we're in real good place there on the exploration front.
We'll have our rig in the Gulf of Mexico focused on appraisal and exploration next year.
But overall we're well positioned to bring capital down continue to follow the trend that we've got into the fourth quarter this year and then make sure we're managing to the outlook that we see.
Inc.</span></strong> And is there explicit commodity price implicit in the guidance for the Delaware and Eagle Ford programs? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> I think what we've laid out is implicit as kind of the strip price we've been seeing - Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> ...here recently.
So that's in that 50 to 60-some range over the next year or two.
Inc.</span></strong> Great.
Thanks.
And then maybe if I can ask one on the revisions to the type curve you talked about a few of the things that you're doing differently but can maybe - President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
Inc.</span></strong> ...
they've been impressive obviously particularly in a relatively short period of time.
Can you talk a little bit about the primary drivers of the revisions up to this point changes that you've made and maybe the types of wells that we're drilling? I know there's some in lateral length and maybe even what you're seeing on the most recent performance that's still exceeding the revised type curves? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
I'll let Gary expand on it but really it comes down to just the recent well performance.
Not only our recent well performance but recent well performance in the basin for example in the Delaware.
And then in the Eagle Ford we have history especially as you move into South Gates Ranch from some wells that were drilled previously and then the more recent wells.
So you have a nice database in both areas.
Gary? Yeah Ryan.
First off as I mentioned lateral length those curves are normalized to a 5 000-foot lateral.
So even though we're drilling longer and longer laterals in the area that's not driving the type curve.
Dave's right.
It's really two things: It's moving more south into the Gates Ranch area which is a much more prolific area and then it's just continuing to improve on the completion designs.
Very similar to what we've done in the DJ Basin and the Marcellus with reduced stage and cluster spacing and also starting to increase our sand loadings up to 2 000 pounds in some cases.
So a lot of the same types of things we've done in the other areas just bringing them to the Eagle Ford and soon to be the Permian as well.
Inc.</span></strong> Great.
Thanks.
I'll leave it there.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thanks Ryan.
Our next question comes from Leo Mariani with RBC.
Hey guys.
Just wanted to get a little bit more color on Israel.
When you guys expect to see a vote and I guess a final approval do you have a rough timeframe for the new regulatory framework? And then additionally if that occurs when will you guys start spending capital there? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
Leo I mean we're watching it as everybody is as the government kind of gone through the public process and they're in the process of working to bring that framework to final resolution final approval.
I think we're both committed and still remain committed to seeing this done by the end of the summer.
But I'll say the timing is important on this but the actual lasting and sustainable framework and the nature of the framework and having a framework that allows us to move forward with investment it is really the most important element.
I think what's very encouraging so far is that  and think back about this.
When you go back to over the last year what's been accomplished I mean the progress on getting to a framework has been nothing short of a tremendous effort on all parties on party of the government that's committed to doing this and on our team and our partners that have worked so hard to bring that to bear.
I mean a complete comprehensive framework that sets up the ability to go forward with confidence and investment is a big step.
Another big step has been the commitment and support of the Prime Minister's Office and the Energy Ministry to make this happen.
So I think when you look at it the step of getting the framework to where it is and now the recognition and understanding of how important this is not only to the country but to the region has just been tremendous.
That's helpful color.
And I guess just shifting gears over to the exploration front obviously you guys are drilling away at I guess Humpback in the Falkland and Cheetah as well.
Do you guys kind of have a rough probability of success on each of those two wells respectively? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well I'll go through what we've kind of laid out on probabilities and then Susan can probably give you some more insight as to her thoughts on both of those wells.
And then also don't forget the Rhea prospect later this year which probably has a slightly higher probability.
I think on Humpback and Cheetah they're both in that 25% plus or minus 25% range; both interesting exciting prospects; both with a little different color.
In Humpback that's our first true exploration test on this huge acreage position down in the Falklands.
I mean you think about it you think about how our acreage position overlays the North Sea for example.
It's just our position down there in the Falkland that's about half of the North Sea.
That'll be really interesting to see what transpires here as we break out a new play but it's a new play in areas where there's been proven hydrocarbon discovery some fairly significant when you look at the whole scheme of things.
In Cameroon you know to me what's exciting there it's like Gulf of Mexico prospect on steroids as I've talked about it when you look at the shallow water depths and the high potential but let me turn it over to the real expert here.
Susan? New Ventures Frontier EHSR &amp; Business Innovation</span></strong> Thanks Dave.
Yeah Dave the 25% is about right plus or minus for the two prospects that are drilling right now and Rhea will be higher than that regardless of the outcome of Humpback.
What's great about Humpback is the follow-up.
It's over 1 billion barrels of oil equivalent just in that immediate area if we have some encouragement there.
So it's pretty significant.
And Cheetah is only 10 miles offshore from the coast in Cameroon and it's in about 85 feet of water so it will be very quick and easy and cheap to tie in and to develop if it's successful.
All right.
Thanks guys.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thank you Leo.
Our next question comes from Charles Meade with Johnson Rice.
Yes.
Good morning Dave and to the rest of your team there.
I was wondering if I could ask a bit about the Eagle Ford assets and your outlook there.
I think you mentioned in your prepared comments and also on the slides that your location count at the strip.
But as I look at these assets one of the things that set them apart is the NGL percentage.
The Street is a little more obscure when it comes to talking about NGLs.
Can you talk about what your current assumptions are there and what your outlook is especially in light of it's been kind of the  maybe it's take it on the chin hard here in 2015 and maybe what your thoughts are for an outlook and how that affects your appetite for those NGL-heavy assets? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well I think it's something you have to take a hard look at Charles.
I think as we've looked at it we've not assumed that NGL pricings are really going to change a lot this year.
I think as we look at it and visit with our marketing folks that probably into next year as you get more ships and so forth especially can move more propane and butane that just start to see some real alleviation of pressure there.
That being said you are close to the Gulf Coast and some of the Gulf Coast markets with the Eagle Ford volume so that's helpful.
But it's just part of the mix that we take into effect and account when we look at the economics of these.
And I'll say the economics of the Eagle Ford especially as you're hearing Gates Ranch and South Gates Ranch stack up with everything and anything even considering all those...
Got it.
So David I think I heard that you think there'll be some improvement of NGL prices in the 2016 2017 timeframe as you get more export capacity.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> That's what we're hopeful.
I think it's going to take something like that to really change that outlook.
Got it.
Thank you.
And then on the Delaware Basin can you talk about  the slide you put together with your results and energy results is really helpful.
And you really focus on the Wolfcamp A there but can you talk about what  you mentioned other zones.
Can you talk about what those other zones are going to be in rough order of what you think the prospectivity is? And what your timeline would be to test some of those other concepts? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
I mean you're right Charles that we're focusing initially on the Wolfcamp A.
And I think within that you have to look at how do you most effectively drain that whole Wolfcamp A horizon.
I think there's opportunities to maybe even have multiple laterals not that we're counting on that in that Wolfcamp A that also start to pick up some of that 3rd Bone Spring drainage.
Got it.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> But I think those would be the two initial pieces.
And then you move down to kind of B and C as a longer term optionality that I don't doubt the industry will break out economically over time but we're not counting on it.
Got it.
So that kind of more extensive development of the Wolfcamp A that could get the 3rd Bone Spring that's something we could maybe start to see in 2016.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> I think as we get into 2016 2017 and also in 2018 where we kind of start to see the Delaware program really ramp up you'll start to draw in some of that horizon.
So we'll start to see some impact from that from  but really still what we've laid out as a plan is landing all our laterals into Wolfcamp A.
Got it.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Though we haven't specifically target landing a lateral in the Bone Springs yet in that program.
Okay.
Thank you Dave.
Our next question comes from Brian Singer with Goldman Sachs.
Thank you.
Good morning.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Morning Brian.
When you built your position in the DJ you followed your Patina acquisition with the U.S.
Exploration acquisition.
As you look to the Eagle Ford and Permian what's your ultimate goal in terms of the size of the position you're looking for and do you see additional opportunities that are front and center in this downturn to make that happen? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
Brian I'll go back to what we've talked about since we announced the Rosetta acquisition.
One of the first keys to Rosetta was to be comfortable that in and of itself it had an enough size and growth within those assets that it wasn't dependent on another acquisition.
That said being in the neighborhood I think we'll continue to look at what's available out there and make sure we understand the value of different opportunities.
I'd say we have a strong solid balance sheet that gives us the ability and flexibility to be able to take advantage of opportunities if a great opportunity came around.
But that's not the focus of what we're doing now.
The focus of what we're doing now is on execution.
And I think you can see that showing up not only in what was delivered in the first half of the year but what were set up to deliver in the second half of the year and that's the same focus we're applying to the Rosetta assets.
That's a good tie-in to my follow-up which is on that execution point in the legacy assets the increased guidance that seem to reflect a lot of your outlook for a second-half uplift.
Can you just talk more specifically about the drivers of the increased production guidance between the Marcellus DJ or elsewhere? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Glad to Brian.
Actually we've been looking forward to this call for a period of time because we've been looking forward to getting to midyear here.
The exciting part for us is we put a plan in effect at the beginning of the year and we got in motion very very quickly.
And now we're benefiting from the results of delivering on that plan.
I'd say we're actually ahead of that plan and I think that's framed in what you look at for the outlook for the second half of the year.
When you go back to what we started the year we ramped down and pushed down the Marcellus program pretty quickly.
We very quickly reduced activity levels in the DJ from 10 rigs to 4.
We level-loaded and kind of slowed down some of our completion activity so we could get Lucerne-2 in place.
As a result of how things have moved through the year we actually saw some of the Marcellus planned capital come down.
We actually moved some of that capital to the DJ.
Part of that was a reflection on just the continued improvement on efficiency.
We've talked before about those four rigs are drilling about 70% of the total lateral footage that we did with 10 rigs.
So that's all enabled us to where the real driver in the second half of the year and the biggest driver in that increased guidance is the outlook on this activity and performance in the DJ.
Got it.
And that's partly as you say on the well productivity front but also on just unlocking midstream bottlenecks.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> I think it all comes together and Gary may have some more to add on his thoughts there.
Yeah.
I think it's unlocking the midstream bottlenecks which we had some increase in there in the original budget but we've added a bit more based on the early results we're seeing.
It's partly the underlying improvement and the completions.
We mentioned the phenomenal success that we've seen recently in East Pony and then it's just a greater number of wells coming online throughout the year as we've continued to drive down the drilling times.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Bob Morris with Citi.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Thank you.
Gary you confirmed that the increase in the type curves at Gates Ranch and Eagle Ford were driven a lot by the cluster spacing and the sand loadings.
I know overall costs have come down but on today's costs can you quantify for every 30% or the 25% to 30% increase in EURs what the associated increase in cost is percentage-wise for doing the cluster spacing in the greater proppant loading? Yeah Bob.
I think it's probably on the 10% range.
But at the same time I think we've got greater efficiencies that are going to offset quite a bit of that.
I think when you look at what we're seeing already on the drilling side since we've closed the deal we have been able on these first couple of wells to significantly improve the drilling times especially through the lateral length.
And I think at the end of the day we're going to be able to take probably conservatively a couple of days off of the average drill time on the Eagle Ford well.
So certainly more stages or more cluster spacing and greater sand loadings adds to the cost but we see some efficiencies offsetting that.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Okay.
And then a second question just on refracs.
In the Marcellus I know you're laying down all your rigs this year but will you continue to test refracs in the Marcellus and what have you seen there? And then in the Eagle Ford you mentioned some of the upside being potential for refracs.
What gives you confidence that refracs can be successful in that play? Yeah.
It's a combination really of refrac and in some cases adding perfs or tightening up those cluster spacing just like we're doing on the new completion.
So we may have a few more scheduled in the Marcellus this year.
I don't think it's going to be a significant number but the early results we've seen on the ones we've done have been very encouraging initial rates back up to the original initial rates in many cases.
I think what gives us the same level of confidence in the Eagle Ford is on those older completions.
Very much kind of a similar story to the Marcellus much wider stage spacing fewer perf clusters and so it's an opportunity to go in and not only add perfs but improve the completion designs as well.
So I think we'll see some nice uplift there as well.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> When do you plan to do your first refrac in Eagle Ford? Oh I don't know we've got one on the schedule yet.
We may try a couple before year-end but I would suspect 2016 will be more of a test.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Okay.
Great.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Michael Rowe with Tudor Pickering Holt &amp; Company.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</span></strong> Yes.
Good morning.
Just want to quickly confirm that your Marcellus capital spending for this year is still going to be maintained at that $700 million level.
And does the DJ Basin also staying at $1.1 billion given the additional wells that you talked about adding into the program? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah Michael.
I think on the Marcellus it's probably just a hair under that which permits the DJ maybe a being a hair above that.
So I think plus or minus $100 million on either of those.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
I got it.
And then just one corporately can you just talk about how comfortable you are with your current hedge book and discuss how you're going to approach adding on more protection given the volatility? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
I'll make a few comments and then Ken Fisher can add to that because he watches that continuously.
Drags me into more meetings than I can believe on that.
But no we're taking a hard look at that all the time.
I mean we do meet on that probably every couple of weeks to look at what makes sense; how is the market move; how are we positioned for not just the current year but the following two years as we look at both our global oil mix and our domestic gas mix.
It's also a time period where we reflect and remind ourselves how appreciative we are of having our Israel gas contribution also that's kind of a natural hedge additional hedge if you will.
But we continue to look for periods especially in any market upswings which we'd like to see more of on a commodity basis.
But as we get into some market upswings how do we layer in some positions as we go forward? Our philosophy and objective has been to hedge up to 50% on those different streams for managing cash flow.
I think with our legacy position on oil we were about 30% for next year.
And I think on gas it was 25% to 28% somewhere in that range.
But I'll let Ken add up a little more color.
I mean as Dave said the program has been very successful through time ensuring that we cut off the tail risk.
So if you look at it historically we had big positive settlements in 2009 in the global financial crisis and then we'll have about $750 million in settlement this year.
We're as Dave mentioned about 30% hedged on oil; 25% hedged on gas going into next year.
We don't typically make big moves all at one time but average in so we'll continue to look at that.
And then we picked up the Rosetta hedge book as well and they're pretty well hedged as well about 35% for oil and 45% on gas production next year.
So all in all our competitive position on the hedge book is strong and it's a shock absorber that allows us to realize those gains as we bring down the capital plan for the current investment environment and achieve cash flow neutrality.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Thanks very much.
Our next question comes from Mike Kelly with Seaport Global.
Hey guys.
Good morning.
Just hoping to get a little bit more color on the production profile in the DJ.
You dropped sequentially Q1 to Q2 but the July numbers look good.
And with the midstream constraints abating and efficiency gains become more apparent just hoping just talk about what the progression could look like here in the second half and then maybe just initial thoughts going into 2016 there.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
I'll start with that Mike and then have Gary provide some more insights.
But yeah as Gary said in his notes in his dialogue earlier we've still remained pretty guarded as to what the full impact of this Lucerne-2 facility will be and then still what the line-loop will be later this year.
We're seeing some very good encouraging results.
I would say we expect volumes to be up from second quarter and third and fourth.
But I think it'll be nice to get this Lucerne-2 plant fully ramped up.
It's been down here for  not down but it's been impacted by the fact that they've had another facility planned maintenance that we still got a couple of weeks to see the full impact out there but we've been very pleased  very very pleased with what we've seen so far as that's ramped up.
And let me have Gary give you some more color on that.
Yeah.
Mike it's  3Q and 4Q will definitely be up from 2Q in our guidance.
I'd second what Dave said.
We're being very guarded I would say at this point until we see more of a sustained performance.
The early look is very encouraging though and we've said we're north of 110 000 in July peak days greater than 115 000.
We've actually even seen a couple of days in the 120 000 range.
So that is all without Lucerne-2 running at full capacity yet and they haven't yet made it to the 200 million a day.
In the meantime as Dave mentioned they've had another facility down for some planned maintenance which took about 120 million a day out of the system capacity.
So that's part of the reason we're still being a bit conservative for now until we see more than just a couple of days with some decent rates through the system.
But I think from the early performance we're seeing line pressures down 50 psi to 75 psi across the field when they've got everything up and running very excited about what we're seeing.
I think we'll see some very nice numbers in the 3Q and 4Q there.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> And should really position us well as we exit the year.
And as we exit the year then the Grand Parkway starts up which provides even greater pressure relief and allows us even a better opportunity to get some of those legacy vertical volumes that have been so constrained over the last year-and-a-half into the plants.
Okay.
Great guys.
Good color.
And the follow-up is on the Eagle Ford.
If you look at the page 5 of your presentation here it does look like it's a pretty big delta in the lateral foot EURs and you talked about the kind of the sweet spot here in the Southern Gates Ranch area.
Maybe you could talk about the difference in returns between that acreage versus what you'd seize in the Upper Eagle Ford and what you've categorized as other Lower Eagle Ford.
And then as a follow-up to that just what the opportunity set is to ultimately see the number of gross locations increase in that kind of 600 Boe per lateral foot area.
Thank you.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
I'll start with that.
But yeah I mean the Southern Gates Ranch Eagle Ford is the best of the best down there.
And you can see that even when you compare that across all the Eagle Ford acreage in the basin.
It is a pure sweet spot there.
And then when you compare it  so it's got the highest returns obviously.
I'd say everything that we've put on here has a decent return at a strip price especially when you look out into the future.
And the Upper Eagle Ford probably has the most challenge yet but I think we've got plenty of time before we get to those opportunities and I would expect we'll continue to improve the outlook on those by the time we get there beyond that 2018 time period.
But Gary did you have anything else? Yeah.
The South Gates Ranch is really is the area we're focusing in right now.
And when you look at how prolific those wells are I mean we see returns even in current strip price conditions of 75% to 100% returns in those areas so extremely strong economics.
The other Gates Ranch Lower Eagle Ford is obviously lower return than that given the EUR per lateral foot but still quite economic in this price environment.
And then as Dave mentioned the Upper Eagle Ford is the most challenged to-date but we do have awhile before we get there.
So hopefully we'll see a little help on those from prices improving in the meantime.
I'm confident we'll see help between now and then as we continue to refine the completion techniques in the areas where we're working in the meantime.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> And it's also worth noting that those locations referenced are only the locations that met an economic hurdle within the strip pricing environment.
So more opportunity beyond that if we get a little better in pricing environment at some point.
Okay.
Thanks a lot guys.
Our next question comes from John Herrlin from Socit Gnrale.
Thanks.
Regarding the Delaware you've given an outline of how you're going to spend in terms of drilling completions and IDPs.
Would it be your best interest to own more infrastructure there so you don't have similar bottlenecks as you've had in the DJ with a third-party GTP or you'll just kind of run your business strategically like you did in the DJ and the Delaware? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
John I think when you look at it there's probably more infrastructure close to there in the basin than there was with what we started in the DJ.
That being said I think as we continue to look at how to create the most value both from integrating the subsurface with the surface facility piece and especially as we start getting further into an IDP concept we'll continue to look as to what makes sense from an overall facility structure.
But I think this is all about going in and having a totally integrated plan if you will that includes everything from how you produce it under the ground how you market it on the surface.
Okay.
Thanks Dave.
Last one for me is on the estimated dry hole cost for Humpback and Cheetah.
Susan could you give me that? New Ventures Frontier EHSR &amp; Business Innovation</span></strong> I don't have that.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> I think yeah.
If I remember right John on the Humpback it's plus or minus $100 million well I think.
Okay.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> And we've got what 35% and we're paying a little disproportionate higher percentage than that as far as what it took to get into the play.
On Cheetah it's a much cheaper well.
I think that's maybe in the $60 million-type range maybe on the high side on that.
But again on Humpback a big part of the cost is mobilization cost; also the allocated mobilization down there part of the rig sharing.
But I think those are order of magnitude and Susan will correct me if I'm wrong.
New Ventures Frontier EHSR &amp; Business Innovation</span></strong> Yeah that's correct.
Those are exactly the right order of magnitude.
Great.
Thank you.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thanks John.
Our next question comes from Philip Jungwirth with BMO.
Hey.
Good morning.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Good morning Phil.
With the increase in Eagle Ford and Wolfcamp EURs is there a reason the 800 000 Boe a day production target by 2018 is unchanged with this improvement and recoveries already considered at the time of acquisition or is this just conservatism around giving multi-year growth target? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> We've matched up the growth with the capital spend and the activity level.
Again you've got flexibility here as conditions change and more information available to continue to update that.
But what we're doing right now is honoring the activity level and performance that we've input into the model to layout that three-year program along with the capital and cash flow that it provides.
So we'll continue to update that as we go.
We're just two weeks into this since we've closed but very excited about what we've got and where we're going.
Great.
And then with minimal capital being allocated to Marcellus in the second half and likely into 2016 and Noble having a deep portfolio of high return opportunities to allocate capital towards how strategic is this asset to the company? And do we need to consider anything about the JV structure impacting a potential divestiture should you choose that route? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> I think what we like about the Marcellus it is still the premier gas play in the U.S.
And when you look at the operational performance it's been outstanding out there but it's that operational performance across the industry that's contributed to this supply-demand imbalance.
I think when you look about at it though you love having a high-quality asset that's the premier asset in its mix in the portfolio and the optionality that that gives you for the future with the tremendous amount in running room.
The other thing that's I think very nice about our position and same with the JV is the fact that it's all essentially held by production out there.
So you have the flexibility to adapt to changing conditions and make sure that you're making smart decisions on how you create the most value out of an asset like this.
Great.
Can you update us on your latest thoughts around the DJ Basin midstream MLP? I didn't see a mention in the presentation.
Just any color around specific assets invested capital or EBITDA would help.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yes.
On the DJ midstream we've worked and we've talked about it over the last couple of calls being in position and having the asset set up so that we've got flexibility on how we monetize and create value and leverage our midstream business up there if you will.
So we've got that in place.
I think we still have the flexibility to decide what we want to do with that.
When you look at that part of the business that we've kind of bracketed if you will if I remember right and Ken will straight me up if I misquote this but I think we've probably spent $500 million to $600 million invested in those assets so far.
Great.
Thanks a lot.
Our next question comes from Irene Haas with Wunderlich.
Inc.</span></strong> Hello.
This will be quick.
Question on Cyprus so a little more color on the timeline.
From this point on how many sort of months would we require to kind of get through the necessary steps to probably first production? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Cyprus it's still ways off in the future but it's a great opportunity.
We got a sizable discovery there.
I think the next steps in Cyprus are establishing a market which we're in discussions with potential customers on and then establishing someone to invest and put the equity and then laying the pipeline that's probably be required to establish and tie in that market.
So I think that's the sequence of things Irene.
Inc.</span></strong> So it's going to be a subsea pipeline or what are we thinking? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Definitely I think what you'd be thinking is a subsea line.
One of the possibilities is a line from Cyprus that would tie in to Egypt given the needs and the regional demand in that part of the world but that's why we got to get the customers in place first and also the equity owners in a pipeline.
I think when you think of things over there we've got three big projects over there between Tamar expansion Leviathan and Cyprus that are all pretty interesting in their own rights.
Inc.</span></strong> So great.
We're looking at two to three years possibly.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> I'd say at least that period.
I think what we're thinking of on something like that the end-of-the-decade type of thing.
Keith do you have any additional thoughts on that? Yes.
So for first production looking at late 2019 mid-2020 kind of timeframe I think in terms of sequence forward really we're progressing the marketing efforts now as Dave described in building a project team and progressing toward a project FID that would put us in place for that kind of late late in the decade first production.
Inc.</span></strong> Great.
Thank you.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thanks Irene.
This concludes our question-and-answer session.
I would now like to turn the conference back over to Brad Whitmarsh for any closing remarks.
Yeah.
I want to thank everyone for joining us today.
We've run a good bit over our one-hour timeframe.
Appreciate everyone's interest in Noble Energy and certainly we're available on the phone today.
Love to continue some conversations with you.
Thank you.
The conference has now concluded.
Thank you for attending today's presentation.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning and welcome to Noble Energy's Third Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
Following today's presentation there will be an opportunity to ask questions.
Please note this event is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Brad Whitmarsh.
Please go ahead.
Thanks Jamie.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us today.
This morning we issued our quarterly earnings release and we also posted to our website a number of supplemental slides for this call.
You will find them helpful as we talk through our prepared comments.
Later this morning our 10-Q will be available on the website as well.
Following prepared comments we'll open the call for question-and-answer and we'll complete in approximately an hour.
We would ask the participants limit themselves to one primary question and one follow-up.
Management members participating today are Dave Stover Chairman and CEO; Ken Fisher Executive VP and CFO; Gary Willingham Executive VP of Operations; and Susan Cunningham Executive VP of Exploration and New Ventures.
I want to remind everyone that this webcast and conference call contains projections and forward-looking statements as well as certain non-GAAP financial measures.
You should read our full disclosures in the latest news release and SEC filings for a discussion of those items.
With that I'll turn it over to Dave.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</strong> Thanks Brad.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us today.
We had a great quarter.
And as you can see from our operating results we were able to achieve more while spending less.
Before discussing specific items I want to take a moment to reflect on the quarter.
First I'm extremely pleased with the fact that we were able to significantly reduce capital and controllable costs while still delivering outstanding organic volume growth.
Second it is notable that discretionary cash flow was greater than our capital this quarter.
And third we saw continued capital efficiencies in our onshore program supporting returns and margin improvements in the business.
This all positions us to extremely well for finishing the year strong and beginning 2016 even stronger.
Starting the rest of our discussion with capital expenditures we continue a trend of reducing our quarterly capital.
This has come not only from adjusting our activity levels but also from our relentless focus on increasing operating efficiencies and driving down well costs.
Capital expenditures for the third quarter were down approximately 20% from the second quarter of this year and 50% from the first quarter.
This was accomplished despite the incremental capital allocated to our new Texas assets beginning this quarter.
We've made great progress towards our goal of aligning capital with cash flows.
Full year 2015 capital has now been reduced to slightly less than $3 billion approximately $100 million under previous expectation.
While working the capital side of the business we put an equal effort into bringing controllable unit costs down.
We've reduced third-quarter lease operating expense and total production cost per barrel of oil equivalent to their lowest level in five years.
These results have been delivered while maintaining a best-in-class safety record and the lowest recordable incident rate in our history.
So I couldn't be more pleased with the efforts of our business units.
Operationally we've continued our tremendous momentum.
Sales volumes for the third quarter totaled 379 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day substantially outperforming both original guidance and our raised expectations.
I am pleased that each asset in the portfolio delivered higher volumes than our original forecast for the third quarter.
And we're carrying that overall momentum into the fourth quarter.
We have raised fourth quarter volumes now to range between 385 000 and 405 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day.
A major contributor to our performance has been the DJ Basin.
The operating teams have done an amazing job enhancing value by realizing material efficiency gains drilling longer laterals and improving completion techniques.
Third quarter sales volumes averaged a record 116 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day and total liquids production was a quarterly record as well up 10 000 barrels per day from a year ago most of which is crude volumes.
This quarter we saw the positive impact of the late June startup of DCP's Lucerne-2 plant.
Lower line pressures helped our legacy vertical production which averaged 25 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day during the quarter.
This is an increase of more than 5 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day above pre Lucerne-2 rates.
Additional infrastructure build-out continues with the Grand Parkway low pressure line-loop system.
This project is on schedule for startup at the end of this year or early next year and will further improve gas infrastructure reliability in the Basin.
Drilling performance continues to be exceptional and we have lowered spud-to-rig release times from standard lateral wells to between five days and six days.
Total well costs including allocated facilities capital are on track to be below $3.5 million in Wells Ranch for a standard lateral.
We're also on track to be less than $3 million for a normalized long lateral.
We've continued to modify completion techniques and we are seeing good success with slickwater fluid completions in certain areas.
On slide eight we have highlighted a recent development area which includes our first slickwater wells in Wells Ranch.
Early results show strong production performance and lower overall well costs.
During the quarter we closed on the merger with Rosetta Resources which established new core operating positions for Noble Energy in the Eagle Ford and Delaware Basins.
While still early initial results show that we are materially enhancing the value of these assets.
Since closing we drilled seven Lower Eagle Ford wells and one Delaware Wolfcamp A well.
And have already substantially reduced spud-to-rig release times in both plays.
In the Eagle Ford spud-to-rig release times averaged eight days for a 5 000-foot lateral a reduction of approximately 30% from the average on these assets earlier this year.
And our first operated well on the Delaware Basin was drilled 10 days faster than the average of prior wells on our acreage.
Production performance in the Lower Eagle Ford remains very strong.
We've highlighted on slide nine the two most recent well results which are Noble Energy's initial designed and executed completions in the Eagle Ford.
They include modified completion designs versus the historical practice on these assets.
Most wells are performing materially above the 3 million-barrel type curve for the area.
In fact the most recent well which is still in flow back looks to be the best well ever completed on the acreage.
These are strong and improving early results highlighting the very productive nature of this acreage position and the value from Noble's technical expertise.
Moving forward we have plans to continue testing enhanced completion designs.
Including reduced stage and cluster spacing that we've brought from our other onshore plays.
We anticipate a one-rig program in the Eagle Ford and a one-rig program in the Delaware as we exit this year.
Now turning to our offshore operations.
Both Big Bend and Dantzler recently commenced production.
I want to commend our exploration appraisal and development teams for their outstanding performance on this project.
Delivering both fields ahead of schedule and on budget extends our exceptional track record of major project execution and highlights the competitive advantage for Noble.
Production is quickly ramping to an expected combined grows maximum rate of over 40 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day or about 20 000 per day net to Noble.
In fact Big Bend has already tested close to full rate over the weekend.
And Dantzler should ramp up quickly as well.
These fields are major contributors to our fourth quarter and 2016 cash flow and oil volume growth.
At Gunflint the rig has completed drilling operations and wells completions are underway.
Installation of pipelines and subsea equipment has begun.
And first production remains on schedule for mid-2016.
Moving to West Africa.
Our operated projects at both Aseng and Alen continued to outperform internal estimates.
The non-operated Alba compression project which will stem field decline and extend productive resource life advanced to over 80% complete and is on schedule for startup mid next year.
As expected temporary Alba field shut-in while installing the compression module will result in a sizable impact to both first quarter and second quarter 2016 sales volumes.
On the exploration front our initial operated well offshore the Falkland Islands provide substantial knowledge about the petroleum system.
We will use well results to recalibrate the seismic interpretation.
The Humpback play was just one of several play types across our vast 10 million acres.
At the end of the year or beginning of next year we will drill the Rhea Prospect in the Northern license area which is adjacent to proven oil discoveries.
Results should be available toward the end of the first quarter.
In Israel our natural gas sales averaged a record 305 million cubic feet of gas per day during the third quarter an increase of 15% from the same period last year.
For the month of August and most of September the field averaged over 1 billion cubic feet per day and stellar operational performance continued with nearly 100% uptime at the facilities.
Marketing efforts in the Eastern Mediterranean continue where regional demand for our natural gas remains strong.
The recent Egyptian discovery by another operator which is targeted to domestic Egyptian use for power and industrials has heightened the interest in the Basin.
Regional customers remain under-supplied by almost 4 billion cubic feet of natural gas per day now and we estimate that shortfall growing to 9 billion cubic feet per day by 2025.
The proven reliability and performance at Tamar along with the fully appraised and flow tested Leviathan field have us well-positioned to supply gas to this under-supplied region.
During the third quarter a number of significant steps were completed to provide a clear line of sight for the next round of project developments in the region.
The regulatory framework for hydrocarbon development was finalized and approved by the Israeli Cabinet and the Knesset.
And Israeli government is currently taking action to follow through on this framework.
Yesterday's announcement from the Prime Minister's office is a further indication of the commitment to moving forward with gas development.
So as we're approaching 2016 we intend to be cash flow neutral or better while maintaining long-term operational capacity.
Our diversified portfolio provides exceptional investment optionality and we will continue to be extremely disciplined and diligent in our capital allocation process.
Next year's onshore capital program will again focus on those activities with the highest returns and values.
Our positions in the DJ Basin and Texas should continue to attract the majority of our investment.
Offshore capital will mainly be attributed to our one-rig exploration and appraisal program in the Gulf of Mexico until Israel projects are sanctioned.
While exploration capital will remain lower in 2016 than previous years we believe this is a great environment to enhance and deepen our exploration inventory of high quality opportunities at a relatively low cost of entry.
Although production growth is not the focus our 2016 volumes will likely be higher than pro forma 2015 levels.
The momentum of our business can deliver this at significantly lower capital program than this year.
As I mentioned at the beginning of my comments we intend to continue achieving more while spending less.
I believe we are well-positioned to build a great future.
With that Jamie I'd like to open the call for questions.
We'll now begin the question-and-answer session.
We'll take our first call from Evan Calio with Morgan Stanley.
Hi good morning guys and great operational results today.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thank you Morgan  Evan.
Yeah.
It's Evan yes.
I know it's early for the budget and I appreciate your comments earlier.
Yet philosophically how are you thinking about that budget in terms of what you're solving for right? Your offshore startups your DUCs your operational momentums you clearly have an ability to grow volumes within cash flow at the strip.
Are you looking to generate free cash flow into 2016? Or are you solving for more minimal operational capabilities through the trough? Any color there would be appreciated.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> No.
I appreciate them.
I think we're still in the early stage of the finalizing the plans for next year.
You've hit on a couple of the key elements.
We are going to manage within cash flow that's the way we're setting ourselves up.
I think at the same time as you mentioned we have a lot of flexibility especially when you look at the overall portfolio.
So I think as we look to next year we're going to make sure we maintain our financial strength we're going to make sure we allocate the capital to the projects with a greatest returns and value.
And then at the same time we'll maintain the financial strength.
We're going to watch and make sure we're keeping the operational capacity such that as things do turnaround and we get into a higher price environment we're well-positioned to be able to take advantage of that very quickly.
I think those are all some of the things that we think about as we're looking at next year.
Great.
And then maybe I could switch gears on Israel.
I appreciate your the macro demand commentary and the update.
Once the framework is approved there which could be any day could you provide color on what happens next? I mean where are you in the process of Leviathan feed or Tamar expansion? Any range of potential capital spend there in 2016? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Right.
I think to start with we'd still expect minimal capital spend in 2016.
The main pieces that will come together as you move forward with the framework you have the contracts you have the actual contracts the marketing arrangements if you will moving those LOIs to executed contracts that will move forward.
The same time that will setup the opportunity to finalize financing and in conjunction with all of that we'll be going to back up to the market to bring in the new costs for the projects in the new market environment.
So I think what we've continued to say is now that the framework has been approved and moving forward with that.
We've been looking at kind of a timeframe of about a year to bring all of this together to move to FID.
Great.
Appreciate it guys.
We'll take our next question from Charles Meade with Johnson Rice.
Good morning Dave and to the rest of your team there.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Hi Charles.
Dave you made  I want to follow-up your comments you made about Equatorial Guinea in 2016.
I know you said that you're  I believe you said you're adding compression at Alba facility and that's going to negatively impact volumes in the first half.
Is that mostly going to be  mostly gas? Or can you give a little more detail on what that impact will be? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> That's really on the full field.
I think the expectation Charles is that towards the end of the  midway towards the end of the first quarter you'll see the full field go down for about  oh half a month.
And then I think about another month of partial or half field impact.
So it will be a mix of the full field impact.
But that's as we expected that's no different than what we have been planning for since we started the compression projects.
So that's all been accounted for in the way we continued to look at 2016 and...
Got it.
That makes sense and is helpful.
And then shifting back over to the DJ where you guys have had great results particularly this last quarter.
But it's a little  could you give us the narrative in your mind about how you progressed to the slickwater fracs? And really I guess the question is is this something that just works in the oil  is more appropriate for the more oil rich areas and that you guys were really on this hybrid gel frac? Really because that was what was typical for the field more in the gas center of it? How has this progression worked? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well I'd say starting with I'm extremely pleased that the team continues to look at what's the next step next evolution and development here they're always kind of pushing the envelope and testing what could be even more efficient.
I think I'll let Gary kind of expand and talk about how they've thought through this process and how it applies? Yeah Charles we've talked about many times in the past how we're constantly looking for ways to improve our completions out there and also how we don't expect one optimal completion design to work across the entire field it's likely to be different depending on where we are operating at any given time.
So where we've been focusing the slickwater completions most recently is in East Pony and Wells Ranch which is the oilier part of the field.
We haven't really had that much activity back in the core gassy part of Wattenberg recently.
So too early to say whether slickwaters might provide some benefit there in the future.
Again we're focused on Wells Ranch and East Pony right now.
But seeing some very nice results there's a slide in the pack that shows an area of Wells Ranch where we've got a number of slickwater wells that are significantly outperforming the gelled hybrid jobs in those areas.
We're seeing similar results in East Pony and we'll continue to test that as we go forward.
And it also reduces our well cost by about $400 000 per well.
So it's a good performance to-date.
Yeah.
All right Gary thanks for that detail.
We'll take our next question from Doug Leggate with Bank of America.
Thanks good morning everybody.
So a quick follow-up on that last question if I may.
So the slickwater I think you said in your commentary that there were some areas where you're choosing to move forward with that.
What's the differentiating factor as to why that wouldn't be deployed across the whole play? I guess as an add-on what are the implications for how we should think about the type curve that you've given us in those areas? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah I think it's just too early to say what other parts of the Basin it will be applicable to Doug.
As you know we like to move in a fairly measured approach as we test new completion techniques and like to show that it's repeatable before we just make wholesale changes across the Basin.
So we'll continue to monitor these wells we'll shift more activity in these specific areas to slickwater in the near future.
But before we're ready to declare that's the right way to go across the Basin we'll just take a more measured approach to it.
I think as far as the uplift I think if you look at the performance on those wells on the slide for Wells Ranch I'd say that that's the performance that we're seeing to-date no reason to suspect our near-term activity in Wells Ranch where we're using slickwater that we'd see anything different than that.
Okay.
But no formal upgrade at this point but pretty much is the writing's pretty much on the wall; right? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah I mean I think you can look at the early performance and probably draw some conclusions we don't have enough data yet to really come out with the new EUR type curve over the life of the well given how recent it's been but you can probably draw some conclusions based on that early data.
[Okay].
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> But as we've done in the past we usually like to get three months six months or longer production and then reevaluate.
Got it.
My follow-up is really I guess is going back to the capital question for next year really more of capital allocation between the Lower 48 Permian relative to DJ.
I'm just wondering if you've got any early look as to how you're thinking about how you might allocate? I'm thinking really more about the potential to ramp in the Permian in favor over the DJ? Or just how you're thinking about it at this point? I'll leave it there.
Thank you.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> That's probably a little early to get into too much of that.
But we've laid out at last call our initial look coming out of the box with Rosetta of how we would start to ramp up the Delaware Basin over next couple of years.
The bigger ramp in Delaware I think really starts in 2017 but we'll be evaluating both the returns and value-add per incremental capital in each of those areas between  specially between DJ Eagle Ford and Permian and it gives us a lot of flexibility now with all three of those assets that are performing very well.
Okay.
Appreciate the answer Dave.
Thanks very much.
We'll next go to Ryan Todd with Deutsche Bank.
Inc.</span></strong> Great thanks.
Good morning gentlemen.
Maybe if I could follow-up one on CapEx.
Can you talk a little about the drivers of the lower CapEx level on this quarter? And then as you look at fourth-quarter CapEx is that kind of low $600 million run rate is that a reasonable run rate and kind of activities level into 2016? Or should we expect negative or positive drivers one way or the other into next year? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well I think when you look at third quarter for this year that's kind of an outcome of the way we set up the program starting the year where we rapidly got in motion to bring down activity.
And for example in the DJ we've ramped down pretty quickly on activity.
We brought the Marcellus and that alignment with our partner in the Marcellus to bring down activity there start to see some of the roll-off and getting through the completion of some of the deepwater Gulf of Mexico projects.
So not a huge surprise to us.
I think the other element there though we started to see actual cost per well come down pretty dramatically too.
So that factored in to I guess being a little ahead of where we expected to be by that time in the third quarter and you're seeing all of that carryover into the fourth quarter.
I think as far as read through the next year.
I mean still too early to give out any specifics but I think as we mentioned earlier we're going to be managing within cash flow for next year.
We've got a lot of flexibility on activity levels that probably the big swing pieces will be our onshore activity.
And again we'll focus that between what we just talked about in the Texas assets and the DJ Basin is the  what's the right activity level there.
Inc.</span></strong> Great.
Thanks.
And then maybe if you could talk broadly about your exploration strategy going forward.
How much of the budget should we expect to see allocated to exploration going forward? Should it be a similar level to 2015? Or I guess any of your comments in terms of how that fits within a broader context of capital allocation over the next couple years.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
Let me give you a few comments on how I see it and Susan maybe expand on how she's thinking about exploration in this environment.
But it will be a low level again next year it was around 5% or so of our capital this year.
I don't see it being much beyond that next year.
The focus next year will probably be in the Gulf of Mexico as far as actual drilling activity.
But then the rest of it is looking at how we build inventory right now and let me ask Susan that just expand a little bit on her comments about this environment? Yeah we're really focused.
This is a great time to really be focused on getting the best quality portfolio that we can possibly get.
We do expect that our percentage in terms of capital in 2016 might be a little higher than this year just because the capital is down and we're drilling in the Gulf of Mexico a little bit but not significantly.
So it's really going to be focused on building the portfolio with real quality possibilities.
Inc.</span></strong> Good.
Would that entail  I guess as you look forward there's a lot of people exiting offshore plays and deepwater assets around the world.
Would you guys look to take advantage in terms of increasing your exposure to longer term resource and acreage going forward? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> I think so.
I think the advantage we have is we have an exploration staff that's had a tremendous amount of success in the past that gives us that capability right now where others may not have that and I think that creates opportunity.
I mean when you step back and look at it we're benefiting from that capability with our three offshore assets now that are delivering tremendous margin and stability.
So I think it's something we'll continue to look at.
But I think you can do that in this environment at a relatively low cost versus what we've seen in the past few years.
Inc.</span></strong> Great.
Thank you.
We'll next go to Steven Richardson with Evercore ISI.
Good morning.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Hi Steve.
Hi.
I was wondering if you could talk a little bit more about Israel.
I appreciate your prepared remarks Dave.
But one question was in terms of talking about an FID maybe 12 months from now on a project can you delve a little bit deeper into what that means for  is it one FID for both Leviathan and this prospective export project from Tamar? How are you thinking about the linkages or the de-linkages of those two projects? And if you could any idea on kind of timing between FID and kind of first sales from the project scope you're looking at? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Sure Steve.
I think the  nice part or one of the nice elements of this framework it actually delinked Tamar and Leviathan.
So we're actually looking at those as two separate FIDs.
And the timing on Tamar is really going to be dependent on getting that contract with the Union Fenosa LNG facility hammered out and being able to move forward from that standpoint Leviathan will be tied to getting its contracts lined out and then the project financing actually pulled together for both of those.
I think when you look at actual first production we've been talking three years to four years from FID the first production.
There is probably an opportunity that Tamar's project could be probably a little bit quicker than Leviathan but we'll just have to see how that plays out.
The other thing we're keeping a close eye on to and I didn't really mention it on the prepared comments but just this interruptible volume to Egypt is actually could be the first project to come online at very little cost to us but significance from the standpoint of establishing an export arrangement between Israel and in neighboring countries.
So that's the other one we're keeping an eye on as we're moving over the next few months too.
Great.
Thanks.
Just a quick follow-up on the Marcellus.
I guess one question clearly that seems like an area just listening to your partner's remarks as well that this is a place where we could see Noble just draw down the inventory of DUCs next year and limit capital based on your view of higher returns elsewhere.
I guess what would have to happen for you to change that view? Is it a question of is there a certain  would $1 higher gas price kind of make that project compete for returns elsewhere? If you could just kind of size  what's the hurdle rate to get capital back into the Marcellus I guess is what I'm getting at.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well I think we're well aligned with our partner to manage within cash flow.
So obviously every Delaware gas price improvement helps the cash flow out in that area and we'll continue to look at it.
I think you're right from the standpoint that the plan going into next year at least as we're both looking at it now is to focus on completion activity and being pretty selective and judicial on how we manage that.
And then we'll just have to keep watching the market.
As we've talked about this doesn't feel like the gas price to drill into in that market but we'll just continue to watch how that changes.
We've got tremendous amount of flexibility because the acreage is pretty much all held by production which was another key advantage of the partnership when we got into that arrangement.
So that just gives us a lot of flexibility to manage it and we're well aligned with our partners.
So that's a good position to be in going into the year.
Great.
Thank you.
We'll take our next question from Bob Brackett with Sanford Bernstein.
I had a question on the Texas assets.
It looks like they were producing maybe 66 000 in 1Q.
And they're running at 54 000 for 3Q.
What's causing that decline? Is that a drop in CapEx or a build in DUCs or something else? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> I'll have Gary expand.
Bob I'll tell you it's right on track with what we've projected when we modeled this for the acquisition.
We fully expected that third quarter would be a low quarter probably the low quarter for the year based on the way we saw activity shaping up.
But Gary can give you some other color.
Yeah.
No Bob it's tied to completion timing.
You might remember that Rosetta's full-year guidance for the assets was 60 000 for the year they had it coming down through the year as Dave said 3Q was always indented to be the low point of the year.
So I'd say we're right on track with what we've anticipated all along.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> But I think what...
And then...
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> But the only thing I was going to add Bob what we've seen from the results of what we've focused on so far.
I think we're in position and kind of our overall theme just to be able to do more with spending less out there as we're seeing on both the initial wells out of the box on drilling and then some of these initial completions.
Yeah.
Efficiencies are definitely trending up better than we had modeled actually you'll recall that we few months ago increased our type curve for the area.
Our most recent wells in the Eagle Ford are exceeding even that increased type curve by 3% to 5% at least so we put a slide out there and has some commentary on a couple other most recent wells we think the one that's in early stages of flowback right now is probably the best well ever completed on the acreage that's the result of bringing a lot of their completion design concept that we've refined in the DJ and the Marcellus to the Eagle Ford.
So it's going to be interesting to see what we're able to do here in the next few months I think.
And you think a rig in each Basin will be enough to hold production flat? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well I think that's where we're going to start off and I think with this drilling efficiencies that we're seeing is fair to model more wells per rig certainly for 2016 than what's been done in the past.
Actually when you look at what we've laid out there and consistent with starting off with the rig in each of those Basins we actually expect this volume will continue to grow.
We don't see that 15% growth average growth over the next three years changing from what we've laid out managing within cash flows so nothing has changed on that.
In fact we're feeling even better about it.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Right.
Great.
Thank you.
And we'll next go to Leo Mari I'm sorry John Herrlin with Societe Generale.
Yes thank you.
You mentioned savings that you are getting with things like slickwater.
And you talked about improvements in the Eagle Ford et cetera.
What kind of well designs are you using that are different? Are you're dropping intermediate stream casing? Are you doing sliding sleeve? Plug-and-perf? What's kind of different in your approach if anything? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> In the DJ? Yes.
And in the Eagle Ford.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah in the DJ slickwater has been the biggest driver so far of bringing those costs down.
We are doing some mono-bore completions like you've heard from others which allows you to drop that intermediate string of casing.
So we're testing that to ensure that we think that's a viable economic solution going forward but we are doing some of that.
In the Eagle Ford most of the improvement has come on bringing again those same completion techniques from the Marcellus and the DJ.
So reduced stage and cluster spacing in this most recent well that we expect to be the best ever is a reduced stage and cluster spacing well it's roughly 2 000 pounds of sand per foot and like I said performing very well.
So we are continuing to test a number of things but we seemed to be on the right track.
Great.
Thanks.
Next one for me on Israel I know it's early.
You're not at FID and all that.
But E&amp;C costs have to be coming down.
Do you have any kind of sense where things are now versus when you were looking a few years back? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> No not yet.
What we didn't want to do is get out ahead of ourselves on rebidding cost.
So we'll get into that as we move through 2016 and that's when I'll start to have a real sense is to how much.
I mean you've got to believe when you look at the number of projects that have been delayed or deferred that the use of this equipment which is a lot of the high cost piece lay vessels and so forth is going to be coming down just based on usage.
We know rig costs are down way down from what we had I'm sure assumed originally when we put the estimates together seeing  you can see where the moving pieces ought to apply some downward pressure.
But in totality we won't have some real insight into that probably until mid-year or so.
Thanks Dave.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Okay.
We'll next go to Leo Mariani with RBC.
Hey guys.
Just had a question around the drilled uncompleted inventory.
I think in your press release you guys talked about 50 wells in Texas 40 wells in the DJ and 80 wells in the Marcellus.
I'm assuming that the Marcellus obviously is built up as a result of dropping the rigs here.
But just curious if the Texas DUCs and the DJ are more a normal course of business? Are you guys purposely trying to defer some of the completions here because of low price environment? Are there commodity price hurdles that you're hoping to hit before you start fracking these wells in each of the areas? Leo this is Gary.
I'd say it's more normal course of business.
We're not intentionally building up drilled/uncompleted inventory in any area.
Okay.
And are there any commodity price hurdles you guys are hoping to see in the Marcellus before you start bringing those wells online? Well I think as Dave has mentioned we're trending towards cash flow neutral for a budget for the Marcellus next year that's kind of where we're seeing it with our partners.
So we're taking that into account.
As you know we've laid down all the drilling rigs.
We've had some completion activity towards the end of this year and then we'll have more completion activity next year versus drilling activity.
We'll just have to monitor that as we go relative to the price and the impact on cash flow Leo.
Okay.
And I guess your costs were extremely low this quarter.
You guys cited at a five-year record here.
Just looking at your guidance it looks like you are expecting costs to uptick a little bit in the fourth quarter.
Is something sort of going on there? Is it more just a function of being conservative? Can you explain that a little bit? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well you've got some mix you'll have a much larger impact of the Gulf of Mexico the new production coming in from the Gulf which is at a little higher operating cost.
You've got the Eastern Med dropping off significantly seasonally as it always does in the fourth quarter expect it to.
And those are probably the two main pieces  just as two mixes.
Okay.
Thanks guys.
And we'll take our next question from Irene Haas with Wunderlich.
Inc.</span></strong> Yes.
This is really focused on the Appalachia.
And it looks like you guys are pulling back on the Marcellus a little waiting for things to improve.
And my question for you is how do you feel about the Utica? I noticed that you have a well in Marshall County West Virginia.
I was just wondering how much it cost at this stage? And then when do we really kind of need to treat the Utica dry gas as the next Marcellus? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well that's a good question Irene on the last one.
We just don't have that much history and that much Utica acreage to have a strong opinion on it relative to the Marcellus.
I'd tell you we'll start to get some insight from our own operations here as we bring our first Utica well on probably later this year.
But then I think the real question on the Utica has been kind of the decline relative to the Marcellus and as you referenced the overall cost of projects at the deeper depth.
So we don't have a big inventory.
We've probably got probably 20 000 acres or so of Utica position that we've brought in along with our partners.
We've picked up additional acreage out in the Basin but we're probably in the early stages of us doing that.
Gary may have some other insight from his perspective.
Yeah when Dave says 20 000 acres that's the gross that's in the JV that we have an interest in so our net is about half that about 10 000 acres.
We just drilled the one well so I think it's too early to speculate on what cost would be on a development type scenario because we've done quite a bit of science on this first well.
But we do expect to have it on here in the fourth quarter and should be able to start talking about it a bit more on the call next year.
Inc.</span></strong> How much did you spend at this first well? It's in the $15+ million range on this first well but like I said there is quite a bit of science in that one.
Inc.</span></strong> Yeah...
We'd look to that as a development well scenario.
Inc.</span></strong> Got you.
Thank you.
And we'll take our next question from Michael Rowe with TPH [Tudor Pickering Holt].
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</span></strong> Yes good morning.
I just had one question about the DJ Basin.
So you mentioned you're dropping a rig late  in the latter part of this year but you're drilling wells more quickly.
And your anticipated well count's a bit higher for the year than budgeted.
So can you just provide a little bit more context around kind of how the well count's going to change for the full year? And any changes to the capital budget for that region as well.
Yeah Michael.
This is Gary.
I think it's  again it's driven by efficiency.
So we've recently dropped to three rigs from four rigs.
I don't see our latest guidance on well count changing that much given the increasing efficiency we continue to see.
I think the last numbers we put out there was about 200 wells plus or minus actual well count and about 250 wells on an equivalent basis.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> I think our change to DJ capital occurred first half of the year when we actually shifted some money into the DJ earlier in the year and that turned out to be a pretty smart move with what we've seen from the impact of the Lucerne-2 plant coming on.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Great.
And then lastly just on the Gulf of Mexico wells these are obviously coming online and adding quite a bit of production cash flow over the next 12 months.
Can you just remind us kind of how we should think about the production profile and declines for these wells over the first call it 12 months to 24 months? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah I'd say over the first 12 months once we get them fully lined out here towards the end of November.
So I think they'll hold pretty flat.
I mean there will be some ups and downs but they'll hold pretty flat through the first 12 months.
And then I'd say decline from after the first year or so it's probably 20% to 30% range.
Now the nice part about it is that it's not the end of the opportunities in that Rio Grande area because one of the things we'll be looking at pretty hard over the first year is the potential based on production performance for another development well at Big Bend and also potential for water injection support going forward.
So lot of things still to look at out there and we'll see how that fully plays out.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Thanks.
Our next question comes from Mike Kelly with Seaport Global.
Hi guys.
Good morning.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Hi Mike.
I was hoping to get a better understanding for Israel in 2016.
And I'm interested if we assume similar weather next year versus 2015 what organic growth could be? One just no change to  on the regulatory front.
Two if we do have a comprehensive agreement signed here in the next couple of weeks? Thanks.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> If you're talking about volumes I think we're going into next year.
I think it will be relatively flat.
We benefited this year from the fact that we had the compression project that Ashdod fully up and running.
And so we were able to take full advantage of that this past quarter.
And you can see the nice impact from that.
I think the wildcard over there is if we can get this interruptible supply agreement and actually start physically moving volumes from Israel to Egypt next year.
We're not assuming anything for that at this point until it happens.
But that could be a significant opportunity.
How quick could that be up and running Dave? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> I think physically up and running I think you can do it in a matter of months.
I think it's all a matter of getting the agreements finalized getting both governments signed up and onboard.
And I know they're both very supportive from all discussions.
And then getting all the agreements with the owners of the pipeline in place and gas moving.
But as far as physical activity to move gas it doesn't take much I don't think.
Okay.
Great.
And my follow-up is kind of longer term if we look at Leviathan and Tamar.
And I know there's a lot of moving parts and variables here and it might be way premature to ask this but if you guys are thinking about this in terms of on the potential internal NAV of these projects how should we think about it? How really impactful could these projects be to you? Thanks.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> I think if you just take a look and you model out the cash flows per year from the types of volumes when you look at  for Leviathan adding over a Bcf a day we've talked about on average maybe 1.2 Bcf a day or so forth when it's fully up and running here on the initial phase.
When you look at Tamar adding 400 million cubic feet a day to 500 million cubic feet a day and you just model those cash flows out it starts to give you an impression of how impactful those projects can be.
All right.
Appreciate it.
Thanks guys.
Your next question comes from David Beard with Coker &amp; Palmer.
Inc.</span></strong> Hi good morning everyone.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Good morning Dave.
Inc.</span></strong> Two questions for you a macro and a micro.
On the macro front how closely linked in your mind are changes in commodity prices for changes in CapEx? So that's first.
And then second on the micro front just back up to the DJ and the slickwater fracs can we think of applying these to the majority of the Wells Ranch wells and even at the longer lateral lengths? And maybe just talk about what's going on at East Pony on slickwater versus Wells Ranch.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Let me take the first one and I'll let Gary take the second part of that.
But on the CapEx versus commodity price I mean they are linked from the standpoint of our focus especially in these lower commodity price world of managing within cash flow.
So it's going to be a direct linkage there between what commodity price is and how it impacts our cash flow and therefore what capital we invest.
So...
Yeah.
And on the slickwater how we roll that out like I said we're focusing on Wells Ranch and East Pony right now it seems to be working quite well in those areas we'll continue to test it in those areas that's where most of our activity is going to be next year anyway.
As far as the long laterals we're certainly pumping slickwater on long laterals I would say on the longest laterals the 9 000 foot type wells we're still pumping the gelled hybrid in those first few stages in the toe just because if we have a screen out situation it's a bit more problematic and costly to get those cleaned out so we want to make sure we can carry the sand the whole way but otherwise we're pumping slickwater on the majority of those as well.
Inc.</span></strong> Great.
Appreciate the color.
Thank you.
And this does conclude our question-and-answer session today.
I would like to turn the conference over to  back over to Brad Whitmarsh for any closing remarks.
Sure.
Thank you all for joining us today.
If you have any other questions don't hesitate to call us we'd be in the office and look forward to speaking with many of you throughout the day.
The conference has now concluded.
Thank you for attending today's presentation.
You may now disconnect.
Good day everyone and welcome to the Noble Energy Fourth Quarter and Full-Year 2015 Earnings Call.
Just a reminder today's call is being recorded.
For opening remarks and introductions I will turn the conference over to Mr.
Brad Whitmarsh.
Please go ahead sir.
Thanks Debbie.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us this morning.
We issued two news releases this is morning one covering the fourth quarter and our full-year earnings and the second one laying details on our 2016 plan.
We also posted to our website a number of supplemental slides for this call which you will find helpful as we talk through our prepared comments.
And later this morning our 10K will be filed with the SEC.
Following prepared comments from Dave Stover Chairman President and CEO; and Gary Willingham Executive Vice President of Operations we will open the call for question-and-answer session.
In order to meet our one hour timeframe we would ask that participants limit themselves to one primary and one follow-up question.
Additional management team available for Q&amp;A are Ken Fisher Executive Vice President and CFO; Susan Cunningham Executive Vice President of Exploration and New Ventures; and Keith Elliott SVP of our Eastern Mediterranean Assets.
I want to remind everyone that this webcast and conference call contains projections and forward-looking statements as well as certain non-GAAP financial measures.
You should read our full disclosures in our latest news release and SEC filings for a discussion of those items.
With that I'll turn the call to Dave.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</strong> Thanks Brad and good morning everyone.
For more than a decade now Noble Energy has planned and structured itself to succeed in any market environment.
I'm proud of what we've accomplished last year and I feel good about how we are positioned moving through this challenging time.
I'd like to start today's call with a few highlights wrapping up 2015 before focusing on our plans for 2016.
Fourth-quarter results show our continued operating momentum and focus on prudently managing within cash flow.
For the second straight quarter discretionary cash flow exceeded capital expenditures.
This reflects our asset quality our portfolio diversity and the ability of our organization to execute.
It's also a testament to the swift decisive actions we took to reduce spending and drive capital efficiency beginning more than a year ago.
Sales volumes for the quarter averaged a record 422 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day which was above the high end of our increased guidance.
This was driven by accelerated project start ups in the Gulf of Mexico strong asset performance in Equatorial Guinea and Israel and continued improvement in completion design and infrastructure capacity in the DJ Basin.
Looking at our full-year 2015 accomplishments it was a year of outstanding operational and strategic execution under the backdrop of a difficult commodity environment.
We began last year targeting increased production capacity from our DJ Basin asset more recognition of the value in our Eastern Mediterranean project and alignment with our Marcellus partner for future capital spend.
By year's end we had accomplished each of these objectives while transforming our cost structure to match the current environment.
This was all achieved while realizing record safety performance across the business.
In addition we took advantage of an opportunity to expand our leading U.S.
unconventional portfolio with new top-tier positions in the Eagle Ford and the Delaware Basin.
Initial operating results have exceeded expectations and highlight Noble's technical proficiency with new completion designs and drilling efficiencies.
Our major project execution capabilities were again evident in 2015.
We commenced production on both Big Bend and Dantzler in the Gulf of Mexico while keeping Gunflint and the Alba compression project on plan for 2016 start up.
In Israel an approved and implemented natural gas regulatory framework gives us substantial momentum for future projects and the regulatory clarity necessary for new development to meet the region's growing demand for natural gas.
We ended 2015 with total proved reserves of 1.4 billion barrels of oil equivalent which was up slightly versus year-end 2014.
Excluding the impact of the Rosetta Resources merger and SEC commodity price changes we replaced 1.5 times 2015 production at a replacement cost of around $16 per barrel of oil equivalent.
Total organic capital for 2015 was under $2.9 dollars down approximately 40% from the previous year while unit operating costs were driven to their lowest point in eight years.
At the same time our average full-year reported sales volumes were up nearly 20% over the year before.
Part of the increase was the addition of the new Texas asset.
But our legacy volumes grew more than 10% by themselves.
I would now like to take a few moments to describe how we're moving forward in the current environment.
Noble Energy is an 84-year-old company.
We've been through many cycles before.
We believe our high-quality low-cost and diversified portfolio combined with capital discipline and tremendous investments flexibility provides the best formula for long term sustainable value creation.
Look at 2015 and 2016.
Without question we are achieving more while spending less.
As I look across the E&amp;P spectrum I believe Noble Energy is competitively advantaged for the future.
Protecting the balance sheet is fundamental in this environment.
That is why we are committed to managing total cash outflows within total cash inflows at the company level which started 2016 with $5 billion of liquidity including $4 billion on our undrawn credit facility.
This liquidity has already been further bolstered this year by approximately $200 million in cash proceeds from non-producing Eastern Mediterranean asset sales.
An additional $200 million of capacity was created through the recent dividend adjustment and debt refinancing.
We also intend to reduce leverage using additional cash flow from operations or portfolio proceeds beyond what has been captured to date.
Cash flow for the year is positively impacted by our hedging position which covers approximately 35% of our global oil and 25% of our U.S.
gas production.
As we survey investment opportunities against the outlook for commodity prices current returns do not justify prior activity levels.
We're again pulling back capital aggressively in 2016 and focusing only in those areas where long-term value opportunities make sense.
We have further reduced our capital program by nearly 50% year-over-year to $1.5 billion.
This will allow us to maintain financial strength and sustain underlying operating capabilities.
As part of our intense scrutiny on capital allocation our operating teams continue to improve capital efficiency while ensuring that each dollar spent is justified by the future value created.
This focus along with our ability to monetize additional asset gives us flexibility to adjust in a volatile price environment.
This year's program targets two-thirds of our capital to the U.S.
unconventional business and one-third to development and exploration offshore.
Gary will go through our detailed development programs in a moment but first I want to briefly cover our exploration plans and production outlook for the year.
Our organic exploration strategy has generated substantial value and created long-term cash flows for Noble over the years.
In 2016 we're focused on drilling two to three offshore wells while obtaining and interpreting seismic to open up future value opportunities.
We see this as a great environment to deepen our exploration inventory of high-quality opportunities at a relatively low cost of entry.
Now turning to production.
In 2016 we expect to deliver volumes of approximately 390 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day.
This is up 10% on a full-year reported basis and essentially flat to the pro forma 2015 level.
From a quarterly standpoint we expect the first and third quarters to be higher volume than the second and fourth with the second half of the year generally equal to the first.
We've had a strong start to the year and I'm optimistic that we can drive new capital and operating efficiencies to outperform our goals.
In the slides for this conference call we've provided detailed full-year and first-quarter guidance.
First quarter volumes reflect downtime for the Alba compression project in Equatorial Guinea.
I will now turn the call over to Gary Willingham who will review recent performance and the 2016 program at the asset level.
Thanks Dave and good morning everyone.
As Dave noted from an efficiency and cost perspective the company is firing on all cylinders.
And I'm extremely pleased with the results we are delivering.
I believe there is a strong correlation between our record safety and exceptional operating performance.
I'll start our asset level discussion with the DJ Basin.
Fourth-quarter total production of 121 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day reflected continued improvement in completion performance and infrastructure development.
The DJ Basin was once again a big contributor to the company's lower operating costs and production outperformance.
Essentially all of the growth in the DJ versus the fourth quarter of 2014 and the third quarter of 2015 has come from liquids with most of that oil.
The December start up of the Grand Parkway system further reduced line pressures to the lowest levels we can remember and should provide redundancy and improve through-put.
Noble's operated Keota plant in East Pony which came online mid-year 2015 is also running well supporting our activity in that area.
After drilling and completing horizontals in the DJ Basin for more than 5 years now our team is still driving step changes in drilling results and well performance.
Our full-year 2015 average drilling cost per lateral foot was down 40% from 2014.
And as well costs have been substantially reduced we've also enhanced production performance with optimized completion designs.
We continue to focus on slickwater as our standard frac fluid design which is consistently delivering lower costs and enhanced production per well.
The next step in completion innovation and capital efficiency is utilizing a completion design that will allow slickwater fracs to be pumped to the toe on long laterals and also with higher proppant concentrations.
Actual results on both hybrid gel and slickwater wells with higher proppant concentration are exhibiting better initial production and flatter declines compared to our historical jobs.
For 2016 we plan to operate two rigs for the full year focusing in the Wells Ranch and East Pony development areas.
These are our highest value IDPs with strong oil contributions and existing infrastructure already in place.
Total capital allocation to the Basin this year is just under $600 million.
70% of the DJ Basin wells to be drilled in 2016 are planned to be extended reach many of which will be 9000 foot laterals in Wells Ranch.
We are targeting the drilling of 150 equivalent wells this year and expect to commence production on slightly more than 200 equivalents.
While these lower activity levels suggest that DJ production will be down somewhat from last year I'm optimistic that these new completion designs can help offset some of the potential declines.
Moving over to our Texas assets I'm pleased with our integration efforts in 2015 and believe we're making good progress in optimizing the performance of these assets.
During the fourth quarter we started production on our first five Noble design completions in the Eagle Ford.
And based on our review of public data our first three design completions which tested wider lateral spacing and higher profit concentrations are among the most productive Eagle Ford wells ever completed.
We also announced 30-day results on two additional wells today.
The average 30 day IP for these wells was over 4 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day and this is remarkable when you look at the fact that they were drilled by Rosetta on tighter 500 foot lateral spacing.
Production from these two wells when normalized to a 5 000 foot lateral is also significantly above our 3 million barrel EUR type curve which is based on wider lateral spacing.
Capital allocation for the Texas asset is approximately $250 million.
60% is expected to be spent in the Eagle Ford primarily to continue Gates Ranch development.
The remaining 40% will be spent to begin our operated appraisal work in the Delaware Basin.
Our first two completions in the Delaware are beginning production this month and while we have pulled back capital in these assets from prior expectations I still expect higher volumes in 2016 versus 2015 pro forma driven mostly by the Eagle Ford.
In the Marcellus total capital for this year is currently planned at $150 million.
We've reduced activity to zero drilling rigs with plans for the JV to be cash flow neutral.
Focus will be on a limited number of completions in the non-operated dry gas area and will be weighted towards the first half of the year.
As such this is expected to deliver modestly higher volumes versus full-year 2015.
The Gulf of Mexico finished the year strongly with Big Bend and Dantzler starting production during the fourth quarter ahead of schedule and on budget.
Our Gulf of Mexico strategy of pursuing high-quality reservoirs near existing infrastructure generates substantial value.
A full year of Big Bend and Dantzler along with the Gunflint startup will contribute significant year-on-year oil volume growth during the coming year.
Noble's Gulf of Mexico budget is $250 million for 2016.
As we complete the Gunflint project the vast majority of capital will be for exploration and appraisal activities.
The lineup includes the Silvergate prospect which is currently drilling and an appraisal well for our 2014 Katmai oil discovery.
Silvergate is a Miocene target with a resource range between 30 million and 100 million barrels of oil equivalent gross with nearby subsea tieback potential and results are expected by the end of the first quarter.
In Israel natural gas sales volumes averaged 250 million cubic feet of gas equivalent per day during the fourth quarter.
This represents an increase of 9% from the same period last year mainly due to robust power generation demand.
Strong natural gas demand is continuing into 2016 not only from this year's early cold weather but also from the expanded use of natural gas over other power generation source fuels.
In 2016 we have included approximately $100 million for pre-FID capital expenditures on our Eastern Mediterranean projects.
The region is fundamentally short gas and will focus this year on finalizing gas sales agreements within Israel and with multiple regional customers.
As we progress the technical and commercial readiness of our projects we are operating with the following principles: First and foremost ensure that our development concepts match market demand.
Second we remain focused on meeting and growing demand for natural gas within Israel while diversifying our regional market opportunities.
And third we are managing project risk through financing including the potential involvement of international financial institutions.
I'd now like to take a couple of minutes and provide an update on our current thinking about the Leviathan development.
Along with our FPSO development concept we are also progressing another design that utilizes a fixed platform to ensure timely first production.
The initial development under this fixed platform concept would be anchored by Israeli domestic demand Jordan power needs and Egyptian industrial demand.
While continuing to refine the technical requirements initial capacity could start at over 1 BCF billion cubic feet of gas per day and is quickly expandable to more than 2 BCF a day.
This option provides the most flexibility to match contracted volumes with accelerated development while retaining the capability to meet existing and growing demand.
As you would expect pre-production capital outlays can be substantially reduced by this design modification along with the current service cost environment.
This will all be firmed up as we move through 2016 securing necessary gas contracts recosting the final technical project and finalizing project financing to move forward to FID.
Additionally we continue to work with L&amp;G plant owners in the region to secure gas contracts.
A combination of our high-quality Eastern Mediterranean reservoirs with idle L&amp;G plants positions us well to be competitive in the global L&amp;G world.
Now I'll turn the call back over to Dave for closing remarks.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</strong> Thanks Gary.
We've highlighted this morning how we executed exceptionally well during 2015.
We did what we said we would do and then some.
We know these are no ordinary times but Noble is no ordinary company.
We've outlined the 2016 program today that ensures we maintain financial strength and operating capabilities.
It provides flexibility to adapt in any environment.
And it positions Noble Energy to build long-term value.
We believe the prudent approach is to manage the business within total cash flow while keeping our eyes focused on the long term.
How can we say this because our diverse portfolio and capabilities have us uniquely positioned to differentially outperform in 2016 and beyond.
At this time Debbie we'll go ahead and open the call to questions.
Thank you.
And we'll take our first caller Arun Jayaram with JPMorgan.
Good morning Dave.
I first wanted to ask you Noble has a lot of strong operating momentum in 2016 with the Gulf of Mexico Wattenberg and the flush Eagle Ford completions.
I wanted to see if you could perhaps give us your thoughts -- I know it's early but sustaining that operating momentum as you think about 2017.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Arun yeah appreciate the comments.
And highlighting the momentum that Gary his team and actually the whole organization has put in place and realized as we've gone through 2015 and what we are seeing already moving into 2016.
As you look beyond 2016 into 2017 you have to look at the pieces of the portfolio and kind of just think through each one of those and how they are impacted.
The Eastern Med for example is going to be flat to up depending on demand.
In the Gulf of Mexico we should see some improvement in 2017 versus 2016 because you're bringing Isabella back on.
We've got Isabella workover here in the first quarter impacting 2016.
We'll bring that back on so you'll have impact of Isabella and then you'll have a full-year of Gunflint in 2017.
West Africa you will have the full-year of Alba which has been impacted this year in 2016 by the downtime on putting the compression project in.
That should offset the decline on Aseng and Alen so West Africa should be flat to essentially up.
So the international offshore portfolio will give you good sustenance if you will underlying the production base.
Then in U.S.
I would assume the Texas properties will continue to grow in 2017 and then at the current type investment levels you could see some decline in the Marcellus and the DJ.
But when you think about 2017 overall the way I think about it at kind of the 2016 spending level you probably remain fairly flat.
But I think a lot of work and a lot of time is going to be on looking at where we want to set up the 2017 program before we go too far down the road as to what we'd actually be spending.
That is very helpful as we think about 2017.
My follow-up or second question really regards the Delaware Basin it looks like you guys will be turning in the sales about 10 wells.
Gary could you give us a little bit more detail around where the completion activity is focused and a little bit about expectations for those wells and then just maybe discuss some offset wells that you see in the area.
I'd say those wells are spread throughout kind of the core part of the acreage that we're focused on.
This year remains a bit more of a appraisal delineation well as we bring some of our own completion techniques to the Basin.
So we're just now bringing our first two completions on this month.
With those we're trying two different completion techniques; one a hybrid gel frac that's been more typically used in the area and also our first slickwater completion in the area.
So we'll see how those perform.
We'll continue to test some other things this year.
I would expect performance relative to historical performance to be up similar to what we've seen as we've brought new completion techniques to the Eagle Ford and similar to our history in the Marcellus and DJ over the years as we continue to refine things.
So still a bit early this year to see what we've got just bringing the first two wells on but excited to get those on and see how we continue to progress the development of that acreage.
Okay.
Thanks a lot gentleman.
We'll take our next question from Evan Calio with Morgan Stanley.
Good morning guys and good results.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Good morning Evan.
Good morning Evan.
I guess it's never too early to focus on 2017.
So I'm looking to follow-up on one of the prior comments.
How do you think about the priorities? (25:34) grows your balance sheet into 2017 and more specifically what oil price would you expect to need to being a reacceleration process.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> I think the priority is assuming you're in the same price environment or the same as this year which is managing that balance sheet and also keeping an eye on both the near and long-term capabilities that you're continuing to build.
I think as we looked at this year we've built the capital budget from ground up.
We looked at what commitments and requirements we had and then how much discretionary capital and where would we put the first crunch of the discretionary capital I mean that's kind of been in the Texas and the DJ Basin right now.
And then you're watching your cash flow and you're watching where that comes together.
So I think for this environment we're going to continue to position ourselves to manage within cash flow and I think we have the portfolio that allows us to do that and still maintain a strong underlying foundation.
Great.
I appreciate that guys.
And my second is a follow-up to your Eastern Med comments what  maybe I missed it can you  what's the latest timeline on the Leviathan progression that new concept timeline to submit the development plan and FID? I'll leave it at that.
Thanks.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah I'll let Keith  we've got our expert Keith Elliott here he can talk a little more on how he is thinking about things.
But I'd just say things are still moving along.
We've got all the potential customers at the table.
We're outlining some flexibility in different scenarios on development plans that can even create more value potentially and continue to accelerate the project as it makes sense as things come together.
But let me just let Keith talk a little bit on how he's thinking of development plans and how the timing...
Yeah Evan so we're still focused as we always have been on delivering a quality product and quality project first.
Really the course of 2016 that's kind of got as Dave said sort of four key areas that we're working on.
We made a lot of progress in 2015 on the regulatory framework and that resolved.
Now we're focusing on the technical work revising and optimizing the development scenario.
As you heard looking at concluding our gas marketing contracts and of course getting our project financing lined up and our view is that we can be in a place to have that all finished out by the end of the 2016.
Debbie I think we're ready to move on to the next question.
We'll take our next question from Dave Kistler with Simmons &amp; Company.
Good morning guys.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Hey Dave.
Real quickly in your prepared remarks and in your slides you referenced the potential to monetize portions of your portfolio and use that for de-leveraging.
Can you give us a little bit more color around that in terms of scale scope and is there a target leverage metric you're trying to get to? Just any kind of additional details there would be helpful.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> I think we've already seen some of the monetization take place here in the first quarter with a couple hundred million from Tanin and Karish and what we talked about on selling down some interest in Cyprus.
I mean we know we've got some unique assets in Eastern Med for example.
We know as part of the framework that we are going to sell down some Tamar interest over time.
Again we've got a significant period of time  six years to do that.
But it does give you an opportunity as that value is realized whether it's Tamar or whether it's some interest in Leviathan to have some assets that are positioned a little differently than some of the rest of the world out there.
I think the other thing we've talked about and it is still on the shelf if you will is just continuing to unlock value in the midstream part of our business.
I think that's another unique high-value asset piece that can help in that whole portfolio mix over some period.
Okay.
Appreciate that.
And then maybe switching gears a little bit you also referenced a tax policy change in your release.
Can you talk a little bit about that decision what it does for you guys going forward? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
Let me have Ken kind of highlight that.
Yeah Dave.
See like many people with offshore earnings had a APB 23 assertion on that said that we would continue to reinvest our foreign earnings internationally and not bring them back to the U.S.
at that point in time.
As we looked at it in 2015 at the end of the year we removed that assertion and that allowed us to utilize the foreign tax credits very effectively and so what that means is we have then full fungibility of about a couple billion dollars of additional monies that could be repatriated through time to the U.S.
So it adds a lot to our flexibility and it was in a sense a good time because we could utilize the foreign tax credits efficiently.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> I think Dave it's consistent with a number of things we've been doing to make sure we provide ourselves the most flexibility as we can.
I appreciate that.
I assume it also makes maybe forward guidance on international tax a little bit easier for all of us.
Is that a fair characterization? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yes I think that's true because you'll see then it will effectively be more the statutory rate.
So it should make Brad's life a little easier.
Another benefit.
Great.
I appreciate it guys.
Great work.
We'll take our next question from Stephen Richardson with Evercore ISI.
Hi.
Good morning guys.
I just wanted to get back on the new comments on this fixed platform concept for the Eastern Med.
Are we to read anything in terms of I guess in the script what was discussed was Israel domestic Jordan power which we have heard about but then Egyptian industrial demand.
Is that still the same L&amp;G concept we have been talking about? Or is this a different customer? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> I think it's a reflection of all the customers.
I think the customer base and the customer needs have done nothing but grow as we have been in discussions over the last year or two.
What this is a reflection of is being able to match up as some of these contracts come together we can make decisions and then scale this as we go and essentially match it to the timing of contracts as they come together be able to keep pushing forward and accelerate.
And one of the other things and Keith mentioned it a little bit is probably take advantage of actually a better cost environment as you start looking at the fixed platform concept if that is where we end up with on this because one it probably utilizes capabilities of the industry a little better and it probably also ties into what we've already done over there.
So there is a knowledge base that's already built.
But I think it is kind of a win-win on all fronts.
No read-through to any different outlook as far as all the potential customers.
I'd say all the potential customers are still at the table.
But just the recognitions and things will come to place at different time periods and as they do it will enable us to continue to move forward faster.
Great okay.
Thank you.
I appreciate that Dave.
And I guess on that I guess the benefit relative to an FPSO is scalability.
And also is the  is the Israeli domestic market your view of that market in at the end of the decade significantly higher than it was just a couple of years ago? Is that fair to say as well? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> I think it  like the rest of the regional bases; we're seeing more potential demand.
I mean we're seeing and I think Gary alluded to it briefly but we're starting to see some indications there could be more demand even coming in places early as this year that we're going to keep a close eye on as there's continued movement to generate more of their power with gas.
Right.
Okay.
I was wondering if I could slip in one other maybe for Ken just in terms of how we should think about project financing.
I know it's early but as you think about 2017 and the capital call coming how should we think about this? Is it  was this consolidated debt at the NBL corporate level is there another structure here? How should we all think about funding this project in a muted commodity price recovery scenario? Yeah.
Sure we continued all throughout the last year to keep the banking sector warm on Leviathan financing and we still see that there.
If you look at the (35:30) guys did very successful financing on Tamar on a project basis.
Those bonds actually got investment grade rating and continue to trade very well.
So our sense is the bank market will be there.
Our intent will be not to add new equity in from  into Israel but rather leverage the things that Dave talked about in terms of some partial monetization of assets.
We just had realized $200 million from non-producing assets there.
And so I think the financing will be either a project finance or an RBL type of financing.
For our share it will count as debt.
And if it's project finance it still probably will be counted as debt.
We'll think about it that way.
And then we'll also try and leverage multilaterals or export credit agencies to help support the project both financially and from a risk standpoint.
So all that effort continues.
And so I don't see it as a pacing item to enable sanction.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> And I think then going hand-in-hand with some of this  I've also stepped back and looked at just some of the things that have happened over last quarter over in Israel.
We've seen now export approval to Egypt.
We've seen longer-term LOIs with parties in Egypt for gas from Leviathan.
We've seen additional demand to your point earlier about in-country additional demand coming forward for Leviathan gas.
So I think where we are with this framework in place where we are with keeping the external financing parties well-aligned as we have pulled this whole thing together it's just created a lot of momentum and we just got to keep things moving forward.
Great.
Thank you very much.
We'll go next to Doug Leggate with Bank of America.
Thanks good morning everybody.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Good morning Doug.
Dave I wonder if I could hit the hedging comment.
Obviously you've got some hedging in place for this year.
In the event I'm thinking  in the back of my mind I'm just looking at what the credit agencies have done for the whole sector in terms of their debt.
Let's assume that they were right and we got fairly onerous outlook.
Then obviously your hedging gains I'm guessing roll off back end of this year.
Where is the flexibility in the portfolio going into 2017 if that was the case? How would you think about where you would take capital from? And I've kind of got Leviathan in the back of my mind as well.
We'll do that one first and then I've a follow-up.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah you have to look at the different components.
I think even in the case of Leviathan as we get things sanctioned you probably got a couple hundred million $300 million potential capital needs next year that I think we should be able to cover from the ring fencing concept that Ken talked about.
So when you compare apples-to-apples for the rest of the program you got some of the of the Gulf of Mexico both Gunflint dropping off as far as capital needs next year.
You've got rig commitments dropping off part of the year next year.
Alba compression project will be done this year.
So when you look at truly committed portions next year there is very little.
Most all the capital next year will be discretionary.
That'll be driven by what we elect to invest in relative to how we're looking at our cash flow.
So we should still think about you living within cash flow irrespective of the debt (39:31)? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> I think that's how we are running of our business in this environment.
Okay.
Then my follow-up someone touched on that earlier about the disposal program but we've seen a lot of companies talk about monetizing assets.
I'm just curious is it the unique aspects of your portfolio geographically that gives you confidence you can still get that done for example Israel? Or do you see opportunities still in this market in your lower 48 portfolio? And I'll leave it there.
Thanks.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> The good part about our lower 48 portfolio it's essentially been cleaned up and cored up to what we're focusing on is high quality with tremendous upside value opportunities.
So any trimming in the lower 48 portfolio would be around the edges on that so there's no dependency here if you look at things going forward on any big trimming on our lower 48 portfolio.
Where we've talked about sales or divestments is really around early monetization and how we manage the cash both inflow and outflow in eastern Med.
And I think that is unique to us.
That's really helpful Dave.
I guess it's just really more about having confidence that folks can execute asset sales.
I guess you're in a much stronger position than others.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah and I don't think we're real reliant on that as being part of the program.
I think where that comes into place is part of the program of this ring fencing around the Eastern Med.
Got it.
I'll leave it there.
Thanks very much.
We'll take our next question from Charles Meade with Johnson Rice.
Good morning Dave and to the rest of your team there.
If I could ask another question about the Eastern Med and I guess everyone wants to ask about where you're selling gas for $5 right now.
But the recent news about the Israeli Supreme Court suggesting that framework should be sent to the Knesset.
Is that  should we look at that as just a sideshow or is that more part of the main act? And hopefully you can shed light on how we should look at that.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
Well I think it's no surprise that this was going to go to the Supreme Court to be brought up and discussed with an expectation that any of the opposition to the framework was going to take this to the Supreme Court and they were going to have to weigh in at a certain point in time.
So I'd say this is part of the process right now.
I think what I am focused on and what's important is when you look at the comments from the government on all of this and the comments on the total framework being critical to move forward I think that's definitely in the place that we are.
And I'd go back to how everything has come together as this framework has come together how the customers have come to the table how the demand has probably held up or increased and how we've moved forward to come up with some alternatives and options that can keep this project the Leviathan project especially moving forward as quick as possible and maybe even accelerate it as some of the contracts come together.
But I think us and the government are in complete agreement on the necessity of the framework and the urgency of the framework and it's time to keep moving forward.
Got it.
Got it.
That's helpful.
And then if I could just go in a completely new direction.
The Codell results you guys in I believe it was in East Pony could you talk more about that? I think you mentioned that they were kind of equivalent to some of the Niobrara wells in the area which sounds really good.
And I'm wondering if that  how much appraisal of that Codell zone might be part of 2016? If you can kind of take your temperature on that.
Yeah Charles I don't know how many we'll drill in 2016 yet to be honest.
We've drilled the one up in East Pony today.
The Codell gets quite a bit thinner up in that part of the field so the one we drilled was more of an appraisal type test to see what we would get.
We are very encouraged with the results and how they compare to the Niobrara development in the area.
We need to see how that holds up a bit over time and where that could lead to.
But the Codell in that area is certainly not anything we've really counted on too much in development plans in the past.
So it could be interesting.
Okay that's helpful Gary.
Thanks a lot.
We'll take our next question from Dave Heikkinen with Heikkinen Energy Advisors.
Good morning guys.
And thanks for the time.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Hi Dave.
Thinking about your 2016 outlook just very specifically in Israel I mean have you included any regional sales or any interruptible volumes in your outlook for this year? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> No Dave and that's a good point to make sure we emphasize.
We have not.
We've essentially assumed a fairly flat demand given how strong the demand was in 2015.
And so besides any interruptible impact the other thing we're going to be watching pretty close is just the in-country demand.
As I've said we're starting to see some indication that there is some more push to use more gas for power instead of other fuels.
And just don't really have a feel for how much that could be yet but we'll be watching that pretty close this year.
And that would be the mainly third quarter summertime (45:30).
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> I'd say you can see that start to trickle in fairly soon.
Oh really? Okay.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> By first half of the year we could start to see some impact of that hopefully.
And then last year you'll made a pretty strategic acquisition of Rosetta and there's been a lot more pain in the industry and you talked about your move on the tax side to make more liquidity available.
How do you think about additional opportunities at Noble as a consolidator going forward? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> I think as we have talked about in the past we'll continue to do our business development work to look at what would be priorities mainly from quality of asset.
Rosetta jumped to the front because of the quality of asset and the value we felt we could bring to that asset base.
So anything else going forward would have to have those same attributes.
I'd say right now I'm just not seeing things close the gap on expectations from buyer and seller at this point.
So it is not something I anticipate anytime real soon.
But we keep our capacity and financial firepower available to take advantage of opportunities.
But I'd say those will be further down the road at this point.
What we don't want to do is take on other people's problems.
So it would have to be high-quality assets that also would make a positive difference from an overall balance sheet and just future quality and opportunity base for the company so...
Thanks for the perspective.
We'll take our next question from Brian Singer with Goldman Sachs.
Thank you good morning.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Good morning.
Going back to the Eastern Med you spent some time talking about the various volume impacts here.
Can you talk more on the pricing in the current low oil price and tough spot natural gas price environment how you see some of the Eastern Med export gas price opportunities looking? And how oil prices versus spot L&amp;G prices versus what you're already getting with the Israel contract would play into that? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> I will give you just a quick overview and then Keith is closer to it and can talk a little bit about it.
But when you look and you even go back to how we were talking about contracts before there is a mix of different contracts and what you're competing with.
You're competing in some cases against importing L&amp;G or higher-cost fuels into countries at different points and in some places like the existing idle L&amp;G plant you're looking at what makes sense there giving that you've got a high-quality known gas source that you can tie in with probably one of the lowest-cost L&amp;G plants in the world.
So you're kind of balancing both of those types of contract and potential pricing outlooks.
So each one has a different characteristic.
I'll let Keith talk a little bit about how he is seeing things playing out.
Thanks Brian.
So as Dave said I think we see the market to be too if you will  the regional market to be too fundamentally connected but slightly different markets i.e.
in one case you're competing against the alternative of being imported L&amp;G and in the other case you're competing into the L&amp;G global market through supply to these idle L&amp;G plants in the region.
And so as you look at that market that's I'll call more connected to regional pipeline export then what you see there is a market that's very well represented by the existing contracts that we have in place and certainly in some cases some premiums to those contracts.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> I think when you look at it on the scope of different things current contracts in place in Israel I probably wouldn't expect a whole lot of price swing on those.
I'd say on the future contracts as Keith talked about having this known high quality of gas in the quantities that we have it right adjacent to huge regional demand and growing in-country needs is going to keep us very highly competitive on a global market basis here as we go forward.
Got it.
Okay.
And then not to go back to the CapEx-cash flow point but I will again.
You've mentioned a few times that in this environment you want to keep CapEx and cash flow aligned.
Is there an oil price or what oil price would this  no longer represent this environment? Or what oil price would you be more willing to spend above cash flow? If any? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> I don't know.
I mean that's hard to speculate on at this point.
I think you just have to see how it plays out and where your confidence is on where price is going to.
I think no matter what it makes good business sense to watch your cash and make sure you're directing and allocating your capital to not only the highest return projects but the projects that create the greatest value per dollar invested and that's just the way we'll continue to look at it.
Great.
Thank you.
We'll go next to Michael Rowe with TPH.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</span></strong> Hi good morning.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Hi Mike.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</span></strong> I see that in the Marcellus you all expect that gas volumes will be up marginally on a year-over-year basis but I was wondering if you could give some context around how you see that trajectory throughout the year given that you had a very strong exit rate in 2015? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> I think given the capital profile and how we're managing that within cash I think you would expect the second half of the year to be lower than the first just given the activity level.
Michael this is Gary.
I think we mentioned in the prepared comments that those completions that we are doing this year are heavily weighted towards the first part of the year.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</span></strong> Okay makes sense.
And I guess last I think this was touched on a little bit earlier but wanted to go back to your thoughts around target credit metrics and sort of how you see those oscillating throughout the year given this 2016 outlook and is there a certain type of threshold that you're looking to protect utilizing non-core asset sales and spending within cash flow? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Okay let me let Ken touch on that.
He's been  him and his team have been in constant communication with the agencies.
Yeah Mike I think we look at all the metrics and we also stress test at very lower decks than the agencies use.
So I think we're comfortable that we can continue to maintain strong liquidity and as we are not outspending cash flow maintain our debt position in such a way that we're not going to create any issues for ourselves.
So I think that's the prudent thing to do now.
Spend within cash flow manage the business that way and then if we have some portfolio proceeds we'll certainly have to take a look at that in the context of de-levering as Dave mentioned.
The term loan that we did was very advantageous in that it's another synergy from Rose (53:41) and saving about $50 million of annual interest costs.
But the other thing that was most attractive was it gave us the ability to potentially pay down some debt as we move forward.
All of our debt to date had been bond debt which had some friction involved in any prepayment.
This gives us full flexibility.
So that's how we'll manage going forward.
And as Dave mentioned we'll continue to stay closely engaged with the agencies; the recent S&amp;P announcement reaffirming our investment-grade rating was welcome.
And we'll just have to continue to work through that with other agencies.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> I think the key  just to add a little bit to that.
I think the key has been to getting in action early.
If you go back to  we started to get into action late 2014 very quickly not knowing how long we'd be lower for longer.
It's turned into longer for lower I guess.
The other piece of that is I think we are doing the right things in the decisions we are making and getting out in front of this and I think we have seen that somewhat reaffirmed in just what S&amp;P came out with a couple of weeks ago.
Yeah I mean we've had some conversations with the oil and gas heads and rating committees and when they lay out what actions people should be taking to Dave's point we can check the box that we've done all those things.
So  and we were there early to Dave's point.
So I think we're in good shape on that.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</span></strong> Great.
Appreciate the commentary.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thanks Mike.
We'll go next to John Herrlin with Socit Gnrale.
Yeah thank you.
Just another one on Leviathan.
If you went to the fixed platform decision what kind of lead time would you need? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> I think actually that's where we'd some advantage.
I think that would be part of what would help with the acceleration overall given that you're moving to something that is more tried-and-true and off the shelf if you will.
I don't know Keith any other thoughts? Yeah.
I think really we would expect the project if you go down that pathway to be something that we could deliver on an accelerated timeline versus what we could do with an FPSO.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> I think either way John your higher capital levels will start to kick in in 2018 and 2019.
Okay.
Next one for me you're focusing on a lot of your core areas.
Clearly you have enough midstream capacity now.
What about down the line? How far out are you looking? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well I'll let Gary comment because he is in discussion on these.
But you were looking at least a couple years out.
Yeah I mean John when we look at our plans in each of the core areas and how that matches to our firm transport capacity firm processing capacity in each area we feel very comfortable with what we've got.
Great.
Thank you.
We'll go next to Irene Haas with Wunderlich.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Irene? Irene your line is open.
Check your mute button on your side please.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Go ahead.
We'll move on to our next caller.
We'll go to Paul Sankey with Wolfe Research.
Hi.
Good morning everyone.
You're in good shape and in that context a lot of other companies are selling assets.
Could you just comment on any interest you might have in what's out there? Thanks.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> I'll go back to my earlier comment that  and you hit it at the beginning.
I mean we're focused on continuing this execution and operating momentum on our asset base because the last thing we want to do is dilute our quality of asset with something else.
Like I mentioned we're not interested in bringing in anybody else's problems or something to deal with and take away from our focus on executing the portfolio that we have.
So we'll continue to keep our eyes open on what would be attractive to us.
And continue to keep a priority list of things like we had when we did Rosetta.
But I just don't see anything like that in the near-term.
Sure understood.
These are kind of follow-up questions really.
But could you go back to Israel and at a high-level talk about what the outlook is there for pricing and the extent to which there is a threat from low oil prices? You've mentioned that demand is very good.
Again could  I know you've somewhat been over this but could you just talk about what the structure is there for the market that causes the outlook for demand to be so good and for prices to be so unique relative to almost anywhere else in the world? Thanks.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well I think we've touched on the on the pricing.
I don't know if I have a whole lot more to add on that on the demand.
You're seeing the regional demand in Egypt you're seeing the need in Jordan you're seeing the increase demand potential in Israel Turkey has reached out they're interested in more gas over there.
You have the potential with tying in with Cyprus at some port to get more into the EU piece.
So you've got a lot of regional pieces moving around and that are interested in things.
We just need to focus on bringing things to the table.
And what we've talked about here today is as we bring things to the table we can make decisions to move forward.
Yeah when you look at the competitive threat from cheap oil why is that not a bigger deal? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> I think  go ahead Keith.
Paul I guess if you look at the core structure of our Israel business I think just like we have a diverse portfolio across the company we have a diverse location within our existing gas sales contract.
So some of our customers in the past have chosen to take on gas contracts that are more inflation indexed.
Others have chosen to take on gas contracts that are more oil indexed.
But those contracts typically have floors in them.
And so I think that's why you see some of the confidence that we can...
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well and you've got not to forget these are long term contracts.
I mean in most cases you're talking about 15-year contracts that start up say 2019 2020.
So what you're looking at is pricing from 2020 through 2035 when you're looking at these initial contracts.
Yeah and I guess a general observation would be that the economies and population pressure there is kind of stronger than you agreed in the press? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well I think the best indication we have is that customers that are at the table and the discussions about how much gas they would like to talk about.
Hey Debbie this is Brad Whitmarsh.
I have us a couple of minutes past our hour time limit.
I don't show we have any other questions.
So with that I think Noble's call we'd would like to thank you for joining us today.
I know there is a competitor call here joining right after us.
We'll be around all day to answer questions so look forward to talking to many of you and thank you again for joining us.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for your participation.
This does conclude today's conference.