Good day everyone and welcome to Newfield Exploration's First Quarter 2011 Conference Call [Operator Instructions] And before we get started one housekeeping matter.
Our discussion with you today will contain forward-looking statements such as estimated production and timing drilling and development plans expected cost reductions and planned capital expenditures.
Although we believe that the expectations reflected in these statements are reasonable they are based upon assumptions and anticipated results that are subject to numerous uncertainties and risks.
Please see Newfield's annual report on Form 10-K and quarterly reports on Form 10-Q for a discussion of factors that may cause actual results to vary.
In addition reconciliations of non-GAAP financial measures to GAAP financial measures together with Newfield's earnings release and any other applicable disclosures are available on the Investor Relations page of Newfield's website at www.newfield.com.
At this time for opening remarks and introductions I would like to turn the call over to the Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer Mr.
Lee Boothby.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Carla.
Good morning and thanks for joining us for our first quarter conference call.
Due to some internal meetings we're having today most of our management team is here in Houston today.
Seated with me are Gary Packer our Chief Operating Officer; Terry Rathert our CFO; John Jasek Vice President of Gulf Coast; George Dunn Vice President Mid-Continent; Bill Schneider Vice President Gulf of Mexico and International; Daryll Howard Vice President at Rockies; Brian Rickmers our Controller; and of course Steve Campbell VP of Investor Relations.
As always we appreciate you dialing in for our call and we'll have plenty of time at the end to take your questions.
Remarks today will be brief and I will address three main points.
First a quick summary of our first quarter financial performance as well as our capital investment plans and production outlook for the remainder of 2011.
Second I'll outline our primary objectives for 2011.
It's important that you understand where we are allocating both our people and capital.
And finally I'll update you on the progress in our largest development projects.
These are the programs that are driving our expected 50% increase in domestic oil volumes in 2011.
So let's start with the first quarter financial results.
We reported the results last night and if you had time to review the numbers you will agree it was a pretty simple quarter.
Our results were in line with expectations in both production and costs.
Our earnings before FAS 133 charges were $133 million or $0.98 per share slightly above First Call estimates.
Our production in the first quarter likely differed from your expectations with slightly lower natural gas volumes offset by higher oil volumes.
Like others we experienced some weather-related issues during the first quarter.
As a result our natural gas production came in at the lower end of our guidance range at about 45 Bcf or about 500 million cubic feet per day.
We made up for the shortfall in natural gas with higher-than-expected oil volumes 4.4 million barrels or 49 000 barrels per day.
Replacing gas volumes with oil also helped improved our profitability.
Revenues in the first quarter were $545 million.
Net cash provided by operating activities before changes in operating assets and liabilities was $361 million or $2.67 per share also best in First Call consensus for the quarter.
Our production for 2011 is expected to be up 8% to 12% over 2010.
Late last week we learned that a mechanical failure associated with our FPSO operations at our PM 318 Abu Field in Malaysia which forced us to shut in the field for approximately 60-90 days.
We estimate that the net impact for our second quarter volumes will be about 200 000 barrels.
Although we expect repairs will be completed timely the field is non-operated and we do not fully control the timing of activities.
We will keep you updated on the repair progress.
We've accounted for the loss production impact in our guidance for the second quarter as well as full year.
Despite the deferral of this Malaysian production our expectations in 2011 production today continue to roll up to the midpoint of our range of 312 to 323 Bcf equivalent.
In our release last night we updated our 2011 capital investment program to an estimated $1.9 billion.
This is $200 million higher than our beginning-of-year estimates and the primary drivers behind the increase are as follows: first a large portion of the increase relates to new and ongoing leasing of acreage in an undisclosed resource play.
Our expansion into this area actually began in 2010.
Although we felt it was prudent to include in our planned expenditures we are not yet ready to disclose our position in this area.
We will provide additional details to you later this year.
Second like others in the industry we're seeing 5% to 10% increases in service and labor costs throughout our onshore U.S.
operations.
These increased costs relate to pressure pumping steel price inflation water handling trucking costs mostly diesel-related as well as overall increases in labor expenses.
Although some of our service costs are fixed through contractual arrangements we made the appropriate adjustments to full-year expectations on costs and our guidance ranges today.
The third driver relates to efficiency gains being seen in a few of our drilling areas.
In today's report you can see that we are drilling wells in record time in the Eagle Ford the Uinta Basin and the Granite Wash.
The resulting impact is more wells and more completions in a given calendar year.
And lastly we're including some planned capital investments in the Uinta Basin associated with our recently-announced acquisition of assets from Harvest Natural Resources.
This deal is expected to close in the second quarter and we intend to promptly go to work on the assets.
Our increasing Capital Investments will be significantly offset by the benefit of higher oil price realizations and resulting cash flow from operations.
In addition we have an ongoing program to divest nonstrategic domestic assets.
These sales will allow us to direct proceeds to our core development projects as well as refocus human capital to other programs.
To date we reached agreements to sell assets that comprise about ½ of our planned $200 million or more in divestitures.
We will provide complete details on our asset sales once completed later this year.
Let's move now to a review of our major objectives for 2011.
When we built our plan for 2011 it was a conscious combination of profitable growth and returns and therefore we picked the drilling programs with the highest margins.
Due to continued disconnect between oil and natural gas prices substantially all of the year's budget is ear-marked for oil or liquids-rich plays.
Our 2011 plan was designed to grow oil volumes and we certainly intend to accomplish that objective.
I'll update you on our largest oil developments in a moment.
Objective 1 accelerating all investments to create the best returns has followed our continued emphasis on the future.
When you analyze the data in our recent 10-K you should see that our forward plan assumes about 2/3 of our cash flow will be invested to develop our proved reserves the remaining 1/3 is planned for allocation to our future.
By this I mean new opportunities most likely in areas where we are already active but will benefit our future growth.
Most recently we announced the addition of more than 80 000 net acres in the Uinta Basin just north of our Monument Butte field.
The expansions comes from 2 transactions.
The first our previously announced acquisition from Harvest Natural Resources expected to close next month.
These assets lie immediately north and adjacent to the Monument Butte field.
The second adds 11 000 net acres through a third exploration agreement on Ute Tribal lands.
Once we close our Harvest transaction we began -- we plan to provide an update on our plans in the region.
These are great transactions for us and add acreage in our own backyard that we know and understand.
And where we have demonstrated cost advantages.
We will soon have about 250 000 net acres in the Uinta Basin.
To recap we've captured nearly 800 000 net acres in resource plays since late 2009 and gained entry into perspective areas like the Eagle Ford Pearsall Shales Southern Alberta basin and all are done at very attractive costs.
We're actively assessing all of these plays today.
We certainly understand the importance of meeting short-term expectations but rest assured we are also focused on our long-term inventory of drilling ideas and our ability to grow in profit in the future.
Our third major objective revolves around people; ensuring that we have enough of the right people to execute our future growth plans and that they are focused on the right plays.
I've given several industry speeches recently and some of you may have heard them.
In these I mentioned that our greatest future challenges in this business may be above ground.
I categorized government regulations taxation or loss of incentives; access to new domestic opportunities and the ability to attract expand and train our workforce as tomorrow's key challenges facing industry today.
Newfield is aggressively hiring today and I'm confident that we will have the workforce required to meet our future challenges.
Let's move now to updates on our oil projects.
In the Gulf of Mexico our Gladden field commenced production in mid-February.
Although production was late due to the delayed issuance of a required federal permit the field is now above the original plan at about 6 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day and we have a 57.5% working interest in that field.
Our Pyrenees development is expected to commence production in the fourth quarter of 2011 at about 50 million cubic feet per day and 2 400 barrels of condensate per day.
We operate Pyrenees with a 40% working interest.
The development is progressing well and is on schedule.
Our Rocky Mountain production is the largest contributor to our oil growth story and is expected to grow about 25% in 2011.
We're focused on growing our oil volumes in the Uinta and Williston Basins.
During the first quarter we reduced Monument Butte inventories to normal levels.
You'll recall that inventories at year end were pushed higher due to upsets in the Salt Lake City refineries and interrupted service on the major supply pipeline.
We continue to see great execution in our drilling operations at Monument Butte.
Our program this year calls for 5 operated rigs drilling a mix of 40-acre development wells and 20-acre infill wells and continued development and assessment on our Tribal acreage in the northern areas of the field.
We are drilling and casing wells in about 4 days today.
Our net sales in the first quarter averaged about 18 200 barrels of oil equivalent per day and we expect that annual volumes in this field will grow about 15% in 2011.
We'll optimize our drilling programs in the Uinta Basin this summer and integrate our growth plans on the new acreage we are acquiring to the north.
As I said earlier we'll have a detailed update for you later this summer once the transaction closes.
In the Williston Basin we're running a 5-rig program.
And as you're all aware pressure pumping services in the Williston are extremely tight.
We now have our dedicated services working to complete our wells.
We also have a 10-well inventory awaiting completion.
Nearly all of these wells are Super Extended Laterals or wells with average lateral length of about 8 600 feet.
We expect to complete more than 15 wells in the second quarter of 2011 which will lead to a significant boost in our oil volumes later this year.
Our three most recent completions clearly show the benefit of the longer laterals.
The wells had an average initial production rate of 3 900 barrels of oil equivalent per day which includes a recent best-in-class gross IP of 4 468 barrels of oil equivalent per day.
Super Extended Laterals will be our preferred development plan going forward.
In the Mid-Continent our efforts are focused on drilling in the liquids-rich Granite Wash and the oily portion of the Woodford.
We're running 4 operated rigs in the Granite Wash and our current net productions in the area is 110 million cubic feet per day.
To date we have drilled 39 horizontal wells in the play and we continue to make efficiency gains.
In last night's release we highlighted a recent best-in-class drilling performance of 25 days for a 4 700-foot lateral.
We expect to drill about 30 wells in this play in 2011 and should grow production at about 20% over 2010.
Our efforts today are confined to the liquids-rich Marmaton formation.
We understand this integral very well and have drilled 21 of our wells in this target horizon.
The average gross initial production from this zone about 17 million cubic feet equivalent per day and our recent completions have all IP-ed over 20 million cubic feet per day.
We have about 50 000 net acres in the Granite Wash play including about 10 000 net acres in new perspective areas we plan to test later this year.
In the oily Woodford we are running 3 operated rigs.
We have several wells today that are in various stages of completion and expect that we will drill 15-18 wells in the Arkoma in 2011.
To date we have 5 wells with more than 30 days of production.
These wells have averaged just under 1 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day over this period and we are encouraged with the results.
We see the potential to drill about 100 wells in the play and intend to focus our Arkoma basin efforts here during periods of low gas prices.
We continue to drill assessment wells on our 335 000 net acre position in the Maverick Basin targeting the Eagle Ford Shale as acreage block is located principally in the Maverick and Belumut Counties in South Texas.
Due to hunting season restrictions in the South Texas region our drilling and completion operations were suspended last October due to hunting lease stipulations.
Operations recommenced in February and we have dedicated fracture stimulation services working today to complete an inventory of some 11 recently drilled wells.
We expect production for most of these wells will commence in the second quarter.
Performance in our drilling program has been stellar.
During the first quarter our Eagle Ford Shale wells we're drilled and cased at an average of less than 10 days.
This illustrates that our experience from other resource plays is transportable.
Our initial drilling results in the Eagle Ford were encouraging and our efforts today are focused on optimizing our completions to increase both oil production rates and EURs.
Our primary goal is to move this play quickly toward development.
In the Southern Alberta Basin we have about 280 000 net acres and we continue with our assessment program.
We recently completed our second horizontal well and are preparing to drill our eighth vertical well.
We continue to test multiple perspective horizons across our acreage.
As we have said time and again we're executing on our assessment plans testing multiple formations and do not plan to discuss results until we have a better understanding of our acreage and its potential.
In Malaysia we have a large oil development underway at East Piatu.
The development is on schedule and we expect first production in the fourth quarter of 2011.
The East Piatu development is expected to produce about 10 000 barrels of oil per day gross and will lead to international oil growth for us in 2012.
So in closing I've given you a brief overview of our largest current programs Newfield is uniquely positioned today with a deep inventory of projects to select from and we are confident that this optionality will continue to allow for improved returns.
Our people understand our key objectives today and they are focused on doing the right things right.
#1 growing production; #2 adding proved and probable reserves at attractive costs; #3 selecting the best projects and matching our investment timings to the most effectively navigate the inevitable cycles in our business; and 4 building for our future through the assessment of current plays identification of future trends and hiring and retaining the best technical workforce in the business.
That wraps up my prepared remarks this morning and we're happy to take your questions.
Operator? [Operator Instructions] And our first question comes from Gil Yang with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Lee could you comment -- I'm a little unclear about your guidance given the shortfall in the second quarter the full year being unchanged.
Is that -- you're anticipating that you can make up for the lost time over the rest of the year? Or is it because of the acceleration in other parts of the business that is above budget? I'm not sure I understand all of your questions Gil so I'll take a shot at what I think you asked and you can fire back if I missed the mark.
The discussion relative to production in the second quarter is specifically related to a current infrastructure issue in our Abu Field in Malaysia.
That's a minus 200 000 barrels net or about 1.2 Bcf equivalent.
Now we fully expect that the repairs will be completed in the 60-90 timeframe which means it'll be a second quarter event.
We expect to have the field back online.
I would say that if in some unforeseen or unfortunate circumstances that that doesn't occur then we'll let you know at that point in time and we would revise the production impacts.
But right now we've assumed that's a second quarter event and the field's back online in the third quarter.
Right okay.
But you can't make up for those lost volumes.
If they get tacked on the end of the project you can't accelerate the next couple of quarters to make up for that right? We're not -- the field shut-in is unavoidable Gil.
We can discuss whether it's end of the life or distributed over the life.
As far as the volume is in the calendar year we're making up for the volumes that were associated with that field through performance in other areas of the portfolio.
And I think the fact that we've reiterated our guidance and held firm on our guidance range hopefully it gives you some level of comfort given the fact that we also navigated some weather issues in the first quarter and a number of other items.
I feel real confident where we're at with our production forecast and we plan to deliver in 2011.
Okay got you.
That was really my question.
The second 1 is given the higher spending levels and the efficiency gains you're having at Granite Wash Eagle Ford and Uinta you'll need to complete more wells and so that'll cost you some extra capital but do you expect your backlog to change or do you expect to be building up a backlog of uncompleted wells going forward? Well we actually expect the backlog of uncompleted wells to work down.
We're working through that inventory at this point.
We've got  frac crews running in the Eagle Ford Shale.
Post hunting season John Jasek and his team are working hard to reduce that inventory.
And Daryll Howard's team up in the Williston Basin likewise has frac crews running to work down the inventory that we built up there.
Beyond that we would expect the normal inventory that occurs just in the normal drilling complete cycle.
Williston Basin we've got 5 rigs running and John Jasek's team will likely have 2 to 3 rigs running during various parts of the year down in the Eagle Ford.
Those are the 2 areas where we're carrying the inventory in that's going to be completed in the second quarter.
Alright and then just last question regarding the hunting that you mentioned hunting stipulation.
Is that -- that's going to be an ongoing issue and you just [indiscernible] the plan around it as you develop that field up going forward? Well I think that there will be some areas where it's more impactful than others.
I guess I continue to maintain the hope that as oil and gas revenues increase down in that area that Oil and Gas business will become a little bit more important than hunting season.
But hunting season in South Texas is a cultural thing and it's not going away anytime soon.
Got you.
Okay thanks.
Thank you Gil.
Moving on we'll now hear from Pearce Hammond with Simmons.
At Monument Butte I'm thinking about the recent acquisitions being in state lands rather than federal lands can you comment on the permitting difference between the 2 and the relationship the industry has with the state? Sure I'll let Gary Packer take that question.
Yes.
Typically Pearce permitting on state lands is normally about a 60-day process.
Historically on federal lands that could be anywhere between 6 months and 1 year and 6 months.
So it just gives us just a little bit more flexibility to navigate changes in our inventory.
Great.
And do you expect some acceleration on drilling because of being on state lands? Well that's certainly an opportunity that's available to us and we look to in the future.
I think first and foremost the teams are working hard right now to optimize the allocation of capital that we've already put into the business in 2011.
And as communicated in Lee's call that we are looking for some acceleration options this year and we have notionally allocated some incremental monies there.
But that remains to be seen once we get the deal closed.
Look for us to be more transparent with the plans for the remainder of 2011 and into 2012.
Great.
And then switching gears to the Marcellus Lee how is your joint exploration agreement with Hess progressing? Since Gary did such a good job in the other question I'll let him update you on that as well.
It's really not advancing right now.
As you're probably familiar with some of the regulatory situations up there are still in a bit of state of flux and we filed some permits but they're essentially in suspended animation right now as well as the leases.
And we need to see some of those the rule-making both from the PA DEP and the local water boards get resolved before we can move that forward.
Great.
And then final question is we've heard a lot about additional service capacity come into market in tight areas like the Bakken and the Eagle Ford what remains the tightest area of completion? Is it equipment profit labor? It's hard to break out any one of those things.
We haven't necessarily seen the horsepower arrive yet.
It's something that's been a bit elusive and keeps getting deferred a little bit.
If you look beyond that I'd say it's probably people and profit.
Thank you very much.
Thanks Pearce.
Moving on we'll go to Wells Fargo's David Tameron.
LLC</strong> Good morning.
LOE can you talk about -- you ramped it in the second quarter? I know it's a lot of workover stuff but it looks like you maintained 4 [ph] of your guidance can you just talk about how that works? Yes you bet.
The increase that we had in the first quarter was primarily related to weather and most of it was in the Rocky Mountains.
Both -- typically when the weather is bad out there we have increased chemical costs.
And then as we come out of the winter into spring we have seen increased workovers.
As a result of that we think we can get ahead of that though for the rest of the year.
LLC</strong> Okay.
I mean so simple math tells us you've got to be down in the third and fourth quarter in order to get the full-year average? Yes that's right.
LLC</strong> Okay.
All right.
And then going back -- let me go back to the Harvest acquisition.
But just standing back and thinking about the issue with the Uintas has always been you can't ramp fast enough can't get permits fast enough et cetera.
That's obviously in the permitting front improves it but is this acreage going to take place of other acreage that you would have drilled? Is it an upgraded of acreage or should we think about it more like you finally get -- not finally but you've talked about getting a refinery another agreement out there and maybe that what's you were talking about as far as solutions to accelerate.
How do you get value out of Harvest I guess is the question? Well first and foremost Dave and you're spot on.
Our intention in this transaction was never to accumulate acreage and inventory of wells and put it at the end of the line.
Our valuation clearly is from the beginning is that we can put incremental dollars to work out here and drive production north of what it would've been otherwise.
And don't think of it any different than that.
But it does give us a tremendous amount of flexibility in the near term and how we allocate capital.
But the way we're going to create value out here is to continue to build with the business partners we have in the refining community in the Salt Lake City basin and others in order to expand capacity put more dollars and more rigs to work on an ever-increasing footprint that we have in this resource.
And now it's going to be about 0.25 million acres.
And David internally we've been clear and I think I haven't had the chance to visit with you since we announced the transaction but -- and Gary mentioned it earlier our first step is to optimize.
That's optimizing within the context of the new portfolio so that the things that this acquisition will add incrementally I think that's a prudent first step.
And the second step will be acceleration.
So look first to first optimize and second accelerate.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And then one more question in the Uinta.
The Mancos Shale I know and Kenny yesterday was making noise about the liquids component in the [indiscernible].
Can you remind me when you guys did go up to the Mancos a few years ago was there any liquids component in there? I thought it was predominantly dry gas but...
Yes David.
As I recall that was pretty dry.
I have heard the same rumblings you have of some liquids in the Mancos but the test that we had of it I think was pretty definitive and it was dry.
LLC</strong> Okay.
Very good.
Thanks.
But we have a lot of it David.
LLC</strong> Yes you do.
Thank you.
Alright thank you.
Moving on we'll now go to Brian Lively with Tudor Pickering Holt.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</strong> As costs continue to creep up on you guys what level of cost increase would you need to see before you actually cut rig in some of the oily plays? Well I would say that that's a fine line.
I think there are a number of things that happened to you and I'll let Gary provide some color here when I finish talking as well.
Obviously in the overheated areas you've got the incessant fight for services and equipment and timing issues.
And the first casualty is usually efficiency.
The service costs are bid up you certainly see margin erosion.
I would tell you that what we do realtime is monitor basin-by-basin project-by-project what's going on if we need to reset the deck within our portfolio and transfer activity out of an overheated area into an area where were more competitive.
Certainly we have that option and it's something that we consider each and everyday.
So it's a balancing act and I guess our view is our focus diversity as we like to call it provides options.
And we'll exercise those options going forward just as we have during the course of the last couple of years.
Gary you got any color you want to add? Yes I think you used the right word Lee.
The discretionary aspects of the investments that we're making and that we have within the portfolio give us a lot of options.
Certainly the overheating of the market as you suggest is regional oftentimes and we've been able to push back with efficiency gains and others.
So the first thought is that there's sufficient margin for us to continue from an economic standpoint.
We'd look to optimize that by moving capital out of the overheated markets into the areas that we've had the best efficiency gains.
And if that wasn't sufficient we also have discretionary investments that were alluded to in our release as well that you could look at in order to make sure that we balance the budget.
But in no case are we looking to withdraw money that's going to affect the production growth that we've got baked into our forecast.
And Brian I'd also want to make a point for all of you guys to consider.
Adding activity into an overheated area just to prove that you can run more rigs is not always a smart decision.
In fact I'd say most days of the week it's a dumb decision.
So we're going to be very very prudent and careful with regard to when and where we ramp and we're going to make sure that we work hard to preserve our margins.
That's our game plan and that's what you should expect to see out of us.
I'd add one other thing Brian.
That is the levels of some of the costs increases we've observed today I would've predicted that we might have been thinking about doing just what you suggested maybe we move some capital in different areas.
But I'll throw some kudos away to our technical folks.
They continue to deliver phenomenal performance in terms of understanding bit runs and changing the bit designs.
I mean the list goes on and on and on to significantly offset those cost increases and continue to prop up the return.
So to answer the question in the vacuum in terms of cost increase without having appreciation for what the people can do that's really a tough call.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</strong> Thanks.
And I understand it's not an excel exercise.
But if you were to just compare today the returns between the Bakken where you have a lot of cost inflation with Monument Butte where it's a little bit lower just can you give us an idea of what the relative returns are between those 2 plays current cost? Yes sure Brian.
I hate to capture anything at current cost but we're typically looking and look at sensitivities between anywhere between $75 and $100.
As far as the returns we continue to preserve anywhere between 60% and the north of 100% returns on our Monument Butte investments and that hasn't changed.
We continue to see the margin contraction in the Williston Basin and the Bakken as you suggest.
It's the area that's probably the most overheated.
And we've probably seen about a ¼ of our margin or road there here over the last six months or so.
Still profitable.
But I will tell you that the Bakken now is probably at a return equivalent to maybe what we're seeing in the Granite Wash and the oily Woodford.
So we probably have after you step out of Monument Butte you have some very comparable investments.
Even at low gas prices the liquids and the efficiency and the margin expansion we've seen in the oily Woodford and the Granite Wash have kind of allowed them to more effectively compete with the Bakken.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</strong> Okay.
Last question for me is if you think about the kind of 2 areas you're testing big right now in Big Valley in the Williston and also in Northern Maverick County and Eagle Ford what science -- what are you guys looking for in terms of taking those projects into more of a full development full commitment phase? First of all I guess I'd correct you.
In Big Valley we've just drilled our second well there.
The first 1 was a 3 forks well.
We've just drilled a Bakken well and it's currently unloading as we speak.
So we're not in the position to speak to that right now.
So once we see the results of that well we have some other wells permitted and we would follow that accordingly.
We have a lot of options with our rigs there with the diverse position that we have in the Williston Basin that we could move considerable activity in that direction so if we could get that indication.
Northern Maverick County is an area that we really have not spent much time or effort focusing on in the Lower Eagle Ford.
We have been spending much of our time up there being able to maintain our leases in the drilling in the Georgetown.
Now as far as what are the things that we're doing to continue to understand that play as well as the Big Valley and the Bakken.
We're looking at this year.
We're examining the impacts of PAD locations and various spacing that we would have in the Lower Eagle Ford.
We have spent considerable time looking at the completion designs in Eagle Ford.
As you recall last year we went out and we pumped basically 5 fracs that were identical to 1 another.
This year we're looking at hybrid fracs versus just strict slick water.
Were looking at the different concentrations of propane and engaging in the debate that goes on so often whether you drill these things toe up toe down and others.
So we've got a lot of learning to do and a lot of knobs that we can turn as we look to optimize those developments.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</strong> Okay still early but I appreciate the color again guys.
Thanks Brian.
And now we'll open the floor up to Subash Chandra with Jefferies.
Inc.</strong> Following up on the Northern Maverick.
So the Georgetown can you just talk about sort of the repeatability of it? Sounds like it's just mundane work to hold the leases or is there something reserve-accretive that can occur there that could move the needle? These are -- the Georgetown as much as we've got an inventory there in excess of 75 wells they're amplitude driven oil plays.
They're mundane in the fact that they are extremely profitable high rate of return wells.
They just don't have the depth and breadth that the Eagle Ford and the Pearsall do.
These wells cost less than $1.5 million probably about $1.2 million.
They produce about 50 000 barrels come on at about 400 barrels a day.
As far as mundane they keep the lights on and they maintain our leases and they allow us to really focus our efforts in other areas while we look to understand the play and kind of build that learning curve out there.
And Subash I'll remind you that's 1 of the real attributes of the Maverick Basin acreage position that we have.
Its multiple objective horizons.
And that was part of the optionality that we really liked about that position before we acquired it and we come to appreciate it more and more everyday.
Inc.</strong> Okay got it.
And so in the Eagle Ford Northern Maverick Eagle Ford is it just too shallow to pursue there? It's not that it's too shallow.
Again we're focusing our efforts in some of the other areas because we have the optionality that the Georgetown provides us to maintain those leases.
As you take the Georgetown horizon which is in the north part and you slide it down into the south it becomes a gas play.
So it doesn't provide the optionality that the Georgetown provides to the north.
And I guess the other point is is that we have a more expanded infrastructure to the south because in many of these new plays we don't have pipelines laid everywhere.
And we elected to focus our drilling activity where we can drive the learning curve drilling similar wells near infrastructure at this point in 2011.
Inc.</strong> And just from a perspective looking at whether it's Northern Maverick or Eagle Ford in general or Alberta Basin Bakken.
I think we've sort of our first glance is we want to make it all look like the Williston Basin.
But do you think the perspective might be closer to Monument Butte? If you went into horizontal development in Monument Butte that those might be more of the metrics we should be looking at for these developing plays? I just think it's too early and I just would hate to speculate on such a thing at this point.
All these plays are different you see variability within the Williston Basin itself play-to-play.
So it's very difficult to start to compare basins that far apart and think that they'll perform similarly or not after just drilling a few wells.
Inc.</strong> Okay and just finishing up here.
The oil wells Granite Wash Monument Butte and wet Woodford in Q1 were these PUD locations or were there some on booked locations? And how do you see that progressing through the course of the year? So what were the plays? The Granite Wash where else? Inc.</strong> The Monument Butte and the wet Woodford.
I suspect you probably have a decent mix of PUDs and probables or otherwise in the Granite Wash.
Monument Butte is probably about 3/4 of those wells are PUDs.
And you probably on the wet Woodford you probably have a more heavier weighting to the unbooked probables there just because we're in its infancy of the development that's going on there.
Inc.</strong> Perfect.
Thank you.
And one final one if I could.
Could you provide a breakdown between Georgetown wells this year and Eagle Ford wells this year? We probably will drill 30-some wells to the south in the net central area where we have about a 200 000 acre position in the Eagle Ford and we'll drill 4 to 5 wells in the north primarily in the Georgetown.
Inc.</strong> Perfect.
Thanks a lot everyone.
Thanks Subash.
And now we'll move to Bob Morris with Citi.
Thank you.
On the $200 million increase in the budget would you say about 3/4 of that is just the increase in service costs and labor costs? Well we haven't split the numbers out Bob.
I mean for a reason -- I mean clearly the biggest reason for that is we want to keep our stealth play stealth until we're ready to talk about it.
But clearly a significant portion of that total is related to the observed increases and we advised that we had made the adjustments to our guidance.
So it's not an insignificant portion of it but each of those elements is -- that was articulated as an important element in that $200 million increase.
Okay.
On the portion of that that you said it was the efficiency gains in drilling versus what you planned before how many more wells will you now drill as a result of that? Well I would say if you look at the Granite Wash as an example we've got the potential of picking up about 5 incremental wells during the course of the year assuming that the first 3 wells that George and his team had delivered here early in the year we're able to replicate that performance now through year-end which we expect.
So we'll probably pick up 5 wells there.
And at Monument Butte I would say the 4-day time horizon is in line with our expectations so I wouldn't expect to see anything incremental there in our normal Green River program.
Probably the thing to look for there is when we come out mid-summer with the plans relative to our Harvest acquisition.
You'll be hearing about what we've done and what the program is going to look like in terms of optimizing the investment program.
So we'll have more than just Green River wells to consider drilling out there so the investment mix and well count may change.
I'd say near term that you should probably expect those to change in the second half of the year.
Okay.
So really the Granite Wash is the only play that that efficiency gains will result in more wells being drilled I guess? Gary's got a comment there.
Well you probably have just a handful of wells in the Eagle Ford that we'll manage with how we deploy our rig fleet down there.
We've got a couple of rigs under contract.
But we could also -- we'll just manage through that.
As Lee suggested we'll have a few more wells at Monument Butte but that's really going to get caught up in the optimization.
Bob I would say that about 1 on the Eagle Ford commentary I let that out because we're monitoring the investment environment down there the pressure pumping services cost aside are overheated in our judgment and we're working through all the aspects of getting our mind around that plan and what the right development plans are.
But we made a point in the call to reference the performance of our team.
Terry jumped in and stated that they continue to impress.
And I'll just say that drilling and casing Eagle Ford wells 5 000 foot laterals down there in less than 10 days is not something we were planning for just 6 months ago.
So they're well ahead of where we expected to be in that regard and I think that bodes very very well as we move towards development in that Eagle Ford shale play which is a hint to everybody.
You need to look at more than just rig count.
Because we can certainly deliver a lot more wells per rig year in the Eagle Ford sitting here today than we were expecting 6 months ago.
You mentioned you continue to hire people but overhead came in below your guidance range again in Q1.
Is that reflective of not being able to hire people as quickly as you anticipated or is that slowing you down at all? No I think that hiring talent is an ongoing process.
I think that the statement of saying that we're hiring aggressively is just a statement that we're investing in our future.
I think it's important.
The crew change that we've all talked about for the last 15 or 20 years is upon us and we've got to get the young people into the business and trained and developed.
They've got to get a chance to learn from all the experienced folks before they decide to ride off into the sunset and enjoy their retirement years which is just around the corner.
Very...
Those overhead costs in the quarter was below.
Why is overhead two quarters in a row come in a lot lower than your expectations.
I'm sorry I didn't hear.
The rig costs.
I'm sorry I didn't get that.
Bob part of its just timing of some things we had expected to happen in the first quarter that we now think will happen in the second quarter.
So it's not related to our ability to hire people it's related to other leases and things of that nature.
Okay.
I guess last question would be everybody mentioned profit as a bottleneck particularly in the Eagle Ford.
Is that something you're struggling with that could be an issue? Or do you feel comfortable with securing profits for the wells you're drilling? Well I'll give that to John since he's living it realtime.
Well we have had some issues just with the profit.
And like every other E&amp;P company down in that area we've been able to manage through it and have profits available when our frac schedules and our frac dates come up.
All right it's just something we're just having to manage through like all the other E&amp;P companies.
And to-date it hasn't been a limiting factor but it's something we closely monitor everyday as we look at our frac schedules and when they're coming up and the availability to profit.
So it's an issue of concern but we're managing our way through it.
And to-date it hasn't been an issue for us in delaying our jobs or getting our completions on the way.
Okay.
Thank you gentlemen.
Thanks Bob..
And now we'll go to William Butler with Stephens Inc.
I have one question just making sure I saw this number right.
Production in the Bakken was about 7 000 barrels a day net.
Last earnings is in 5 000 now.
Correct.
Okay.
And is that attributable just to -- to what? Well that's attributed to decline.
I mean I think at the end of the day when you aren't able to complete and turn your wells on then the wells that are producing decline.
I've loved them if they -- if they traded sideways but that's just not the way these things work.
And our 10-well inventory that we're working through is going to give you a real good production surge second quarter through the end of the year.
So we built inventory during the course of the quarter and we're working down that inventory now with the new frac services that are in place.
Okay.
And so were the delays in drilling more weather-related since then or availability? No we've continued drilling.
That's how we built the inventory of wells.
The delay was in getting the new pressure-pumping equipment into the basin and working for us.
We signed agreements late last year to acquire those services and they arrived early April.
That was all part of the plan.
Okay.
Thanks.
On this undisclosed resource play any better sense of the -- when you all might disclose that or is that just sort of later in the year and leave it at that? I'd say yes maybe later in the year.
That's the way I would couch it at this point.
Okay.
Okay.
And then on your production guidance does that already reflect any potentially lost production associated with asset sales? Or is there much production associated with those? I'll let Gary Packer update you on that.
Any of the transactions that have been closed have been relatively modest and that has been reflected in the guidance.
Prospectively as we look at the projects that are still sitting out there those haven't been baked into the guidance but we view that to be relatively small at the end of the day.
Okay.
Okay.
And then last thing on the oily Woodford I mean have they been on long enough to where you  all are seeing the gas-oil ratios if they're sustaining or changing? George.
Well yes we have several of them that have been on long enough to see the trends and I guess you'd say that these are really just high-yield -- very high-yield gas wells and so there is a decline in the oil trend that's projected.
You're probably seeing some of the public data but -- so it does decline.
Okay.
And then lastly on the acquisitions in the Uinta that's between the Altamont and the Monument Butte field I mean I know you're all going to comment on it later in the year but how much of what Harvest had booked on the say approve basis would've been related to deeper potential zones such as the Wasatch or even the deeper gas Mesa Verde? I would tell you that I think Harvest put out quite a bit of information on their position some three or four weeks in advance of us announcing the deal.
If you haven't read it I would encourage you to read it and that'll give you a real good view of what Harvest thought about those assets.
I will tell you what we think after the deal is closed and we've got a plan in place that we can communicate.
Okay understood.
All right that's all I had.
Thank you.
All right thank you.
And now we'll hear from Leo Mariani with RBC.
LLC</strong> I wanted to follow-up on the Bakken.
You guys identified that as an area where you saw the most cost inflation.
I was just trying to get a sense of what your current well costs are out there on some of those Super Extended Laterals you're doing.
When we entered the year we had targeted in this as we have this in all of our basins.
We have a targeted well cost that was standards of goal and then we have our base and then we've monitored that throughout the year.
I'll tell you that when we entered the year we were looking at low $8 million wells maybe $8.5 million wells.
We've seen and we've targeted something we believe these wells ought to be drilled for about $1 million less than that.
What we've seen thus far is on occasion those wells can actually start with a $9 million and it's dependent upon areas.
So I would say anywhere between $8.5 million and $9.3 million wells.
I would caution you -- I see well costs printed all the time on Bakken wells and I think it's important to really make sure that you've got -- you're looking at facility costs and everything is baked into those costs because we -- our observations are that we sit right in there with the best of the group as far as costs.
And I think we're all probably experiencing very similar inflation.
LLC</strong> Okay.
You guys talked a little about -- in your prepared comments about weather downtime in the first quarter that caused you primarily to have lower-than-expected gas volumes.
Can you guys kind of quantify how much production you think you lost there in the first quarter? It's probably in the vicinity of a B.
It was in the combination of the Rocky Mountains as well as the Mid-Con.
I think that that accounts for the majority of any differences we had between guidance on our realized volumes in the first quarter.
Got you.
Okay.
And remember as you saw it in Lee's prepared remarks were always looking to direct capital to oil in favor of gas these days.
So there's always a little bit of noise that's created as we incrementally invest in those oil projects and that to some degree you see the results in that as well.
LLC</strong> Okay.
Jumping over to the Eagle Ford can you just give us kind of an update on how things are unfolding from an infrastructure perspective? Are all the wells that you have -- is there any problems with production? Any bottlenecking you're seeing? And you're bringing a big slug of wells on here in the second quarter? Are you able to sort of fully realize all of the sales versus the production there? Is there any issues kind of around infrastructure that you may've been thinking about? Yes this is John Jasek.
We do have -- as you've correctly alluded to there's a ton of slug approaching coming down from the Eagle Ford into South Texas creating some bottlenecks in terms of gas take-away as well as oil take-away from the area.
For us as we talked about earlier in the call we focus on where we have infrastructure and where we can hook our wells up drill them hook them up and sell them pretty much into known outlets.
So it is a concern for us and we monitor it everyday and we manage our business appropriately.
And we're able to navigate through the issues that are currently going on in South Texas in that way.
So marketing that had some issues but we're managing our ways.
And our wells are located where we can have the right takeaway capacity today.
LLC</strong> Last question for you guys.
Just on the Southern Alberta Basin Bakken sounds like you guys have a number of wells on production at this point in time.
It sounds like you're kind of waiting to put out results later this year at some point.
I guess just curious as to how many of those wells are actually flowing.
Are you just sort of in test mode at this time? Are you actually putting oil in tanks? So just give us any kind of update you can there.
I've said this so many times it probably sounds like a broken record to some of you guys.
I'll say it again we've got 2 wells I had mentioned in the call that we've completed.
Only 2.
We have 7 wells down vertically.
We've got 1 additional well planned in the balance of this year for that portion of the program.
We've got core data logged data that we collected being analyzed.
And we've got the plans to complete and tests some additional zones during the balance of the year.
Expectation would be that if all of that comes together on that schedule.
And later this year we'll be in a position to have some information that we can share.
Notionally I'd say third quarter would probably be the time horizon to be thinking about something along those lines.
But we don't have any additional information.
We said that all the wells we drilled have encountered oil.
I wish I could tell you more.
But that's all I know and I guess we see the same rumors and press releases that you guys chase around and I hope half of them are true because if half of them are true that's going to become a pretty important producing basin.
We're a long ways away from certifying that as Newfield.
LLC</strong> Okay.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
And now we'll go to Anuj Sharma with Pritchard Capital.
LLC</strong> My question is on the marketing in Uinta Basin and Bakken.
Looks like domestically during the WTI prices went up by around $9 you guys captured only $2.75 in unhedged realized oil prices.
So it looks like on the upside you guys are capturing that as 1/3 of the price increase and my fear is that some of the transportation deduct [ph] which might have gone up might be -- there might be more secular shifting if the prices come down by $10.
Those costs might not come down in the same fashion they have gone up.
So can you give me a little bit of color on what's going on there? I think there's a lot of moving parts that are very very difficult to make a high-level summary of that nature.
We have -- the underlying change in the mix in terms of what the relative contributions are is probably the bigger factor.
I can tell you that for example in the Uinta oil prices move up $10 a barrel.
In that I'd say $80 to $100 range we're capturing more than 20% of that move in realizations that the well had.
And that's true everywhere.
So I think maybe if we need to get into more range varity maybe Steve can follow up with you on a separate basis.
And we can look at some of the components to help you understand why it appears that we don't participate in that much of the upside.
But we do everywhere within the international arena where in the international arena you're subject to supplemental taxes and the way the TFC terms work you don't participate in that same large percentage of the upside in oil prices.
Yes Anuj I just may add.
I'm just looking at the realized prices that we had there.
We started the year at about $75 a barrel realized and those have gone up to $85 in March.
So we have seen a $10 increase in our realized prices out there.
LLC</strong> And domestically you're saying? No I'm just talking about in the Rockies we have seen a $10 increase throughout this year in our realized prices.
I think I'd follow-up with Terry's comment.
We'll get Steve to hook up with you and you guys can work through the details and get all of that sorted out.
LLC</strong> Fair enough.
Can you give me a little more color on how the marketing progress on the marketing negotiation is going with the liquid refiners and how much of capacity...
Now we'll provide an update on our plans for the Uinta Basin asset in total this summer after the Harvest transaction has closed.
LLC</strong> Fair enough.
Thank you guys.
That's all I have.
Thank you.
And now we'll hear from Joseph Allman with JPMorgan.
Thank you.
So Lee one of my questions was just something you said.
So you're expecting that Harvest transaction to close this summer? We're expecting the Harvest transaction to close in the second quarter.
Initially I would say next month.
And then we have some time that needs to run after that before we're able to say anything publicly.
So what I would say is plan on us -- at the earliest possible time this summer in June-July timeframe that we'll have an update and tell you what our plans are out there in this area.
We made that commitment when we announced the deal and we'll honor it when we're able to.
And there was a separate transaction with a private seller as well is that the same timetable or...
That's correct.
Okay.
That's helpful.
And then earlier in the call you talked about the winter stipulations in the Eagle Ford.
And maybe I just didn't listen carefully but could you just talk abut how that affects your activity and development there? Do you need to just shut down a lot or can you still do stuff while folks are hunting? Since I've said cultural deer hunting and John Jasek almost all in the same sentence he participates.
I'll let him explain it to you.
It's his project.
Yes.
I mean as Lee said deer hunting is near and dear in South Texas and it's big ranches they have long-term leases that are very high-valued to the landowners that have been there prior to the leases being taken by our predecessor at TXCO.
So there are some leases that have significant stipulations and restrict your ability to drill and complete wells during the hunting season.
Now it's more of an efficiency thing so there's a decision to be made about what's the right use of capital and how do you manage around those stipulations that are within those.
And that's not applying to all the leases.
There are just certainly leases that we have down there.
So 1 of our issues are managing around those leases to until we get it to full field development and we can obviously work with those landowners to minimize the stipulations and find a way to go forward on a win-win basis.
Some of our leases don't have any stipulations at all.
So again it's a combination of issues out there and during the first program we are likely to stop activity during that season while we regroup and get ready for our 2011 campaign.
So it's an issue and we'll work around it there's a mix of opportunities and ways to solve this problem down there.
So in summary do you think it'll slow things somewhat but not too much? Or do you think you'll be able to keep it sort of the pace that you -- just as you'll be able to move activity to where there are no stipulations? Exactly.
We'll manage our way through it and we'll maintain the right development pace per the project warrants.
Okay.
That's helpful.
And then in terms of -- going back to the cost issue and like in the various plays.
So in the Bakken it sounds as if your costs are higher than what you anticipated at the end of the year.
On the well performance side would you say that given more time and data are the wells performing better than your tight curve? And can you give us the same kind of data for the other plays so like the Bakken or the Eagle Ford and the oily Woodford? I guess I'd say we had pretty high expectations for the Super Extended Lateral wells that we were going to drill in the Williston Basin and those have delivered the tight curve results.
But the bar was set pretty high for them.
So as you've seen we've posted some wells north of 4 000 barrels a day I think we've scored 2 of those thus far.
So we're real pleased with the results of those wells.
As far as the relative cost inflation in the other areas it's a balance.
We see cost inflation in all the plays.
Everywhere as Lee alluded to on fuel and steel and people are all up.
The question is is how much are we able to push back from an efficiency gain? I'd say the Granite Wash team is ringing the bell right now as far as their ability to push back and drill best in class wells and offset those increases that we've been able to essentially hold those flat.
As we look into some of the other areas Monument Butte's probably been about 5% to 6% in inflation in those wells.
So very very modest as we've seen there.
Oily Woodford has seen some but again it's still very early and we're in our learning curve there and enjoying some of the benefits.
So highest in the Williston the lowest in the Granite Wash and everything else is kind of scoring out somewhere in between.
Did I read the press release correctly that -- so your average well cost in the Eagle Ford is $6.5 million to $7 million drilling complete? That would be right.
And we still stand firm on our thoughts that those ought to be about $5.5 million wells.
It's just once we get the learning curve and some of the services in place down there that's still our objective from a development standpoint.
And how are those wells doing versus your tight curve? Well this is John again.
We talked about the whole hunting lease pause in our discussion.
In 2011 we've got our services in place from a fracture stimulation standpoint.
We did our first 2 wells in March late March.
So those wells are first now clinging back up and so its way too early to tell how those first additional 2 wells are performing from a tight curve standpoint.
So we're fracing a little a day we have another 8 wells planned for next month.
So we're just getting into the data standpoint of how the Eagle Ford is going to perform in 2011 campaign versus what we put out last year.
So it's kind of where we are.
It's too early to tell in the Eagle Ford from a 2011 standpoint.
Got you.
Okay.
Very helpful.
Thank you.
Thank you.
And now we'll hear from John Herrlin with Societe Generale.
Just some quick ones.
Could you address the number of frac stages you're now doing in the Bakken the Granite Wash and the Eagle Ford and how much they're up over the not-too-recent-past? We're sitting -- I know in the Bakken we're pumping 32-stage fracs.
In the Granite Wash were pumping typically about 16-stage or so and that's a very similar number in the Eagle Ford.
Typically these are all about 300-or-so stage lengths in each of those.
The Williston Basin John have been approaching 2x the lateral length.
Right understood.
What about costs? You gave the amount for the Eagle Ford what about the Bakken and Granite Wash? Just as far as the completion costs? Yes the frac costs.
Yes I think they've all held pretty flat this year because many of these are contracted services.
We haven't other than some of the fuel and the people costs that have been moved we've seen some inflation.
We haven't really seen any increases over the year.
Now I would say that just typically and all of these plays vary little bit.
North of 50% of the well costs in the Eagle Ford is completion well north of that as Lee just communicated.
In the other plays it's typically common to see about 50% of your costs or so be in the completion.
Okay great.
You can clearly now drill ahead of the fracs in terms of scheduling.
Can you give us any sort of sense of how you're planning to manage those inventories? Or is it more a function of infrastructure or other events? I mean how should we think about impact wells that need fracs and when you bring them on? Well I think I'll start and then I'll turn it over to Gary for additional detail John.
I think the statement I made earlier and I don't know if you heard one of the earlier questions is we're going to work down through the inventory in the lower Eagle Ford wells.
John already mentioned that he's in the midst of working through that at present.
Daryll and his team in the Rockies and the Williston Basin had a similar inventory and they likewise have got the pressure pumping services in place now and are working through their inventory.
So our expectation near-term is in each of those areas we've got 10 or 11 wells that we carried drilled and cased non-completed at the end of the quarter.
We'll work through that inventory during the course of the second quarter and expect the run rate on the back end of that to just be the normal work-in-progress type well count which would generally be a well or so ahead of the rig schedule.
Okay thank you.
That's it for me.
Thank you.
And now we'll go to BMO Capital Markets' Dan McSpirit.
At Monument Butte in general can you speak about development spacing? And has 10-acre density been tested? I will tell you that the neat thing about Monument Butte it's truly an oil resource.
That's the way we talk about it and I think that we're really proud of what we've done in building the acreage position out there.
You'll recall we started with 40 acres as the original plan in terms of full-field development Daryll's team has not completed the 40-acre development across the field and of course we've added acreage into the mix that now is the time and half again the size of Monument Butte that most of which doesn't have a well on it.
So the way to think about the field is 40-acre primary development 20-acre infills at Monument Butte.
We've proven both there and north of the line and approximately the field that that's working and working very handsomely.
The 10-acre development would be the next logical step and Daryll's got a significant portion of his technical team in the Rockies working that issue right now.
So we're not at a point where we're able to say that we're ready to go but I will tell you that we see the potential.
We believe it's real and we're pretty excited about that being another part of the story for Monument Butte.
Got it.
And then turning to Granite Wash will you test additional horizons this year beyond the 10 already assessed? And then 2 can you speak to your statement about assessing new areas second half 2011 that is targeted objective and location of that acreage? Well on the first one we've been pretty clear since the latter part of last year that were going to focus on the Marmaton section with our Granite Wash program this year.
We tested the 10 horizons build depth of inventory and certainly we proved that case with the returns.
And the 1 300 BTU gas and the condensate associated with the Marmaton we're going to stay focused there.
As far as the location of the incremental acreage I'd prefer not to speak specifically to that at this time.
But if you were thinking it might be just a little bit east of where we've been doing most of our drilling you'd probably be right.
Got it.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
And now we'll go to Cathy Milostan with Morningstar Inc.
Yes thanks for taking the call.
I'm just going to switch gears a little bit and -- we haven't talked about the deepwater Gulf of Mexico and I saw the start-up of your field there.
And just wanted to get some color of what have you seen in the last few months as you're getting this underway that gives you an encouraging sign that progress is certainly being made there and would certainly help in getting Pyrenees on track for the late 2011 start? Well I think that starting roughly a year or so ago shortly after Macondo we stated publicly that as long as we're able to keep our production online and keep our development projects in train and on schedule that we thought we would be just fine with the optionality in our portfolio that we can navigate and shift capital around other projects until the business environment settled out.
Late last year we made a decision to reallocate notional exploratory capital out of the Gulf of Mexico for 2011.
But hats off and kudos to our team they have managed to keep all of our development projects online on schedule.
Gladden was a little bit late as mentioned in the call on a permitting basis.
But Pyrenees is the last operated project that we had in inventory.
On top of that our technical team is doing great work in the interim period really working the prospect inventory.
We like the prospect inventory we have in the deepwater Gulf of Mexico and they're dotting the Is crossing the Ts in terms of the technical picture there.
And at the appropriate point in time when the business environment is truly clear and understandable we'll make the decision as to what the future holds in terms of investing in the Gulf of Mexico for Nisku.
That time is not today beyond the development projects.
And we'll revisit it later this year with hopefully a little bit better clarity from the governmental side of the ledger than we have today.
Yes I was just wondering that if you had -- if you've seen any refreshing change or advancements on the regulatory side there...
I think I'd prefer to speak politely and say that we'll take the activity that's happened to date as positive and encouraging signs.
But clearly it's baby steps in what's going to be a long path in my opinion.
Okay thank you very much.
Thank you.
And ladies and gentlemen that is all the time that we have for today's question-and-answer session.
At this time it is my pleasure to turn the call back over to our speakers for any closing or additional remarks.
Operator that's all we have today.
I think that I'd like to just thank everybody for your time and participation.
And we look forward to updating you on our progress at the end of the second quarter.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen that does conclude our conference call for today.
Thank you for your participation.
Good day everyone and welcome to Newfield Exploration's Second Quarter 2011 Conference Call.
Just a reminder today's call is being recorded.
And before we get started one housekeeping matter.
Our discussion with you today will contain forward-looking statements such as estimated production and timing drilling and development plans expected cost reductions and planned capital expenditures.
Although we believe that the expectations reflected in these statements are reasonable they are based upon assumptions and anticipated results that are subject to numerous uncertainties and risks.
Actual results may vary significantly from those anticipated due to many factors and risks some of which may be unknown.
Please see Newfield's 2010 annual report on Form 10-K and subsequent quarterly reports on Form 10-Q for a discussion of factors that may cause actual results to vary.
Forward-looking statements made during this call speak only as of today's date and unless legally required Newfield undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements.
In addition reconciliations of non-GAAP financial measures to GAAP financial measures together with Newfield's earnings release the Uinta Basin presentation and update release and any other applicable disclosures are available on the Investor Relations page of Newfield's website at www.newfield.com.
At this time for opening remarks and introductions I would like to turn the call over to the Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer Mr.
Lee Boothby.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you very much.
Good morning and welcome to our second quarter conference call.
As usual I think Newfield is one of the first to report quarterly results and we appreciate you dialing in to the call this morning.
I'm joined in Houston by other members of our leadership team including Terry Rathert our CFO; Brian Rickmers our Controller; John Jasek Vice President Onshore Gulf Coast; Daryll Howard Vice President of Rockies; Bill Schneider Vice President Gulf of Mexico and International.
And we're joined also on the call in from Denver by Gary Packer our Chief Operating Officer; and we have George Dunn on the line as well from Tulsa our Vice President of Mid-Continent.
In addition to our financial and operating results we also released a very detailed update last night on the Uinta Basin.
We're excited about the huge potential we have in this oil basin both in the shallow oil zones we've been exploiting since 2004 as well as the new zones we announced last night.
We'll spend a good portion of our time today discussing our future plans in the Uinta Basin.
It's a compelling story and it will drive our future oil production growth.
Let me begin today with some comments on the big picture and reiterate Newfield's top priorities in 2011 and how we are positioning the company for strong performance in 2012.
In the first half of the year we produced about 146 Bcfe.
As originally forecast our growth this year is back end weighted with new oil developments commencing production in the fourth quarter.
In last night's release we stated that we expect our 2011 volumes will remain in our original production guidance range.
Year-to-date we've sold properties that would have contributed to about 3 Bcfe to this year's volume.
In addition we deferred about 200 000 barrels in Malaysia following a mechanical issue on our Abu facilities and we've faced challenging weather in both the Mid-Continent and the Rockies regions during the first half of the year.
There's a short table in the release you may find helpful.
To be clear without the asset sales the Malaysian repairs and the weather issues referenced our production would have rolled up to the midpoint of our original range.
Importantly our big development projects are on schedule and we expect our year end exit rate for oil and liquids will be more than 65 000 barrels of oil per day net.
Through the end of the second quarter we have sold $131 million in nonstrategic assets and additional sales are underway.
We expect to monetize somewhere between $200 million and $300 million in nonstrategic assets and we'll use these proceeds to balance the budget during the course of 2011.
Our capital budget for 2011 remains unchanged at about $1.9 billion excluding our May acquisition in the Uinta Basin.
Our investments in 2011 are front end loaded as we develop large oil projects in multiple areas.
Expected ramp in production late in the year and our outlook for reduced capital spending in the second half will allow us to execute our planned activities within the current budget.
As we pointed out in our first quarter call our industry is facing increasing cost pressures related to equipment labor and services.
Team Newfield is working harder than ever to counter the escalating service costs in many of our active drilling areas today.
Our operations teams are doing yeoman's job of building efficiency gains into our programs as evidenced with recent best-in-class wells in our Granite Wash Williston Basin and Eagle Ford programs.
Let's cover our financial and operating results for the second quarter.
As always Terry Rathert will be available during the Q&amp;A session to take any questions you may have.
Our earnings before FAS 133 gains were $138 million or $1.02 per share.
Revenues in the second quarter were $621 million.
Net cash provided by operating activities before changes in operating assets and liabilities was $393 million or $2.91 per share topping First Call cash flow per share estimates.
Our natural gas production was 47 Bcf or about 517 million cubic feet per day.
Our oil liftings and liquids volumes were 4.4 million barrels or about 48 000 barrels per day.
We're continuing to channel our investments toward oil.
As a result our gas volumes are declining.
We believe that this is the right economic choice in today's gas prices while our hedges preserve profitability.
In the guidance we provided in last night's release our expected increase in oil can be seen in the fourth quarter with large new developments commencing production late this year.
This is happening both domestically and in the international arena.
Our guidance for costs and expenses for the remainder of the year has been updated in the release as well.
Let's move now to updates on just a couple of our key drilling programs.
Again I want to save ample time for a thorough discussion of our increased resource potential and enhanced growth outlook in the Uinta Basin.
In the Granite Wash we're continuing to see excellent results both in the form of drilling performance and production.
Our gross production recently set a new high at 190 million cubic feet per day or about 135 million cubic feet equivalent net.
To date we've drilled 47 horizontal wells in the play and our gross IP rates continue to average about 16 million cubic feet equivalent per day.
This play has been relatively consistent for Newfield and the Stiles/Britt Ranch asset is a great asset to own.
As you know the Marmaton formation is our target this year due to its liquid-rich composition.
Our most recent wells in the Marmaton have commenced production between 16 and 23 Mcfe per day gross.
Oil and condensate comprise more than 500 to 600 barrels of oil per day in these recent wells.
Our working interest averages about 75%.
Our drilling efficiency gains in this play have offset rising service costs year-to-date.
We drilled a recent best-in-class well in just 24 days and we're averaging about 28 days on each of the wells that we drilled today.
We are moving towards longer lateral completions and have a few wells planned and will have lateral lengths in excess of 8 000 feet later this year.
Our efficiency gains are allowing us to drill more wells with the same rig fleet.
We now expect to drill more than 30 wells in the Granite Wash in 2011 and to grow our production here by more than 25% over 2010.
We've added about -- we have about 50 000 net acres in the Granite Wash plate today including about 10 000 net acres in new prospective areas.
Our assessment of these new areas is now underway and we'll have additional details to share with you later this year.
In the oil at Woodford we're running 2 operated rigs.
We recently completed several new wells and they're cleaning up following recent fracture stimulation.
Our drilling today is being done on pads so the duration between completions is longer.
We expect results to be consistent with our first batch of wells released earlier this year.
In the Williston Basin we continue to run a five-rig program.
As you undoubtedly have heard operations in the wells have been more challenged with blizzards rain flooding and road closures in the second quarter.
Road closures and the inability to lift oil moderately impacted our second quarter sales.
In addition weather events led to deferred completions and we're only able to complete 9 out our 15 planned wells in the quarter.
Today we have an inventory of about 10 wells awaiting completion.
During the quarter we posted a record IP for Newfield in the Williston Basin of 5 200 barrels of oil equivalent per day missing the Williston Basin record by just 100 barrels per day.
It's quite a well and important to note that it's a 5 300-foot lateral with 26 frac stages.
The well cost about $5.9 million gross to drill and complete showing that we continue to learn and optimize our completions.
Quickly on to the southern operated basin.
Our assessment program continues.
To date we've drilled 7 vertical wells completed 2 horizontal wells.
We're preparing to initiate fracture and testing operations on 4 vertical wells in the next week or so.
This will give us data on several geologic horizons.
We remain encouraged that all of our wells to date have encountered oil over a very large early extent.
We have increased our acreage in the play to more than 320 000 net acres today.
And wrapping up with Malaysia.
Let me just say that we completed our repairs to PM 318 Abu facilities in June and the field has resumed production.
Our PM 323 fields continue to outperform with recent gross production averaging over 32 000 barrels of oil per day inclusive of a new daily production record.
Outstanding job by our team.
If you have any additional questions on any of our other operating areas we'll be happy to address them during the Q&amp;A.
So now let's move on to the Uinta.
If you've not reviewed our new slide deck on the web I would encourage you to do so.
It's a detailed presentation that should leave you no doubt as to why we're excited about our future in the oil basin.
We have updated our resource potential on the Green River formation provided resource estimates for 2 new plays and published tight curves on our economic assumptions for each of these plays.
I will reference a few of these slides by number in my final remarks today.
The Uinta Basin is our crown jewel oil play with increasing resource potential in a basin where we have demonstrated a track record of creating value.
We are confident in our ability to more rapidly grow oil production from the area in the future.
With more than a decade of inventory increasing activity is key to creating present value.
We have some distinct competitive advantages in the Uinta Basin.
First we're a proven operator.
Newfield has been active in the Uinta Basin since 2004.
We have demonstrated our ability to manage a giant waterflood asset deliver more than 15% compound annualized production and reserve growth and build relationships with refineries that have allowed our growth to be commensurate with the Black Wax capacity expansions.
In the field we have a team of more than 400 people that manage this asset.
This team is in place today and prepared to develop our new plays and drive higher growth rates.
I can assure you that they understand the mission.
Second we have scale in our operations.
Today we are the largest oil producer in the state of Utah and we represent nearly 1/2 of the Uinta Basin's daily oil output.
Since late 2004 we've grown our acreage position from 88 000 net acres to about 250 000 net acres all largely contiguous.
Our gross production has grown from about 7 500 barrels of oil equivalent per day to about 22 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day now.
Over the coming months we plan to increase our operated rig count from a historic 5-rig program to at least 8 operated rigs in 2012.
For next year we expect that this will result in at least a 25% production growth over 2011.
At the same time we are making significant field infrastructure investments that will accommodate our growth from the area north of Monument Butte an area we call the Central Basin.
These investments are expected to total $175 million for 2011 and 2012 combined and will facilitate our future growth.
We control our operations in the Uinta with high working interest averaging about 70%.
Furthermore we have successfully employed vertical integration owning rigs and other services that lead to improved profit margins.
This ownership helps guarantee that we have the services to meet our operational needs.
Third our acreage has multiple play types.
Our Uinta Basin acreage has multiple prolific stacked oil and gas plays ranging from about 4 500 feet TVD to more than 16 000 feet TVD.
Over the last year we've drilled wells into new oil formations and have been very encouraged with the results.
In yesterday's release we disclosed well results from 2 of the new plays the Uteland Butte and the Wasatch and provided information on our net resource potential in the basin.
We believe that our Uinta Basin assets have net undeveloped resource potential in excess of 700 million barrels of oil equivalent.
Next we're reducing our traditional growth constraints.
Our growth in the Uinta Basin has historically been limited by the number of drilling permits we receive and the refining capacity for our oil.
Our recent acquisition of acreage in the Central Basin provides us with acreage under state jurisdiction and another governing authority through which to permit.
This allows us to run rigs in both state and BOM lands and provides flexibility in our work programs.
We're planning to add rigs into the basin and we will be executing development programs in our Uteland Butte and Wasatch plays in the second half of this year.
This increase in activity will provide great momentum for our oil growth as we move into 2012.
We have many more options today to move capital rigs and personnel to the plays that create the most value.
The demand for crude in the Uinta Basin has been strong and as always we are working with area refiners to ensure their capacity expansions match our growth projections.
We have agreements in place today for 2012 and are working with our refining partners to secure long-term arrangements that support our future growth outlook.
And my final point our returns in the Uinta Basin are superior.
Our before tax returns in these oil plays today are greater than 100%.
Please reference Page 11 in the slide deck.
These returns mandate that we push every available investment dollar toward their rapid development.
Let me quickly make some comments on each of our active oil developments in the Uinta.
In the Green River oil play more than 2 100 wells have been drilled on our acreage and we have a remaining inventory of more than 4 000 locations.
Our drilling efficiency gains now allow us to drill wells in as few as 4 days for less than $1 million drilling complete cost.
We have a high working interest and estimate our net resource potential to be about $360 million barrels of oil equivalent.
A detailed table on Slide 7 depicts our resource potential by area and provides insights on our recovery estimates.
Until recently substantially all of our drilling was being done in the Green River.
Today we've expanded our drilling to include new oil plays at Monument Butte and north into the central basin.
We've essentially doubled our view of recoverable resource from the area.
Our Uteland Butte horizontal oil play is prevalent on about 200 000 net acres or about 80% of our total acreage footprint in the basin and is perspective from about 6 000 to 9 000 feet TVD.
This is an organic rich play where we target oil saturated limestone and dolomites.
The rock is naturally fractured and lends itself to effective fracture stimulations.
This creates more connectivity in the reservoir and should lead to higher recovery of oil in place.
Over the last year we've drilled 6 horizontal wells in the Uteland Butte play and our most recent wells have initial gross production rates of about 500 barrels of oil equivalent per day.
Our work indicates the potential to drill more than 1 800 wells to develop about 300 million barrels of oil equivalent.
There's additional upside as we learn more about the geopressured portions of this play and determine ultimate spacing of the development wells.
Our initial permits are coming in today and we plan to drill about 10 wells in this play in 2011 largely on state lands followed by at least 30 wells in 2012.
In the Wasatch play we have about 70 000 prospective acres or roughly 30% of our total acreage in the basin.
This play is productive throughout the Central basin and we see the potential to drill more than 380 wells to develop more than 45 million barrels of oil equivalent.
Our early assumptions include 320-acre spacing.
However 160-acre spacing is certainly possible and will be tested in the near future.
This play encompasses 600 to 800 feet of interbedded organic rich shales carbonates and sand stones.
In the Central basin the hydrocarbon generation process created areas of overpressure leading to wells with higher production rates and recoveries.
Various play types exist within the Wasatch ranging from the more shallow and normally pressured sections that can be drilled and completed for about $1 million to the deeper geopressured sweet spots that have significantly higher EURs and can be drilled and completed for about $3 million.
Recent wells drilled in the geopressured areas have seen gross IP rates as high as 1 500 barrels of oil equivalent per day and we're averaging more than 1 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day.
Ultimately we may also apply horizontal drilling in the Wasatch.
For the second half of 2011 we plan to drill about 25 wells in this play largely in the normally pressured areas where we have available rigs and existing permits.
In 2012 we will drill at least 50 wells and exploit the deeper geopressured portions of the play.
The summary slide on Page 10 details our 3 play types totaling net resource potential of more than 700 million barrels of oil equivalent.
This is in addition to our deep gas play where we've we drilled 6 wells to date and confirmed its presence throughout our acreage.
In addition to these formations we're studying other perspective horizons.
Our geologic assessment of these plays continues and we will have more to share with you in the future.
Before we move to the question-and-answer session let me summarize the key takeaways from today's call.
Number one we are working hard to deliver on our production promises and stay within our original guidance range and adhere to our capital budget.
We expect to see a significant increase in our oil production in the second half of this year and our personnel are aligned to deliver on our growth promises in 2011.
Number two we're combating the meteoric rise in service cost where we can.
We are intentionally limiting activities in hot plays that have experienced rapid inflation in favor of more attractive investments elsewhere.
Our precious people and capital resources continue to be deployed towards areas with the highest rates of return.
This is the right thing to do.
We're committed to our $1.9 billion capital budget and are more apt to decrease activity than increase our planned expenditures.
Number three we have large oil and liquids rich assessments that are in various stages today.
The Eagle Ford the Southern Alberta basin new acreage in the Granite Wash and an undisclosed stealth play where new leasing has pushed us over 100 000 net acres.
We remain committed to building for our future.
I realize that you all want more details now but our assessment programs are science based and thoroughly executed.
I can assure you that we will have detailed updates for you like we did in today's Uinta overview when we gather all of the pertinent facts.
Believe me I'm just as anxious as you are.
That concludes our prepared remarks today and we're delighted to take your questions at this time.
Operator? [Operator Instructions] And we'll take our first question from Joseph Allman with JPMorgan.
Lee the pace of development of the Eagle Ford in the southern Alberta basin seems slower than your development here with these new plays in the Uinta.
Is that correct and what's the reason for them seeming to develop a lot slower? That's a good question Joe.
I think that your observations are correct.
And I think the circumstances are a little bit different in each of the play areas.
First of all the Uinta Basin is an established development area where we've got infrastructure and personnel in place.
The 400 people that I referenced literally live and work right on top of our acreage.
So we've got all the resources in place to be able to shift around in the different play types and the acquisition that we closed in May adding the 70 000 plus acres to the position put us in a position to accelerate the exploitation of that play.
We were very judicious in how we approached the Uteland Butte play.
Our team was actually anxious to drill more wells as early as 2009 but we made the election to delay our activities there in favor of consolidating the position.
So today we've got the acreage we need.
We're in a position to be able to accelerate.
That's the story there.
In the Eagle Ford John Jasek and his team continue to drill wells.
We're focusing this year on regions offsetting the areas where we had success in the early drilling last year.
But frankly we've seen a blowout in the service cost particularly in the pressure pumping side of the equation.
And I hate to use this phrase but it's margin destruction.
So John is running a minimal program there in the Eagle Ford that gives his team a chance to digest the technical data move judiciously through that information and plan for the future.
But first and foremost we've got to get the service side of the business in line and realize that it's better for all of us to have a win-win environment than a win-lose environment.
So we're not going to accelerate activity in the Eagle Ford because we don't have to.
So we're going to execute a low go strategy there and we'll be ready to ramp up when the time comes that those margins compete in other parts of the portfolio.
In the southern Alberta basin we've continued to grow our acreage position over the course of the last 18 months.
We announced some 320 000 net acres that we have today.
We drilled the vertical wells that we told you that we were going to drill.
We've got a couple of horizontal wells that we've completed.
We're going into a vertical testing program right now.
Frankly that's part of our assessment program.
The only thing that's held us back there and I'd say we're a few months behind of the original schedule that we talked about is just getting services and equipment into the region because that's a service and equipment poor area and anything within 150 200 miles of the Williston Basin here's the giant sucking sound of the Williston Basin gravitational pull.
So we've got the time there to actually take our time.
We're going to test these wells in the third quarter and we recognize that you guys are waiting to hear some information.
When we get it packaged up we'll tell you what we think.
But we're excited about what we've seen in terms of oil potential and we're excited about what we continue to hear with respect to offset operators in the area.
So each one's different but that's kind of the storyline.
It's very helpful.
And then related to the Williston so your average cost for the Bakken wells in the second quarter were -- or the average was $9.8 million up from I think $8 million prior quarter? What's the big driver there and what are current costs right now? Have they come down from that $9.8 million? I'll let Gary take that question.
Joe I think previously when we talked about the cost of the Williston basin wells we were in a $9.2 million zip code.
So we haven't seen quite the inflation that your question would imply.
We see it very regionally dependent as Lee communicated in the call there.
This most recent well was a 640-acre the 5 200-barrel a day well.
And it was 640-acre well and it was just in the zip code of $6 million.
So there's a lot of noise and it's regionally dependent.
As far as the costs go I'd say it's marginally on the drilling.
I think drilling our teams have done a really nice job of using efficiency gains to offset cost increase and the increase that we've seen has all been on the completion side.
Going forward that $9.8 million would you expect that to be lower in the third quarter? I know it's locationally dependent.
I would expect it to go down.
And Joe remember the lateral length in the completion side of that leverage I mean as the lateral lengths vary one period to the next you're going to see some noise with the average lateral lengths increasing.
Moving on we'll go to Steve Berman with Pritchard Capital Partners.
LLC</strong> Can you break down the oil versus gas in the Uteland Butte and Wasatch or either in the reserve assumptions for in the production flow? It's dominantly oil.
I'll let Gary or Daryll comment in terms of percentages but its primary product production is oil.
It's black oil with the normal GUR that you'd see with solution GUR-type numbers.
But I'll let them jump in and give you some additional color.
We have various plays that we're pursuing out there as Lee alluded to.
We're seeing a variation in GURs.
I'd say in the Green River typically we're in a 500 to 2 000 barrel of oil or standard cubic feet per barrel of oil.
Monument Butte typically runs between 1 000 and 2 000 GUR.
And the Wasatch has a little broader distribution somewhere in the 800 to 2 000 range.
LLC</strong> Can you tell us moving to the Williston where the 5 200-barrel a day well is? I believe it was in the Westberg area.
LLC</strong> Within the -- I don't have the presentation in front of me what county is that in? Kennedy County.
And now we'll open the floor up to RBC Capital Markets' Leo Mariani.
LLC</strong> A question on the Uteland Butte.
It sounds like you've got 6 wells.
Just trying to get a sense of production history there on terms of how long they've been producing.
Obviously you guys have come out with EUR estimates so I'm kind of assuming you've got at least several months there.
Can you just comment on that? Sure.
I'll let Gary Packer take that question.
Leo typically those wells have ranged from 60 to 90 days of production history.
And I think we've got enough experience in the area and elsewhere that we're able to make some pretty reasonable estimates of EUR at that point.
I would say and if you look at the slide deck there you'll see that we've had a steadily improving result.
When you're sitting on 1 800 completions it's been exciting to see how the teams have actually optimized some of the completion practices thus far.
And as implied here we've already taken it from some 300 barrels a day to 500 barrels a day IPs and I suspect this is just going to continue to go up from there.
LLC</strong> Just looking at the Eagle Ford I guess you guys reported another tranche of wells here in the second quarter.
You had a pretty highly variable IP range.
You guys talked about anywhere between 400 and 1 400 BOE per day trying to get a sense of kind of where that average shakes out given how wide the range is.
Well the range -- I'll speak to the range and then I'll turn it over to John Jasek.
He can give you a little color on that on the average.
But remember that we're mixing our activities down there.
We've constrained John with a limited rig count.
So he's using his capital very judiciously.
He continues to step out and test new areas farther to the north as well as to drill development and pilot wells adjacent or in close proximity to the wells that were drilled in 2010.
So it's kind of a mixed bag in terms of the geographic areas of those wells.
That's what's driving the spread.
But John any color you want to offer? I mean there's various things going on in terms of where we are in our development between spacing pilots and different completion techniques that we're trying out to try to optimize that.
That's part of why you see the wide range.
We were focusing our areas to the south which is where the IP quote came from in the release.
Our average is around 600 to 700 BOE per day range.
It's an average for those wells that we're drilling as part of the release.
LLC</strong> I guess in terms of your lease operating expense guidance it looks like it's kind of ramped up in the high end pretty significantly as we get into the second half of the year here.
Just wanted to see if you guys had any color in terms of what's driving that? Yes I mean typically the meteoric inflation that Lee referenced earlier it doesn't only affect capital.
It certainly effects the operating expense side of the business as well.
I'd say water hauling water handling has been probably the single biggest area that we've seen increases.
But just anything from the human resources have gotten more expensive throughout the business.
Chemicals everything is higher than what it once was.
LLC</strong> Definitely it makes sense there.
With respect to CapEx you guys talked about...
Let me jump in I want to throw one other thing in before we run off in that question.
There's a couple of other things to remember in the second half of the year.
We're bringing new oil development projects online both domestically and internationally.
So you're getting a whole list of new projects that are running in.
And if you look out late in the year on a unit basis you'll actually see that it's declining.
So you got to put all the pieces together before you can make the judgments on the cost.
So total costs are up because total production volumes are up.
We're adding new developments into the mix but unit costs were actually declining out towards the end of the year because of the increased volumes.
LLC</strong> Looking at CapEx I guess you guys had said in your prepared remarks that you expect it to be a little bit lower in the second half of the year than the first half of the year.
Can you just give us a little bit more color in terms of what's driving the reduction there? Was it just reduced activity? Are there sort of some other factors there or maybe some of your bigger projects you spent all the money on in the first half? Yes I think a lot of what you're seeing there is just timing.
We have been executing our development activities internationally building platforms and structures for East Piatu Field which are now largely installed and behind us.
And we were certainly front end loaded on some of the completion activities coming out of 2010 which will be behind us as we enter into the second half and basically turn the proved undeveloped resources to production as we've talked about in a number of our major projects both internationally and domestically.
Now we'll hear from Dave Kistler with Simmons &amp; Company.
Thank you first for all the additional information on the Monument Butte assets.
It's helpful.
One of the things that you guys have pounded down pretty hard is the ability to be flexible with your redirection of capital.
Can you talk a little bit about how high you could take the rig count up in Monument Butte in the coming 6 12 24 month period? That's a great lead in Dave.
First off I'd like to tell you that my favorite color is green and that's green for oil.
So when you look at the margins that are generated on the oil side of the ledger with the great operating leverage that we have in the Rockies in our Uinta Basin fabulous team out there that's delivered multiyear growth with all the constraints and issues that we've had to work under additionally opens the door up in that regard.
So being in a position now to see an acceleration opportunity in that basin behind the execution that we've already delivered there is a really strong argument.
And I'll let Gary Packer give you some additional color.
Dave the only thing I'd add to that is we have to just be cognizant of the infrastructure and make sure that it grows commensurate with our production growth specifically in the central basin area.
I'd say right now we're looking to 8 to 9 rigs as we look into '12 and we're holding back at that.
Certainly the resource would merit more than that.
I would say if I had to just look out another year beyond that 10 to 12 rigs is probably a reasonable expectation as long as we can continue to expand both not only the refining but more importantly some of the gas gathering infrastructure out in the central basin.
That's helpful.
And maybe if I could ask for a little bit more color on what you guys are doing on the refining front.
Obviously you're kind of the largest player in that area right now but to just get a sense in terms of what you're looking at contractually.
I think you're covered through '12.
Kind of what you're doing on a longer-term basis and then maybe tie that to what's happening with how you're distributing the rig count around Monument Butte? I mean obviously off the returns you gave us last night it would favor sort of focusing on Uteland and Wasatch more than anything else but that may be prohibited as a result of kind of the infrastructure comments you made.
Dave I guess that sitting here halfway through '11 and having said we're covered through '12 I'm going to respectfully decline to give you any additional color at this stage.
We're covered through '12.
We've told you what we think we can do in terms of growth in '12.
Stay tuned.
We'll give you some additional information at the appropriate time in the relatively near future.
How's that? I appreciate that.
And then just one last one for me.
With capital going to Monument Butte from other areas where obviously the oil content is a little bit higher than some of the other areas should we be thinking about what's happening from a mix shift standpoint as far as the oil content accelerating relative to total production or what we've kind of looked at previously? Well certainly you're going to see a continued shift.
I mean it just makes sense we can't tell you on the one hand that we've got virtually 100% of our capital budget allocated to oil projects and not have that shift pretty strongly underway.
Hopefully this gives you the visibility.
I would expect to see the total oil percentage continue to tick up as we bring these new projects online.
We talked about being north of 65 000 barrels a day exit rate net total oil production at year end.
I mean that's something around I don't know 40% 50% 35% 40% I guess improvement from what we did in the second quarter.
So we're certainly moving pretty strongly in that direction and since we're not investing in our dry gas portions of our portfolio today then those portions of the portfolio are on decline as we indicated.
So you'll continue to see that mix and we'll provide some additional color kind of as it unfolds during the course of 2011 and some pretty strong guidance going into 2012 in that regard.
And now we'll hear from Subash Chandra with Jefferies.
Inc.</strong> First question is on the lower Wasatch and the 8 wells you referenced.
Was there a Newfield-operated well in the mix or are these carryovers from the Harvest transaction? It's a combination.
I'll let Gary Packer take that question out of the Rockies since he's got all the guys there that can answer those questions specifically.
The Wasatch wells that Newfield have drilled has not been brought on production yet.
We've completed some of these wells but the mix that you're looking at here we're already in the drilling phase at the time we transitioned through the acquisition to Newfield.
Inc.</strong> The wells that are not brought on yet I guess you may have implied that those were in the normally pressured and not in the overpressured.
Is that correct? It's a combination of both.
A few of the wells that we've drilled are in the pressured section and the rest are in the normally pressured section.
Through the remainder of this year we anticipate that a lot of the drilling is going to take place where we actually -- and this is more of a permitting situation than anything else.
We can go back in to prior permits that we've had and basically deepen them into the Wasatch section.
And a lot of those are in the normally pressured area.
The good news is while we anticipate that these wells may have an IP that's light to the one that's represented here the cost structure ought to be a lot less as well.
So we'll be able to preserve the margins and returns in both of the play types that we have here.
Inc.</strong> Final one just on this point the 320-acre spacing is that across all the play types of that area or do you think the deeper horizons could be also repeatable at that pace? It's premature for us to say that at this point.
We've studied Altamont as an analog and as you may be familiar with we see everything from 640s to 320s and now down to 160s successfully and it's regionally dependent.
So at this point I think we've taken a rather conservative position in it.
And ultimately I would anticipate that there will be areas here that are downspaced to 160s as suggested in the slide deck.
I expected horizontal drilling to become part of the Wasatch in the future.
I think we're taking about as conservative a position as we can in this formation.
Inc.</strong> There was an El Paso gas gathering line or something that was supposed to come on.
Is that on at this point? El Paso has a lot of gas gathering.
There is one in the general vicinity of the central basin and that is one of the options that Newfield has available to it as we look to develop our infrastructure.
Inc.</strong> Last question for me.
So reports here in the TXCO's marine shale any commentary on how ambitious you want to get there what you might be seeing and what you like about that particular play? I left Louisiana in 1989.
[Indiscernible] Now we'll go to John Herrlin with Societe Generale.
What kind of IP decline rates are you anticipating for the Wasatch? Decline rates are pretty steep in all of these.
I think 60% to 80% potentially as high as 85% would not be unreasonable.
I think what we see is and I'm not going to drop the b factors on you John but I know you're thinking it.
Needless to say that the Uteland Butte has a flatter decline than what we see in the Wasatch hence the fact that we can come on at a lower IP.
And actually we anticipate having a higher EUR.
But thus far -- but 60% to 85% would be in the right zip code.
John I don't if you had a chance to look at the slide deck but 16 17 and 18 on the slide decks are the tight curves and the other point to remember is the Wasatch wells as modeled here are vertical Monument Butte are horizontal wells.
With the Green River what kind of flow rates are you getting? Because you said you'd also consider waterflood.
Would it be water steaming or waterflood's enough to mobilize things? The IP rates that we typically see in the Green River is in the order of 80 barrels a day or so.
As we've moved to the north into the central basin area where we've drilled about 300 wells those IPs have come up.
I'd suggest to you maybe 110 120 barrels a day would be in the right zip code.
We've also seen increased IPs as we downspaced to 20 acres in the field proper where we get into an area that's been pressured due to our water injection.
And certainly in excess of 125 barrels a day is within the distribution of what we typically see there.
When do you think we'll have something more definitive like you just did with the Uinta on the Alberta basin time-wise? We're going to have to get this work completed.
I mentioned that we're going to start the vertical testing operations hopefully within the week.
We've got multiple horizons and multiple wells that we're going to be working on and then we'll need a little bit of time on the back end.
But notionally we've talked off and on about third quarter.
I would expect the earliest to be probably late third quarter if we can get some time to make sense of those numbers.
But somewhere around there late third quarter early fourth quarter I'm guessing we'll have some opinions on what that data is telling us.
And now we'll go to Tudor Pickering Holt Brian Lively.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</strong> Just is a clarification there's nothing wrong with the state of Louisiana is that correct? I'm a proud graduate of LSU in Baton Rouge.
There's nothing wrong with the state of Louisiana.
I just had heard those rumors were floating around and that's not a shale play that we're chasing.
So all of our competitors have got it to themselves for the time being anyways.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</strong> Thanks for that clarification.
But since you were so open with the TMS[ph] can you comment on maybe other plays like the [indiscernible] [Uinta?] Probably since you gave me a softball earlier in the Q&amp;A on the Tuscaloosa I'll just stand down and say that we're not in the Tuscaloosa how about that? Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</strong> That's helpful.
Just going back to Monument Butte and the new plays and you talked about the geologic characteristics.
I'm curious though what kind of evolution on your interpretation of this play and just how you gain confidence in the spacing and the consistency when you provided the inventory guidance? Well as far as the evolution of the plays as far as Newfield goes and I don't know if this is exactly where you're at Brian but we entered the play back in 2004 really thinking of this thing strictly as a vertical play with romance of drilling these pad developments in 20-acre down spacing.
We did not have a vision for what could lie to the north of the field which was conventionally thought to be basically devoid of any sands and resource.
Now clearly not only Newfield but industry's view of that has changed over time as we continue to step out we took some very early initiatives to step out pretty far from the field proper that we kept quiet that allowed us to test the section a township or so away from our historical control and once we had success there that gave us the encouragement to go ahead and do a series of joint ventures with the Ute Indian Tribe that we've well documented 3 of those and then ultimately the pursuit of the H&amp;R deal.
I would tell you that for a considerable period of time we have been looking for where we could apply the horizontal multistage stimulation techniques that we were honing our skills on in the Williston Basin and the Woodford where we could apply that at Monument Butte.
We originally targeted the Ute Land Butte in a series of vertical wells with pretty modest success.
But fortunately the team here really pressed on with that and we turned it horizontal and have seen some nice success there.
So it's something that our vision has evolved over time.
The broad application of horizontal drilling over this area we were able to start on that about a year ago.
And as Lee alluded to and in my prior comment did as well we see other targets here as well on our acreage position that we think we could go sideways in and have some success as well.
The other applications that we've used micro seismic has given us a good indication of where the fracture systems lie and our ability to stimulate it.
And then we also have some 3D seismic that quite honestly we're probably behind on and the team has pushed forward.
And we're applying 3D seismic now in the field which is long overdue.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</strong> That was really helpful.
On the permitting process I kind of generally understand the difference between federal and state but can you update us sort of what the run rate is what's the timing on permits right now between federal and state? And then how tribal land may differ from that? So on the state lands we're typically looking at 30 to 60 days on a state permit based on -- and we've been permitting state wells within Monument Butte for years on the state sections.
Generally speaking on the Fed 6 to 8 months has been a good number depending on the area of course.
It could extend beyond that and I would say that the tribal permits look more like a federal permit than they do a state permit.
So that's kind of how we think about that.
We've got probably 400 to 500 permits in at any one time on the Fed and tribal side through BIA.
And we're just really ramping up the state permitting process to facilitate 2012 activity for us.
So it's really kind of boxed us in a corner in 2011 as far as how much flexibility we've had there.
And now we'll go to Richard Tullis with Capital One.
Inc.</strong> Looking at the Williston Lee it looked like I guess the average IP rate ticked down a bit in the second quarter versus first quarter.
What's the main driver there particularly with the good well that you had? Richard I think probably the biggest driver and Daryll jump in on this if you have any more color you want to add our early drilling was all focused in the Westberg area where we clearly have the special sauce there in order to drive wells such as 5 000 barrels a day.
As we move out of these areas we've enjoyed a great deal of success in some of the other areas that we now call development such as our Aquarium and our Watford areas.
But our experience would suggest as you move into these new areas it takes a while to go ahead and really optimize the completions.
Each one of these areas are different.
We can't apply one technique in one area and anticipate having the same successes immediately in another.
So I'd say that's probably the biggest driving factor is a broader distribution of wells all very economic but they're not all going to look like each other.
It's just going to take us awhile to get our legs underneath this.
Daryll is there anything else you want to add to that? There'll be variations quarter on quarter.
As you mentioned Gary that we expand in the different areas and change that well mix into our high confidence development areas into more of our assessment areas.
Inc.</strong> And what are you looking for in EUR basis and Williston currently? Yes in our higher confidence areas in and along the Anticline I believe that we're in the zip code of 400 Mboe as we step off I believe we're in the mid-300s.
Inc.</strong> And a strategic question how are viewing the Gulf of Mexico now I mean return to drilling or dispose of assets? How is that process going? We've been watching it carefully.
We've been preparing for what a future drilling program would look like.
You've probably seen 2 EPs that were approved for Newfield that would allow us to initiate an APD process.
I think we're still watching it carefully.
We still need to see some assurance that future lease sales will in fact take place and we're going to understand what the regulatory environment and just as important as that what the cost structure is as we look out there.
We're concerned at the rig count out there and we've seen some of the better rigs leave the gulf and how we would navigate some of the cost and the regulatory issues still or something that's of great interest for us.
And we're going to be I guess cautiously stepping into 2012 as the best I could describe it as we put together our programs out there.
We have no approved wells in '12 at this time but we're going to have some opportunities to invest for sure.
Inc.</strong> Finally what's the potential for adding additional acreage in Uinta? Well obviously if you'd asked us that question some years ago we'd have said "Well we hope that we're going to be able to add acreage and have great aspirations in that regard.
But when you look at acreage position we've built we now run from Monument Butte in the south all the way to Altamont Bluebell on the north.
There's just not a lot of acreage left in and around that area.
But clearly if we've got the opportunities to add acreage we'll continue to do that if it makes sense economically.
But I wouldn't expect any huge incremental gains in terms of acreage blocks in the Uinta.
Our next question comes from Gordon [indiscernible] with Wells Fargo.
Couple of more Uinta questions for you.
Looking at Uteland Butte it looks like your wells today have been concentrated kind of in the western portion of the Monument Butte field.
And just wondering if that's more of a function of permitting or how you look to spread the wells out over the next couple of years there? First up I'll take the lead in and then I'll let Gary and Daryll add some additional color.
I mentioned in the earlier comments that the team is pushing to accelerate activity in this play.
Some 2 years ago and we had to ask them to be patient put the brakes on and the reason that we started drilling in Monument Butte proper is because we were able to do it somewhat off the radar screen.
We did get asked I think a year or so ago about the horizontal well that we had drilled.
And we acknowledged that we had in fact drilled the horizontal well.
We didn't say anything more about it.
It was one of these wells.
It was an area to go ahead and start testing.
We had permits we had infrastructure in place.
It was just an easy place to go ahead and do that without drawing attention to what we were really interested in which is the acreage further to the north.
So we had to be very judicious with regard to how we approached that and our team had to be very patient because frankly we held them back from what they might have otherwise like to have done in that regard.
So we're happy to be at a point now where we're able to talk about the play.
And I think the team's happy to be at a point where they're going to be able to stomp on the accelerator.
Gary? That was well said Lee.
The only thing I would add to that is our early focus on state sections allowed us to kind of fly under the radar screen as you alluded to and execute those permits which are different from what we've historically done out there.
I'd also remind you it's a huge area.
We used to show Monument Butte proper.
We'd talk about Manhattan in terms of size and scale.
And if you look at the scale on the bottom of the map on Page 8 there's 10 miles or so diagonally between the wells and we've already tested a pretty significant sized area within Monument Butte proper.
And the wells that we've drilled to the north both those that we now have modern technology logs on throughout the central basin whether we drilled the wells or even some of our recent drilling has confirmed the presence and our geological models as we push through the north.
So we'll be heading up there here in short order and getting some horizontals drilled on that new acreage.
One other question on permitting as it relates to the tribal lands.
We've heard from other operators in the area that there's sort of a consortium going on between industry and the BIA trying to streamline the process.
I'm just wondering if you're participating in such a process.
And how you think that might streamline? I'll let Daryll take that question.
Yes Gordon we work with the Ute Tribe continually.
There has been multiple consortiums that attempt to streamline the permitting process.
I can tell you that we do participate in most of those from a discussion standpoint but we also work individually with the tribes to make sure that we're doing all we can to facilitate the streamlining of the permitting process.
And ladies and gentlemen that is all the time that we have for questions today.
At this time it is my pleasure to turn it back to Mr.
Boothby for any closing or additional remarks.
It will be short and sweet.
I'll just thank everybody for your time your interest and investment in Newfield.
And we look forward to reporting on additional results as the year unfolds.
Thank you very much.
And ladies and gentlemen that does conclude our conference call for today.
We thank you for your participation.
Good day everyone.
Welcome to the Newfield Exploration's Third Quarter 2011 Conference Call.
Just a reminder today's call is being recorded.
And before we get started one housekeeping matter.
Our discussion with you today will contain forward-looking statements such as estimated production and timing drilling and development plans expected cost reductions and planned capital expenditures.
Although we believe that the expectations reflected in these statements are reasonable they are based upon assumptions and anticipated results that are subject to numerous uncertainties and risks.
Actual results may vary significantly from those anticipated due to many factors and risks some of which may be unknown.
Please see Newfield's 2010 Annual Report on Form 10-K and subsequent quarterly reports on Form 10-Q for a discussion of factors that may cause actual results to vary.
Forward-looking statements made during this call speak only as of today's date and unless legally required Newfield undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statement.
In addition reconciliations of non-GAAP financial measures to GAAP financial measures together with Newfield's earnings release and any other applicable disclosures are available on the Investor Relations page of Newfield's website at www.newfield.com.
And at this time for opening remarks and introductions I would like to turn the call over to the Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer Mr.
Lee Boothby.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you operator.
Good morning and thanks for joining us today for our third quarter conference call.
I'm joined in Houston today by other members of our leadership team and together we'll be happy to address your questions at the end of today's call.
Today I will provide a brief summary of our third quarter financial and operating results provide some color on where we are today and brief updates on our most significant oil developments.
Our oil production year-to-date is up nearly 30% over last year and we have some large development projects that will provide a boost as we enter 2012.
I also will provide thoughts on how we are scenario planning today to execute the right game plan in 2012.
We will stick with our tradition and not providing full year guidance until we have final board approval in early February.
Let's quickly address our third quarter financial results.
Our net income before FAS 133 gains was $140 million or $1.04 per share.
Revenues in the third quarter were $628 million or 40% higher than the same period last year.
Net cash provided by operating activities before changes in operating assets and liabilities was $409 million or $3.02 per share.
Our natural gas production was 45 Bcf or about 494 million cubic feet per day.
This was down from the second quarter and reflects our continued emphasis on liquids production with our capital investments.
Our oil liftings increased 16% quarter-over-quarter to 5.1 million barrels or about 55 000 barrels per day equivalent.
Results of our oil focused programs are evident with crude and liquid volumes up nearly 30% over last year's third quarter.
Our domestic recurring LOE expense on a unit of production basis was higher than guidance and reflected increased service cost.
With the exception of international production taxes the remainder of our costs and expenses were in line with guidance.
International production taxes reflected higher oil price realizations as we continue to enjoy the wide Brent and WTI differentials.
Although I'm not happy about our operational results of late I can assure you that we are taking the appropriate actions and have a simplified and focused game plan to deliver superlative execution in 2012.
Year-to-date we have sold a greater number of non-strategic assets than we originally anticipated and we have other sales in process.
We also have made some tough cost-cutting decisions as a result of challenges in this environment particularly in the Williston Basin.
A combination of these events negatively impacted our production and as a result we've adjusted our full year guidance.
We have high confidence in our asset base.
It's a great portfolio of assets and we believe it provides us with multiple options to grow our cash flow from operations.
Our portfolio is a competitive advantage and we will use it to make the best long-term decisions for our shareholders.
It's important that you understand that our recent challenges are not related to well performance in our core focus areas.
I said in our midyear update that we were more likely to cut activity than raise our $1.9 billion capital budget for the year.
As we entered the fourth quarter it became apparent to us that we would need to curtail some activities to ensure we do not overspend our budget.
Keep in mind that our budget year-to-date have some large development projects to midyear front-end loaded Pyrenees Piatu leasing in our stealth play et cetera.
We will spend significantly less in the fourth quarter to meet our $1.9 billion capital budget.
In today's news release we're adjusting our 2011 production guidance to 300 billion to 304 billion cubic feet equivalent.
I would like to summarize where we are compared to our beginning of year guidance of 312 billion to 323 billion cubic feet equivalent.
First non-strategic asset sales.
We expect proceeds from asset sales this year could amount to as much as $400 million to $500 million far in excess of our $200 million to $300 million goal.
The 2011 production associated with these sales is about 5 Bcf.
These non-strategic asset sales allow us to improve our focus of both capital and human resources on assets important to our future.
Two the Williston Basin.
We've been behind in our Williston Basin program all year and have taken proactive steps to adjust course.
Simply stated we had expected to exit 2011 with net production of about 15 000 barrels of oil per day.
And today we're about half that rate.
Our issues relate to weather delays in the arrival of necessary services in the field and the result in inability to complete wells timely.
Compared to our original guidance the Williston Basin is down 6 Bcf.
We've reduced our operated rig count and we'll defer completions on more than a dozen horizontal wells into 2012.
This is an obvious area for us to institute strict capital discipline and preserve our budget.
Our Williston issues are not related to the subsurface.
We have great assets in the Williston that can provide some of the highest returns we have in the company.
Our wells have performed extremely well once online and we've demonstrated our ability to drill wells efficiently.
There's a table in @NFX that shows our recent well results.
The recent tightness in the service market and the subsequent cost increases have forced us to better manage our investments in late 2011.
Number three decreased activity capital expenditures and deferred production.
We've recently reduced expenditures in multiple areas to ensure that we live within our $1.9 billion capital budget for 2011.
We've dropped rigs in the Granite Wash and the Williston and have shuffled timing of drilling in the Uinta.
These proactive decisions equate to about 3 Bcf equivalent of deferred production in the second half of 2011.
And fourth weather.
Weather-related issues this year have cost us about 3 Bcf.
Our midyear update accounted for about half of this deferral.
The remainder is related to the recent Tropical Storm Lee.
Now let's talk about our path forward where we are headed.
Our efforts today are focused on 2012.
Let me share some thoughts with you on how we are approaching next year.
We will simplify the game plan in 2012 and ensure that our best people and projects are aligned and that we are driving oil growth from fewer projects.
I'm confident in our ability to deliver and excited about the opportunities ahead of us.
Oil will remain the favorite commodity in our 2012 plan.
The Uinta Basin will be the centerpiece of our story.
We anticipate that margins and oil production will continue to be better than those in natural gas.
Our emphasis will continue to be on oil and liquids growth leading to continued margin expansion and cash flow growth as priorities over absolute production growth.
We're already shifting additional resources from the Williston to the Uinta Basin and this push will continue into 2012.
Our recent strong well results help reinforce the potential of this basin to drive our corporate oil growth.
More on that in a moment.
In addition to the Uinta we have a portfolio of great oil and liquids-rich assets.
Our large oil fields in Southeast Asia are benefiting from $110 grant today.
And domestically we have the oily Woodford Granite Wash and Eagle Ford plays that are all contributing high margin barrels to the bottom line.
Our game plan in 2012 will be to optimize all these assets to create the best possible outcome.
We will continue to streamline our asset portfolio and improve our organizational focus.
Over the last several years we've sold non-strategic assets and you should expect this will continue in 2012.
It's important that we constantly high grade our assets and allocate both our people and capital to the best projects in the portfolio.
We will continue to build for the future.
We've accumulated in our value winnings some exciting new plays.
Any of these could turn into another play of scale for us in the near future.
We will manage our options balancing production growth and a focus on improving margins maintaining our strong capital structure.
We're looking at a number of different scenarios for 2012.
Our internal view is not one of a strong economy as a backdrop.
Our hedge position provides clarity on our cash flow resources which we will continue to use as a guide for our capital program.
As customary we will have our 2012 plan approved by our board in early 2012 and be in a position to share many more details with you at that time.
Moving on now to operational updates.
First we'll start with the oil plays in the Uinta Basin where we have about 250 000 net acres in multiple exciting oil developments underway.
We're the largest operator in the region and have been able to capture superior returns.
We recently attained a production high in the Uinta Basin of 24 500 barrels per day supported by continued strong well results in the Central Basin area in the Wasatch formation.
Recent notable Wasatch completions include the Lamb well which had an IP of nearly 1 200 barrels of oil equivalent per day in the 30-day average over 600 barrels per day.
Our Padilla well recently commenced production at more than 1 100 barrels of oil equivalent per day.
And just this week our Miles well initiated flow.
And as of this morning it is flowing at over 1 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day and continues to clean up following fracture stimulation this past weekend.
These are game changers for us especially in a basin where the average well has historically come online at 85 barrels of oil per day.
As we've said time and again we're a proven operator in the Uinta Basin.
Our most recent deep Wasatch well was drilled in just 13 days from spud to rig release.
This compares to our acquisition case of about 18 days and a historic industry comparable wells of 40 days or more.
We do have a competitive advantage in our operations.
We will be testing some exciting new play types in 2012 in multiple perspective horizons throughout our acreage block.
We plan to aggressively pursue the application of horizontal drilling and wells are planned for early in the new year.
And for vertical wells today are exceeding 1 000 barrels of oil per day.
Just imagine the potential of the horizontal wells have to drive economics and generate cash flow with significantly less capital investment.
We're drilling 2 wells in the Uteland Butte today and plan to test the pressured section in early 2012 where recent regional results from the industry look exciting.
Today we are high grading our rig fleet and bringing in larger rigs that are better suited for our new development plans.
We expect to operate 8 rigs in the Uinta Basin in 2012 and we'll be looking for every positive signal to accelerate our activities in the region.
We believe that our Uinta Basin assets have net undeveloped resource potential of more than 700 million barrels of oil equivalent in the proven productive horizons of the Green River Wasatch and Uteland Butte.
And don't forget that our acreage has multiple additional stacked oil and gas plays ranging from 4 500 feet to more than 16 000 feet true vertical depth.
In the Eagle Ford we have about 40 000 acres where we will concentrate our development operations primarily located in the southern portion of our acreage block.
We're also testing additional perspective horizons including the Austin Chalk Georgetown Glen Rose Pearsall Shale and others.
Development drilling today centers on the Southern acreage.
And we've seen recent success in our West Asherton field a 20 000-acre block.
We have some exciting drilling programs underway today in core development areas with a high service cost prevalent in Eagle Ford today.
This is not a basin that warrant acceleration in activity wells.
In the Southern Alberta Basin we are nearing the end of our comprehensive vertical testing program.
In our operations report we provided an update on our results today.
All of our wells have encountered oil.
We remain encouraged about the ultimate prospectivity of the basin.
Although to date we have not experienced indications of high production rates.
Our horizontal wells to date tested secondary targets.
One of the wells is unstimulated and the other had about 225 barrel initial production rate from just 30% of the stimulated portion of the lateral.
Fully stimulated this could have been a pretty good flow rate.
History tells us that we have a demonstrated track record of improving results over time and I'm sure this will take place in this basin as well.
There a number of operators conducting assessments in the basin today and this will ultimately benefit us.
Our activity levels to date satisfy the majority of our drilling obligations for our 5-year exploration period.
We will limit our expenditures in this play in the near term and preserve our option for its ultimate development as work continues.
We have approximately 340 000 net acres in the play.
In Malaysia our team has done an excellent job this year as nearing the finish line on our large developments with East Piatu expected to flow oil this weekend.
Despite the repair issues we had to deal with this year at Abu our oil production has exceeded beginning of year expectations.
And recent gross volumes are nearly 50 000 barrels per day and we expect them to exceed 60 000 barrels of oil per day by year end 2011.
These are great assets and add significantly to our bottom line.
If you have additional questions on any of our operating areas I'd be happy to address them during Q&amp;A.
In closing let me quickly reiterate where we are focused today.
First we are working hard to get our large offshore developments online.
This will provide a nice boost in liquids production in 2012 adding additional high margin oil and gas liquids production.
Second we have a simplified game plan for 2012.
We will allocate our capital to the projects with the best margins.
This will likely mean a continued de-emphasis on gas plays and a concentrated focus on oil.
Our Uinta Basin projects will be our largest growth driver in 2012.
Third our investments in 2012 will be underpinned with internally generated cash resources and we will maintain a healthy capital structure.
Fourth and last we will continue to manage for the long term benefit of our shareholders.
I'm confident we are doing the right things today and for the right reasons.
That concludes our prepared remarks today and we're delighted to take your questions at this time.
Operator? [Operator Instructions] And our first question this morning comes from David Kistler with Simmons &amp; Company.
Research Division</strong> Quick question.
I know you're not going to go deep into CapEx for 2012 but can you give us what you think maintenance CapEx would need to be to keep production flat on a quarter-over-quarter basis? Let's hear Rathert take that question.
Dave I think we're not going to give you any good indication where we are in 2012 as you suggested because we're working through that right now.
I would guess that maybe one of the best ways to think about that is we have a lot of areas that are in different phases of life cycle.
And so picking any one and trying to pin it down to a business unit or a basin is particularly problematic.
But generally I would say that the maintenance level is probably in the range of $1.1 billion to $1.2 billion to just be flat year-over-year.
And that again is very much dependent upon how we see some things develop by basin prospectively as we shift capital around.
That number is moving.
Research Division</strong> I appreciate that color and I don't mean to dig too much deeper into but just one more on the CapEx side.
$1.1 billion to $1.2 billion keeps production flat on a year-over-year basis.
You've got a decent ramp in production throughout this year.
If I just think about keeping flat with fourth quarter rates I would imagine it would need to be -- I don't want to say significantly higher than that but slightly higher than that.
Am I thinking about that the right way? I think David when you work through it -- Terry is trying to get some color in terms of how the pieces fit together.
I mean clearly if you take the fourth quarter exit rate and maintain that number you'll be looking at a number in the 320-ish 325 Bcf range somewhere in that zip code.
But remember the flush production that is coming on of this field and they've got declined.
So you've got to balance that out.
So I would say that the answer in the end of the day and Terry's funding levels is somewhere between those 2 endpoints in my judgment.
Research Division</strong> Okay I appreciate that.
And then maybe switching to your Alberta Bakken well that you put out the initial results on.
Can you talk a little bit about what kind of completion issues you had and why only 1/3 of it got off? I'll let Gary Packer take that question.
Yes Dave as you initiate these horizontal wells and any of these new plays there's a certain portion of the wellbore that's going to be out of [indiscernible] as you're steering into something you haven't drilled before.
It's very typical.
It's something you almost can factor in early on.
Rather than spend the incremental money and sidetrack these wells you go ahead and you complete the intervals that you have.
And in the case that we've referenced we had about 30%.
The other thing I would say and again this is very typical of these early plays is trying to understand what the appropriate completion technique is and the first well in the basin is always going to be a bit of a challenge.
You learn from that you move on.
We just haven't had the chance to apply that to a second well yet.
Research Division</strong> Okay appreciate that color and completely understand in the early stages that that can happen.
Following up on one other thing that you mentioned on the call.
You talked about doing additional divestitures in 2012 above and beyond your target for this year.
Can you talk a little bit about what levels you might be targeting or any of the specific assets? Can we get any granularity on that? David this Terry again.
I think it's a little too early to tell.
As we go into the budgeting process here for 2012 what we're going to be looking to do is determine how well we allocate capital and human resource to the basin with the highest return look at what our capacity is to make investments there without marginalizing those returns and that will match it up with our cash flows.
And if there's a deficit then we can spend more to generate better returns in what we're getting from non-strategic assets that are generating cash flow and think about converting those to cash and funding those activities very similar the way we did this year.
But going into next year we're going to start out with the cash flow from operations as the first building block in that process and then we'll see where things stack up from there.
Our next question comes from Brian Lively with Tudor Pickering Holt.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> On the Q3 CapEx rate of $679 million how much of that was E&amp;D CapEx versus leasing? I would say a bulk of that was due to operations Brian.
We are finishing up some leasing on a play so I would suggest to you that it was probably $25 million or so off of the top of my head a minor amount of it.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> But could you guys maybe talk about how the run rate goes down in Q4 then? Sure Brian.
This is Terry.
I think the easiest way to do that is if you grab your statement of cash flows and look at the year-to-date investment in oil and gas properties it's not $1.75 billion.
Close to $150 million of that is capitalized internal cost so that puts us at $1.6 billion against our announced capital budget of $1.9 billion.
And it's actually probably a little bit on the high side of $1.9 billion but it's not $2 billion.
So what we've done is recognize that we need to change the pace and as Lee mentioned on the call a lot of our capital budget was front-end loaded with these major developments.
When you take those out because they're not happening in the fourth quarter when you take the change in pace in the activities and deferral completions then you end up with capital budget that we need to adhere to in the fourth quarter being around $350 million.
And we're going to do that.
We have the plans in place to accomplish that and everybody knows that we're not going to give up that target.
I guess I would add to Terry's comment Brian.
Operationally the way we're able to influence that most directly is the dropping of rigs and completions.
This was referred to in our announcement if you refer to the various programs for executing this year.
In the Granite Wash we've historically went about 5 rigs.
We've already got that down to 3 and that's likely to see about 2 rigs by year end so that's pretty material adjustment on wells as you well know are pretty expensive wells in the order of $10 million or so.
When you look at the Williston Basin we've historically been running about 5 rigs there.
We'll probably average 2 to 3 rigs for the remainder of the year so that's about half of what we would have otherwise been running.
We do have a new build coming out at year end that will be added to the fleet but we've been able to manage our contracts such that we've got some flexibility there.
The other thing  I'd ask you to look at is these completions.
As we all know these horizontal stage completions are quite expensive and typically 50% or 60% of our well cost.
We've made a decision once we elected to cut back in the Williston Basin on the rigs we're going to allow ourself to build a bit of an inventory on the completion side as well.
So we'll likely exit this year with about 13 unstimulated wells in the Williston Basin.
That's a pretty pretty big number that will allow us to get some flush production back in 2012.
And also we'll -- as the year unfolds we'll back off in some of the completion operations in the Granite Wash.
All of these should take a pretty material reduction in our fourth quarter run rate.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> A question on the Bakken and on spending kind of aligned with that.
The $11 million well cost that seems high relative to even some of the other operators in that play now.
Why are the costs so much higher? Well I think first of all I guess I would take issue with your comment on the well cost.
We've put ourself out and compared our drilling curves and our costs against all the operators in the area.
In each of the areas that we're active I can tell you that we're very competitive as far as the wells that we're drilling.
I will tell you that all our wells this year are proportionally much higher as a result of drilling the 1 000 foot laterals.
Last year and even today we can back off and drill a 4 000 to 5 000 foot lateral in the neighborhood of $7 million.
Earlier this year we were in an 8 5 to 9 3 environment.
And we've seen that number go up to 11.
Now the lateral lengths that we have today are between 9 000 and 10 000 feet.
And I can tell you in the $11 million there is some element of trouble cost that are built into that that are a reflection of what we've seen in 2011.
Now many of the costs that you historically see don't have trouble cost built into them.
And in the environment that we're currently drilling today you are far more likely to see increasing costs associated with that area than you are in areas where the rig count is much low.
So that is a fully-loaded facilities trouble cost as well as drilling complete.
Now as we look forward and you see some of the contracts that you have in place for stimulation services roll-off and you see the basin moderate or more services come in I fully expect that number will back off.
But I'd be naive in thinking that if we would be seeing a $9 million well cost anytime soon.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay that was really helpful.
Last question and I'll get off.
Lee in the prepared remarks you said basically in 2012 oil growth from fewer projects.
Can you guys maybe talk about which assets are sort of untouchable? Obviously Uinta is but which other assets are untouchable? And then would you consider in -- like you said high grading some of the more resource-oriented plays in the U.S.? Let me start with the takeback in the comments.
Certainly the Uinta is the centerpiece and I stated in the call that we're excited about the well results that are starting to roll off now in the back of the Central Basin land acquisitions that we've undertaken this year excited about the potential application of horizontal drilling completions in the basin in multiple horizons.
So I think that's the thing to think about in terms of future for 2012.
The Williston we like the returns on the Williston.
I'm confident that buying some time here to get lined up and oriented hit the ground running in 2012 with the completion inventory I think that will be a net positive there as well.
Internationally we've got our large oil projects that we've been working on.
East Piatu will  be online this weekend so we'll have that activity behind us so we'll maybe enjoin flush production cash flow from those assets as well as the Pyrenees development which is going to come online in December of this year.
So when you put all of those pieces together I think it's a pretty strong story in terms of the oil-producing assets.
Now on the gas side I will remind you that we are largely held by production.
We've been accepting decline on the base assets there and that's going to likely continue to be the case if we trade sideways in this type of market -- market condition.
Beyond that as far as the additional assets a lot of the activity we've undertaken this year has to do with some of the legacy historical conventional Gulf Coast natural gas assets.
That's part of the refocusing in terms of personnel.
I think that's a positive step and that's where part of the focus comes from in terms of the organization.
Beyond that I don't think that as Terry indicated we're really in a position to talk about specific assets or specific opportunities that we might use to either accelerate or further streamline.
The statement was made as a continued commitment to ask ourselves to grow hold divest question each and every day and it's a challenge that we've placed with all of our management teams around the different regions.
So we'll continue to ask ourselves which assets are part of the future and we'll ask ourselves likewise which assets more appropriately are part of the past and we'll continue to make those decisions to strengthen the portfolio through time.
Our next question comes from Joe Allman with JP Morgan.
Research Division</strong> Lee in terms of the lower guidance it seems to me that a lot of the lower guidance is self-imposed and I saw your table in your release and the numbers you cited today.
Do you agree with that that most of the lower guidance is self-imposed? Or is most of it just disappointment on the operations? I think your assessment is absolutely correct.
I mean it's not our style to go ahead and make excuses.
I mean we've been communicating all year that the inflation and the market conditions were deteriorating execution and margin erosion in the service cost environment.
You also see deterioration in the quality accrues that you get out on a location.
So all of those factors kind of come together.
So the first commitment is control what you can control.
And as Terry indicated we're going to hit the $1.9 billion budget.
That was a commitment we made.
That was something we can control and that required curtailing activity.
Clearly we could have continued to drive forward and roll through year end and tell you that we spent $2.1 billion or whatever the number would have been.
And our production numbers would have looked in line with what we said that we can deliver.
But we thought a more prudent decision at this point is to adjust our program start repositioning assets within the corporation to the 2012 game plan and we're doing that as we speak.
So why not buy some time there to get things right so that you can execute the program in 2012.
So I would agree with you most of it is self-imposed.
But I don't think that's a bad thing.
I think it's something that frankly more companies should do.
There was comment in there that we're going to chase margin expansion and then we're going to continue to drive oil in doing that.
We're going to chase cash flow growth again driven by oil.
And we'll do both of those in preference to absolute production growth.
And I think that's a strong statement and it's a position that we believe as a leadership team is the right thing for Newfield and we think it's going to position us well in 2012 forward.
Research Division</strong> That makes a lot of sense.
And then at the beginning of the call Lee you mentioned that you weren't particularly happy with some of the operations and you've talk about some of the I guess quality issues in the Williston Basin.
Any other issues in the Williston or elsewhere that are particularly concerning? Well I have to say that any of the basins Eagle Ford would be another one that we talked about that you've seen a lot of activity explosion in the activity difficulty in services all the things that come with overheated basins as a general rule I think in how many times we have to obviously to prove this in our course of our careers.
But every time a basin overheats like that you see a deterioration in quality and it does impact execution.
So clearly we're reducing activities where we can mostly on the basis that the margins don't compete and other options that we have in the portfolio and then the improved focus in terms of repositioning the human capital into the areas is critical as well.
And one of the other considerations that we use as a regular part of our business the core value of the corporation if you will has to do with H.S.
&amp; E.
performance.
So overheated basins generally puts you in a position that you've got to worry a little bit more about your people and the operations.
So balancing out organizational capacity and all of these factors is a critical thing to do I think.
And we're trying to balance that in the context of generating the results that we strive to achieve.
Let me add a little something to that Joe.
There are regional fluctuations in this.
But across the board I mean you can see and I think everybody's numbers reflect this you're seeing anywhere between 10% and 25% increases in completion costs across the nation in many of these major plays.
I've complimented our Mid-Continent team and some of the more mature areas of the Rockies.
We've been able to push back and basically offset virtually all of the increasing costs that we've seen due to their various performance moderating techniques and technology.
I think when we talked about the Williston Basin not only do we see the costs up.
And quite frankly it still generates returns that still do compete.
The biggest issue we have is the reliability of when that production is brought to market.
That's the thing that has become less and less certain to us and that's caused us to really back off preferentially there.
We'll make these investments but we need to have assurance of production.
We exited the Gulf of Mexico Shelf for a reason.
This was big part of that.
We just needed to make sure that once as we get the resources in place to ensure the timely execution of these projects in addition to the capital investments that we're making.
Research Division</strong> That's very helpful Gary.
And then just lastly Lee when do you expect to make an announcement about the Uinta Basin marketing plan? Well we've made a commitment Joe that we'll have more to say on that before year end and we're going to honor that commitment.
So we'll have more -- I guess more information on that issue before year end.
We'll take the next question from Gil Yang with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> A couple of different questions.
For the Southern Alberta lateral that was partially stimulated how long is the total lateral did you say? I believe it was somewhere in the order of 3 500 feet maybe 4 000 feet Gil.
Research Division</strong> Okay and basically you only stimulated about 1/3 because only 1/3 was in zone.
Gary was that the understanding? It was a combination of areas in which we could initiate fracture as well as of those that were in zone correct.
I think you'll remember early in these play areas that you've got to gather data in terms of stress fields and wellbore orientations.
So I would say that a portion of the issue in that well is that we would drill in a different orientation today knowing what we know today.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
Okay.
With respect to the production taxes in Asia it sounded like they were quite a bit higher than you expected.
And obviously the oil price was probably higher than you expected.
But was there any PSC sort of effect where you're getting less of the incremental dollar because of those -- because of any contracts of that nature? Gil every one of our PSCs is in just a little bit different position relative to cost recovery and things of that nature.
So we generally can do a good job of estimating where the liftings come from and the allocations between them.
The swing factor is what is the oil price realization and there is a supplemental tax.
So as you experience higher and higher oil prices a large portion of that turns out to be taxed.
So we can mail the mix because we've scheduled liftings pretty far in advanced.
And if the liftings occur in time and occasionally if we miss it by a week or two or whatever we can get that right.
The unknown really at the end of the day is when we start out the day making projections for the end of the year is was the oil price between now and then.
Research Division</strong> Right okay.
So in other words the higher oil price in the quarter that you had expected in a disproportionate amount was taken out as part of that PSCs and so that's why the production taxes are higher than you had anticipated.
A higher -- on the incremental revenues a higher percentage of those is taxed in the underlying production.
For example at $85 a barrel we estimate the tax.
And if we get $100 a barrel a disproportionate share of that $15 goes to tax in the underlying $85.
Research Division</strong> Got you okay.
So when I look at your fourth quarter guidance given that the Brent-WTI differential is pretty high today and given that WTI is not -- has sort of bounced up a little bit it sounds to me like your production tax forecast seemed a little conservative versus what you actually reported in the third quarter.
Is there something in there that I'm missing? If we use the strip price on $9.22 so that's an $80 oil price.
And we use the $3.84 gas price and then you adjust that for its premium to Tapas or Brent.
So we're realizing today close to $115 a barrel for that crude.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And $115 Brent in that sort of range your production tax will be in order of $5 and $6 as you forecast? And we'll also have cost recovery from our new production at Piatu.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
Okay so the cost recovery would appear in that production tax number? Cost recovery barrels are not subject to production tax.
And so what Bill says there is because they're not subject to production tax the volume weighted average production tax will be lower.
So the $5 to $6 guidance that we provided is based upon the forward strip at $9.22 which stays at $8.62 and the observed differential between WTI and Brent at that time which was around $10 a barrel.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
Okay.
And the cost recovery barrels are on East Piatu? East Piatu and we'll be drilling in East Belumut so there'll be cost recovery barrels there as well.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
But the 7 000 barrels so you will actually be booking more than 7 000 barrels for East Piatu because you'll get 7 000 barrels net and then plus the cost recovery barrels.
Is that right? Yes.
Once we ramp up to the full 10 000 barrels a day.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
Okay.
And then the last question is given you're slowing down pretty dramatically in the fourth quarter essentially taking your foot off the accelerator what's the momentum going to be in volume growth going into 2012.
It sounds like it will be negative.
And as you step on the accelerator again with your new capital budget for 2012 how quickly is it going to take to ramp up? And will we on a quarter -- I know you don't have guidance for 2012 but just in terms of trajectory should we expect there to be sort of flattish through the year? Or is it dip down and then begin accelerating in the back half of the year? Well Gil as we've said we're not going to put out any numbers right now until we have thoroughly worked through what our guidance is going to be for 2012.
From an operational standpoint clearly we're trying to manage all our rig contracts such that we have ultimate flexibility in our ability to go ahead and move rigs around the organization to make sure we can accelerate in the areas in which we desire to do so.
Now the good thing we're working for us is as we've already said we're going to have a [indiscernible] of unstimulated wells that we'll be able to address in the first quarter of the year.
So that will help us in the first quarter and then we would be able to accelerate in the areas that we elected by putting other rigs back to work.
In some cases we're farming rigs out but we still have access to that.
And we've also got 2 new rigs coming to work for Newfield one in the Williston Basin and one in the Uinta Basin.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Are you paying any stack and laydown charges? No.
We'll now hear from Leo Mariani with RBC.
LLC Research Division</strong> Can you talk a little bit about well cost in the Uinta particularly in the Wasatch and the Uteland Butte in terms of what you're seeing? Sure.
I think the numbers that we've put out a few months ago when we unveiled the whole Central Basin play are still pretty good go-buys  for us to look at.
I think if you looked at at the time we announced that we've talked about $2.6 million well cost that's an average of a number of different well types that we will drill some that's shallow something is basically the deepening of the Green River well some of them is as deep as the deepest section that we can drill within the Wasatch.
So the range of well cost that we can see in that play is probably as low as $1.3 million for a deepening of a well.
But it could be as high as $3.5 million or so.
So it's very difficult to focus on an average that we try to provide a simplified type curve for the market to understand the play versus any specific well.
So the wells that we're drilling today have typically been deep Wasatch wells a little over $3 million.
So it's an area in which in the Uinta Basin we've had our best cost advantages in the organization and we continue to get the lid on those costs.
The other issue there is I know there's been some discussion that we've been asked about and that is how do this compare with some of the other regional operators.
I can tell you that when you compare a well Wasatch well at Monument Butte impaired or with the Central Basin relative to Altamont Bluebell our wells are considerably shallower.
And therefore our well cost will be considerably cheaper.
And it's also very difficult to compare these plays when you reach to the West and you look in the areas where that geopressured section is being drilled.
But they're just not drilling as many wells as we've got those well cost would expect  to be a little higher as well.
So I do think we have a cost advantage.
But in the numbers that we've put out there historically are still accurate.
Now the Uteland Butte formation that's still something that I believe we've put out $2.8 million well cost.
We've seen that well.
And remember we've only drilled a handful of these.
We've drilled the 5th or 6th time that you put out those numbers.
We've drilled about 5 or so more of those wells but we're just bringing 2 to production right now.
But they're somewhere in the $2 million to 3 million range of very early well cost.
So I'd say were still within the target that we proposed for that as well.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And how does the -- Obviously you guys are adding a bunch of activity as we get into '12.
How does that affect your traditional shallow vertical Green River program? Do you think you're going to potentially pull back in that activity in favor of the Wasatch and Uteland Butte can you just discuss some of the dynamics there Sure.
I think that's entirely accurate what you said.
Historically we've built an organization out there that can handle and has historically run somewhere between a 5 and 6 rig program.
We've historically talked about permitting constraints that existed out there.
By doing exactly as you suggest and shifting away from wells that as Lee suggested make 85 barrels a day to 1 000 barrels a day.
We can kind of take the pressure off the system from a permitting standpoint and manpower standpoint and really drive our growth through these Wasatch and/or Uteland Butte wells.
Uteland Butte as we've historically talked about has all been drilled in the normally pressured section.
I think there's been some great results in the region where we're drilling in the geopressured section.
So we're really looking forward to that opportunity and I believe it's the next -- we got the second well up in our program right now is a pressured well.
So we ought to see late 2011 early 2012 to start accumulating results in the geopressured Uteland Butte.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
I guess with respect to the Granite Wash you guys did talk about pulling back some activity there.
If I'm kind of looking at some of the numbers correctly I think you guys talked about 57 wells programmed to date.
I kind of looked at your last update it was 47 So if I kind of looking at incremental 10 wells.
Am I correct in that you're seeing a bit of a degradation there in the IP as I kind of calculated a rough number of around $12 million a day on the IP for the last 10 wells? Can you guys kind of comment on what you've been seeing in the Granite Wash? I think the number you threw out there is accurate.
All I would ask you to consider when you think about the wells on average IP as we've continued to move from a well of 2010 that had a higher proportion of gas wells associated with it.
If you look at 2011 results you're going to higher proportion of Marmaton what we would call an FG well and that's going to bring that number down a little bit just due to that switch to oil.
LLC Research Division</strong> Got you.
Okay.
I guess I mean the decision there is the pullback -- is that more just one focused on sticking within the $1.9 billion for this year as opposed to any concerns on the economics there? No.
The pullback is to live within the $1.9 billion capital budget.
As Gary indicated we've got rigs that are going to be showing up in multiple regions and we've got a portfolio there.
It will be part of our 2012 game plan.
But right now it's a pullback related to managing to the $1.9 billion budget.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I guess with respect to the Eagle Ford you guys talked about cost inflation there.
If I was kind of reading it correctly I mean it looks like your well cost for the last several months well we talked about in Q2 versus 3Q or -- were pretty similar.
It looks like your results were also pretty similar in terms of the wells.
So I guess obviously you've talked about in the developed 20 000 acres and then in your prepared comments mentioned an area of 40 000 acres that could be open for development.
Is that something we should still expect reasonable activity on as we get into 2012? It will be part of the mix for sure and your analysis is accurate.
We'll now hear from Brian Singer with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> As you shifted activity and capital to the Uinta from your other areas can you just talk about how much of the additional resources and your 8-rig program for 2012 would be focused on exploratory opportunity new zones relative to development? And when you talked about the recent Uinta production rate of 24.5 barrels per day at an 8-rig program with the permitting or any downstream constraints that exist how should we think about where that 24.5 can go 12 months up? I'll let Gary go and give you the color on that.
As far as the 8-rig program out there we've challenged the team up there to do as much of the exploration so to speak i.e.
targeting horizontal drilling activity to some of the new zones that we've uncovered and we've discussed publicly plus a few that we haven't talked a lot about as much of that in the first quarter as we possibly can.
There's significant upside potential to anything we have previously contemplated in those zones.
So I think we'll assess the results at the end of the first quarter and deploy our capital accordingly.
So we have multiple scenarios what we're modeling right now Brian regarding that output.
What I would consider a very conservative case would be continuing to do what we're doing and that was basically our acquisition scenario where we're drilling 1 000 barrel a day Wasatch wells which is nothing to sneeze at.
The upside is that we have some proportional step change that becomes a bit of a game changer for us in 2012 and you would look at that at the tail end of the year.
So I guess before I -- I'd like the ability to kind of finish some of the modeling work we're doing there before I address about 24.5% and where it can go.
I think historically we've talked about growth rates out there well north of 15% doing what we were doing.
And I believe in the call that we projected last time we were well north of 20% 25% is what the capability to grow that basin is.
So if we have some of these new opportunity center I think there's a possibility that it could be greater than that.
But we really need to see some more results before we can nail that down.
And you'll get additional color Brian when we update you on the marketing plan out there towards the end of the year.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
Thanks.
It sounds like based on your comments there that the real step change in horizontal or in more of the Uteland activity and the Wasatch activity would probably start from a drilling perspective more in the second quarter and then maybe you can start to see the impact on production in the third quarter and fourth quarter? Yes very accurate.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then going over to the Williston a couple questions there.
First are you just waiting for January 1 to come around to be in a recommence completion activity? Or are there other milestones you're looking for? I think there's other milestones.
As Lee suggested the Granite Wash is an example of where we back off to manage to a $1.9 billion budget.
As I look at the Williston I'm looking to have a higher confidence that the service sector can deliver on some of the costs and the commitments that we've made out there and it's only then will we look to accelerate activities.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
Do you feel that you need any more scale in the Williston? Obviously your well results in that perspective look okay.
It looks very good.
But do you think you can do more scale? Or the other way to ask it would be has the Williston become or is it becoming less strategic for you especially as the Uinta is improving in stature? The strategic question is a good one.
I would say that the economics display especially if we can get the well cost down a little bit will certainly compete with anything that we've got in the organization.
I think for anything to be truly strategic it has to be something that we can grow and build upon far into the future.
So I would say this is a fabulous bridge asset that has considerable value both in driving oil volumes and margins and our NAV.
But as far as an area that -- and if we could grow our 140 000 acres today I'd certainly be interested in doing that.
But that said when you're sitting at kind of a locked position as far as your acreage goes I'll stick with my comment that it's a bridge to other major core foundational assets that will develop over time.
Ladies and gentlemen that's all the time we have today for questions.
I'll turn the call back over to management for any additional or closing comments.
Well thank you for your time.
Thank you for your interest in Newfield and we look forward to updating you on our progress in our next call.
Have a good day.
Ladies and gentlemen that does conclude today's conference call.
We thank you for your participation.
Good day everyone and welcome to Newfield Exploration's Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2011 Conference Call.
Just a reminder today's call is being recorded.
Our discussion with you today will contain forward-looking statements such as estimated production and timing drilling and development plans and expected cost reductions and planned capital expenditures.
Although we believe that the expectations reflected in these statements are reasonable they are based upon assumptions and anticipated results that are subject to numerous uncertainties and risks.
Actual results may vary significantly from those anticipated due to many factors and risks some of which may be unknown.
Please see Newfield's 2010 Annual Report on Form 10-K and subsequent quarterly reports on Form 10-Q for a discussion of factors that may cause actual results to vary.
Forward-looking statements made during this call speak only as of today's date and unless legally required Newfield undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements.
In addition reconciliations of non-GAAP financial measures to GAAP financial measures together with Newfield's earnings release and 2012 capital investment program release and any other applicable disclosures are available on the Investor Relations page of Newfield's website at www.newfield.com.
At this time for opening remarks and introductions I would like to turn the call over to the Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer Mr.
Lee Boothby.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you very much.
Good morning everyone and thanks for joining us today for our fourth quarter and year end 2011 conference call.
I'm joined in Houston this morning our Chief Operating Officer Gary Packer; our CFO Terry Rathert; and our VP of IR Steve Campbell.
Following today's brief prepared remarks we'll be happy to address your questions.
Our call today will focus on 3 main topics: First a summary of the fourth quarter financial and operating results and our 2011 highlights; second I'll discuss our year end 2011 proved and probable reserves and how the shift to oil that we've been presenting since 2009 is evident in our results.
And lastly I will cover our simplified game plan for 2012.
Our focus is clear and I'll summarize our planned activities and capital plans in our key oil and liquids-rich plays.
So let's go through our fourth quarter financial results.
Our net income excluding the impact of the FAS 133 was $127 million or $0.95 per share.
Our results were below first call consensus primarily due to lower natural gas volumes and an increase in our DD&amp;A rate partially offset by higher oil volumes.
Our increased DD&amp;A reflects our ongoing shift to oil.
Revenues in the fourth quarter were $677 million.
For the quarter oil and liquids comprised 40% of our total production and more than 70% of our total revenues.
Our shift to oil began 3 years ago and we are well on our way to becoming an oil company in 2013.
Our net cash provided by operating activities before changes in operating assets and liabilities was $387 million or $2.87 per share.
In the fourth quarter our oil and liquids liftings averaged nearly 64 000 barrels a day.
They increased about 9 000 barrels a day or about 15% compared to the third quarter of 2011 and totaled 6 million barrels.
When compared to our first quarter 2011 oil liftings our fourth quarter oil sales were more than 30% higher.
We are achieving strong growth from our oil plays and we will continue to focus both our people and capital on these plays in 2012.
By design our gas production is on natural decline.
This the right economic decision with today's weak natural gas prices and we are making no investments in dry gas today.
Our natural gas production in the fourth quarter was 44 Bcf or 478 million cubic feet per day.
Our gas production declined about 20 million cubic feet over the course of the year.
We had some great highlights in 2011 that will set us up for outperformance in the future.
Let me run through a quick list.
Through several transactions in 2011 we captured approximately 75 000 net acres north of Monument Butte in Uinta Basin and expanded our dominant position in the region.
We are the 800-pound gorilla with more than 230 000 net acres in the basin and a potential to develop multiple new and exciting oil plays both vertically and horizontally.
We secured our future in the Uinta with signing of 2 agreements a 7- and 10-year term with 38 000 barrels of oil per day in refining capacity for our Uinta Basin oil growth.
We assembled more than 125 000 net acres in the Cana Woodford play and Anadarko Basin of Oklahoma and then yesterday's release disclosed this as our stealth play.
We invested approximately $100 million in leasing in 2011 to extend the Cana Woodford south and east of the known fairway and expanded our composite footprint in Oklahoma's Woodford Shale play to about 300 000 net acres.
Our technical people did a great job of identifying an opportunity to extend this play to the Southeast and our land professionals moved quickly to capture it for us.
Our acreage is not in the dry gas portion of the play.
We've identified a liquids-rich and oil-prone extension to the Cana and we are expecting strongly competitive returns from our investments.
We have a long and proven history in exploiting the Woodford formation in Oklahoma and have a very aggressive assessment program planned for 2012 which I'll discuss in a few minutes.
We commenced production from 3 new offshore developments 2 in Malaysia and one in the Gulf of Mexico in late 2011 and early 2012.
These new developments added about 17 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day net of new production.
We refined our asset base and sold $710 million in nonstrategic assets in 2011 and early 2012 an additional $18 million in sales will close the coming weeks.
This is a program that we will continue as we work to build the Newfield of the future and focus our people on the best return projects in our portfolio.
Yesterday we also disclosed year end proved and probable reserves for 2011.
Our optional reporting of probable reserves makes us somewhat unique in the industry.
Internally we are managing our company on a 2P basis and believe that our disclosure provides greater transparency on the reserves over time.
At year end 2011 our proved and probable reserves totaled 6.5 trillion cubic feet equivalent a 5% increase over 2010.
Our probable reserves showed the depth of our inventory for future growth.
Of our 2.6 trillion cubic feet equivalent of probable reserves about 42% meet the technical definition of proved but simply lie outside of the 5-year development window.
Therefore they're technically classified as probable per SEC guidelines.
Our emphasis on oil is reflected in our reserve report.
We've increased the oil and liquids component of our reserves to 40% of total proved reserves.
Our 2011 proved oil reserves increased nearly 30% over 2010.
Our natural gas reserves declined 6% representing our continued slowing of natural gas investments in the coming years.
Proved reserves at year end 2011 were 3.9 trillion cubic feet equivalent up about 5% from the prior year.
In yesterday's release we provided proved reserves for the last 3 years to help with your comparative analysis.
For 2011 we organically added about 860 billion cubic feet equivalent of new proved reserves and acquired about 50 billion cubic feet equivalent.
We sold more than 120 billion cubic feet equivalent with our ongoing nonstrategic asset sales program.
These sales generated more than $400 million of proceeds in 2011.
We replaced more than 400% of our 2011 production with proved and probable additions and more than 300% of 2011 production with new proved reserve additions.
About 45% of our proved reserves are undeveloped and about 55% are proved developed.
With our continuing increase in oil reserves the present value discounted at 10% of our proved reserves grew more than 20% to $6 billion after-tax.
If you have any additional questions on our reserves we'll be happy to address those at the end of today's call.
Before moving to or 2012 game plan let me provide a quick update on our nonstrategic asset sales program.
Each of our Domestic business units has contributed and there were more than 40 individual transactions that comprised the $728 million in total realizations.
In early 2011 we set out on a path to refine our asset base.
By selling nonstrategic assets we were able to reallocate both people and capital to higher valued projects and assets that we see as an important part of our future.
There are some detailed tables in last night's release that show the impact of asset sales on our production by division.
The largest transaction was the $276 million sale of about 23 000 net acres in the Williston Basin located West of the Nesson Anticline and our Catwalk area.
We sold current net production of about 300 barrels of oil equivalent per day and 8 drilled and uncompleted wells.
This sale allows us to focus our development drilling efforts on high-graded areas in the basin.
I'll talk more about our increased Williston Basin activity levels in just a moment.
In early 2012 we announced that our Gulf of Mexico assets were now nonstrategic to our future and announced plans to explore options to capture the most value.
I'd like to spend the remainder of today's call on our 2012 game plan.
It will be an oil-focused program and our activity levels will only revolve around a few key assets.
As I said in our last conference call and on the road recently we're executing a simplified game plan in 2012 and we are confident that we can deliver on our key goals and expectations.
From the macro perspective our short-term view on natural gas is pretty negative.
In recent years our industry has discovered massive natural gas resources.
Although most of the industry is shifting to oil and liquids-rich drilling programs there's a tremendous amount of associated gas and even with our weak economic backdrop U.S.
natural gas supply remains strong.
24 months’ strip price for natural gas is has fallen 25% since late October.
Our shift to oil began in late 2009 and since that time our oil and liquids growth has a CAGR of 20%.
Our transition to oil has not been easy and we are accepting declines in our natural gas fields.
We are executing this transition to oil with a careful eye on the balance sheet and we work diligently to sell nonstrategic assets and deploy the proceeds towards lucrative oil plays and necessary debt repayments.
In a given calendar year a $100 million investment in our natural gas portfolio would provide twice the production growth from an equal oil investment but with today's disparity in oil and gas prices the cash generation from the oil investment is nearly 2.5x that of natural gas.
We are focused on one overriding product cash and delivering sound returns for our investment decisions over the long term.
I am confident that our 2012 game plan will further our transition to an oil company and lead to improved returns higher revenues and strong cash flow production growth per share.
Our 2012 capital budget will range from $1.5 million to $1.7 billion.
This is down approximately $400 million from our investment levels in 2011.
As we've done over the last 3 consecutive years we plan to live within our internal resources.
We've used a combination of cash flow and nonstrategic asset sales to maintain a strong capital structure.
Our expectation is that natural gas prices will remain challenged in 2012.
With that outlook it is prudent to limit investments and accelerate our transition to an oil company a target we fully expect to achieve in 2013.
In the second half of 2012 we expect that more than 50% of our production will be from oil and liquids.
Substantially all of our total budget will be allocated to oil and this program is expected to grow our oil and liquids production by more than 20% in 2012.
Due to reduced investments in natural gas our gas production is expected to decline up to 15% in 2012.
Our production guidance is a product of making sound investment choices in 2012 and ensuring that we position ourselves for stronger oil growth levels in 2013 and beyond.
Our goals in 2012 are to maximize our revenues cash flow per share improve upon our per-unit of production operating margins.
For all the reasons referenced absolute production growth is not an emphasis for us in 2012 and we expect that our production will range from 290 to 300 Bcf equivalent or flat to slightly higher than 2011 pro forma for asset sales.
You will see in our first quarter guidance that we've deferred approximately 2 Bcf of gas production through curtailments and deferred well completions in the Mid-Continent.
We may also elect to curtail shut in or defer additional natural gas production should prices further deteriorate.
Our largest investment areas in 2012 will be the Uinta and Williston Basins the Cana Woodford and Malaysia.
I'll provide a brief overview of these programs before closing the call and taking your questions.
Our oil production in the Uinta Basin is expected to grow more than 20% in 2012.
We will allocate over $500 million into the Uinta Basin of 2012.
To date we've drilled 9 horizontal wells in the Uteland Butte and 17 vertical wells in the deeper Wasatch.
Our results to date are consistent with our expectations and we have an aggressive assessment and development campaign planned in the region in 2012.
These new plays along with our Green River development at Monument Butte provide strong returns and will add significant value for us in the future.
In 2012 we expect to drill up to 65 wells in the Central Basin.
This includes up to 30 horizontal wells with an emphasis on our pressured Uteland Butte play along with horizontal assessments of the Black Shale and Wasatch intervals.
Our first pressured Uteland Butte well is drilling today and completion is planned in the coming weeks.
Our first horizontal Wasatch well will spud in March with results expected late in the second quarter.
These plays will accelerate our oil growth and drive our transformation to an oil company.
We expect to run 7 to 8 rigs in the Uinta Basin in 2012 with 4 to 5 allocated to the Central Basin.
We've reduced our historic 4 to 5 rig count in the Monument Butte Field Green River targets to a planned 3-rig program in 2012.
We are focused on driving outsized oil growth from this asset and our new refining agreements give us the visibility we need to double our production levels out of the Uinta Basin by 2015.
We will invest about $200 million in the Williston Basin in 2012.
You'll recall that our activities in the basin slowed in late 2011 to ensure that we limited our budget overexpenditures.
We deferred the completion of about 17 wells and dropped 3 rigs.
Since then we sold a package of the assets which included 8 of the uncompleted wells.
Our crews have completed 3 wells since January 1 with an average 24 hour IP of 2 900 barrels of oil equivalent per day.
Plans are to have the remaining 6 wells completed before mid-year and we expect to run 2 to 4 rigs in the Williston Basin during the course of the year.
Our current production is about 7 500 barrels of oil equivalent per day and is expected to grow about 35% in 2012 compared to 2011 levels.
In 2012 we expect to drill about 25 new wells in the Williston Basin.
Our drilling is focused on identified locations in the Middle Bakken and Sanish/Three Forks across our acreage.
We have about 60 000 net acres in core development regions along and southwest of the Nesson Anticline and an additional 40 000-acre position all held by production in the Elm Coulee.
We have more than 250 identified development drilling locations today and plan to increase our activity levels in the Williston Basin going into 2013.
Let's move on to our newest area the Cana Woodford where we plan to invest about $300 million to rapidly assess our new acreage in the Anadarko basin.
We call this play stealth throughout 2011 as we assembled a 125 000-net-acre position.
From a pit perspective this new area is great.
From a proven operator in Oklahoma and in the Woodford where we have drilled more than 375 horizontal wells to date our new acreage has scale of thousands of potential locations and running room.
We have great relationships with service providers and it can compete for the services we need in Oklahoma.
Regulations in Oklahoma are favorable and we can get the necessary permits we need in a timely fashion.
And lastly this play has both oil and liquids rich gas which will keep the economics competitive within the best of the Newfield portfolio.
We are ramping to a 7 operated rig program in early 2012.
Our rapid assessment pending success will put us in a position to further increase activity levels into 2013.
This play has potential to drive material future oil and liquids growth for Newfield.
We've drilled a few wells in our acreage to date and are encouraged with the early returns.
In addition we have interest in a few industry wells on and around our lease position that have also been very positive.
Consistent with our previous disclosure in new drilling areas we will wait until we have adequate production data from a sampling of wells before we discuss our results publicly.
It would likely be midyear before we are in a position to provide you with a meaningful update.
In Malaysia we are seeing record gross production today of about 70 000 barrels of oil per day.
And today we're the fourth largest producer in the country and the third largest producer in the Malay Basin.
These are material oil developments to Newfield and to our partner Petronas.
Our projects in Southeast Asia are all oil.
For 2012 we will allocate about $235 million internationally with approximately $135 million to Malaysia.
The remaining $100 million will be for the development of our Pearl Oil Field in the Pearl River Mouth Basin offshore China.
Our first production is expected in late 2013 or early 2014.
Our net production today in Malaysia is a record 30 000 barrels of oil per day 1 000 barrels of oil per day higher than reported last night with early and good news this morning.
Our people in Malaysia continue to outperform and we're really excited about the potential looking forward.
Our Malaysian crude trades at a Brent price and we are seeing excellent returns from these oil developments.
We will accelerate development of our Malaysian producing fields and test new oil and natural gas exploration prospects in 2012.
Our East Piatu field came online in November and is today producing about 12 500 barrels per day higher than our earlier expectation of 10 000 barrels per day.
We have recently accelerated Phase 2 development well campaign which will allow us to keep production at maximum rates.
The Puteri field commenced production in October and is today producing about 8 000 barrels per day.
Our exploration efforts in Malaysia are ongoing with some exciting oil and gas exploration wells planned for 2012.
Recent positive changes and deepwater PSE terms deepwater natural gas PSE terms provide compelling investment options in our portfolio today.
In addition we continue to seek new opportunities in Malaysia to ensure future oil growth.
In the Maverick Basin in Texas we plan to invest about $100 million in 2012 and run a one-rig drilling program.
We're drilling our second Super Extended Lateral in the Eagle Ford today and our first well is now being completed.
These wells are part of a planned 4-well pilot program of SXL wells in 2012 on our southern acreage block.
In addition we will be testing prospective targets during the course of the year in the Austin Chalk and drilling oil wells on our Georgetown play in northern Maverick County.
In closing today let me summarize our focus in 2012.
Our efforts will be laser focused on growing oil production and reserves.
Our oil and liquids production in 2012 is expected to increase more than 20%.
This growth will come from our ongoing success in the Uinta and Williston Basins Malaysian oil developments and initial volumes from our new liquids-rich Cana play.
Success in the Uinta Basin and Cana Woodford will lead to material reserve bookings at the end of 2012 and set us up for superior growth in high-value plays in 2013.
We are taking the right steps today for our future.
We will continue to improve our organizational focus.
Focus was one of Joe Foster's sounding principles for Newfield and we will not stray.
The success of our nonstrategic asset sales program is helping us allocate people and capital to the best projects.
Focusing on fewer activities will help lead to superior results in our operations.
We will continue to live within our means and align our investments with internal resources.
We have ample resources to grow our oil projects and expect that our nonstrategic asset sales will continue.
We will manage our balance sheet and as always maintain a strong capital structure.
We will not lose sight of the future and will continue to build the people and prospects for the future.
We've made significant investments in Team Newfield over the last 3 years and our recent expansions into exciting new areas like the Central Basin in Utah and the Cana Woodford in Oklahoma help to ensure that we have the plays in our portfolio today for our future growth.
I'm excited about 2012 and confident that we are executing the right game plan to continue creating long-term value for our shareholders.
Operator we'll move to Q&amp;A.
[Operator Instructions] And ladies and gentlemen we'll go first today to William Butler with Stephens.
Research Division</strong> I was wondering if you could specify on the Woodford Cana a little bit more on the counties that you all are in.
Yes.
The Canadian and Grady Counties which would be specifically the areas east and southeast of the historic Cana field.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So would you be primarily east of there of where Continental has got a big acreage block? Does that sound about right? I think Continental has the lease position across the entire play.
So I really couldn't speak to that.
But I'd say east and primarily southeast of the historic Cana field.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Great.
And did you all – and I hope I didn't miss this but did you all disclose in terms of what you all are expecting oil and NGLs cut-wise on a percentage basis? We did not.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Would you like to? We have no plans to talk about that until we feel we have fully assessed the position.
We're drilling wells across the acreage and once we have our arms around that we'll be able to bring it forward.
Clearly it's targeting both oil as was referenced in the call as well as condensate gas and NGLs also play part of that of course.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Thank you.
As we start thinking about 2013 and the things you all are doing to position yourself for that how should we think about the growth for the year? We haven't put any growth numbers out.
Obviously for 2013 at this point I would say that let us execute our plans during the course of 2012.
I expect that sometime around midyear we should have a basket of results that we can talk about in terms of how it sets up the back end of 2012 going into 2013.
But ultimately our objective is to navigate forward with an oil-driven growth profile and get back to where we can deliver double-digit growth driven by oil.
I think that transition from a gas-dominated production mix and oil-dominated production mix will take a couple of years.
And on the back end of that we'll be back to the game plan that we've been talking about over the last couple or 3 years.
Again oil-dominated production oil-dominated reserves.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And one last question.
As you all think about gas curtailments what other areas besides the Woodford and the Granite Wash would you all consider further curtailments if you did? That's really the area William that's where most of our natural gas is coming from and that's where we'd focus it.
Research Division</strong> Will this be further curtailments in those areas then switch it? That's correct.
We have -- some of it's associated with capital programs and completions of wells that are natural gas focused that we're rolling out of 2011 into 2012 and some of it will just be relative-to-zone margin gas.
The other part of it would be just deferred gas as we look to step into completions and we probably have broader shut-ins than we otherwise would have to do in order to ensure the effect of completion of offset wells.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And what gas price and for and sustained for how long would you all -- are you all considering further curtailments? I would say at this point we don't have a specific target price.
I mean clearly we've said if gas prices deteriorate further I would say that if gas prices fall below $2 you might see some dramatic adjustments at that point.
Where we sit today I think that the game plan is pretty well set.
We'll accept the decline on our gas assets because clearly they are cash flow positive covering operating cost.
We just won't be investing any new capital in gas projects.
We'll take our next question from David Kistler with Simmons &amp; Company.
Research Division</strong> Real quickly looking at your potential divestiture plans.
Can you talk a little bit about whether you'd consider selling additional Bakken? And then on the opposite side of that are you looking at any potential acquisitions to bolster oil production growth whether they'd be corporate asset specific leasehold i.e.
more acreage at Cana Woodford just kind of give us a sense of each side of that equation? Okay.
So on the first side I would say we have no additional plans to divest Williston Basin assets.
We've described those as bridge assets.
We've got a strong development inventory and we're looking to ramp up activity there.
So I'd say that's not on the short-term target list.
The only thing that we've announced at this point Dave is that we're going to pursue options to maximize value of our Gulf of Mexico assets that could involve divestiture or a number of deal terms trades et cetera.
We are going to be open to any and all of that but in the end of the day it's going to be about maximizing value on those assets and that could mean that we produce out the producing fields.
The only thing we've stated there is we have no additional intention no intention of drilling exploratory wells prospectively and no material capital allocated to the Gulf of Mexico in 2012.
So I think that's the only thing that we've kind of flagged for consideration in 2012.
Beyond that we still have additional assets that are more appropriately I would say described as part of our past as opposed to part of the future and we'll continue to consider opportunities to shed nonstrategic assets in lieu of repositioning our human assets in terms of higher priority projects.
In terms of the leasing or acquisitions clearly we've said publicly that we think that the current environment and environment we'll likely will see over the next couple of years likely will favor some M&amp;A-type activity.
We intend to keep our toe on the water if we find opportunities to strengthen the portfolio at attractive prices we'll probably take advantage of those opportunities.
But clearly not going to target any of the areas that we're specifically focused on in that regard.
Beyond that in terms of leasing I would say that we've got no outsized leasing plans afoot starting 2012.
But obviously we'll continue to add acreage where it makes sense as long as we can get the acreage at attractive prices and it fits with our overall strategy.
Research Division</strong> Great.
Thank you.
And then just looking at your reserve revisions you had some negative revisions associated with a number of different things: waterflood responses higher gas production cuts in part of Monument Butte some well failures on the Gulf Coast.
Could you give us some additional color on those? Is this a onetime cut or is there potential that these have additional downside related to them? Dave I think you got the list right and most of those are onetime I will say that we gave some geographic descriptions of where some of those were along the Gulf Coast.
We've had some historic well bore fayers [ph] and some really old wells and wells that have been pretty active I call it geologic section.
We think those are pretty much behind us as they've continued to diminish over time.
The vertical wells we referenced in Mid-Continent in a couple of areas we had some old vertical production sections that were opened over very large sections and they saw the effects of horizontal completions offset.
With the relatively low pressure in today's gas prices it doesn't make sense to go back and try to bring them back online and do the workovers necessary to return to production.
So they're almost an artifact of what you think of as a price revision de facto that they saw some offset well interference.
In the Greater Monument Butte yes there is waterflood timing issues in terms of recognition and in the other areas you mentioned we tried to extend the field to the Northwest and we encountered an area that was we believe influenced by the Duchesne fault in the region and put a little more gas in the section than we would otherwise seen.
That additional volume of gas basically made them more gassy and not as attractive to continue to drill in that area.
So we've directed our activities away from that and maybe I'd ask Gary to expand on the fact that we recognize that today and we've actually moved our activity in the Rockies away from that region and he can address our plans for drilling there.
Yes Dave.
As we encountered more gas to the northwest to the field this is really -- it's not in the Central Basin but it's outside of Greater Monument Butte-Eunice.
Made some gas wells and the fact of the matter is is historically you would have been able to blare some of this gas.
Regulatory changes have prevented that.
Therefore we kind of flooded our infrastructure with the natural gas which caused some back pressure that cost us to not want to drill there anymore or at least temporarily.
So as we've redirected our activity you'd see all of our Green River activity has been redirected into our 20-acre infill drilling within Monument Butte proper.
We'll run about 3 rigs there this year and we're having good success in that and that's really where the Green River will be focused.
Their rest of the drilling campaign up in the Central Basin which is really where a lot of the growth is going to be in our future.
Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
On the waterflood timing issue is that something where once the response is achieved would you actually see a positive reserve revision from that? That would be my expectation yes.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then last question just looking over at the service cost environment up in the Bakken I know you guys looked at some of the folks who when you were in not -- in a non-operated position and the well cost there can you give us kind of updates of your cost and the cost that you've experienced in non-operated positions as well? Yes we -- I haven't updated that look that we made Dave of the non-op position.
I can tell you what our view of it is.
Right now we're looking at somewhere in a kind of a low $10 million well cost for a 1 280-acre well.
That's maybe upwards of about $1 million lower than what we previously had talked about.
There's a couple of things.
I think just improved execution is going to drive most of that versus service cost changes and in 640-acre wells we’re going to be looking at somewhere around $7 million well or so in that vicinity.
We'll go next to Subash Chandra with Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Hypothetical here but when do you think you would go after that Tcf-plus gas probable inventory at what gas price would you renew activity? Well Subash I'm going to guess probably not $2.50.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I hear that loud and clear.
But do you think is it a 5 number or a 4 number.
Any flavor? Well we're going to be consistent on our answer with what we said previously.
We've got plenty of attractive oil investments in the portfolio and to pursue gas investments the gas investments have to have competitive returns with our oily portfolio.
So you either have to see oil come back dramatically on price or gas declines.
So you close of the gap between the 2 product types.
That'll really make the gas inventory attractive.
Most of our gas assets are held by production so the fact of the matter is we can sleep good at night and we're not going to lose the leaseholds.
The only issue you'll see is what you've seen the last 3 years you'll see as we move oil into the 5-year window and push gas out you'll see that repositioned into the probable reserves.
The bigger issue I think short-term on the overall reserve issue is what is the SEC price going to be at year end 2012 and what are the result and impacts there in terms of reserve classifications? I think that's something for you to keep your eye on.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Could you provide maybe a boundary of what type of PUDs dry gas PUDs remain at risk in the 2011 reserve report if it was to get pushed out of the 5-year window? I think you for the most part most of our gas PUDs have been pretty well been moved out of the 5-year with window as demonstrated by our capital plan.
We have no plans to drill gas wells in 2012 and that pretty well holds true through that 5-year window so almost all of our gas PUDs are already out there as a practical matter.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And in the Cana just not on operational results of course but how much how many rigs do you think you'd need to run to retain the acreage? We've looked at that and based on the current acreage position we have right now we could as we entered this year we had 2 rigs we've got 5 rigs running now.
As alluded in the call we'll be -- we would anticipate 7 by year end.
We could get to 10 rigs and that will allow us to hold the entire 125 000-acre position.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> So 10 rigs.
So you would hold that in the current year or -- No we would -- Inc.
Research Division</strong> Over what time frame? Subash I think that was about 3 or 4 years that's a combination of drilling.
It's not just drilling 5 000-foot laterals.
This year we'll be expanding our lateral lengths.
So there certainly has to be an element of expanded lateral lengths in order to accomplish that.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I guess so the Super Extended Lateral that has to be applied for on a case-by-case basis and do you think that there just might be statewide approval of that at some point? I think some of the recent legislation opens the door for that.
And I think we would anticipate broader application for the Super Extended Laterals.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And in terms of selling a material-producing asset like the Gulf how do you think of that shrinking to grow so to speak versus the 10 Bs or so that you've sold in 2011? I think we would think about it in terms that we've described.
It's a value proposition.
We can hold those assets and take the cash flow off of those assets and redeploy them over time or we can find an attractive transaction or series of transactions that allows us to maximize value and then reposition to take the capital and redeploy it into other areas and the people and reposition on the higher priority projects.
But I think it's just a more visible manifestation of what we've already done during the course of 2011 with our nonstrategic asset sales.
I think that's the key with the Gulf that we’re deeming it nonstrategic.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> All right.
And a final one for me what are these Malaysian IRRs on a per well basis perhaps or project basis? Yes by the nature of the PSC terms you're kind of capped out even at the higher oil prices.
I'd say we're typically looking we did a look back here recently and we were north of 30% returns on a project like East Piatu but you probably struggled to get much over 35% I would suspect.
We'll go next with Gil Yang with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> Can you talk about the natural gas exit rate versus 2011's exit rate? Is it going to be down 20% 25%? Is that a reasonable assumption? Well natural gas you’re talking about for '12? Research Division</strong> Right.
The exit rate.
In '11 versus exit '12? Research Division</strong> Right.
Yes we said that the natural gas volumes will likely decline up to 15%.
So I think you'll be inside of a 15% decline rate.
60% of our production last year was natural gas on a 300 Bcf total so you do the math on it.
I'll let Gary give you some other color.
Yes I think our fourth quarter numbers were about 44 Bcf Gil and first quarter we're sitting at 39 so that's down about 10% or so.
A lot of that's going to be driven by just the timing of completions.
As you know and as we've talked about publicly we made a considerable drop in operational activity in the fourth quarter.
That lack of completions in drilling then follows through.
That bow wave hits you in the first quarter.
And as we put rigs back to work and get back to a more normal state of operational activity that number will grow generally.
But its 10% quarter-on-quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
But does the 15% reflects the volumes for the entire year versus the volumes in the entire year of 2011? Year-over-year.
That's correct.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Can you comment on the DD&amp;A rate took a sort of jump in the fourth quarter and understandably it's because the oil is more of the focus.
But given that Lee you said that the transition's been going on since 2009 is there anything in particular that caused the jump in the fourth quarter? Is it because of the Asian production came online and that carries a heavier DD&amp;A rate which I see in your guidance it does.
Is that part of it? I'll let Terry take that one since he's in the middle of all that.
Yes if you break it into the pieces you have a international DD&amp;A rate which is clearly much higher than the domestic part of when you bring that production into the mix.
It has a heavy influence on the domestic front.
It shifts to continued investment in oil.
At $2.50 that's still if I did my math right in the range around $15 a barrel.
So when you think about the DD&amp;A rate is going up it’s a matter of fact that that and the fact that if you go back 3 years we had full cost ceiling test write-down when natural gas prices and oil were very really low.
We had this big deep reset of our cost pool at levels which absolutely were not sustainable because of the then current way the full-cost ceiling test rules worked.
And you just expect that to continue to change as we go to oil we'll continue to move up.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Great.
Lee you mentioned the idea of focus of the company and can you talk about your longer-term strategic view.
You mentioned that you might do some other acquisitions again in new areas.
Can you talk about how you think about the long-term focus of the company given that you got Uinta you got Bakken you got now the Cana Eagle Ford Asia maybe a new asset.
Where should we be thinking about the strategic long-term focus of the company going? Well Gil we've said publicly over the course of the last few months that our objective over the next 3 to 5 years is to expand our foundational asset portfolio.
So we've had 2 foundational assets that we've talked a lot about the last 4 5 years Monument Butte Field which is a Green River story Green River oil sands story and the Woodford Shale.
The Woodford Shale positions largely natural gas we've expanded that position with the Cana I'll come back to that here in a moment.
Focused on wet gas condensate and oil which I think will improve our mix in the Mid-Continent Region.
And then the Central Basin we took steps in 2011 to materially expand our acreage north of Monument Butte added north of 75 000 acres to go into the position that we already had there to take our total position up north of 230 000 acres.
The Central Basin expansion provides a whole new opportunity set to us relative to what we've had historically in the Uinta.
And we're excited about that and we're accelerating our horizontal testing in multiple horizons but we're going to attack in the first half of '12.
So ideally we've got the 2 foundational assets we've talked about.
We believe the Central Basin could be a third piece of that puzzle and I would say that I hope that the Cana Woodford could be another piece of that puzzle in that regard.
But ideally 3 to 5 years out we'd have somewhere between 4 and 6 foundational assets and that's what we spend all of our time talking about and focused on.
We put out the logic that the balance of our development inventory which hits on a number of the projects that you talked about Williston Basin historically Gulf of Mexico Southeast Asia our developable portion of the Eagle Ford today et cetera et cetera.
We look at them as kind of bridge development assets and it's kind of bridge to the future.
They're attractive assets good returns but they've got less than a 10-year development inventory.
So the key for us is to manage that activity within the context of our capital program.
We'll look at the some of those areas for potential growth towards the foundational assets and in some of those areas that may require taking advantage of acquisition opportunities at various points in time to expand the portfolio.
So I think it's going to be a mix of activities.
But overall I think about foundational assets and the bridge assets being a bridge to the future.
Research Division</strong> Okay great Lee.
Final question going back to I think one of the previous questions.
At what price gas would it be drillable? If you just kept oil the same understanding it needs to be competitive with the rate of return but could you just give us an idea of either what that rate of return is today that you would need to gas to get to be competitive or at least what the gas price is to get to that rate of return? I would -- kind of shooting from the hip here a little bit.
But I would think if we saw service costs in the area of the Woodford that are not heavily influenced by the oil price around them where there's more normal pressure pumping cost we observed in the past we're in the $5 range then this things could be moving right back on top of the radar screen and be highly competitive.
Because it's almost it's just pure margin right? I mean in essence you take at 250 you can't get compelled to do much of anything in natural gas almost anywhere.
The reserves have a positive value to us at year end pricing they're just beyond the 5-year window.
You move the pricing up $1 and it becomes a pure dollar profit and cash flow.
And any other thoughts? Well I think the most -- my first thought there Gil was is if we saw improved gas prices we'd just have higher discretionary cash flow and we would move to drill more oil quite honestly.
Research Division</strong> Right right.
But at some point you'll say maybe I can drill more gas and it sounds like maybe $5 is a point where that happens if costs come down maybe 20% or something like that? If you put it in return space we've well documented the returns from our oily portion of our portfolio Gil.
You can do the calculation yourself.
But you're going to need 35% 40% plus returns to compete on a return basis on the back end of our oil assets.
So it will just be a function of what can we generate out of the gas investment versus the back end of our oil portfolio.
We'll take our next question from Anne Cameron with BNP Paribas.
Research Division</strong> You've described your asset sale program as a desire to reinvest in your existing inventory.
Where will if you manage to sell the Gulf of Mexico this year where will those cash proceeds go? Well I think quoting Gary's response a moment ago we'll look to utilize those assets to accelerate development in our oily portfolio.
We hope that with success on our aggressive assessment programs in the Uinta and the Cana Woodford that our -- the oil development inventory is expanding.
We know we've got the ability to expand activity in the Williston Basin today.
So we've got places that we can take that.
We're actually doing some tests in the Maverick Basin of Super Extended Laterals pilot project success there.
We can go and attack that project as well.
So we've got multiple projects in the portfolio that we can attack and we've got development projects overseas in Southeast Asia that are oil as well.
So we've got plenty of places to reallocate that capital that would be realized from any divestiture.
Research Division</strong> I guess I was actually just asking where will the first dollar go which play between them? Okay well I sorry.
I guess I give you a really long answer.
I'll let Gary give you a short answer since he directs where it goes.
I guess I'd have to say today that the first dollar we'd probably bring into the Bakken.
It's not because it generates the highest returns it's that right now we have some pretty material assessments going and I'd like to see some were activity and more results from the Central Basin the horizontal program as well as the Cana program.
But the Bakken and in the other area I'd put more immediately is our 20-acre infill play at Monument Butte.
It generates superior returns it's well understood and our on our regulatory and our permitting environment is improved.
So those 2 areas where we'd take incremental activity sooner than others sooner than the others.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Great.
And are you still leasing in the Cana at this point? I really couldn't comment on that right now.
p id="142743717" name="Anne Cameron" type="A" /&gt; Okay okay.
So if 10 rigs are what you need to get to hold your position there what do you think the max like from a logistics perspective what's the max rig count on 125 000 net acres you have that you could run? Yes I mean historically we've got up to 17 rigs running in the Woodford Shale.
The team did a great job but that's running pretty hard with the teams that we have in place.
As I said earlier 10 rigs running through 2016 allows us to hold our position assuming it stays where it is right now.
So somewhere in that 10 to 17 window is probably a feel good for us a sweet spot so to speak.
Research Division</strong> Okay got it.
And then the 198 Bcfe negative performance revision on your reserves would you be able to quantify how much of that is proved developed and how much of that is PUD? The majority that would be proved developed is you had a wellbore failure as the majority of the wells were producing obviously if you had vertical wells were on production were adversely affected that would be producing.
We moved I think the note showed that we moved 87 Bcf of proved and undeveloped reserves beyond the 5-year window.
That clearly is the largest piece of the proved and undeveloped.
Research Division</strong> And that does the 5-year rule count towards the negative performance revision or is that just fall into a bucket of like other negative revision? Well that's where the revisions  go.
So when you move them out so that goes into that line because you don't have another -- you don't have the 5-year rule category line on the -- so we bump it into that revisions number.
Research Division</strong> Is it part of the 198 that you outlined as the negative performance revision? No in the line item that you see in the description it is not part of 198.
It's part of the total revisions.
We'll take our next question from Brian Singer with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> In the Uinta Basin can you talk to your capacity for growth on oil production until the downstream contracts that you've signed come online? And then when those contracts do come online should we think about that incremental barrels a day as the upper limit for your capacity for growth or should we expect additional unlocking of downstream capacity? I'll give you a high level and I'll let Gary fill in the details.
First and foremost I would look at the contracts that we have in place to give you comfort zone visibility of expected growth profiles out of the basin on the low end of the scale.
So if you think about exiting 2014 it will be my expectation of a 40 000-barrel a day minimum low end of the range.
If you took the existing arrangements that we have in the basin with other refineries outside of the longer-term agreements we've got another 10 000-odd barrels that we move today so you're looking at 40 000 to 50 000 barrel a day if you just utilize these agreements and keep existing arrangements in place.
Getting to a 50 000-barrel a day type number in 2015 gives you a 2x growth rate over a 3-year time horizon out of the basin.
And clearly I would say that Gary and his teams probably won't be satisfied with stopping at that point but I'll let Gary give you any additional color.
Brian I guess the only thing that I would add is that those contracts allow for the initiation of additional capacity as early as 2013 and there's a ramping of activity that comes along with that.
So I would look for it as a pretty much a steady growth rate in a 20% to 25% this year.
I would look for in excess of that in 2013 which really sets the table for what Lee was referring to is something of 40 000 to 50 000-barrel a day rate in '15 and beyond.
Research Division</strong> Thanks that's helpful.
And then looking at the Granite Wash how much of the shift and the redirection of capital away from the Granite Wash would you say is gas price related or for CapEx constraints in the context of your portfolio versus is related to either inventory or resource visibility reasons and maybe you can touch on the commodity price environment you'd allocate back there as well? Let me see if I got your question.
If I didn't try again.
But I think the first part of that question is that obviously we've tested multiple horizons in the Granite Wash.
We've talked publicly that the shallow horizons are high Btu and high condensate yield and they've generated attractive returns.
That still true today and on a $2.50 gas the returns have diminished over the 35% 40% returns that we're talking through most of 2011.
The way that I would look at it near-term is we're taking the rigs that we've had deployed in the Granite Wash and were moving them to the Cana Woodford in the short-term.
Gary has repositioned the rigs there for the assessment program that's going to be a pretty aggressive effort in the first half of 2012.
And again that's focused on wet gas condensate and oil targets that we believe will generate superior returns.
So that's what we're pursuing and that's the most notable part of the shift in terms of rig count.
And clearly the deeper portfolio in the Granite Wash the doesn't have the condensate yield I would put that on the to-be-deferred-in-the-future discussion and we have no interest in pursuing at this time.
We don't have to.
Our position's held by production.
Ladies and gentlemen that's all the time we have for our question-and-answer session today.
I'll turn it back over to Mr.
Boothby for closing remarks.
Operator if there's anybody still there well we've got time for 2 more questions.
If anybody's still out there that wants to ask a question.
And gentlemen there are no questions at this time.
Okay all right.
Well then I'll go ahead and say thank you for your time this morning and thank you for your interest in Newfield.
We look forward to updating you as the year unfolds on our plans and progress towards becoming an oil company in 2013.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for your participation.
This does conclude today's conference.
Good day everyone and welcome to Newfield Exploration's First Quarter of 2012 Conference Call.
Just a reminder today's call is being recorded.
And before we get started one housekeeping matter.
Our discussion with you today will contain forward-looking statements such as estimated production and timing drilling and development plans expected cost reduction and planned capital expenditures.
Although we believe that the expectations reflected in these statements are reasonable they are based upon assumptions and anticipated results that are subject to numerous uncertainties and risks.
Actual results may vary significantly from those anticipated due to many factors and risks some of which may be unknown.
Please see Newfield's 2011 Annual Report on Form 10-K and subsequent quarterly reports on Form 10-Q for a discussion of factors that may cause actual results to vary.
Forward-looking statements made during this call speak only as of today's date and unless legally required Newfield undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements.
In addition reconciliations of non-GAAP financial measures to GAAP financial measures together with Newfield's earnings release and any other applicable disclosures are available on the Investor Relations page of Newfield's website at www.newfield.com.
At this time for opening remarks and introductions I would like to turn the call over to the Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer Mr.
Lee Boothby.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you.
Good morning everyone.
We're off to a good start in 2012 and I look forward to summarizing our first quarter results for you today.
As always we will take your questions at the end of the call.
Before we begin let me introduce some of the members of the management team with me today.
I'm joined by Terry Rathert our Chief Financial Officer; Gary Packer our Chief Operating Officer; and Steve Campbell our Vice President Investor Relations.
Our story today is relatively simple and is focused on 3 main things in 2012.
First accelerating our transition to an oil company.
In early 2009 we started to shift significant resources towards the development of key oil plays.
These efforts are paying dividends today and you can see the significant growth in our oil and liquids volumes.
Oil and liquids accounted for 47% of our total volumes in the first quarter of 2012 and as we've said before we have real oil.
NGLs only accounted for about 5% of our total production.
The second half of this year we expect that more than half of our production will come from our oil and liquids plays.
Second throughout our company our people are aligned to deliver superlative execution in 2012.
This means the diligent efforts to reduce cost and expenses where we can; to drill our highest margin oil and liquids plays; and to ensure that our wells are drilled completed and turned to sales timely.
And third we remain focused on the strength of our capital structure.
These are challenging times in our business with natural gas prices at decade lows.
Our internal analysis does not show a near term rebound in natural gas prices and we've insulated our company well through hedging a shift of our people and capital to profitable oil developments and the timely sale of nonstrategic assets in 2011.
I have confidence in both the quality of our assets and the depth of our prospect inventory in our oil and liquids plays.
We have a deeper inventory of opportunities diversified over multiple plays than we have ever had in our history.
This inventory is a competitive advantage today and is being managed by the best people in the business.
We're committed to the timely assessment of high-potential plays and executing in our development area.
These actions will build momentum and oil growth going into 2013.
Since 2008 we've doubled our oil and liquids production and delivered a compound annual growth rate of 20%.
We will do it again in 2012 and have the inventory for sustainable future oil growth in hand today.
On today's call I will provide a quick summary of our first quarter financial and operating results followed by some brief updates on our active oil and liquids-rich developments.
Let's start with a look at our financial and operating results from the quarter.
Our net income in the first quarter excluding FAS 133 was $122 million or $0.91 per share.
Revenues were $678 million and our cash flow was $387 million.
Our oil and liquids liftings in the first quarter of 2012 were 5.9 million barrels or an average of nearly 65 000 barrels of oil per day.
This represents a 35% year-over-year increase when compared to the 2011 first quarter results.
Our natural gas production in the quarter was 41 Bcf an average of 447 million cubic feet per day.
We realized $3.70 per Mcf on our natural gas sales and $96.24 per barrel on our oil liftings.
In the first quarter 47% of our total production of 76 Bcf equivalent was oil and liquids.
Our NGL volumes in the quarter were about 575 000 barrels or about 5% of our total production.
As I mentioned earlier we're off to a good start in 2012.
Let me offer what I see as our key highlights year-to-date.
Our costs and expenses in the first quarter were in line or better than guidance in about every category.
We're seeing improved cost structures in our development plays as a result of continued efficiency gains and reduced service cost primarily in the completions arena.
In our assessment areas costs have moderated the reduced natural gas rig count and increasing capacity in the service sectors having a positive impact on our bottom line and we are hopeful that these trends will continue during the balance of the year.
Our production was ahead of our first quarter guidance and reflects the timing of well completions and strong performance across our business unit.
Recall that in late 2011 we slowed our operational pace and deferred well completions in several business units to ensure that we held the line on our capital budget.
Getting these deferred completions online in early 2012 in areas like the Granite Wash and the Bakken for example provided a boost to our first quarter production rates.
Although not certain this qualifies as a highlight in lieu of today's gas market our natural gas production despite the fact that we're not running any gas rigs in our company today was higher than guidance.
You can see in our release last night that we took our guidance expectations for the year slightly higher simply reflecting the strength of our first quarter results.
We now expect that our full year production will range from 292 billion to 302 billion cubic feet equivalent.
Our range of expectations for capital spending remains unchanged at $1.5 billion to $1.7 billion and our expenditures in 2012 are front-end loaded.
Our growth is coming from the commodity accounts and our oil production in the first quarter was about 400 000 barrels ahead of our guidance and reflects strong performance from our oil asset.
In Malaysia we're producing a record 75 000 barrels of oil per day gross.
That yields about 30 000 barrels a day net.
Our Uinta Basin net production is today at a record 24 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day.
And in the Bakken we're seeing improved execution in the field and our production rate is approximately 8 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day net.
We also have seen encouraging results from our first 2 extended lateral wells or SXLs in the Eagle Ford Shale play.
We have 2 additional SXL wells underway today and expect to drill more than 1/3 of our Eagle Ford wells this year as SXLs.
Consistent with our past practices in disclosure of well results I will not release IP rates from 1 or 2 wells in isolation.
As we have promised we'll have an update on multiple plays around mid-year 2012.
By then we'll have results from up to 4 super extended lateral wells in the Eagle Ford; multiple wells in the Uinta Basin including our first 2 pressured horizontal Uteland Butte wells and our first 2 horizontal Wasatch wells.
We'll also have early results from our initial drilling in oil and liquids rich portion of the Cana Woodford.
Our early results in these areas are encouraging and we'll have a meaningful update for you around mid-year.
I'll close today's call with some updates on our key oil development.
Let's start with Malaysia where we're seeing record gross oil production today of about 75 000 barrels per day.
This is an all-time high for us driven by East Piatu Puteri and East Belumut.
Our net production today is about 30 000 barrels per day.
Our East Piatu field came online late last year and is today producing about 12 000 barrels of oil per day.
Puteri commenced production early in the fourth quarter of 2011 and is today producing about 7 000 barrels of oil per day.
Our East Belumut and Chermingat complex is today producing more than 40 000 barrels per day gross also a record level for the field and reflects recent pipeline optimization work the ongoing success of the development drilling program and better-than-expected performance from our existing wells.
We continue to see excellent field performance offshore in Malaysia and our team is finding new and innovative ways to increase our oil and ensure that we have a pipeline of new opportunities for the future.
These are very profitable investments with projects generating 30% to more than 100% internal rates of return.
We are the fourth largest producer in Malaysia today and having 30 000 barrels of oil per day selling at Brent prices is a great piece of business for us.
The second half of this year we will commence phase 2 development drilling at East Piatu.
By drilling additional field development wells from the platform we will keep production at maximum rates.
We have some exciting international exploration wells planned in the second half of 2012.
I look forward to updating you on these results later in the year.
Moving on to our domestic oil plays let's start with the Uinta Basin our largest investment area in 2012.
Our oil production in the Uinta is expected to grow more than 20% in 2012.
In the Uinta today we're developing multiple oil plays on our more than 230 000 net acres.
In addition to the ongoing waterflood and infill drilling of the giant Monument Butte field we are testing new and exciting vertical and horizontal plays in the Central Basin region.
These new plays have tremendous resource potential and successful drive our domestic oil production growth in the future.
We're running 4 operated rigs in the Central Basin region today drilling wells in the Uteland Butte; Wasatch; and later this year the Lower Black Shale.
Our acreage in the Central Basin is characterized by multiple stacked pays and is perspective for many oil formations.
We're drilling our 12th Uteland Butte horizontal well today and soon we'll have the results from our first assessments in the pressured sections of the formation.
We've recently drilled 2 pressured wells and both are in various stages of completion.
We expect initial oil production in the coming weeks.
In the Wasatch formation we've drilled 24 vertical wells and are currently drilling our first 2 horizontal wells in the play.
In last night's release we disclosed a record vertical well nearly 2 500 barrels of oil equivalent per day initial gross production rate and more than 2 100 barrels of oil equivalent per day 10-day average.
The most recent 8 vertical Wasatch wells completed in 2012 have averaged more than 1 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day gross.
Our results to date are consistent with our expectations and we're looking forward to the production results from our first 2 horizontal wells which we expect by mid-year.
In 2012 we expect to drill about 60 wells in the Central Basin of which more than 1/3 are planned as horizontal wells.
We're focused on driving outsized oil growth in this asset and doubling our basin production by 2015.
Our new 7- and 10-year refining agreements for nearly 40 000 barrels of oil per day give us the certainty that refining capacity will keep pace with our production growth.
In the Bakken play our operations are gaining steam after our brief slowdown in late 2011.
This slowdown allowed us to reduce the backlog of uncompleted wells and improve our execution in the field.
From the beginning of the year we have completed 8 new wells.
The average initial production rate from these wells was more than 2 600 barrels of oil equivalent per day.
With the exception of one well these were all super extended lateral wells.
The one 5 000 foot lateral was actually one of the higher IP rates at nearly 3 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day.
We expect that our Bakken production will grow about 35% over our 2011 levels.
Our drilling team is transitioning our operations to pad-based drilling in 2012.
About 2/3 of our planned wells in the Bakken will be from multi-well pads.
Our most recent laterals 11 000 feet in total length with up to 40 frac stages have been drilled in as few as 24 days.
This compares to an average of 35 days in 2011 and more than 40 days in 2010.
We've also reduced the number of days between rig release and first production from 62 days in 2011 to about 40 to 45 days year-to-date.
We are executing our operations very well today.
Our net production from the area is about 8 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day today and we expect that our rig count in the region will grow in the second half of 2012.
We have more than 250 identified development drilling locations and the economics of our current operations are supportive of the increased activity levels.
We expect to run 2 to 4 operated rigs in the Bakken throughout 2012.
In the Cana Woodford we're assessing our more than 125 000 net acres with a 5-rig operated program likely increasing to 7 rigs later this year.
Our very early results have been encouraging and in line with pre-assessment expectation.
We will have results from a handful of new wells by mid-year and we'll provide an update at that time.
Our drilling today is focused on the liquids-rich and oil-prone extension of the Cana and we are expecting strongly competitive returns from our investment.
We have a long and proven history in exploiting the Woodford formation and our aggressive assessment is designed to yield data and expedite our path to ultimate field development.
As we stated around year end we now view our assets in the Gulf of Mexico as nonstrategic.
A formal process to maximize the value of these assets is underway and we expect to know more around the mid-year time horizon.
So our focus in 2012 is crystal clear: invest in oil and grow cash.
We're off to a strong start this year and have confidence that we can deliver on our key goals and expectations and create value in today's market.
I'm certain that we are taking the right steps today.
Our view on natural gas has been spot-on for the last several years and our expectations for a near-term price rebound is low.
Natural gas prices will likely remain challenged in 2012 and going into 2013.
Focusing on oil driving revenue and cash flow growth maintaining the strength of our balance sheet are the key ingredients of our strategy today.
Our transition to oil is well underway.
Second half of 2012 we expect that more than 50% of our production will be from oil and liquid up from 47% in the first quarter.
I look forward to the day when we are not listed as a gas-weighted company in equity research coverage.
We are encouraged with the trends in the service costs we've seen early in 2012.
Our 2012 capital budget is front-end loaded due to the carryover of deferred completions in several project areas large offshore developments that commenced production in late 2011 and initial investments in our Pearl development in China.
Positive trajectory in service costs coupled with improved efficiencies in our operations should have positive implications for us in the second half of this year.
That concludes our prepared remarks today and we're happy to entertain your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Thanks operator.
We're now ready to take any questions.
[Operator Instructions] And we will go first to Leo Mariani with RBC.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just a quick question here on your well costs.
In your prepared comments there Lee you kind of spoke that service costs were driving well cost down in your key plays.
Could you maybe give us an update on where your well costs are in I guess in the Bakken Eagle Ford and the various plays joined in the Uinta? I'm going to let Gary take the details of that question.
I would try to tell you that we're encouraged by some of the early trends that we're seeing on cost kind of across the businesses.
And I would say encouraged just given the pressure that we've had as an industry over the last couple of years and the positive trajectory.
I'd say mostly at this point we've seen a flattening.
We have expectations that we'll see some relief through the balance of the year.
Certainly that's going to be a net positive.
At this stage we're not baking in material relief into our forecast.
We'll take it as it comes.
I think the wind is blowing in the right direction.
It's time to get better balance relative to the whole service cost equation in the current commodity price environment.
But I'll put that to Gary to let you -- give you some color on the specific well cost.
Leo specifically you asked about the Bakken.
We're seeing somewhere in the range of an 8% to 17% reduction in our completed well cost in the Bakken these days.
I would attribute primarily most of that to the fact that we're moving on to pad drilling as Lee referenced.
I think about 2/3 of the wells we'll be drilling this year are on pads and that's allowing us to take somewhere between $400 000 and $700 000 per location out.
Certainly the execution is improved this year.
Trouble time is down to almost nonexistent so far this year.
So we're really liking where we sit there.
Completion cost rather flat year-to-date but really projecting a lot of improvements in that as we look into the end of 2012 and on into 2013.
So in general I'd say we're sitting at about 640 acres somewhere around $6.9 million or so completed on a 12 80; 10 000- 11 000 foot lateral somewhere around $11 million or so.
Generally speaking across the balance the Eagle Ford I'd say we're sitting pretty much flat right now.
Really like the execution and the well results that we referenced in the call but we're not seeing any downward pressure yet on cost.
However that's also anticipated.
When I look into the Uinta Basin -- and those wells in the Eagle Ford are somewhere in the mid-$8 million range for a 7 500 foot lateral.
As I look into the Uinta Basin I think the -- we are seeing year-to-date some reductions in our more typical 20-acre GMBU program in Greater Monument Butte.
And we're just getting started on the horizontal program so I think it's too early to tell there.
We're in a very steep learning curve got all our wells down.
We're getting all the wells completed as we speak but I think it's really too early right now to project anything on that.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay that's great.
I guess one kind of additional question for you guys here.
You spoke about your Malaysian oil production running roughly 30 000 barrels a day net.
Just looking at your first quarter results I guess I was kind of eyeballing it somewhere closer to 24 000 barrels a day net.
Is it up significantly post the quarter? Because I thought your guidance for the full year maybe implied a little bit lower levels or maybe I'm missing something here.
Well it is up materially.
We had some pipeline optimization work that our team undertook in Malaysia right at the end of the first quarter moving into the second quarter.
And frankly we've had exceptional results from that.
That added some 6 000 to 7 000 barrels a day of gross production off of our East Belumut complex so it did improve our ability to move liquid barrels out of the East Belumut field and get them into storage so material positive improvement.
LLC Research Division</strong> Because I think your guidance had maybe implied kind of a lower rate do you expect that rate to continue for the balance of the year? I thought you'd talk about doing you all's best to drill development wells to keep it flattish.
We are interested as I indicated in the call.
Why don't you follow up with Steve? He can give you the color on the details there but we'd like to probably move on to the next question so we can get to some other people in the queue.
And moving on we do have a question from Brian Lively with Tudor Pickering Holt.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just looking for some more color on the Wasatch.
What is the breakdown of oil versus gas percentage? And what were the current -- or the cost of the vertical wells? Gary? The well that was specifically referenced in the call it produced about 2 200 barrels of oil a day and about 2 million cubic feet a day so you can figure out the GUR [ph] from that.
In regard to the well cost a typical deep Wasatch well runs somewhere in the vicinity of drilling complete about $3.2 million or so.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> And the GUR [ph] was about the same on the other wells? Off the top of my head Brian I think that's directionally correct.
The well cost of $3.2 million that's typically without facilities.
You roll the facilities in there you're typically pushing about $4 million on these early wells or so.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And my follow-up question is on that 2 500 barrel a day well what is different about that well versus the 900 average for the others? Meaning is it a different style completion? Is it different rock? Is there something that you can map out and glean from that such that your rates on your future wells would be higher? Brian I would tell you that it's too early.
We've got 10 days of production on that well.
It's probably 12 now.
We've got a 10-day average as we referenced.
Clearly it's exciting results.
Remember we've seen some pretty good results out there over the course of the last year.
In the 2 dozen wells that have been drilled we've had a handful of other wells that have been in 1 300 1 400 barrels a day type IPs.
The fact that we've got 24 wells averaging just under 1 000 barrels of oil equivalent a day vertical says we're in the early stages of learning.
We've got our first 2 horizontal wells down.
I'm going to ask you to just stay tuned.
I think it's exciting.
We're excited about it and I guarantee our team in Denver is all over it in trying to answer the questions that you're talking about.
They've done an excellent job executing.
We continue to learn from the wells we have.
And in all these plays you know that part of the recipe is to tweak the completions and optimize.
So we're starting to approach that point in the plan and we'll see if we can replicate it.
But I'm excited about the 1 000 barrel a day average in the 2 dozen wells we've built over the last year.
I think that's pretty exciting because remember those are all vertical and I'm looking forward to the horizontal results.
And we will hear next from Dave Kistler with Simmons &amp; Company.
Research Division</strong> Real quickly Q1 production beat about 5% above guidance but full year production increased about 1%.
Can you kind of talk through the deviation that's taking place there? Or any anticipations and sort of maybe fall-offs in production elsewhere versus where your exit rate was at Q1? Yes I'll let Gary take that question Dave.
Yes Dave.
The beat in the first quarter is primarily attributed to some accelerated completions that we did on the oil side primarily in the Mid-Continent.
And then also as we got back in the game in the Bakken play we had some wells that had been shut in at year end.
We were able to get those wells restored a little quicker than we had anticipated.
So in regard to the disproportionate increase in the first quarter versus full year it's just that acceleration moving that volume forward accounts for part of it.
Now clearly we're seeing good results across the board both domestically and internationally.
Some of the plays as Lee alluded to already we're liking the results that we're seeing.
And then internationally while we had anticipated the split-stream improvements coming out of Malaysia I think we got it on a little quicker than we had originally planned.
We're seeing probably a few thousand barrels a day more than what we had baked into our plans.
So I think generally improved performance plus acceleration.
And Dave remember later in the year we've got some built-in shutdown time both in Malaysia and China on our international assets for normal routine maintenance-type activities.
So I think that's part of the second half guidance as well.
It's already baked into the forecast.
Research Division</strong> Okay I appreciate that clarification.
As a follow-up in the Maverick Basin with respect to the double XL -- well extended laterals.
You referenced them as encouraging.
I know you can't give us rates or you don't want to until you have more wells but can you put it in the context of how returns from those wells look relative to the rest of your portfolio? Or maybe what a threshold is to be determined encouraging? I believe that the last call we talked about Gary had lined up the team there to drill 4 Super Extended Laterals.
I like your double XL.
We'll have to think about that and would make a shirt out of it or something here for you [ph].
But our objective plain and simple was to make those investments competitive within our portfolio.
And we had confidence that the 7 500 foot lateral based on the technical data that we had acquired on the 5 000 foot laterals and our experience in the Woodford the Granite Wash the Williston Basin drilling these extended laterals that would position it as such.
To say we're encouraged I would tell you that the first 2 results tell us that it can compete in the portfolio.
That's positive.
So stay tuned.
We'll get some data and we'll give you the well results.
Gary's got 2 more planned here in the second quarter.
So going into mid-year we should have results from 4 of those wells and I think we'd be in a much better position to translate that in terms of repeatability and portfolio.
And we will hear next from Brian Singer with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> You've talked to the strong rates from the Wasatch wells and then that you were specific that your Cana Woodford wells are coming in line with your expectations.
I know it's a bit early in both plays but can you add any color on the decline rates associated with those wells so far in both areas versus your expectations? Since it's too early Brian and I don't have decline rates to share with you as far as getting the data so that we've got 30- 60-day 90-day rates on a handful of wells so I would tell you the best I can offer at this point when we tell you that we're encouraged and it's in line that IP rates and early production are in line with our expectation.
So that's why we say we're encouraged there.
We'll give you the update that we promised sometime around mid-year.
Research Division</strong> And based on what you've seen so far in the Cana Woodford are you comfortable with your acreage position where it is now? Or is that a region that you're looking to expand? And if so is that -- what are the -- how likely or possible is that? Well 125 000 acres 5 rigs running going to 7 is quite a bit of activity.
So I think that we've got a strong position.
We like it.
We've got a lot of work to do.
I think we've said repeatedly over the last 3 or 4 months that with our accrued learnings from the last decade and resource plays that what we're doing in the Cana Woodford is aggressively accelerating the assessment.
The acquisition of the data and the information that we need to plan the future developments by accelerating the assessment puts us in a position to accelerate the development behind that.
Point of fact we're always in the market to add acreage and positions in and around places where we're active.
So certainly we'll continue to have an opportunistic bent in that regard.
But 125 000 acres 6 months into the play we've got a lot of work ahead of us and I think I'm pretty comfortable with where we sit right at the moment.
And moving on we do have a question from Bob Morris with Citi.
Research Division</strong> Lee last quarter you said that if natural gas prices dropped below $2 you'd take -- make some dramatic adjustments and probably shut in more gas production.
I mean gas prices are effectively below $2.
What are you thinking of doing in that regard particularly if prices continue to soften here into the summer and fall? Good question Bob.
I don't know -- I don't remember saying it just that pointedly but I'll take you at your word that that's maybe how it sounded on the other end of the line.
I would tell you that we were trying to paint a picture that we would remain in tune with what was going on in the market and that we would take some steps as we thought appropriate.
And clearly since the last call part of what we did is materially strengthen our hedge position in '12 and '13 and started building a position in '14 as well.
Some of that positioning was to insulate against a further slide in natural gas prices and I think that's been a good move for us.
So I think we're well hedged across that 2012 2013 time horizon.
Relative to investments we have no dry gas rigs drilling and we plan to drill no dry gas wells in 2012.
So that's the first time in the last 13 years that I've been with the company that we haven't had a rig drilling dry gas anywhere in the portfolio and I think that's the right economic decision today.
We said we're going to accept decline on our natural gas assets.
We're doing that.
I think that's a means of taking some pressure out of the market.
When you look at the actual cash cost of operating our rig count and then operating expenses are somewhere just below $0.50 or low $0.40s $0.42 $0.43.
So when you start thinking about shutting in gas volumes we're still a long ways away from where you would probably have to make those decisions simply based upon our hedge position and the cash operating cost.
So I would tell you that nothing is imminent in that regard but we'll keep the options open just like we did in the last call that if the market continues to further deteriorate that we'll reserve the right to take some production out of the market.
But remember it's easy to talk about that and you've got a lot of partners and a lot of wells.
And there's only a fraction of the total production that you could think about shutting in at any given region.
I'll let Terry add some additional color.
And Bob I think at the end of the day as Lee alluded to it really becomes an equation of where the incremental or the marginal cost to operate those wells and what is your view of the future.
And if you defer that Mcf of production a day to 3 4 5 years out and you think gas prices are still going to be a $3 or $4 proposition then on a net present value basis as long as the NPV is positive to produce today versus the future that's the other element you have to think about.
So we're not very bullish on natural gas.
We monitor all those elements of that decision and we'll make that call when it says it's not the right thing to continue to produce.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
You mentioned $0.41 $0.42 operating cost I mean kind of the thing you mentioned the marginal cost to operate.
What is your highest marginal cost to operate in your gas production? Well remember we sold $300 million-plus of conventional gas assets along the Gulf Coast last year so we've reduced our natural gas portfolio with those nonstrategic asset sales.
We haven't drilled any gas wells in the Rockies so that production has been on decline since late 2008.
The bulk of our natural gas production is actually coming out of the Mid-Con.
That's why I used that as a reference point.
But I'll let Gary give you any other color he might -- anything else you want to add? No I think you pretty much captured it.
There are leads all coming out of the Mid-Con and it's in a $0.40 $0.50 range.
Yes when you think Newfield natural gas Mid-Con dominates.
The rest of it's round [ph] off.
Yes most of the other -- a lot of the other production for example in the Rockies are all associated natural gas.
And we will move next to Richard Tullis with Capital One Southcoast.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Lee taking a look at the Alberta Bakken are you seeing anything there that might change your thinking to maybe get a little active there sometime this year? Or are you still kind of taking that wait-and-see approach? Well it's more than a wait-and-see.
Part of our shift of resources last year is on focusing manpower and level-loading with it.
We've got the Southern Alberta Basin being managed by our exploration new metrics [ph] team here in Houston.
We've acquired a lot of data up there last year.
So we continue to evaluate the data core data production data log data et cetera that we've acquired in the region.
And we continue to monitor the activity of others in the region.
We've got a luxury if you will that most of our acreage there was put together in a deal with the Blackfeet Nation and provided for a 5-year exploratory phase.
We've got probably 3.5 years or so remaining on that exploration phase.
We have time relative to monitoring the situation.
Clearly what the basin needs whether it's got a Newfield name on top the well header or one of our friends in the industry is an obviously economically viable horizontal success something that we could look at and deem worthy of drilling some additional wells and if you could have some hope of repeatability to the basin.
The basin does have oil in multiple horizons.
Industry continues to test different horizons on both sides of the border.
And we remain where we've been cautiously optimistic relative to the play.
But we don't have any drilling program planned in 2012 because frankly we don't need to drill any wells there in 2012.
We've got about 85% of our drilling commitments with the Blackfeet satisfied so we're drilling another couple wells and we'll have taken care of that commitment.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And then just finally for me in the Gulf of Mexico how is the Pyrenees project performing? I'll let Gary answer that question.
Yes Pyrenees is on production.
It's about 35 million a day or so overall production.
I'd say that in any of these new types of reservoirs where you've got these things defined seismically I'd say we're seeing a little bit more pressure loss than we had originally anticipated in the reservoir but it's all associated with the dynamics of the reservoir.
And as far as the EUR that we see for the well that's unchanged.
So I'd say within range maybe producing a little light to the original plan.
And we will go next to Joe Allman with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Lee in terms of the oily Woodford so you're drilling no oily Woodford wells at this point.
And is that because that those wells just don't compete from a rate-of-return perspective? Or is it because that play doesn't have the scale of some of the other plays where you're drilling? Or is it also because you've HBP-ed that and you have no need to drill that right now? In the popular vernacular that they have -- what if I choose some of all of the above? It's an all of the above solution.
We're HBP first and foremost so we've got pressing evaluation needs in the Cana.
So we don't have any need to drill wells there and I think that's probably the dominant answer.
Clearly one of the issues that we've had relative to position near Cumbles [ph] what you're referencing is scale.
We have a 20 000- 25 000-acre position there.
We've got a 125 000-acre position in the Cana Woodford so much larger in terms of the scale and scope of the play.
But it's a little bit of all of the above in terms of your comments.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then a second question.
So with the potential for meaningful results out of the Wasatch and the Uteland Butte and your traditional drilling in the Uinta Basin could you comment on any possibility of increasing your offtake there versus what you already announced? And I know that the capacity to grow is great from here but any moves afoot to increase it even further? Well I wouldn't say that there are moves afoot.
I mean I think doubling our production out of the basin in a 3-year time frame is a pretty significant achievement and that's the path that we're on.
So the 40 000 barrels that we secured December and January this year we think meet our needs inside of the 5-year time horizon.
So we're not beating the bushes out there looking to dramatically expand that.
I understand there are ongoing discussions with other operators in the basin and refiners that continue to talk about additional expansions.
But we think that's a plus for the basin and certainly support it but we're not going to drive those outcomes.
In the near term until the incremental capacity starts coming online notionally second quarter mid-year '13 there's a practical limitation in terms of upside volumes.
I suspect when we get up around 30 000 barrels a day out of the Uinta that we'll start loading the existing capacity and we'll have to at that point wait for those additional tranches to come online in '13 and '14.
Remember that our target is to be in the 40 000 to 50 000 barrel a day window in 2015 so that's the path that we're on at this point.
And moving on we have a question from Dan McSpirit with BMO Capital.
On Malaysia you spoke to -- or at least spoke generally about the pipeline of opportunities.
Can you relay greater texture on those opportunities and what that might mean for production growth in the periods ahead? I'll tell you what Gary just got back from a trip over there.
I'll let Gary take that question and he can give you some color on what he's got going on in that arena.
Dan I'd say that in the near term most of the production growth that we're going to see are going to be in staged development programs of the projects that we've already got in place where we are concluding the third phase drilling program out of PM 323 and we anticipate a fourth phase there as well.
And as Lee also alluded to we look for a second phase at 329 and I expect we'll see a third phase of drilling out there.
We're going to be -- we will be drilling a total of 3 exploratory wells this year.
I think the results of those will be critical in kind of placing a path forward for us as far as what we've got left.
One unnamed project that we'll be drilling on a more recent deal we've put together from an exploratory standpoint and then we'll be following up on our discoveries at SK 310.
And I'm optimistic we'll get our deepwater follow-up to our discovery that we made in Paus drilled this year.
We are seeing and are optimistic about additional opportunities both in Peninsular Malaysia and Sarawak that we think align very well with the stuff that we've already got in hand and that would be all incremental to the projects that we see but we're not free to talk about any of those at this point.
And as a follow-up can you speak to the Lower Black Shale that you're targeting expectations maybe timing on results out of the Uinta Basin? I'll start speaking to the Lower Black Shale I guess I'll start by saying it's black.
That's a creative name but it's an organic-rich shale obviously.
You've probably heard something about it from the other operators in the basin talking about it.
I think probably to give you just a little bit of a wrinkle I'm going to -- been patting our Rockies team on the back quietly over the last several months.
They perforated the Black Shale in a handful of vertical wells when we run production logs.
So at this point we know it's an organically rich shale sandwiched amongst all the other horizons that we're chasing in the Uinta Basin.
It's got all the right characteristics.
We perforated it in as I mentioned a handful of vertical wells and we can work to contribute meaningful volumes to the total flow from vertical wells.
But clearly you wouldn't drill this -- drill the play and plan to develop it vertically.
So the key test there is can we take the vertical results that we've seen from the production logs on some of the deep wells in the Central Basin and translate that to horizontal success economically? With success there obviously it would expand the -- further expand the resource potential and further expand our inventory of oil opportunities.
So we're very intrigued by the Lower Black Shale.
It's the next one of several horizons on the list.
We didn't include the Black Shale in our July 2011 resource release the 700 million barrels potential that we talked about in the Green River Uteland Butte and Wasatch.
So it would be entirely incremental to anything that we've put out at this point.
First well likely to be spud probably late second quarter early third quarter.
So the results there would be later in the year third fourth quarter-type time frame.
We won't have any results there by mid-year.
And we will hear next from David Tameron with Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> Can you guys speak to -- you sold part of your Bakken but not all the Bakken.
Can you talk about just the thought process there as far as why not either keep it all or keep none of it? Can you just talk about what the thought process was? Yes Dave this is Gary.
As we accumulated the acreage position out there as you're probably well aware we have a very strong core position on the Nesson and then immediately south and southwest of the Nesson in our Watford and our Aquarium areas as well as Westberg.
As we look into Catwalk we had a pretty significant amount of requirements this year as far as HBP activity.
And at the time that we ended up disposing of that asset when we look at our portfolio in the Bakken we felt that we could generate more meaningful returns by drilling in the other areas.
So rather than deploy incremental capital we continued to manage the balance sheet and we elected to go ahead and monetize that removing some of the HBP obligations that we had for 2012 and redeploy the capital and accelerating the results that we had in the rest of the Bakken where Lee already talked to the fact that we're seeing real good results from those investments.
So it wasn't condemning on the acreage position we sold.
We just like the other stuff we had better.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then as a follow-up to that whoever wants to take this but can you talk about just in general where do you see your portfolio today? Are there -- I assume you have some of the magical stealth plays that everybody has.
But I mean are you guys -- how do you feel about the portfolio? And obviously you can drive double-digit growth from liquids side which you've talked about but can you just give us your current thoughts on acquisition market or what you're feeling what you're thinking? Okay.
Well let me start with the last one.
We're focused on delivering results from our existing portfolio in 2012.
So the acquisition market while intriguing and adventurous I think patience is a virtue.
And patience probably means that it's mostly going to be a place that we're going to be interested in outside of the 2012 time horizon.
We've got plenty to do on our play today and plenty of depth in our inventory.
I think that in my opinion the last few months the most underappreciated aspect of Newfield has been the depth of our oil development inventory.
We have thousands of oil development locations.
That's a luxury in today's world.
So we're going to attack that portfolio.
We're going to continue to drive the 20% liquid growth that we've delivered every year since 2008.
In time it will take care of itself because the product we're focused on growing is cash all right? Because we grow cash move past the 50% mark on total liquids we get recognition as an oil company we get stronger day-by-day week-by-week month-by-month I think we'll be in a position to think more constructively about the M&amp;A world post 2012.
With regard to stealth opportunities we talked about Black Shale.
That's in our inventory.
We've got other opportunities in inventory we haven't talked about.
We're not out chasing big new stealth plays at this point because we've done a lot of work there.
We added over 200 000 acres in 2011 in oil plays.
And again I like our position at this point.
We know what we need to do.
We're going to drive stealths we're going to execute and climb the hill and we're going to enjoy the success that our team is delivering today.
I'm really proud of what they've done repositioning talent around the organization absorbing the project setbacks that we had in 2011 executing strong in 2012.
There's a bright future ahead for Newfield and we're going to go ahead and capture it.
At this time we do have an additional question.
And this question will come from Catherine O'Connor [ph] with Deutsche Bank.
Just following up on what you were saying in terms of focusing on delivering in 2012 and putting off any acquisitions can you talk about sort of how your asset sale target including Gulf of Mexico plays into that? And any sort of desire to become investment grade as part of that strategy? I'll let Terry answer the question on the investment grade and kind of where all that takes it.
We mentioned on the Gulf of Mexico that our objective is to maximize value.
We said that we're plenty happy to hang on to the production and produce it out if that's the right answer.
But I would tell you it's an attractive piece of business.
It's got strong production from the producing-asset side and it's a really strong exploratory portfolio.
So the process is underway there.
We'll have to see how that plays out.
But clearly at Newfield we deem the deepwater Gulf of Mexico nonstrategic in the near term.
Terry? Yes that's it.
A pretty good summary Lee.
Yes we'll just have to see how the Gulf of Mexico plays out in time.
And we have our investment grade at S&amp;P have recently visited with all the rating agencies updated them on our 2012 plan reaffirmed that we delivered on our 2009 '10 and '11 operating results as we had communicated to them prior to each of those operating years.
In 2011 if you include the asset sales that closed in the first quarter that really initiated in 2011 we sold $700 million worth of what we believe are nonstrategic assets.
They didn't have a place in our future in driving growth.
And we'll continue to review the portfolio for things that still fall in that category.
Clearly with natural gas prices where they are today gas assets that may not have any drilling activity on them to date won't bring a lot of -- or may not be very attractive for somebody in the market and we probably won't be pursuing sales of natural gas assets.
And most of our oil assets are core or in the process of becoming foundational assets as we go through the assessment and development activity.
So we'll continue to focus on improving the balance sheet.
Asset sales -- nonstrategic asset sales are part of that equation.
And we'll see how the Gulf of Mexico plays out as we alluded to.
I guess as a follow-up to that.
When you spoke with the rating agencies did they give you any sort of guidelines as to -- you've obviously just recently called your 2014 notes.
Did they give you any sort of guidelines in terms of doing things like take -- calling those notes or any additional notes in order -- sort of like maybe like a path to what you would take to become investment grade in their eyes for the 2 rating agencies that don't have you at the investment-grade level at this point? I think clearly one of the elements is just scale.
And the rating agencies -- or the way I would summarize I think have begun to move away from some of the pure metrics-based criteria.
And looking at level of debt relative to proved developed reserves versus total proved reserves as a result of the change in the SEC guidelines several years ago has become more important.
Clearly it's a matter of -- each of them have their individual criteria but in the end there's other factors that come into play.
And one of those is the way you run the business and the consistency in delivering results.
And we have continued to deliver.
They've provided no road map to investment grade nor have they told us the road map to go the opposite direction.
So we know what's required generally which is continue to strengthening the balance sheet and reduce debt on a dollar of developed barrel going forward strengthening cash flows and that's the road map to investment grade.
And that is all the time that we have for questions today.
I would now like to turn the call back over to Mr.
Boothby for any additional or closing remarks.
I will be brief.
Thank you for your interest in Newfield.
Thank you for your time today.
We look forward to updating you in a couple of months on our progress at the end of the second quarter.
Have a good day.
Thank you.
And again that does conclude today's call.
We do thank you for your participation.
Good day everyone and welcome to Newfield Exploration's Second Quarter 2012 Conference Call.
Just a reminder today's call is being recorded.
And before we get started one housekeeping matter.
Our discussion with you today will contain forward-looking statements such as estimated production and timing drilling and development plans expected cost reductions and planned capital expenditures.
Although we believe that the expectations reflected in these statements are reasonable they are based upon assumptions and anticipated results that are subject to numerous uncertainties and risks.
Actual results may vary significantly from those anticipated due to many factors and risks some of which may be unknown.
Please see Newfield's 2011 Annual Report on Form 10-K and subsequent quarterly reports on Form 10-Q for discussion of factors that may cause actual results to vary.
Forward-looking statements made during this call speak only as of today's date and unless legally required Newfield undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements.
In addition reconciliations of non-GAAP financial measures to GAAP financial measures together with Newfield's earning release and any other applicable disclosures are available on the Investor Relations page of Newfield's website at www.newfield.com.
At this time for opening remarks and introductions I would like to turn the call over to the Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer Mr.
Lee Boothby.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you operator.
Good morning everyone and thanks for dialing in today.
Happy to report that the sun is shining and the sky is blue here in Houston this morning.
And I know it's an hour earlier than we usually start so just enjoy your coffee and we'll run through some of our mid-year highlights as quickly as we can.
I'm joined this morning in Houston by Terry Rathert our CFO; Gary Packer our Chief Operating Officer; and Steve Campbell our Vice President Investor Relations.
As you saw in last week's operations release we are creating value through our oil investments in 2012.
We improved upon our execution we're meeting and beating production estimates seeing solid results in all of our assessment areas and demonstrated that our asset portfolio has a deep inventory of solid high return plays to invest in both now and well into the future.
We believe that our diversified portfolio model provides us with a competitive advantage.
In the slide packet we posted last week there is an interesting graph I would encourage you to review shows the very deliberate steps we've taken over time to capture oil opportunities accelerate their investment and carefully hedge both natural gas and oil to ensure the balance sheet strength to allow us the ability to execute our drilling plans.
We didn't get here today by happenstance and we appreciate the support of our investor base over that time.
What I see today is a very positive inflection point.
Our transition to an oil company is real and more than half of our production will now be derived from high-value oil and liquids production.
This is great news and we're excited about what this means for our future.
As you know Newfield has certainly changed and evolved over time.
We've transitioned from a Gulf of Mexico start-up nearly 25 years ago to a company today with core onshore North American resource plays lucrative assets in Southeast Asia and a deep inventory in both oil and natural gas drilling opportunities.
We've more than doubled our oil production over the last 4 years we've transitioned from a company driving growth from natural gas to a company that is driving growth from oil and we've done it largely organically.
We have thousands of low-risk oil development locations that are ready to drill today in our core development areas and our recent assessment results show very exciting early returns in the Cana Woodford Eagle Ford Shale and in 2 in new plays in the Central Basin region of the Uinta Basin.
More on our assessments later in the call.
Our Chief Operating Officer Gary Packer will give you a good project-level overview.
I'm excited about our results here today and confident we will ultimately achieve our main goal readying a development inventory of opportunities that will again propel us to double-digit production growth driven by oil and financed through our internal resources.
I can assure you that our management team is united in delivering strong results for our shareholders and focusing on maximizing our primary product cash.
I'll turn it over to our CFO Terry Rathert to quickly cover our financial results from the quarter.
Terry? Thanks Lee.
Our net income in the second quarter excluding FAS 133 income was $82 million or $0.61 per share.
Revenues for the second quarter were $627 million.
Value creation in or transition oil is evident.
86% of our revenues in the quarter came from our oil and liquids production.
Cash flow for the period was $330 million.
Our oil and liquids liftings in the second quarter of 2012 were up 40% over the comparable period in 2011 to 6.1 million barrels or an average of more than 67 000 barrels of oil per day.
Our NGL volumes in the quarter were about 530 000 barrels only 4% of our total production had its realized price of $28 per barrel.
Our oil and liquids production comprised 49% of our total production in the second quarter and we expect that more than half of our production will come from liquids in the back half of the year.
I look forward to soon reporting our results in BOEs as compared to Bcfs.
I applaud our teams today for delivering outsized oil growth.
We entered 2012 producing about 55 000 barrels and we expect to exit this year producing about 75 000 barrels.
That's our daily rate.
With no investments today being allocated to our natural gas assets they're on natural decline.
Our natural gas production in the quarter was 39.8 Bcf an average of about 440 million cubic feet per day.
Natural gas volumes year-over-year have fallen about 14% which is about exactly in line with the decline we estimated in our full year guidance.
We realized $3.48 per MCF on our natural gas sales during the second quarter.
Allowing our gas production to decline is again the right economic choice.
Too often I hear people focus simply on absolute production growth.
With natural gas around $3 and NGLs at just a third the oil price our obligation to the shareholder must be to create value and we're electing to continue to invest all that we can in oil projects with higher returns as it is.
We realized just over $94 on our oil liftings in the quarter.
I'll be happy to address any specific questions related to the financials at the end of today's prepared remarks.
But for now I'll turn it over to Gary Packer to update you on a few of our recent operational financial highlights.
Thank you Terry.
Last week we issued a very comprehensive update on our year-to-date accomplishments.
In the interest of time today I will not rehash all the information but I will share some insights on each of these areas.
Let's start with an overview of the 2 areas that have been in our portfolio for quite a while and are now seeing much better returns due to longer laterals optimized completions and improved flow back techniques.
Those areas are the Williston Basin and Eagle Ford Shale.
In the Williston Basin our results are benefiting from steps we took to improve execution and get a handle on costs.
Recall that we voluntarily slowed our operations here in late 2011 dropping rigs deferring well completions and improving our field-level oversight to better navigate the challenges of a classic oilfield boom.
These proactive steps are certainly paying off today.
We are setting records on days to drill and case averaging just 25 days year-to-date.
This compares with 45 days 2 years ago 35 days last year.
We recently drilled and cased a 10 000-foot lateral in just 20 days.
Our development in the Williston Basin today is largely being conducted from common pad locations these 2 and 3 well pad sites offer synergies in both drilling and completion timing and service costs are certainly moving in a favorable direction for us to date.
We are taking full benefit of cost reductions and certainly anticipate realizing better benefits from these in 2013.
Today we have an inventory of about 300 ready-to-drill locations in our core development areas on and off the Nesson Anticline.
The geology in the Williston is very favorable for development with stack pays multiple benches to explore and in addition to the more than 50 Bakken Wells we have drilled to date we have also drilled several Three Forks wells with good results.
We are continuing our field studies to quantify the potential in the Three Forks as well as the deeper ventures on our acreage.
Ultimately the Williston Basin will have tighter spacing and more development locations producing from varying depths than previously thought.
We have some pilot programs underway today to get us a handle on this and there'll be more to report on this later.
Our Williston Basin production recently hit 10 000 barrels equivalent per day and our wells continue to perform very well.
Our full year production in the basin will increase about 35% year-over-year.
We recently added a rig and the economics of our investments in the area today warrant additional activity.
We anticipate adding additional rigs in early 2013.
Let's move on to the Eagle Ford.
Our recent Super Extended Laterals in the Eagle Ford have performed extremely well.
The program's highlights can be summarized pretty succinctly.
First we are seeing higher sustained rates over 90 days.
This breakthrough is a result of changes made not only in the lateral length but in how we are completing these wells our controlled -- and our controlled flow back techniques.
Our wells are producing about 1 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day and we have as much as 1 500-PSI flowing tubing pressure after 30 days.
Again we are intentionally managing the rates to limit pressure drawdown and maximize our anticipated ultimate recoveries over time.
Second we are seeing higher EURs.
Our production data is indicating significant increases in our recoveries and the wells are performing well above our type curves.
We estimate that the EURs are in excess of 500 000 barrels equivalent.
We need more wells and more time to confirm but we are very encouraged to date.
And lastly all of our improvements are translating into better economics.
We are drilling these SXLs in about 12 days now and our drilling case cost are less than $3 million.
Our drilling team has done an outstanding job lowering drilling cost.
Completion costs remain high but we are seeing signs of encouragement our lower pressure pumping costs as we enter 2013 and be assured we'll take advantage of these.
Our completed well costs from pads should average about $8 million gross.
At these costs our Eagle Ford SXLs have a IRR of more than 35% and are confident that they will improve as we progress.
These recent breakthroughs have made our Eagle Ford investments competitive with other choices we have in the Newford -- Newfield portfolio today and as a result we are increasing our planned activity in the play and have allocated capital to drill at least 6 additional SX wells -- SXL wells in the second half of 2012.
Let's look at the West Asherton area as an example.
At 120-acre spacing on 18 000 acres we have over 100 ready-to-drill locations.
This equates to 35 million barrels or more net to our interest.
Industry wells just across the leased line are now being spaced at less than 80 acres.
With continued strong results in the second-half SXL program we will be in a position to allocate additional rigs to our Eagle Ford program in 2013.
I realize it's been a while since we've talked about the Eagle Ford play.
You recall that we acquired the acreage for less than $500 an acre through an acquisition 2.5 years ago.
And our recent success leaves us encouraged about the potential commerciality of the Eagle Ford across more of our acreage.
Be assured our teams are focused on expanding the economic footprint beyond just 40 000 acres.
Let's talk about our new assessment programs now in the Cana Woodford the Uteland Butte and the Wasatch of the Uinta basin.
In late 2010 we started leasing east and south of the known Cana Woodford trend in the Anadarko basin.
We have now been able to assemble rapidly over 135 000 acres for approximately $1 000 an acre.
Our geologic concept indicated higher yields and the ability to produce from the oil phase.
Our 2012 program called for the rapid assessment of this acreage with the hopes to being able to push the play into development mode by 2013.
Many of you likely questioned our decision to dedicate $300 million to a play we seemingly knew little about.
But I would argue that's not the case at all.
Recall that we have drilled nearly 400 cores horizontal Woodford wells just a few counties to the east in the Arkoma basin.
We're a proven operator in Oklahoma and we have quickly transferred our learning curve to the Anadarko Woodford.
Since January we have been running 5 rigs in the Cana.
We are highly encouraged with our results and they are included in our recent well test in last week's operational release.
In addition to these wells we have also participated in roughly 40 industry wells operated by others.
This success also provides us with increased confidence about the quality of our acreage.
Our activity to date has focused on our southern acreage which covers about 80 000 net acres.
We have initial flow rates of nearly 2 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day in black oil content that ranges 25% to 65% depending on where you are in the liquids phase.
Our wells are exhibiting strong pressure and our controlled flow back techniques here as well are helping us sustain strong flow rates over an extended period of time.
And our mid-continent team has done a great job of quickly applying our learning curves to drill cost-effective wells.
Our first wells in this play took about 100 days.
Pretty much anticipated in the early phases of these types of assessments.
We recently drilled and cased a well in less than 45 days an industry regional record.
These efficiency gains translate into higher returns and will help us increase our annual growth.
Although it's early we estimate that these south Cana Wells have gross EURs of 1.1 million to 1.7 million barrels equivalent and will deliver 35% to 50% internal returns at today's commodity prices.
I'm confident we will be able to continue to improve on our drilling performance and further optimize our completions.
Our activity in the second half of this year will be weighted towards the southern acreage however we are planning to continue our assessment of the northern acreage and an SXL will be drilled later this year.
The area encompasses about 55 000 net acres and has potential for wells with a very high black oil content.
My last topic before we open the call to questions is the Uinta Basin.
We are developing multiple oil plays on more than 230 000 net acres in the Uinta.
Since 2004 we have been exploiting oil plays in the region and have grown to become Utah's largest oil producer.
We clearly have a competitive advantage in this basin.
Our 2012 program is largely focused on the Central Basin an area north and adjacent to Monument Butte.
We methodically grew our acreage position in this area.
Beginning in late 2009 we identified and captured new oil plays 2 of which we are now entering on development the Uteland Butte and the Wasatch.
Our new plays have tremendous resource potential and their development has the ability to drive our domestic oil production growth for many years to come into the future.
Let's talk about the Uteland Butte first.
Our early wells in this play were drilled under Monument Butte field.
They IP-ed at around 500 barrels a day but we were confident that the play was even more prospective as we moved to the north deeper and into the higher-pressured regime.
The data we gathered from these early wells was instrumental in our ability to capture additional acreage in the Central Basin during 2011.
We have recently migrated our drilling campaign to the pressured regime in the Uteland Butte play.
And our most recent well commenced production at nearly 1 500 barrels of oil equivalent per day of which nearly 90% was oil.
The well averaged nearly 1 300 barrels equivalent a day over the first 7 days of production.
We have 2 wells to date in the pressured formation at the Uteland Butte and their average production is at least 3x that of a normally-pressured Uteland Butte.
Our first wells have now been online more than 30 days and it's average production over this period is nearly 1 000 barrels equivalent per day.
That means the well cumed about 28 000 barrels in its first month.
This well has a lateral of less than 4 000 feet.
So let me put these numbers in perspective for you.
After drilling about 30 wells in the Bakken we know that are 5 000 foot laterals cumed just under 20 000 barrels in their first 30 days.
Our estimated EUR in the Bakken for a 5000-foot lateral is about 500 000 barrels and cost about $8 million.
So our recent Uteland Butte pressured wells cumed normally -- nearly 30% more than the lateral and is 1 000 foot shorter and the well cost nearly $3 million less than its sister well in the Williston Basin.
These early wells are indicating EURs of over 400 000 barrels.
That's significant when you consider we have more than 70 000 net acres in this play.
We are highly encouraged with the results to date.
We plan to drill about 15-or-so additional pressured wells in the play later this year.
Our other exciting play in the Central Basin is the Wasatch.
We've drilled more than 30 wells to date and the play has very strong economics.
Year-to-date we have completed 18 vertical wells with an average initial gross production of nearly 900 barrels equivalent per day and 30-day average of more than 400 barrels a day.
We recently completed our first 2 horizontal pressured Wasatch wells.
The early flow rates on these wells are encouraging and we are looking forward to seeing what the near-term max rate will be as well as the 30 and 60 day performance data.
Before we open the call to questions let me mention our Malaysian operations where we recently set a record production of more than 30 000 barrels a day net and our gross production today is more than 75 000 barrels a day and our production here sells at Brent pricing.
Like the rest of the organization our team here has done a great job of bringing new developments online drilling field development wells from platforms to maximize production and finding expiration projects to meet our future growth needs.
In the second half of this year we have 3 high potential exploration wells planned.
The first known is Paus North a deepwater Block 2C and an appraisal of a 2008 discovery and that well is drilling currently.
With that I'll flip the call back to you Lee.
Thanks Gary.
And thanks to all of you for your interest and support of Newfield.
We're very pleased with our performance at mid-year and are certain that our performance year-to-date and our positive trajectory are building momentum for what will be a superior 2013 and 2014 as we complete our transition to oil.
With that I'll open the call for your questions.
Operator? [Operator Instructions] We'll take our first question from Brian Lively of Tudor Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Lee given the success that you've had now in the Cana Woodford and then I guess the incremental success from the Eagle Ford can you provide an update on just overall portfolio and then any incremental rationalization plans? Well I would say that the success as Gary indicated in both of those areas is very positive.
We're still early days in the Cana Woodford we continue to plan an aggressive assessment shifting to development campaign in the second half of 2012.
So as the year unfolds we'll have a lot more data at year-end to fully and properly assess the potential and the game plan relative to Cana Woodford.
In the Eagle Ford I would say the transition to the Super Extended Laterals opens up an inventory of opportunities.
If you think about the 40 000-acre position we've described historically as developable the 7 500-foot laterals and the results we're seeing there make that a pretty exciting piece of business as well.
Gary gave an example on a fraction of that acreage where we've got more than 100 ready-to-go development wells.
You translate that across the broader package you're looking at 250 300  wells that we can pound down there in the Eagle Ford.
So I think that thinking about those assets they provide a really nice opportunity to accelerate oil development activity and our further hope would be particularly in the Eagle Ford that with additional success that we will be able to expand the economic footprint there as well.
As far as rationalization additional asset opportunities I would tell you we have nothing on the radar screen at this point.
We've done a lot of that work over the last couple of years in terms of shedding nonstrategic assets.
We have a lot of that activity in 2011.
But truth be told we've got a grow-hold-divest mentality within our management team and we're going to regularly look for opportunities to shed assets that we deem noncore nonstrategic and really double down on the areas where we're getting the best returns and the best results to drive future production and cash flow growth.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> And Lee I apologize if I missed this but what's the status of the Gulf of Mexico divestiture? I don't know that you missed it we're not at a point where we're prepared to discuss it.
We've still got ongoing discussions and activities related to that.
And my hope would be that we'll have resolution of that issue here within the month.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay and then last question for me.
Gary you gave some good cost details in some of the plays.
But in the Cana Woodford itself what have you guys seen in terms of pro well costs and then what do you guys think pro forma those costs would look like? Yes I mean it's really difficult early on in these plays as I described as you're still investigating casing programs and ways to optimize the wells at 100 wells -- at 100 days clearly that's not a description of what we ultimately anticipate these wells to take to drill.
We're also investing a lot of science in the early wells.
So I don't think any of that really is germane in this early -- really early phase.
I would tell you we -- the progression that we're going right now our investment thesis originally that we were going to drill these wells for about $8 million or so and I think we're well on our way to get there.
But we're still learning.
But we keep the momentum that we have today and recently posting wells in the order of 45 to 50 days we're well on our way to get there.
Yes.
And I think one last thing and then we'll move on to the next question.
But on that point is I'll refer you back to the history we've had Gary referenced in the Arkoma Woodford as we moved in to development.
We published a few years ago the second third fourth well on the section.
We've demonstrated time and again the ability to drive those costs down.
So I think we're in a really good place and a great trajectory and I think we're getting the pay off for the accelerated program that we kicked off in early 2012.
We'll go next to Leo Mariani of RBC.
LLC Research Division</strong> Yes there was an earlier comment I think terry made it in his prepared remarks about getting to a 75 000 barrel a day liquids exit rate.
I just wanted to confirm that that was the number you guys are expecting for the end of the year because it certainly looks like it's above your guidance for 2012.
Just wanted to get some color around that.
That's where we're headed toward the end of the year.
Now remember the guidance allows for potential planned shut-ins in Malaysia for operations that Petronas has planned and some things that are outside of our control.
But we've got great growth momentum in the oil and we expect that to continue through year end.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
Can you give us a little bit more color on the potential size of the 3 exploration wells you guys talked about in Malaysia here that you guys are going to drill in the second half? Well I think the only color that we'll give is the one that's drilling.
We've talked about a lot over the last -- the course of the last years is the Paus well.
It's on deepwater Block 2C it's an appraisal well drilling an up-structure fault block from a 2008 discovery.
We've advertised that that up-structure fault block could have 200 million to 400 million barrels of oil potential.
It also has the potential of being gas condensate which is largely what we saw in the original discovery well.
Either of those outcomes success case we hope to put over an economic threshold in that project and allow us to continue to build our business offshore Sarawak that's the game plan.
The other 2 we haven't advertised and there'll be probably more color on those as the year unfolds.
We expect to do those spud.
The second of those will be a follow-up well on the SK 310 where we drilled the pinnacle reef gas discovery a little over a year ago.
So we're drilling an adjacent pinnacle reef within about 3 miles of that discovery well.
And in the interest of trying to not turn anybody away from questions let's try to keep the questions to one and possibly a short follow-up and then we'll move down the list.
I don't want to turn people away that are waiting in the queue.
We'll take our next question from Dave Kistler with Simmons &amp; Company.
Research Division</strong> Real quickly in the Cana with the 6 wells that you guys drilled and various oil cuts and initial IPs you mentioned that that was really locationally driven.
Was there anything to do with different completion techniques on any of those 6 wells? Or are you noticing anything different about how you're competing wells going forward? I'll let Gary take that question.
We continue to modify our completion techniques there.
I would tell you that the control flow back is probably the biggest driver in what we're doing there.
We continue to experiment with our stage spacing number of clusters per stage and profit types and the like.
But I would tell you that the -- I'd say the game changer for us year-to-date and this applies broadly over many of the new plays that we announced last week is the controlled flow back techniques where we're just not opening the wells up haphazardly we're actually bringing in rather slow.
We're really taking great pains to minimize the draw down that we placed on the completion.
We're seeing higher condensate yields as a result of that we're seeing higher flowing tubing pressures sustain much longer and we think we're maintaining better conductivity to the formation.
We're seeing that in all 3 of our plays and I think that's probably the biggest change that we've seen.
But we continue to tweak it.
Clearly 6 wells is not enough to figure out what special sauce is and we'll just keep trying.
Research Division</strong> Great I appreciate that.
And then one question quickly on the Williston.
You mentioned that you might be looking at a downspacing program.
Can you talk a little bit more about that and where specifically you're looking at downspacing? Sure.
We actually have 3 downspacing or spacing pilots underway right now.
The spacing on those projects would be anywhere between 750 and 1 060 feet.
That's much tighter than what industry has done.
But we're doing that as a means to really accelerate our understanding of what the proper spacing ultimately is.
So we're not much different in the industry as far as how we have things booked currently but I can tell you that some of the tests that we'll do may be pretty revealing.
I would've anticipated industry to be further along with this.
But we're not and therefore we're going to -- we're probably pretty aggressive this year in the 3 tests that we're undertaking right now.
We'll go next to Brian Singer with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> First on the Eagle Ford SXLs.
When you talk about drilling an additional 6 wells this year can you characterize those? Are they more development wells based on the success you've seen or more step out of assessment wells of other parts of your 40 000 acres? And then I think you mentioned that you may be seeing more potential on your Eagle Ford or Maverick position beyond the 40 000 acres.
Can you add a little bit more color on that and the timing of that assessment? Sure Brian.
I'd characterize the wells that we'll drill the remainder this year as development.
They will largely be 7 500-foot laterals but we're actually going to attempt a 10 000 foot test as well.
The reference to expanding the acreage block as we continue to move to the north we get shallower in the section and we think some of the completion techniques that we've utilized that we think -- that we attribute some of the success that we've had in the SXLs again I don't think it's all about the length.
From a completion standpoint we've changed our technique up quite a bit and we have not applied those to some of the shallower depths.
So that's really what the objective there is.
We ought to have one well tested in a shallower section later this year.
And pending the results of that that's something we'll be able to expand upon in 2013.
Research Division</strong> Great that's helpful.
And as a follow-up going to the Uinta.
When you think about the better performance that you're seeing in the pressured parts of the Uinta and mirror that in the context of getting Black Wax oil to market.
Are you able to drill the same number of wells get more oil out than you thought and get that oil to market? Or do you end up drilling fewer but better wells due to midstream constraints? Or is everything you're seeing basically just in line with your expectations? Let's see here I'll take that one and Gary can fill in any of the details that I blur.
I would tell you that when you look at the uplift and we talked about this Brian for most of the last year in terms of our plans and visions for the Uinta particularly in the Central Basin acreage we started aggressively assessing that vertically so we can understand the section that we were drilling through and we started talking about a transition to horizontal testing.
We've been really excited about getting that program kicked off and the fact that these well results are coming back so strong provides plenty of options.
First thing I would say is that we have the long-term agreements in place to be able to move our crude.
So when you think about our game plan it's doubling production out of the Uinta Basin between now and 2015.
That will allow us to fully utilize the capacity that we've signed up for.
And I think in that context the sooner we get there the better.
So all things considered if we were running full capacity on the basin as things were opening up it would allow us to shift capital into other project areas because we will be able to generate higher yield -- production yield per effort utilizing the horizontal drilling.
But again remember we're relatively early.
I mean we're very very encouraged with results.
I think we've got good strong results and sustained production on the pressured Uteland Butte wells that we've announced.
And then our 30 wells that we've completed in the deep pressured Wasatch gives us high confidence in that overall section.
But we're still very early there.
We've just turned on our first few wells and we haven't yet released that information.
So we'll continue to work the marketing and export side but there's not anybody out there that should be losing sleep over Newfield's ability to move barrels in the Uinta Basin.
I think we're in real good shape there.
Gary you got anything you want to add? Well I think you're familiar Brian that everything we drill in the Central Basin is going to be yellow wax.
We have no issues on the Black Wax side as Lee referenced.
We're currently moving about 7 500 barrels a day or so equivalent out of the Central Basin most of that is all oil.
With an aggressive campaign that we believe that we could yield from this I mean you can do the arithmetic as well as I can with the kind of wells we're posting there we could be looking end of next year 20 000 barrels a day or more and in that situation we are going to continue to look to capture ever-increasing yellow wax markets.
But that's a really good story for us that kind of growth.
So we continue to work it.
We see a lot of opportunities both in the basin and out of the basin for marketing.
We'll go next to David Tameron with Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just staying on the Uinta.
There's been a perception out there that just given the pullback in crude prices some were speculating the Uinta is not as economic as other plays.
Can you just talk about -- and you covered in the well cost a little bit but can you talk about your IRRs coming out of Uinta and where that kind of rates in your program relative to other basins? Where you have development like the Bakken? Sure David.
When you look at the results that we posted last week I would say each of these plays compare very favorably.
As I referenced and I only have 30 days to go on as we already described but if you just look at the early results it would indicate that a Uteland Butte well ought to compete very favorably with a Bakken well.
Now that's only after 30 60 -- and we have to watch this as you well know well longer than that.
The trajectories of these wells are relatively unknown at this point because we're really blazing new territories a new formation drilling wells that have not been drilled before.
But we're very optimistic.
I don't know about the perception that's out there but after 2 wells these wells are over-delivering what some of our early modeling would suggest.
And I would tell you I think they'll compete very favorably.
But we have drilled far more wells in the Uinta Basin and even more recently in the Eagle Ford.
So we have our minds clearly around where those compete and they compete very favorably.
But I would say based on the early results and that's all I could speak to at this point that a horizontal program in the pressured Uteland Butte will not have any difficulty in any -- in a commodity price anywhere close to where we're at right now.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then let me just as a follow-up.
Some of your competitors talked about potentially adding rail coming out of the Uinta to ease up some of the capacity or take care of some longer-term capacity requirements.
Can you -- have you heard that? And I know from Newfield's perspective you're talking about you guys are fine as far as takeaway but have you heard that? And if so any comment on that? I think yes.
I have heard that.
It remains a legitimate option to take to market and we're exploring opportunities to at least test some of those markets out.
So I'll confirm that for you.
David I'll just jump in and add a couple of reminders.
Remember we've been operating out in the Uinta Basin since 2004.
We've drilled more wells than anybody else out there.
We're the biggest oil producer in Utah we dominate the Uinta Basin particularly on the oil side we've got all kinds of synergies that work through the system that are related to that that frankly our peers don't have.
So I think we're in a wonderful position in that regard.
And I would count on you and your peers to start changing the game if you will and erasing the urban myth.
There's been a lot of bad things written about crude in the Uinta Basin.
Fact of the matter is it's a high-quality high-value crude.
Just ask the refiners.
And I think that the wax issue is way overblown.
I think people just don't understand it but it's a high-quality crude and the economics on these wells if you got the kind of results that we've been generating out over the last 12 months out of the Uinta Basin the vertical well program in the Wasatch early return from the horizontal our experience in multiple basins you got to be excited about where we're going to take this thing from here.
So I like where we're at and I think we'll just let the results speak for themselves as we move forward.
We'll go next to Subash Chandra with Jefferies &amp; Company.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I was curious in the Cana Stevens County Garvin County.
Has there been results there before? Is this sort of a frontier program if you will? And of the 6 wells were any drilled -- of wells drilled to date in the Cana were any drilled in that area? And how much further south you think the play might extend for these million-barrel-type results? Well I'll start talking while Gary is looking at a reference map.
This is Lee.
I'm going to remind you Subash that our odyssey in the Woodford actually started in this area in Southern Oklahoma literally 10 years ago.
And it started by studying the vertical wells and what's historically been called the big 4 play.
And I think that Golden Trend area if you want to go ahead and look for reference.
And I would tell you that not knowing anything about shale in 2002 or looking to redefining our strategy in the Mid-Con we decided to go the unconventional route relatively early on.
One of the key pieces of data was some production logs that we ran in some wells that we had drilled vertical wells in 2001 in the Golden Trend and imagine my shock having grown up in the Gulf of Mexico to see that the primary producer in the big 4 in those wells that we ran those production logs in was the Woodford Shale and it was producing oil.
Okay? Back in that timeframe gas was the preferred commodity so we went to the Arkoma Basin to chase gas.
The fact of the matter is the Woodford in Southern Oklahoma has been producing oil for 30 or 40 years it's just been co-mingled and therefore I think a lot of people missed the fact that it's been a real key part of the overall production down there.
Yes the only thing I'd add to that is I believe Subash that the majority of our wells have all been drilled in Grady County.
We are intentionally not posting the well locations out there but we've drilled a mix of wet gas wells and what we would consider classic oil phase.
And some of those may get into Garvin but we've not posted those to date.
It'd be really speculative on my part to tell you until we've actually drilled the wells how far that will extend.
But clearly as we push the play to the east we'll be getting in more of an elect [ph] window and you'll just have to stay tuned for our results as we do that.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And the follow-up in the Bakken.
Could you just spell out the rig count I think you added a rig what number of that is  if you got up to 4 plan to get up to 4 or not this year? And then on the locations I think you said 300 does that include Three Forks? And what sort of spacing in Three Forks that might include? Yes the -- as far as the rig count as I said late last year we backed off to 2 rigs.
We are -- we currently have 3 rigs.
One of those is a new build that we've been swapping out for one of our existing in the rig fleet.
And then we would look at adding another rig a fourth rig probably in 2013 as early as possible pending capital budgets and so forth.
As far as the Three Forks I believe that has 2 wells per section but I would have to confirm that for you.
We've looked at anywhere between 2 and 4 but in that well count I don't think we utilized the full 4 count in there.
We'll go next to Joe Magner with MacQuarrie.
I'm wondering if you could provide a breakdown in terms of price differentials oil price differentials between your various domestic oil plays primarily the Uinta the Williston and the Cana Woodford? Joe this is Steve I'm happy to do that.
I don't have it with me but I will pull it up and send you a range of differentials for each of those areas but we didn't see anything in the quarter that was out of the ordinary.
Okay I guess I could follow-up with you off-line.
There was a comment made about the yellow wax growth and there's been a lot of focus on takeaway capacity and locking up long-term contracts on Black Wax.
Just curious you talked about running 7 500.
Now what kind of limitations are there and what kind of capacity exists on the yellow wax side now and what will be required to expand or capitalize on some of those market opportunities you referred to Gary? Yes for some obvious reasons I'm not going to be too transparent with you on some of the options that we're exploring out there.
I would tell you that we see 4 to 5 different avenues to expand our existing marketing of yellow wax.
I think no different than black it is something that we need to continue to work.
As we have on the black to enter into long-term agreements to expand the capacity.
But it is certainly not something that we could sit back and do nothing about or we will run into a cap.
So I would anticipate through the balance of 2012 seeing us enter into some commitments that would allow us to make some immediate enhancements to the refining capacity.
That is something that ought to happen by the end of the year to get us into and well into 2013.
But I would tell you that we're going to have to pursue some additional areas of marketing as we look to 2014 and beyond.
It's something that we got a lot of effort at -- in right now Joe and we'll just have to visit with you later on the specifics.
Can you address at all the current capacity? I don't have the information in front of me right now.
I'd hate to speculate but it's probably on the order -- somewhere in the order of 15 000 barrels a day or so which would be out there available.
So we're going to have to go get a little bit more as far as to live up to the growth the capacity that we have by the end of '13.
But I'd say 15 is pretty close.
And Joe our arrangements with the -- the 2 long-term arrangements have allowances in there for yellow wax as well.
So we've covered ourselves in the short term.
Okay.
One last quick one in terms of outstanding or ongoing assessment work.
Any update on the Southern Alberta Basin at this point? Well the update on the Southern Alberta basin is that we have no activity up there at the moment.
I think that we've been monitoring industry activity.
We transferred responsibility for that play to our exploration adventures team here in Houston.
They continue to monitor activity both on the U.S.
side as well as on the Canadian side of the border.
We've got term left there some 3.5 4 years remaining on our exploration phase and no need to aggressively pursue any activity in the short term.
So monitor the results of some of the competitors in the area and we'll revisit that going into 2013 as far as the forward plan.
We'll go next to Anne Cameron with BNP Paribas.
Research Division</strong> Just a question on the Cana given that you're ramping up activity as fast as you are.
Could you comment a little bit on the midstream arrangement that you have in place? What stage are you with securing gathering systems and have you sought any partnerships with any midstream companies for processing? We're very far along in that and I would look for something -- we'll probably have something contracted in the third quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay no more details on that or...
No.
Not at this time.
Research Division</strong> Okay and can we have an update on your drilling program at the Pearl Development offshore China? Go ahead Gary.
Pearl's progressing nicely.
We have our topsides rig and jacket all under construction in 3 different yards in China.
Everything is progressing as scheduled and we anticipate being in a position to be out and on production.
Late 2013 would be aggressive early 2014 is very likely.
I actually visited the yards and visited our offices out there in April and was really pleased with how things are progressing.
I'll be making a trip this fall in August as well.
So we're real pleased with the progress the team made in China.
We'll go next to William Butler with Stephens.
Research Division</strong> In terms of Malaysia you all had previously talked about expected downtime in the second half of the year and you all may have tried to address it with an earlier question.
But can you be any more specific on the timing of that downtime and whether it should impact 3Q versus 4Q more? Yes.
There is downtime.
We were a bit oversold in the second quarter in some of those from a lifting standpoint.
And that's the thing we have to keep track of is some of those lifting impacts are going to be felt in the third quarter.
So ultimately I think the number's going to be somewhere around 300 000 barrels we'll be impacted in the third quarter just due to timings or liftings.
There will be an incremental shutdown that's associated with our Tapas [ph] facilities downstream of our PM 323 project just doing some platform modifications which will impact our production.
But that's all factored into the guidance that we have out there right now.
Research Division</strong> Is that Tapas is that going to be third quarter also? Yes that's going to be a third quarter impact at about 300 000 barrels or so.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then one other question there's been some increased discussion about the Pearsall in the Eagle Ford area and you all previously discussed that particularly in Maverick County.
How would your geology there differ necessarily from sort of the  [indiscernible] that guys like Cabot have pursued recently? Is that something that we could expect you all to have some potential for and have some oil there? Is that mostly going to be gas where you all are? It's our expectation that Pearsall in our area is primarily dry gas and then some of the JVs were announced they were more of the wet gas liquid phase.
We'll go next to Kenneth Miller with JC Capital Management.
I had a question on your return on investment capital criteria.
What do you use for the allocation of capital to your projects? And how are these major areas that you discussed tracking these objective returns for the corporation? Well I would tell you Kenneth that we look at a variety of return criteria it's not just one single thing such as rate of return or profit to investment ratio.
And it depends in part on the nature of the project or the prospect and the level of uncertainty.
But generally I would say that we look to our projects on a project-level basis to have in excess of a 25% pre-tax internal rate of return.
In the international arena we certainly look at things on an after-tax basis because the nature of our activities in Malaysia we're a taxpayer.
When you look through our P&amp;L those current taxes are from Malaysia because we've been extremely successful and highly profitable there.
In domestic arena due to the nature of high component IBCs most of our current taxes are deferred and so you'll see very little current tax.
So generally I'd say that it's in excess of the 25% internal rate of return would be kind of a guiding type of value and the major projects that we invest in to deliver that in development phase.
Clearly in the early stages in these assessments we don't expect that to be the case.
And I would ask you to go back and look at the history of our activity in the Woodford as an example.
Where we started out -- I think when Lee was in Tulsa and drilling those early wells I kept telling you we got to get through this first 20 30 50 or whatever it is to make some better returns and he kept telling me we're getting there we're getting there.
Because we're driving the returns to experience and the activity and continuity of activities in these resource plays you develop synergies and development cost efficiencies.
And everybody that's in a major position in these plays can show you their track record of success in terms of driving costs down improving returns through time.
That's one of the benefits of large resource plays and one of the reasons why you need to have a substantial acreage footprint for them to really generate the returns because you have to get on that learning curve and drive the cost down.
And that's exactly what we've done.
So I would say is that I think we're on track in all of our resource plays.
Where we're headed in that direction.
Clearly the first dozen wells are not going to be 25% returns.
Those are more about identifying and assessing the opportunity and understanding where it fits in relative space in the portfolio as compared to investing for that return to date.
L.L.C.
Research Division</strong> But when you look at your entire investment properties have you seen any long-term relationship between achieving your rate of return rate of return on invested capital objectives and either your stock price performance or enterprise value? Well I think it's a very interesting try to factor in and figure out what's at play when.
If you go back to the early part of 2000 we're a gas-focused company and we're driving those results in the Woodford and we had the synergies coming and then gas prices went down.
We've converted and invested in oil.
And so I think that conversion investing in oil because it generates more cash and more cash flow will translate into share price performance.
But it has to be recognized and has to have visibility and that's what 2012 is all about.
It's showing the capability the capacity of these resource plays the new ones we've entered into in terms of the Central Basin and multiple play sites in the Central Basin the Cana Gary mentioned earlier the game changing types of performance we're seeing in the lower Eagle Ford now with the extended -- the SXLs.
Those when there's clear visibility will transfer into share price performance.
And we have a deep portfolio of those and have done that.
If you look through time we've done that transition from gas to oil organically not unlike we went from being a Gulf Coast player where our reserve life was 5 to 6 years to having a reserve life of 13 organically.
And so those are -- they take time to go through those transitions but they will translate.
L.L.C.
Research Division</strong> Well it's been an excellent performance so far.
One other quick question.
With the 12 month I guess natural gas price drip now at $3.45.
What would it take for you I guess either financially or maybe even emotionally to reallocate capital to your gassy Woodford properties? I don't have any emotion attached to returns.
It's all financial.
So all it would take would be for the returns in those investments to compete with the returns we have in our oil portfolio.
And I can tell you it depends on the cost structure.
If you had a unique cost structure in a gas basin at $3.45 where the cash generation for the dollar invested was equal to or greater than what it would be if I'm invested in oil at $90 a barrel it would get allocated capital.
Today I don't know of a gas basin in North America where you can invest as much and get as high a return cash-on-cash as places like our Uinta Basin the Williston our lower Eagle Ford with 7 500-foot horizontals.
L.L.C.
Research Division</strong> Understood.
What about at $3.85 to $4 gas? I notice your latest hedging position you sold gas at about $3.85 unless I'm incorrect.
So at $3.85 to $4 would that become competitive with the others or would it take even more? I'll answer that question with -- and then I'm going to move on to one more.
And so if you look at our year-end reserves our year-end reserves were down to just about $4 in the ZIP code of current oil price and we have moved all of our proven -- substantially all of our proven undeveloped oil reserves into probable because we don't intend to drill in the next 5 years.
So that's a $4 number.
We still have gas production coming from the legacy properties we're not drilling and developing but it's producing.
And so we're in essence improving the certainly around cash flow from those operations with those hedges.
We'll go next to John Herrlin with Societe Generale.
Just some quick ones.
With respect to controlled flowbacks what kind of an EUR uplift do you think you're getting by that approach? Well John it's a good question and it's something that we just don't have enough history yet to confirm it for us one way or the other.
So I'd really would have say stay tuned in order to determine exactly what that's going to be.
It's not -- if I think about like the Eagle Ford to where it was and where it is today on a similar well I may be able to get to somewhere around a 40% increase.
If you think about a well today if it's 500 000 barrels or more if we were in a $3.50 ZIP code before that may be a hair aggressive but we'll be keeping an eye on it.
John I was just going to make it real a real short technical answer material.
It's very material.
Okay.
Uteland Butte in the high-pressure section how much do you think the wells are draining? We'll have to spend some...
.
We only have 2 so we have 70 000 net acres.
So they're each draining half right now.
I can tell you our initial work.
We're making the assumption that they're on 160s.
But we're going to have to drill some spacing wells to really figure out how tight we can get that.
But that's -- the work we've done thus far would indicate 160-acre space.
And John when you put all of this together the controlled flowback the optimization of the completion recipe getting a lot of data in multiple plays today in the wet gas condensating oil windows and intuition would say that you would be moving towards a tighter spacing to optimize value and recoveries.
So I think you'll see that progression over time.
We're just early days.
Excited.
All signs are positive and as I said earlier in the call the sun's shining and the sky is blue here.
Okay one last one for me Lee is on the Three Forks.
You didn't give any kind of performance information can you say anything? Yes I'll let Gary give you some color.
He was involved with the early wells there.
We've primarily focused on the Bakken but we've been following what industry has done.
We've drilled a few wells and we've had good performance.
Gary is up to the minute with the specifics.
Yes in regard to the Three Forks we've drilled a total of 8 wells.
We'll anticipate drilling about 4 wells in 2012.
Just recently we brought in a well our Ingle [ph] well and it was on the order of 1 400 barrels a day.
So I mean it's -- I would tell you right now it's -- at this point from an IP standpoint they're checking in a little shy of the Bakken wells.
We had some early concerns that the Three Forks would be a little tougher drilling and we've overcome that quickly.
And they seem to be drilling at about the same rate.
We've just cut 2 full conventional course in an area that we would call Watford and Aquaria to better study the Three Forks not only in the main bench but...
We'll take our next question from Dan McSpirit with BMO Capital Markets.
Turning to the balance sheet and specifically the credits stats of net debt to cap and long-term debt to EBITDA.
Based on your own internal estimates where do you see the range on those 2 ratios say at the end of this year whether pro forma for the asset divestitures or not? Well net debt to cap we should end the year with about $3 billion of long-term debt and that's if we run a balanced budget.
So far we're pretty much in that ZIP code.
What's a little confusing is the fact that over the quarter end date we had done one notes issuance and hadn't completely taken out debt that was on the balance sheet.
So you do the net debt calculation and run a balanced budget we'll have about $3 billion.
So the net debt to cap ought to be in that 40% low 40% range.
And I think that's probably a good range with or without any material acquisitions or dispositions.
Great.
As a follow-up if I could.
In reviewing the Thorn [ph] and Grayson [ph] wells the 2 wells drilled in the pressured area of the Uinta Basin looks like they're about 6 miles apart -- located about 6 miles apart you can correct me if I'm wrong.
But what's the plan for additional wells drilled in the pressured area of the basin in terms of location distances here over the balance of this year? And could you remind us again also of the pressure gradient of those wells versus others? Yes.
Dan the remaining program will be distributed across that area.
You will not find it to be confined to any 1 or 2.
We're not just going to snugging up against those wells.
We're going to make sure we continue our assessment across the broader area.
And the second question what was your second question? How many wells in the back half of the year? Well it's just the pressure gradients of those wells drilled in the pressured area versus others.
About 0.73 PSI per foot.
Okay and the vertical depth on the Grayson and Thorn wells? I believe they were from a vertical depth standpoint somewhere around 9 000 or 10 000 feet and then the lateral lengths were somewhere between 4 000 and 5 000 in lateral.
We'll go next to Richard Tullis with Capital One South Coast.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of quick questions.
Jumping over to the Williston.
I noticed in the ops update last week you had one well drilled there at about $10 million for extended lateral.
What are you averaging I guess across the up play right now for the extended laterals there? As far as an average this year that $10 million is an awfully good number for us.
If I rigorously calculated the average it would probably be a hair more than that.
But Cana is I think a representation of where we're at today.
And certainly with some of the benefits that I anticipate realizing from some completion cost reductions we ought to be inside of that number as we look into 2013.
Something that we're always -- I think it's important to recognize we consistently are hitting it out of the park with our ability to drop days and cost out of the system on the drill side.
The completion is an area that we don't want to take too much money out too soon.
Because as we look there to continue to space tighter and tighter as you well know we've gone from 12 to 24.
This year we've gone to 32 to 38.
And we're going to be looking at going to 42-stage completions.
And that's an element of how we've been able to drive the EURs up to 600 000 to 700 000 barrels a well.
So I don't think that's stopped and I hesitate trying to drive the cost out of the completion too quick.
But I think that's a good ZIP code and just remember that when we talked about it 1.5 years ago we talked about reducing activity we talked about a well that was north of $11 million and I think folks were shocked at that and then quickly everybody realized that was kind of the standard cost it was out there in the industry.
So I'm very optimistic of where we've taken it and where we will take it.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then lastly going back to the potential asset sale in the Gulf of Mexico do you envision that selling as one entire package or do you think you might have to break it up a bit to multiple buyers? I've said all I'm going to say on the Gulf of Mexico today.
Hopefully we'll have more information in terms of where we're at on that within the month.
We have time for one question.
We're already over time for the call.
So operator one more call? We'll take our last question from Rudy Hokanson with Barrington research.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Real quick and easy.
On your general and administrative guidance it's gone up a bit.
And I know that you mentioned in the note regarding costs on the international side or with some planned production facility upgrades.
And I was wondering if you could explain maybe what's happening with G&amp;A for the whole year? Rudy it's really simple.
The G&amp;A cost if you take the sum of what is shown is net G&amp;A presented by GAAP and those internal costs are capitalized the numbers haven't changed.
So the total of those 2 is the same it's accounting landscape.
And so the cost are right where we think they're going to be have been and expected to be there all year.
It's just accounting landscape in terms of what portion gets capitalized.
Thanks Rudy.
Well I'd like to thank everybody for tuning in this morning.
I certainly enjoyed the Q&amp;A session.
I hope the take away for all of you is that the management team and the organization is very excited about where we're at midyear 2012.
I'm excited about the second half and I look forward to keeping you up to speed as we continue to have the good results rolling in for multiple plays.
So have a good day and thank you very much.
This does conclude today's conference.
We thank you for your participation.
Good day everyone and welcome to Newfield Exploration's Third Quarter 2012 Conference Call.
Just a reminder today's call is being recorded.
And before we get started one housekeeping matter.
Our discussion with you today will contain forward-looking statements such as estimated production and timing drilling and development plans expected cost reductions and planned capital expenditures.
Although we believe that the expectations reflected in these statements are reasonable they are based upon assumptions and anticipated results that are subject to numerous uncertainties and risks.
Actual results may vary significantly from those anticipated due to many factors and risks some of which may be unknown.
Please see Newfield's 2011 Annual Report on Form 10-K and subsequent quarterly reports on Form 10-Q for a discussion of factors that may cause actual results to vary.
Forward-looking statements made during this call speak only as of today's date and unless legally required Newfield undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements.
In addition reconciliations of non-GAAP financial measures to GAAP financial measures together with Newfield's earnings release and any other applicable disclosures are available on the Investor Relations page of Newfield's website at www.newfield.com.
At this time for opening remarks and introductions I would like to turn the call over to the Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer Mr.
Lee Boothby.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you and good morning and welcome to Newfield's Third Quarter Conference Call.
We've had a good year and are well along on our journey transitioning to an oil company.
Our shift to oil began in mid-2009 when we made the decisions to defer activities in natural gas and focus on cash flow generation from our oil and liquids-rich assets.
This has not been an easy transition.
In fact it's much easier to grow production and reserves than the development of natural gas assets.
I know we're making the right economic choices to create the most value for our shareholders over the long term.
Our list of year-to-date achievements is growing.
We've seen solid execution in our field operations.
Our teams have done a great job of executing at the field level in each our core areas.
We've delivered on our promises and raised our production guidance throughout the year.
We've delivered strong results from our Cana Woodford play.
Our South Cana wet gas results demonstrate that we are development-ready and our exciting assessment program is evaluating the oil and liquids phase across our growing acreage position.
We'll share more details with you later in today's call.
We're working to unlock the vast potential of the Utah's Uinta Basin.
We're assessing multiple horizontal plays north of our Monument Butte field in an area we call the Central Basin.
Here we are fortunate to have an oil sub-stratigraphic column that span several thousand feet and multiple oil plays are being tested.
We're very encouraged with the results from our first 2 horizontal wells in the Wasatch.
Our SXL wells in the Eagle Ford are pointing to EURs of more than 500 000 barrels.
Our SXL campaign in the Eagle Ford has been successful and we plan to increase our investment in the region in 2013.
We've improved on our execution and are delivering outstanding results from the Williston Basin.
Today we have reduced our days-to-depth to just over 20 lowered well cost transitioned to pad drilling optimized our completions and decreased the number of days up from rig release to oil -- first oil sales.
Combined these sections have dramatically improved our returns and we plan to increase our activity level in the Williston in 2013.
Our 2012 volumes benefited from significantly higher-than-expected oil production offshore Malaysia.
In fact our current estimates are about 1.5 million barrels higher than our beginning-of-year expectations.
This achievement is the combined effect of better-than-expected field performance and proactive steps we took to accelerate oil production in net present value.
We've improved our focus through the continued sale of nonstrategic assets.
Over the last 18 months we've monetized nearly $1 billion in properties.
The most recent transaction was the sale of our remaining Gulf of Mexico assets.
These assets contributed about 14 Bcf to our 2012 volumes through closing.
Although we sold our shelf assets in 2007 the recent sale of our remaining assets in the Gulf was the final chapter in a 25-year story.
The Gulf was damn good to Newfield over this quarter century.
We got our start there grew up there made a lot of money over the years.
This success allowed for expansion into onshore regions and internationally and served as the foundation for the development of today's portfolio of assets.
Our asset sales since 2007 have allowed us to better focus our people and our capital on plays for our future while providing the funds to bridge the delta between our cash flow and our annual capital investments during our transformation.
Proceeds are being used to aid our transition to oil and accelerate our domestic liquids growth.
When we embarked on our journey to oil in mid-2009 we knew that our absolute production growth rate would suffer.
In fact periods of flat-to-declining absolute production were anticipated.
But we knew that our focus was on the right commodity oil.
And we had confidence that our investments would be accretive to cash flow and would add value over the long term.
As I mentioned one of the keys to our recent oil growth has been Malaysia.
In 2012 we benefited from flush production from new developments and the acceleration of our plant development drilling at East Belumut and East Piatu.
In addition debottlenecking the downstream infrastructure at East Belumut allowed for volumes to increase dramatically from this field which has already produced more than 25 million barrels to-date.
Our gross production in Malaysia recently crusted 78 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day and our net production from our international operations is today about 36 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day.
These volumes are significantly higher than our beginning-of-year expectations.
In fact our Malaysian volumes are expected to be up 50% this year.
I applaud our international team for the innovative work they have done over the last year to take us to new highs.
The timing of this increase was well timed with the strength of the Brent oil prices.
These are very lucrative investments and we achieved payout in only 9 months at East Piatu our most recent oil development.
At East Belumut the field paid out in about 1 year and has already returned more than twice our initial investment.
These fields will experience natural declines from their recent production highs in 2013.
Due to the fact that we accelerated our 2012 production in Malaysia while simultaneously benefiting from higher oil prices the change in our net revenue interest in 2013 will occur earlier than originally anticipated.
Essentially our net production is dictated by terms of our various production-sharing contracts.
As a result we expect that our 2013 international oil volumes will decline up to 25% from 2012 levels.
We're confident that our international oil volumes will show strong production growth again in 2014 and beyond driven by our Pearl oil field development offshore China which will commence production in early 2014 and add about 15 000 barrels of oil per day net at peak production.
In addition we have several new oil and gas initiatives underway in Malaysia today.
However we are not yet in a position to disclose those details.
Onshore in the U.S.
I'm encouraged with our progress to-date and I'm very excited about the potential of the oil and liquids-rich plays in our portfolio.
The Uinta Basin the Williston Basin the Cana Woodford and the Anadarko Basin and our Eagle Ford program in South Texas driven by our recent SXL success.
The work in 2012 was dedicated to rapidly assessing these areas and expediting their move towards ultimate development.
I'd be remiss not to point out that on October 5 the very day we closed on the sale of the Gulf of Mexico's deepwater assets Newfield achieved a new all-time high to-date production rate of 923 million cubic feet equivalent per day.
Post the Gulf asset sale our production is now 52% oil and liquids.
We still expect that our total liquids growth will be up 30% in 2012.
As we say repeatedly it's not just about absolute production growth that matters it's cash flow growth and that's our singular focus today.
As to our planning for 2013 I can tell you that we're working on various budget scenarios and we'll have the specifics to share with you soon.
I can assure you that our people and capital will be aligned to exploit our best oil and liquids-rich assets.
I'm confident in our ability to continue to show strong growth in our domestic oil volumes.
For 2013 we expect that our domestic oil volumes will again grow by more than 20% which is consistent with our liquids growth trend over the last 4 years.
Before we move to operational highlights I'll quickly cover our financial results from the third quarter.
For the third quarter of 2012 we reported a net loss of $33 million or $0.24 per share.
The loss was driven primarily by 2 items: first we had an unrealized loss in commodity derivatives of $85 million after tax or $0.63 per share; second we had a onetime charges of approximately $20 million that were reflected in the cash expenses for the quarter.
The largest component of this was associated with the tender in early redemption of our notes due in 2016.
Stated without the effect of these items our net income in the third quarter would have been $65 million or $0.48 per share.
Revenues for the third quarter were $615 million.
For the period nearly half our total production was oil and liquids and that accounted for about 80% of our company revenues.
Cash flow for the period was $308 million.
We continue to focus on growing oil and liquids volumes.
Oil and liquid liftings in the third quarter of 2012 were up 20% over the comparable period in 2011 to 6.1 million barrels or an average of about 66 000 barrels of oil per day.
Our NGL volumes for the quarter were about 700 000 barrels or about 6% of our total production.
Our natural gas production in the quarter was just under 39 Bcf an average of about 420 million cubic feet per day.
Natural gas volumes year-over-year have fallen about 14%.
We realized $3.41 per Mcf in our natural gas sales during the third quarter $91.50 on our oil liftings and NGLs were sold for $26.71 per barrel.
We'll be happy to address any specific questions related to our financials at the end of our prepared remarks.
I'll now turn it over to Gary Packer our Chief Operating Officer for a few operational highlights.
Thank you Lee.
Let's start with an update of an area that has certainly been thrust into the spotlight of late the Cana Woodford.
We are very encouraged with our results to-date.
We're currently running 4 operated rigs in the area.
We did a pretty good job of keeping this play quiet for much of the last 2 years.
Over that time we were able to amass a sizable acreage position.
Since the last call we have increased our acreage by an additional 7 000 acres.
We now hold 142 000 acres.
We included some new wells on last night's operations release and also updated production on the wells we've previously announced to include 100 days or so of data.
Our controlled flowback techniques are keeping reservoir pressures higher allowing for very strong flow rates over an extended period of time and enhancing ultimate recovery of hydrocarbons in place.
Our acreage today is in the heart of the play.
In addition to the 10 wells we have released to-date we have participated in about 40 industry wells operated by others of which 25 are producing to-date.
Our interest in these outside-operated wells has also provided us with increased confidence about the quality of our own acreage position.
The lion's share of our activity to-date has focused on our southern acreage which covers about 80 000 net acres.
One of Newfield's undeniable core competencies is our drilling completion expertise.
By applying lessons learned in horizontal drilling throughout our focus areas we have made huge progress in reducing days versus depth and total well costs.
Our first well in this play took about 100 days to drill.
We are now drilling in casing wells in just over 40 days.
We know from experience that there is still ample room for improvement as we move this play further into development.
Based on production so far we estimate gross EURs of between 1.1 million and 1.9 million barrels equivalent.
With the current cost and commodity prices this results in 35% to well over 50% rates of return.
We also are actively assessing the old window along trend.
To the north we see the potential for a development with very high oil composition.
In yesterday's release we highlighted our first 10 000-foot lateral well drilled in the north area.
This SXL well called the Klade has an additional -- has initial gross IP of about 925 barrels equivalent per day and a 30-day average of over 600 barrels equivalent per day.
The production stream on this well is over 90% oil.
We have proven time and time again that extended laterals improve returns and we will continue to drill SXLs through our acreage position.
In addition to the prolific Cana Woodford play we have other creative ideas to test and exploit [ph] in this thick stratigraphic column present across our acreage position.
We are also close to finalizing a midstream deal that will give us the required capacity we need to march forth with aggressive development.
We expect that our ultimate NGL pricing will be tied to Mont Belvieu and not the Conway hub.
More on these details later this year as they get inked and put into motion.
Before we lead the Mid-Con I want to point out that earlier this year we moved one of our operated rigs that was running in the Cana over to the Granite Wash to test for Hogshooter play.
Our first well was a barn burner with an initial gross production of more than 5 000 equivalent per day -- barrels equivalent per day.
This well has averaged about 4 200 barrels a day over the first 30 days.
Our working interest in this well is about 100%.
We have a rig dedicated to the play now and we will be drilling -- and we are drilling our second well currently.
Now let's move to the Uinta Basin where our production is now 39 000 barrels equivalent per day gross or about 30 000 barrels of oil per day.
In yesterday's release we reported encouraging results from our first 2 horizontal Wasatch wells.
The Wasatch is a high potential formation that spans more than 1 200-foot in thickness and has several specific targets.
As you know we've been actively assessing the Wasatch over the last 18 months and have drilled 35 vertical wells to-date.
These vertical wells are highly economic and are providing us with comprehensive data along the entire stratigraphic column.
History also tells us that we can enhance ultimate value creation through horizontal exploitation.
Our 2 initial horizontal wells were drilled about 5 miles apart and tested the same geologic horizon the uppermost portion of the Wasatch.
Gross initial production from these wells has averaged about 1 200 barrels of oil equivalent per day and the composition was 88% oil.
The wells' average 30-day production was about 750 barrels of oil equivalent per day gross and the 90-day average was about 625 equivalent.
We are impressed by how production from these wells has held up over the 90 days and are anxious to drill additional horizontal wells.
Now when making comparisons to our 40 vertical wells to-date it's critically important to consider that the fact that these completed laterals in these wells has only averaged just 3 200 feet.
As we have mentioned more than once today the key to ultimate economic success lies in longer lateral completions.
When we project potential flow rates to 5 000 or 7 500-foot laterals in the Wasatch I get awful excited.
Our collective energy is being channeled to make this happen as quickly as possible.
We are now working with regulators on a plan to allow for 1 280-acre units in long lateral lengths for ultimate field development.
As we have proven time and time again longer laterals will provide positive benefits for all parties like the higher percentage -- like a higher percentage of total developed acreage reduced surface disturbances higher recoveries of oil in plays increased private and state royalties and increased production and severance taxes.
We will keep you apprised of our progress as we move ahead.
Over the next several months we expect to spud 2 additional horizontal Wasatch wells.
We will continue with an active vertical campaign as well.
In yesterday's operating report we also provided an update on our Uteland Butte horizontal drilling program in the Central Basin.
To-date we have drilled 2 dozen wells in the play about half of them are in the pressured areas.
This play will continue to be actively assessed next year.
Our strongest returns to-date in the Uteland Butte have come from the pressured regime where we have more than 70 000 net perspective acres.
We've seen flow rates as high as 1 500 [ph] barrels of oil equivalent per day and oil content upwards of 90%.
And now onto Eagle Ford.
We recently turned to sales our fourth SXL and the early data looks consistent with our previous 3 wells.
The most recent well averaged 730 barrels of oil equivalent gross over its first 10 days of production.
Our super extended laterals in the Eagle Ford have performed extremely well.
The wells averaged -- have averaged 530 barrels of oil equivalent per day over the first 180 days.
This translates to an EUR of more than 500 000 barrels.
Again we are using controlled flowback to manage the production limit pressure drawdown and maximize EURs.
Our South Texas drilling team is able to drill and case these wells in 12 days for less than $3 million.
We are seeing some relief in completion cost and expect the favorable trends to continue into 2013.
Once in the development mode we reiterate our belief that we can drill and complete 7 500-foot lateral wells from common pads for less than $8 million gross.
Our Eagle Ford SXL wells to-date generate internal rate of return between 35% and 50%.
We are confident returns will further improve as we continue to apply our learnings timely to create value.
For 2013 we will be increasing our planned development activities in the Eagle Ford and expect to drill as many as 35 wells.
In addition we will be working more than 200 000-plus net acre position into the economic window.
I'll now turn it back to Lee.
My apologies for the call in there.
We weren't brave enough to hit the do-not-disturb button but Shell Trading apparently was trying to call into our call so hopefully they'll call back to the right number a little later.
We'll continue on.
So thank you Gary.
And thank you to all of you for your investments in our company.
We're excited about the results we're seeing today and our onshore focus areas.
We entered 2012 with a game plan that called for rapid assessment of new liquids plays in the Cana Woodford the Uinta Basin and the Eagle Ford.
Our results are very good and we have very strong returns in each of these areas.
We will continue to allocate our capital to these years and drive strong domestic liquids growth from our portfolio.
We're confident that this is the right decision to create value for our shareholders and we're going to continue working hard to make it happen each and every day.
This time we'll open it up to questions.
Operator? [Operator Instructions] We'll go first to David Kistler with Simmons &amp; Company.
Research Division</strong> Real quickly focusing on the international production down about 25% in '13.
Can you give us just a rough estimate on what you think that's going to do to corporate EBITDA and how we should be thinking about that with respect to capital spending for '13 and your comments on living within cash flow? Well that would be of course the barrels there are going to be missed from a cash flow perspective but we so far have not set our capital budget for 2013.
As we go through that process and decide how to allocate capital both domestically and in the international arena we'll be in a better position to share thoughts on that with you when we come out with our capital plan in '13.
But probably there would go -- will be a few barrels that won't be delivering revenue in 2013 as a result of having produced those barrels in 2012.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Maybe just to dive into that a smidge more though looking at the EBITDA contribution from your International business I would speculate it would probably with the exception of asset sales lead to CapEx being down on a year-over-year basis.
Am I off the mark on that? Well if we used EBITDA as one component or our cash flow as one component of the sources for CapEx then we'd have to clearly say that there is a lesser amount there to fund CapEx.
But we have other alternatives and again we haven't established the 2012 -- 2013 capital budget for neither the international or domestic piece.
And prior to doing that it would be premature to say what the implications on our CapEx budget is going to be.
Dave we've got our Board Strategy Session in early November.
So we're not going to comment much more than that until after we've had a chance to play out our process to go through internally.
We're on the same schedule that we've been on for what seems like forever and a day.
We'll go through that session we'll work our plan and when we get our 2013 details put together we'll share them with you.
But we wanted to give everybody a heads up on accelerating 1.5 million barrels into '12.
We can't manufacture barrels so we're accelerating activities that impact 2013.
Net-net it's been a positive.
We've got some challenges there in 2013 and we've got some options.
So let us work through our plan and we'll give you more details at an appropriate time.
I would just -- one other thing David and that is in the context of -- we're talking about growing our domestic production oil at the same pace [ph] or better than we have in the past and so those barrels deliver a lot of cash just like the international barrels.
So you do have a very rapidly growing cash flow stream from the domestic production.
Research Division</strong> I appreciate that clarification.
One just a quick one if you can on the Cana forest if you can kind of walk through the latest cost on the super extended laterals there kind of well design.
And then are you guys going to be trying to target specifically more of an oil window than you have in the past? Or do you have enough well results to be able to delineate what is a larger portion of the oil window there? Well we would tell you that clearly David you recall that we entered 2012 with a strong assessment program in the Cana Woodford.
We did focus most of that capital spending in '12 down in the south for obvious reasons and we've gotten really good results.
I think our team has over the course of the last year grown our production out of that area to upwards of 10 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day from a standing start.
So we've got good momentum there and good strong well results but we are going to have to continue to assess the various regions of the play as well.
So you'll see a heavier emphasis on development going to '13 but we're going to continue to step out and evaluate our acreage.
You'll further recall that we -- when we put that position together we talked a lot about this over the last year that about half of our acreage we felt was in the wet gas condensate window and about half of it was in the oil window.
So clearly as we move through the acreage block we're going to have a distribution of wet gas and oil.
We'll just have to drill the wells get the results and then we can give you a stronger opinion in terms of how to think about the portfolio distribution between those 2 phases.
But also I'll let Gary comment on the cost and then we'll move on.
[Operator Instructions] Gary again.
Yes Dave as far as the cost go in the Cana for development we're still targeting something a little over $9 million a well.
Well cost by industry and certainly we're no exception in 2012 a bit higher than that -- have higher than that as we've climbed that learning curve really happy where we sit right now.
Our wells are a little longer than what industry has drilled.
We're about 4 700 feet with industry drilling about 4 000-foot laterals.
I would have to be projecting for you to talk about the SXLs.
So if you allow me to -- the fact that we've only drilled one of these these wells would be about 7 500-foot or so.
I would expect EURs to rise considerably from the 1.9 million-barrel range that I spoke about earlier.
These wells would be 2.5 million to 3 million barrels or so and the well cost would probably on a development basis move up from that $9 million a well or so to probably something that would be more in the order of $11 million for that 3 -- that 2.5 million to 3 million barrels.
Very very strong economics.
Some of the best we would see in our entire portfolio.
We'll go next to David Tameron with Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> A couple -- let me spend my bullets on the Uinta.
If I look at that and I know it's early but the Wasatch versus the Uteland Butte it looks like those first 2 Wasatch wells and again it's only 2 wells but it looks like they're tracking above the Uteland Butte.
Are you seeing anything different? Or what's different zone or can you talk any more about the difference between the 2? I would share the same observation as you David.
The wells are tracking slightly about -- above the Uteland Butte.
It's really too early.
With 2 wells that's all we have to deal with.
As you're probably familiar with there's a whole series of stack zones and it's very important -- you don't have the level of continuity across the acreage position in the Wasatch so you're relying on frac-ing across multiple intervals.
We've proven in our first 2 wells that we can do that.
I certainly wouldn't say 2 wells demonstrates the consistency by which we can deliver that production but we're highly confident and as I said in the earlier we're going to go ahead and drill several wells over the next few months and validate that.
The benefit of the Uteland Butte is the fact that we see a high degree of continuity across the acreage position.
So at this point I would tell you geologically high continuity across the entire acreage position in the Uteland Butte still driving to improve our completion techniques which will ultimately really drive the return there.
Wasatch a little different.
Really focusing on getting the wells drilled to the entire length more diversity geologically.
But certainly really like what we see to-date and yes it looks like it would generate a return that would be a little better than we would see in the Uteland Butte.
Yes David Gary touched on it in the call.
I'll just throw this in.
Remember the 35 wells that we drilled in the vertical section they're completed in multiple intervals within the 1 200-foot section.
I think on average we've had a half a dozen completion intervals in each of those wells.
So we're getting a pretty good data set to know that we're moving oil out of a significant total percentage of that 1 200-foot from the vertical wells.
A key next step is going to be working through getting to the point that Gary talked about where we can drill the longer laterals.
That's really where you get the leverage out of it but we're very excited.
It's only 2 wells.
It's the only 2 wells we have but a good place to start.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then for a follow-up a year ago and Steve this is similar question I asked you last night but a year ago you guys 5 to 6 rigs running you thought you were going to ramp to 8 to 9.
You've kind of stayed at the 5 to 6.
Can you just talk about why the lower rig count this year versus what you had previously expected what's driving that? Sure.
I think it's a good question David.
We look to capital allocation.
We look across all the investment opportunities we have in the company.
You're well familiar with our commitment to live within our resources.
As we looked into this year we were assessing multiple areas both in the Cana the Eagle Ford and the Uinta.
What we saw this year was there's a high degree of consistency in the results that we were getting out of the early Eagle Ford and the South Cana.
As a result of that we made sure that we pounded away at those to deliver the production commitments that we had made.
What we've of served in the Uinta is that we really like the results that we're seeing but we still haven't narrowed in -- narrowed down that distribution.
We're seeing results both extraordinarily high and we're seeing some poorer wells as well.
So we've made the decision as we -- going into the back half of 2012 and you'll likely see this as we enter 2013 is to continue to drill more wells there but we need to refine the distribution.
I would caution you to not count rigs.
I would tell you this year -- next year we will drill more wells in the Central Basin than we drilled -- horizontal wells than we drilled in 2012.
We're just seeing some pretty incredible improvements in efficiencies that allow us to drill more with less as well.
And other thing David one of our objectives going into this year was to have multiple developable oil plays within North America.
So exiting '12 we've got good strong success in 4 areas and I think it takes some of the near-term stress off the Uinta so that we can take that methodical march through the assessment program get our learning curves in order as Gary indicated and be prepared to ramp up as the refining volumes start coming available late '13 and '14 going into '15.
So I think we're in good shape there and we'll continue pressing ahead but I like the fact that we've got 4 areas we can allocate capital to this year relative -- excuse going into next year relative to oil in North America.
We'll go next to Leo Mariani with RBC.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just a question on the Cana here.
Trying to get a sense of what percentage of your 142 000 net acres in the play has been de-risked at this point? Well Leo the area that we have the most well control to-date by both Newfield and industry would be the 80 000 or so that we have to the South.
So clearly that's the area that we would feel most confident right now.
If you look at the entire area Newfield has participated in about 46 wells that have been drilled in that 80 000 acres of which about 22 are on production.
So my highest confidence is there.
There are certainly holes in that 80 000 that we have to fill in through additional drilling but it's the area that we have the highest confidence.
As we move to the north Newfield in the oil window which is what we'll be targeting only has a handful of wells.
Really our second well that we drilled up there the oil window this Klade that's the 10 000-foot well.
So I would advise you that the balance of that acreage position we like what we see in the oil window but we certainly need more drilling before we can call it a development play and it's still very much assessment.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay thanks.
And I guess unrelated question here.
Just trying to get a sense of what your well cost was on the first Hogshooter well.
And maybe you can you talk about well cost in the horizontal Wasatch and the Horizontal Uteland Butte currently.
In regards to the Hogshooter that well cost us a little over $8 million.
And if you go back and you want to talk about the Cana I think you specifically referenced the horizontal Uteland Butte wells and the Wasatch.
The wells in the horizontal Uteland Butte in the geo-pressured section and I think this is a good proxy for the Wasatch as well those wells will be somewhere in the vicinity in the development mode of about $5.5 million or so.
Just like I referenced in the Cana earlier in 2012 our cost have been higher there because we are drilling -- these wells were never drilled before 2012.
So we certainly had a learning curve.
So you can add a couple million to each of those as you think about the actual realized cost in 2012.
But when we think about the depth of the portfolio and several thousand locations we have we're really targeting a $5.5 million well.
The rest of it is really investments for science.
We'll go next to Amir Arif with Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> First question is on the '13 international oil volume outlook.
How much of that is related to production declines expected at the sea level versus the net oil number you show having reached payout? And if it is a payout issue does that change as you get some exploration success or is everything ring-fenced? Let me jump in and I'll let Gary give you whatever details that I leave out.
I think the PSE structure as you return capital from the project coming online you go through a series of payout tranches if you will.
Generally as the projects have returned the capital you get to lower net revenue interest so lower net barrels coming back.
So a portion of the decline year-over-year because of the acceleration is related to that activity.
The other piece of the puzzle is that we've had the benefit of flush production in a couple of these key fields and they've way outperformed.
So we know going into 2013 one would expect that you'll see natural field-level declines.
I'm going to guess that off the top of head and Gary can set this straight but I'm going to guess that from what I've seen that it's somewhere around 50-50 40-60 depending on how you slice it because remember price -- product price is part of the equation as well in terms of determining net barrels.
So if you could tell us the oil price we can probably nail it down closer than that.
But I think that's a reasonable proxy.
I think you're pretty close Lee.
Certainly a majority of the decline is something that we have not observed yet in our East Belumut PM 323 field.
This is the area that we've accelerated now into our third phase of development drilling.
We're observing the movements in context [ph] but the well -- the field is producing great.
But just doing the modeling that we've done we would anticipate that we would come off plateau in 2013 and that's what's been baked into our numbers.
Your observation on additional investments we have a Phase 4 drilling campaign.
If we were able to get Phase 4 approved that would result in incremental capital a change in the payout structure and we could see our net the barrels increase as a result of that investment that we would make but that is something that's not approved yet.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just a follow-up question on the '12 CapEx.
Are you still comfortable with the $1.7 billion and if you can just confirm that's a growth number not a net CapEx number and then just timing of when you will be putting out the '13 guidance.
Yes.
We're still within the guidance range on capital that we previously communicated.
In the vicinity of $1.7 billion that's correct.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And -- I'm sorry and '13 guidance is -- I know mentioned soon.
Is that December or February? Well go through the process in November.
Generally we take the input from the board refine that process through year end.
Historically we'd  come out generally in early part of the year notionally February with guidance.
I would tell you it would take place likely sometime between year end and February we'll be in a position to communicate.
We'll go next to Subash Chandra with Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> First on the Maverick Basin what was the cost of that extended lateral? And remind me if this was a normally pressured part of the play or not.
Well it's -- as far as the cost I'll let Gary get to you on the cost.
The Eagle Ford that we're drilling first of all our acreage is all in the oil window so it's black oil and it's all slightly overpressured I guess relative to normal.
I don't have the number but I'd say slightly overpressured relative to normal.
Yes.
You're right on the pressure Lee.
In regards to the well cost we've only drilled one well.
So you have to put it in that same population like I was talking about the Klade the 10 000-foot well there.
You ought to be thinking about a well cost as we get into pad development within the 7 500-foot which is what our wells have been to-date of the something in the vicinity or right under $8 million that's what I believe we'll be drilling our wells for.
When we step out and drill the 10 000-foot laterals those wells will be in the $9 million to $10 million window.
Now because of the configuration of our acreage position we will not be able to go to entirely one well or another.
I would tell you you should be thinking about the vast majority maybe 3/4 of the wells in the play to be in and around the 7 500-foot lateral.
Balance is filling in the corners and to the greatest degree possible 5 000 and 10 000-foot laterals.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And final one for me is there a reserve impact on -- for the Malaysian PSE? No.
There's no reserve impact.
Those values are all calculated into the numbers we have at year end.
Of course every time you prepare a reserve report you use a price at that point in time.
So depending upon what the pricing will be for this year end the volumes in those contracts regardless of field performance go up and down purely as a function of price.
So it'll be a combination of the 2 but we've already accounted for those in our reserves.
We'll go next to Brian Singer with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Going back to one of the earlier questions on South Cana Woodford.
Are you seeing a major difference in well costs in the wells that are tracking 50% or more oil versus those that are tracking 30% or less? And can you talk to whether you feel that can isolate the higher liquids wells from a drilling program and what percent of your southern acreage that represents? We've got a lot of questions in there Brian.
A lot of questions in the assets.
I hope you remember them all.
We do not see a material metal difference in the well cost between an oil well and a wet gas well okay? In regards to our ability to distinguish between wet gas and oil certainly there's a difference as we move from the shallower.
If you think about an east-west look through the play whether it's in the north or the south we see the oil window somewhere in the vicinity of 8 000 to 12 000-feet or so and you see the gas window coming in at about 12 000 feet down to about 6 [ph] feet.
If you look at our acreage position there's only a few thousand feet difference between what we would place from TVD standpoint between the oil and the wet gas.
There is not a big difference.
We are still defining exactly -- we had some lines drawn that we thought we had a pretty good understanding of where the oil wet gas line was.
We've recently completed 3 wells some of which are in the materials we've released to-date that would demonstrate it's kind of a blurred line.
And so I would have to kind of visit -- get back with you later we'd -- to really see what the relative proportions are.
In general I'd say you're probably 2/3 wet gas to 1/3 oil.
But that's still something that's changing.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And if I'm allowed a follow-up after my 3 questions first question can I ask on the Hogshooter you mentioned in the press release 90% of the 5 100 BOE a day was liquids.
Can you talk about the NGL oil split there and repeatability? Yes.
I mean what I'll tell you is is just some -- I have a 40-day number handy.
So that 40-day number is as I referenced earlier about 4 000 barrels equivalent per day.
The constitution of that was about 2 650 barrels of oil 780 barrels of NGLs and about 3.9 million cubic feet a day.
And that's a 40-day average.
So that's what 75% oil 90% liquids or so.
We'll go next to William Butler with Stephens.
Research Division</strong> In terms of the Eagle Ford and you all broadening the acreage that you think is perspective from recently 40 000 I believe up back towards the 230 000 can you all be more specific on what has changed for you all to you make that area more perspective in your minds? Is it well cost? Is it completion methods? Is it offset operators? What combination of sort of if you could rank them what's changed and where are you so much more positive on it? Yes well let me clarify something you said there.
We are not projecting now that the 200 000 acres is de-risked by any means.
So let's first focus on the acreage position that we've been very active in.
The biggest thing that's changed for us between 2011 and 2012 is the length of the lateral that we've drilled from 5 000 to 7 500-foot and probably more importantly than that the great work that our completions teams have do in trying to figure out that special sauce that it's going to take to unlock something that is different from the Gulf Coast basin.
We're really pleased with what we've done.
And it's not just one thing.
There is a number of things that they've gone to really unlock that and really create the value there for us.
So our reference to the 200 000 acres in the balance of that acreage position we'll be moving into a shallower section.
It's certainly still all black oil and what we'll be doing is applying for the first time these enhanced completion techniques that have worked so well for us on the 40 to that broader acreage position.
We will be careful early on.
We're going to moving up into the McKnight area.
We'll still be staying in largely Dimmit and Zavala County.
We'll drill a few wells early in the year.
We'll assess those results and if they look encouraging we'll continue to expand that position where we try this new technique.
But it's still early days in that regard.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then you all mentioned there the 500 000 barrel EURs.
So over what acreage position does that number apply then? Well I would tell you that the safest place to start is start with the 40 000-acre position that Gary was talking about.
We said that that position was a developable before we had had this success and this success certainly enhances those results.
The ultimate spacing in terms of a lateral offset between wells our team's still working through pilots in that regard.
That will have a -- be a factor in terms of the total well count and a totally EUR ultimately.
We'll keep you apprised as that develops.
Saying greater than 500 000 barrels says that we're very confident with 500 000 barrels and there upside beyond that and it's going to take time to see what that upside looks like.
So we need more time with the wells that we have online and more wells in total to get to where we've got a statistically valid subset.
But we're very encouraged.
And of the broader acreage position remember we drilled assessment wells there back in 2010 and early 2011.
So we know that that acreage is oil productive.
Our hope to Gary's point is that we can transport some of these learnings into those other areas and expand the economic footprint.
And I think your question there is the right one.
Just watch for an expansion in the economic footprint go from something 40 000 acres to north of 40 000 acres and as we've got confidence that it's expanding we'll keep you updated.
We'll go next to John Herrlin with Societe General.
Most things have been asked.
I was wondering with the Wasatch whether you could see yourselves being totally horizontal there in the future? That's it.
I believe the answer to that is yes John.
I think that we're very encouraged with the vertical well results that we've had strong positive economics there.
Once we get to a more favorable regulatory layout the 1 280-acre pilots that are in the early stages of being permitted in the basin I think you'll see a transition over to horizontal drilling.
I think the future in the basin is horizontal but clearly we do have strong positive vertical results in terms of economics and there'll a mix as we transition that direction.
I'll let Gary give some additional color.
Yes John the only thing that I'd add to that is I agree absolutely with what Lee said that it really goes back to a question that was asked earlier I think by Brian regarding the well counts.
If you think about 2012 we drilled about 30 vertical Wasatch wells.
Due to the success that we've had in the horizontal program thus far we really have hit the pause button on the vertical program.
We'll drill some wells to get the required geological control but we don't want to fall into a trap where we overdrill the vertical and then we have issues by drilling horizontals in the same spacing.
So that is an issue.
I would expect us certainly to some vertical drilling in 2013.
But it will be a fraction of what we did in 2012 for all the reasons I just said.
We'll go next to Brian Lively with Tudor Pickering.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> I know there's a lot of questions on international but just have a few more.
Can you remind us in 2012 what is the international as a group? What is that as a percentage of the total EBITDA for the company? In 2012 it would probably be in the range of 40%.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And so if you think about that for next year 40% production is declining I guess you guys said about 25%.
So you are losing that EBITDA.
But how much CapEx are you going to deploy in Malaysia next year? Well the final -- like I said earlier the final of CapEx that we are going to deploy in both the international and domestic arena is not settled at this time because we're going through those processes.
I think Lee mentioned that we have a number of things that we're working on there that we're really not in a position to talk about.
They will influence our thoughts around CapEx depending upon how they come together and the timing of when they come together.
The largest component of CapEx that we know is committed is the Pearl development in China and that's all -- China and Malaysia both make up the international component.
I'll focus you again on the domestic growth in liquids as the offset to this because our liquids growth in domestic arena and when we have more liquids in the domestic arena and we're going it in the domestic arena and it makes up a big chunk as a difference between what we're going to see as a result of the contract terms in international and 2013 and 2014 international is a growing story again.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Yes I'm just thinking about next year in terms of how much capital you guys have put to work this year what the potential for spending is next year.
I'm assuming it's lower than $300 million which is plus or minus I guess what you guys have spent this year and the free cash flow change over that international asset as it relates to your ability to use that free cash to plow into the domestic assets.
And so I guess the question is is I mean what other opportunities are you guys looking at in terms of -- are you looking at more asset sales to help maybe fund that gap if there is to keep the oil growth going domestically? Well Brian I'd love to engage and have a discussion on all those points.
But again I've got to respect our process.
We've got a board meeting in 2 weeks we'll talk about all these things.
Get board-level support and we'll work diligently from that point forward to provide you guys with the information that you need.
We can't talk about the other things that we've got in the air at this point and historically that means that we're not in a position to talk about it.
As soon as we are I think you'll have some clarity on a couple of those questions that you've asked.
So we'll keep you apprised.
We're just not prepared to say any more than what we've said today.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's understandable.
Just one clarification.
When you say 25% product declines next year do you mean exit over exit or are you talking about average over average? Just a mechanical question.
I was talking about average over average and I said up to 25%.
So remember we accelerated 1.5 million-plus barrels into this year.
One of the ways to think about is if we'd left the plan as it was and hadn't attacked it that we'd had that distributed over the 2-year period.
So our team has done great work there each of the last 3 years and they've found a way to outperform.
Hell I'm counting on them again.
But at this point we wanted to at least turn the lights on and let you know that this is an issue that we're working on.
We thought it was something that you'd want to know about and we're going to work it just like we have the last 3 years.
We'll go to Dan McSpirit with BMO Capital Markets.
On the subject of decline rates can you give me an estimate on what the underlying -- what the decline rate is on the underlying gas asset base the domestic natural gas asset base? Oh I was waiting for somebody to answer.
I guess you're talking to me Dan.
I'll jump in.
Well I'll start you with -- we said in the call that 14% is what we've seen kind of year-over-year in the comparable period.
Remember we said that we thought natural gas declines this year would be up to 15%.
I think we've been just under that during the course of the year.
Obviously we're not investing in the dry gas when you think about the dry gas portion being the underlying assets.
Year-over-year I would expect the decline rate to be something less than that kind of in total relative to those assets and then we'll get the offsetting benefits of the associated gas that's going to come onto the equation -- come into the equation with our oil development.
So 14% is what we've seen over the last 12 months and I guess 2% to 3% on the base underneath that but I don't have a firm final estimate at this point.
I'll let Gary give you any additional color that he might want to add.
No I think that's about right.
Yes.
Okay great.
And as a follow-up recognizing the relatively low oil cuts at least on the southern part of your acreage perspective for Cana can you speak to how Cana well produces over time? That is how does the gas cut and the NGL cut change over time and maybe use the right 1H-9 well as one example since that's the model well and those from the larger sample set.
At least an estimate please? Dan I don't have it in front me this morning but Steve included recently a slide where we went ahead and did the calculations of the -- I'll remind everybody that when we report the oil cuts that those are separated volumes.
All you have is the raw gas and the condensate being reported as that cut.
So when you go through the conversion through NGLs the way to do the math is roughly the following: you'll start with your separator volume shrink those -- excuse me start with the separator volumes.
The yield on those is around 130 barrels per million NGLs.
So a $10 million a day type stream would yield 1 300 barrels of NGLs.
Shrink the gas volume by 30%.
So you'd end up with 7 million cubic feet a day of sales gas the 1 300 barrels of NGLs plus the condensate that would have been reported.
And I think when you go through the math those low percentage separator yields turn into 2/3 or more total liquids and I would expect that over the life of the wells that you'd probably track plus or minus 5% one way or the other around that midpoint.
If you haven't seen that slide get in touch with Steve and Danny and they can put it in your hand.
I think that it lays all that out relative to the well but I didn't bring it in here with me this morning.
Due to time constraints I would now like to turn the conference back over to the speakers for any additional or closing remarks.
Well I'd just like to thank everybody for your interest and investment in Newfield.
I hope the takeaway for you this morning is we're very excited about the success that we've had on the operational front in multiple areas with regard to the aggressive assessment programs that we've executed in 2012.
We've got great results.
We got a wonderful team.
They're going to deliver going into '13.
It would  be the fourth year in a row that we've had a 20-plus percent liquids growth in North America and we're going to do that again in 2013 and I think the future is bright for Newfield.
So appreciate your interest and we look forward to updating you on our progress in the weeks and months ahead.
Thank you.
This does conclude today's conference.
Thank you for your participation.
Good day everyone and welcome to Newfield Exploration's Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
Just a reminder today's call is being recorded.
And before we get started one housekeeping matter.
Our discussion with you today will contain forward-looking statements such as strategic initiatives and plans estimated production and timing drilling and development plans expected cost reductions and planned capital expenditures Although we believe that the expectations reflected in these statements are reasonable they are based upon assumptions and anticipated results that are subject to numerous uncertainties and risks.
Actual results may vary significantly from those anticipated due to many factors and risks some of which may be unknown.
Please see Newfield's 2011 Annual Report on Form 10-K and subsequent quarterly reports on Form 10-Q for a discussion of factors that may cause actual results to vary.
Forward-looking statements made during this call speak only as of today's date and unless legally required Newfield undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements.
In addition reconciliations of non-GAAP financial measures to GAAP financial measures together with Newfield's earnings release and any other applicable disclosures are available on the Investor Relations page of Newfield's website at www.newfield.com.
Before turning the call over to the Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer Mr.
Lee Boothby please provide a housekeeping request.
[Operator Instructions] Mr.
Lee Boothby please go ahead sir.
Thank you operator.
Good morning and welcome.
Thanks for dialing in to our conference call today.
We are excited to host this call and discuss Newfield's strategy going forward.
We've taken some decisive actions recently and are confident that these moves will lead to long-term value creation for our shareholders.
Our strategy today is clear.
We are focused on our 4 liquids-driven domestic resource plays.
Our call today will focus on 3 key topics.
First we will begin with some summary comments in our 2012 financial and operating results.
Most significant factors contributed to our 2012 financial results and year-end reserves were previously released so today we'll keep our comments high level but we'll be happy to answer and address any specific questions after the call.
Second I will articulate our business strategy and how our recent steps will make us stronger more profitable and more valuable in the future.
And third Gary Packer our Chief Operating Officer will discuss how we are using our core organizational strengths to deliver on our targets.
He'll also provide highlights on our 2013 through 2015 plan and some color on our deep high-quality domestic inventory.
So let's get started with the summary of our recent financial results.
In last week's news release we disclosed 2 noncash charges that totaled about $2 billion.
These one-time noncash charges impacted our fourth quarter and full year results and made the comparison to first call estimates a little difficult.
The first was a $1.5 billion noncash full-cost ceiling test write-down.
The largest contributor to this write-down were low natural gas prices.
As you saw on our proved release last week low gas prices removed more than 600 billion cubic feet of proved reserves at year end 2012.
The second is related to our focus on U.S.
operations and the decision to repatriate the accumulated profits from our international subsidiaries.
This was the primary component of the $550 million noncash tax charge.
We repatriated international cash at year end 2012 and used the funds to reduce short-term borrowings.
For the full year 2012 we produced 50 million barrels of oil equivalent or about 500 000 barrels above our full year guidance.
Our operating results were largely in line with previous guidance ranges and as a result our fourth quarter revenues were $646 million and our cash flow per share was $2.25 just ahead of First Call consensus.
For the full year of 2012 we posted a net loss of $1.2 billion or $8.80 per share.
The loss is primarily related to the fourth quarter one-time charges.
Without the impact of those items 2012 earnings would've been $2.17 per share.
For the remainder of today's call we will focus on Newfield's bright future and how our near-term plans align with our long-term strategic direction.
Our strategic direction is the result of our work over much of the last decade to assemble a domestic portfolio of oil and natural gas assets.
In recent years we began to streamline and refocus our portfolio through the sale of nonstrategic assets.
This culminated in our decision to pursue strategic alternatives for Newfield's International business that we announced last week.
This decision followed a comprehensive review of the company's strategy asset base and future direction with our Board of Directors and highlights the confidence we have in the depth and quality of our domestic portfolio and our ability to execute.
Liquids remain our priority.
After the last 3 years -- over the last 3 years our focus has been on liquids project where we've delivered a CAGR of more than 20% growth while greatly expanding our opportunity set.
Today as we transition to development drilling in our key onshore plays we're realizing the tangible benefits of these efforts.
Our production trajectory on liquids growth is top-tier as we expect to more than double our domestic liquids volumes by year end 2015.
The decision to pursue alternatives for international assets was based on the accelerated growth trajectory from our domestic U.S.
business as well as the opportunity to unlock the value of our highly profitable international business which we believe has not been fully reflected on our share price.
In addition any future international growth would've come at the expense of not fully accelerating our domestic oil and liquids plays.
We simply cannot do both.
International assets are well-positioned businesses in China and Malaysia with near-term production and cash flow growth from producing fields and development assets and a very deep inventory of oil and natural gas drilling prospects.
We recently signed new agreements for 2 blocks in Malaysia totaling a combined 1.7 million acres.
The new areas have multi-trillion cubic feet potential and the license areas are in and around producing fields in existing infrastructure.
Our international team has a great track record and is known as one of the best in the region.
As we move forward our people and capital resources will now be laser-focused on our U.S.
domestic business where our future view of inventory improving project returns profitable growth will all serve as a foundation for our continued success.
The ingredients for our future's success lies within our portfolio of assets and the team of people who assemble them.
We have a deep and high-quality inventory of drilling opportunities on our domestic portfolio.
This morning we released a new slide deck on our website.
This packet provides you with additional information about the resource potential within our asset base our project economics and our track record of driving continued efficiency gains and improved returns.
As you can see on Slide 7 we have more than 11 000 potential liquid drilling locations which at our current pace of drilling activity equates to decades of inventory.
Lastly know that we have carefully considered the financing applications of executing this strategy.
Yes we will outspend cash flow in 2013 but we are confident that the potential returns in the cash flow growth embedded within our 4 domestic plays warrants our plan.
We will finance these near-term developments with cash flow from operations the use of our credit facility and as mentioned we recently commenced the process to explore strategic alternatives for our international business.
Newfield has a successful track record of selling nonstrategic assets raising more than $1 billion over the last 2 years the proceeds of which funded drilling programs.
We see our future clearly today and we are accelerating the development of our domestic asset portfolio to achieve it.
We believe that our recent decisions will create value for our shareholders.
Our people at every level in the organization are united and focused to deliver on our plans.
In line with our domestic resource focus we added a new board member last week Dick Stoneburner.
Many of you know Dick from his Petrohawk days and his most recent role with BHP as President of the North American Shale Production Division.
Dick is a great addition to our Board and we will use his experience and help us execute the strategy we are laying out for you today.
I'll now turn the call over to Gary Packer.
Gary? Thanks Lee.
Good morning everyone.
We executed well across the company in 2012 and this execution was due to the continued application of our core competencies at Newfield.
There's a slide in today's packet located on our website that outlines some of our core organizational strengths.
We are using these across the company today to add value and improve returns.
It's worth talking about one of these in particular today that's the fact that Newfield is a proven operator.
As Lee mentioned in his opening remarks our focus today is clearly on our 4 domestic oil resource plays.
These plays are more alike than different and lend themselves very well to consistent application of best practices to quickly enhance our learning curve drive efficiency gains lower unit development cost and improve returns.
We've come a long way in these plays over the last 12 months and our forward guidance reflects our efforts.
We're a proven operator and best-in-class driller in multiple areas today.
We will see many of you on the road in the next several days and this is one of the topics that we'll certainly want to talk to you more about.
Here are just a few examples.
In the Uinta we have identified several new plays captured them through creative ventures and/or acquisitions and are rapidly transitioning to a more cost-efficient horizontal drilling.
We are leading change in the Uinta.
In fact Newfield is drilling some of the first successful horizontal wells in the state of Utah.
Today we are working in partnerships with regulators to make more horizontal drilling as common in Utah as it is in Texas Oklahoma and North Dakota.
These are not easy plays to tackle but our operational teams are showing tangible improvements and we will change the game for us ultimately in the Uinta basin and allow us to reduce the footprint of our total development of this resource.
In the Cana we've lowered our drilling days from more than 100 days in our initial wells to less than 40 days today all with increasing lateral lengths.
In the Bakken we decreased our drilling days as we moved the pad developments across our acreage and we also have improved our completion practices to increase EUR decrease our unit development cost and continue to lower our operating expenses.
In the Eagle Ford we are drilling 7 500-foot laterals in 8 to 12 days.
We have dramatically improved our completion and flowback practices and we've nearly doubled our EURs when comparing our results today to our initial wells in 2011.
There is a slide in our packet today that shows lateral lengths growing while days to total depth decrease.
In my role I get to see drilling and completion cost across all plays in which Newfield is simply a partner and not the operator.
Based on an apples-to-apples comparison I would put our results up against anyone's in our core areas.
We are a proven operator and our teams are focused and are delivering superior results across the company.
So let's talk about how we will use these core competencies to deliver on our accelerated domestic growth trajectory.
Each of our 4 key plays have a plan to create value over the next 3 years.
This value will come from aggressively converting our undeveloped reserves in our deep prospect inventory to cash flow.
Given our confidence and increased visibility we were able to provide more detailed and long-term guidance than in the past.
You will now be able to track our progress as we begin a significant ramp up in our second half of 2013 liquids production.
Our 2013 liquids production should grow by more than 35% and our black oil growth is about 25%.
This momentum will propel us to double-digit composite growth in 2014 and '15.
More importantly our growth is being driven by liquids.
Our domestic teams entered 2013 with great momentum.
Over the last 2 years we have proved the depth of our inventory and the ability of our assets to perform.
In our slide deck this morning we outlined our key plays and the resource potential of each.
In summary it's more than 11 000 potential liquids drilling locations and 2 billion net barrels of unrisked resource potential.
At our current drilling pace we have decades of liquid drilling inventory.
We've come a long way from the Gulf of Mexico routes when we could count our prospects on our fingers and our toes.
We know that the ultimate goal is to create timely value from this inventory.
This value will come through the acceleration of our domestic business and returning the industry competitive composite growth rates while constantly improving efficiencies and returns in our operating regions.
Recent results have led to the expansion of our economic inventory in multiple areas.
I'll briefly summarize our 2013 through '15 capital investments and some highlights from each area.
In addition our slide packet today focuses on our near-term capital plans with cost and rates of return.
In addition we provided type curves for each of our key plays.
Our capital budget is $1.7 billion to $1.9 billion approximately 80% of our investments will go to our 4 domestic growth engines.
The additional 20% will be used to keep our large international exploration and development projects on track.
In the Uinta basin we are accelerating the tremendous value in our giant waterflood asset the Greater Monument Butte Unit.
The largest federal secondary recovery unit in the Lower 48 with 2 billion barrels of oil in place.
We continue to develop the waterflood with 40-acre 5-spud patterns that consists of 20-acre infill drilling locations and offset injectors.
Additionally we continue to develop the primary area of the field with our 40-acre drilling program and have more than 1 300 remaining wells in total to drill.
This year we will test 10-acre spacing in an inventory of horizontal opportunities within the legacy Green River section.
We have converted a record number of wells to injection this year and increased water injection rates 50% to 75 000 barrels per day.
The bottom line there is far more to this asset than an unconventional drilling program.
It's held by production we retain great discretion in capital investments and are on the verge of free cash generation that will last for over 20 years at the current pace of activity our strong economics in the Greater Monument Butte field allowing us to test and develop high reward horizontal plays in the Central Basin.
In the slide deck we outlined more than 760 million barrels of oil equivalent of incremental unrisked resource potential in the Central Basin across our 67 000 acres.
Our 2 primary focus plays today are the Uteland Butte and the Wasatch but there are other highly prospective targets that we are studying and evaluating today.
In the Uteland Butte we are focused on the pressured portion of the play.
About 1/3 of the wells we have drilled in the play to date are in the pressured areas.
Our production rates are solid.
1 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day IP rates 350 barrels per day 60-day average rates.
By comparison these rates are tenfold what our traditional Monument Butte wells produce.
Although good we have plans to make the wells better improve productivity improve EUR lower F&amp;D and deliver higher returns.
The future development of the Central Basin's resource will likely be horizontal drilling and the overwhelming benefits of longer laterals have been proven in all of our focus areas.
We are excited about what they could mean in the Central Basin.
In December we received approval to drill our first super extended laterals for multiple pads to test the Uteland Butte.
Our first well will spud in March with a planned lateral length of up to 9 800 feet.
In the Wasatch play we confirmed productivity throughout the greater than 1 200-foot pressured section with more than 40 producing vertical wells.
Today we better understand the true potential of the play.
The future here is most likely in multi-horizon stacked horizontal development.
We are very encouraged by the production results from our first 2 well -- Wasatch wells which were brought online in the second half of 2012.
After more than 6 months we estimate that these wells have an average EUR of more than 550 000 barrels of oil equivalent.
Keep in mind that due to the regulatory requirements these wells only average 3 200 feet lateral length.
Now in yesterday's release we incorrectly captured the average rates for the 2 wells.
The release should have said our IP rate was 1 225 barrels of oil equivalent per day with a 30- and 60-day average rate of 890 and 750 barrels of oil per day respectively.
Our 90- and our 120-day average wells -- rates on these wells were 625 and 530 barrels of oil equivalent per day respectively.
These are great wells and leave us encouraged with the ultimate potential of display.
We are looking forward to the day when we can drill SXL wells in the Wasatch to capture the efficiency gains higher returns and full benefit of the enhanced EUR.
We will be working with the regulatory authorities to make this happen and hope to have more to report on this later this year in the next steps in this really exciting play.
With increased marketing expansions around the corner our production from the Uinta basin is expected to increase 10% in '13 and 20% in 2014.
In the Cana Woodford we will run 6 rigs on targeted growth areas within our acreage.
Our successful drilling campaign in the play has allowed us to move 2 key areas into early development.
This was roughly 1/3 of our total acreage.
We are moving to pad developments while building out midstream infrastructure to get our products to the best markets.
Like the early days of the Bakken activity was concentrated in specific geographic regions to take advantage of infrastructure.
Over time with concentrated developments areas will expand.
We recently signed an agreement with a large midstream company that allows our Cana NGLs to receive Mt.
Belvieu pricing.
This agreement provides for initial volumes up to 200 million equivalent per day of rich gas.
But that can be increased as our production continues to grow.
Our wells continue to perform extremely well.
In our operations report we outlined 3 recent wells with 30-day average production rates between 900 and 1 900 barrels of oil equivalent per day.
Keep in mind these wells are all uncontrolled flow back and IP rates are intentionally restrained to lessen early declines and maximize EUR.
I'll gladly trade flashy IP rates for more EUR and better returns over time.
Our production from the Cana is expected to increase 200% in 2013 and exit the year at more than 20 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day.
In less than 2 years we have moved this play from an idea phase to development and we have significant remaining resource potential to pursue.
In the Eagle Ford our efforts in 2013 will be focused on efficient development drilling in our 2 fields West Asherton and Fashing.
We expect to drill 35 wells for the 2 rig program throughout most of the year.
Remember these wells are drilled in about 2 weeks.
Our production ramp in the Eagle Ford in 2013 will be back-end weighted due to pad drilling in the timing of our simultaneous completions.
We expect that our Eagle Ford production will grow 75% this year and 50% next year.
Our Eagle Ford economics today are very strong.
We estimate that our SXL wells have EURs in excess of 550 000 barrels with a production stream that is largely comprised of black oil.
We have a large Eagle Ford position in the Maverick Basin with a tremendous amount of oil in place.
We've challenged our technical teams to expand the economic footprint and convert more of this large resource into reserves production and ultimately cash flow.
Our Williston team could easily receive the most improved award for 2012.
They successfully tackled industry issues with innovative solutions and lowered well cost reduced the timing of rig release to first oil sales and transitioned to an efficient development drilling program.
Our fourth operated rig is being added in about 2 weeks and we plan to drill about 45 wells in 2013.
We are looking for oil growth this year in the Williston basin of about 15% and 25% next year.
Although most of our efforts are focused today on the Middle Bakken we have more than 40 000 net acres that are prospective for the Three Forks.
For 2013 we have 10 to 15 Three Forks wells planned.
In addition we'll also be investigating the various deeper benches within the section.
I'll turn the call back to Lee for any closing comments.
Thanks Gary and thanks to all of you for joining us today.
We're excited about the next phase at Newfield.
The decisive actions that were taken over the last 2 weeks coupled with our strategic decisions made over the last 2 years align us to realize our ultimate goal being a profitable North American focused resource company.
Our domestic portfolio of liquids inventory is deep today and we're high grading portions of it to focus on development.
We intend to deliver our stated production growth objectives while working every day to lower cost improve EURs and expand the economic footprint of our acreage.
Our success will come from the conversion of resource potential to cash flow from operations.
We have a solid plan in place to finance our near-term growth and we're confident that we will become a larger stronger more predictable and profitable company because of the recent strategic steps.
I'll turn the call over to the operator to kick off our Q&amp;A session.
Operator? [Operator Instructions] And we'll take our first question from Leo Mariani with RBC.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just a question on the international assets.
Obviously you guys are looking to divest these.
What's the plan for the proceeds there? Are you guys just going to use that for drilling up your existing liquids inventory? Or potentially could you use that to make some additional tack-on acquisitions in the U.S.? I'll let Terry Rathert take that question.
The first priority is going to be the funded domestic drilling program.
Then depending upon the amounts of proceeds we have for that we'll decide what the next steps are.
But first priority really is to fund the growth we can drive in the Lower 48.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And I guess in terms of the Cana Woodford you guys talked about midstream deal for 200 million a day.
Trying to get a sense of when that will take effect? It's already in place Leo.
And we'll take our next question from the Dave Kistler with Simmons &amp; Company.
Research Division</strong> Focusing on the international side for a second.
If we look at current production and then in your release you indicated you'll be adding about 15 000 barrels of oil a day kind of early '14 when Pearl comes online.
How do we think about production this year and how it may decline so we can kind of get to a production number to think about valuing the asset from a divestiture standpoint? Dave if you look at our guidance that we've provided in the press release and in the guidance packet we have equated our total international production to 7.2 million barrels for the year and we estimated that about 60% of the total volume would be in the first half of the year.
So that gives you an indication of the decline we expect.
As a reminder we talked about a 25% to 30% decline for international for the entirety of the year.
But 60% of that production will come to us in the first half 40% in the second half.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
I guess what I'm trying to get at is is there a number that you guys would not sell the international assets for? And obviously then how do we think about 3 or 4 production guidance when we're trying to triangulate to that? Well that's a very interesting question.
I think the process we intend to go through is one that provide us all the time in the world to realize the full value of the assets.
The process is just now being undertaken.
We expect it to go into the third quarter.
And we'll kind of wait-and-see.
There are a lot of things can change between now and the third quarter in terms of commodity price and other things and I think we just have to cross that bridge when we get to it.
[Operator Instructions] And we'll take our next question from Brian Singer with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> In the Uinta basin were you surprised by the oversupply that led to lower volumes during the quarter? And can you refresh us on what percent of Uinta oil volumes in 2013 and '14 are locked up by firm contracts versus what percent you may be depending on spot market availability? I'll let Gary answer that question Brian.
Sure Brian.
Rather than the oversupply naturally it's a marriage of what our capital investments the resulting production with the capacity that's available.
We had 1 anticipated turnaround in the fourth quarter that came out slower than expected and 1 unanticipated interruption in the fourth quarter that resulted in some lower capacity in the Salt Lake City refining community.
As a result we had to curtail our production because we are limited in the overall capacity.
Now fortunately the contracts that we have in place allow for a significant expansion in 2013 with our Tesoro contract and our Holly contract in 2014 and 2015.
So it really wasn't a matter of whether they were contracted or spot.
It was just due to interruptions in the refining business.
We have essentially all of our refining obligations committed in 2013.
So we're not going to be reliant on spot markets and we have anticipated the turnarounds that are taking place midyear at Tesoro's refinery and we feel like we can navigate through that.
But there will be some down time and we have to build some inventory during this period.
Research Division</strong> I guess on the flip side do you see opportunities to lock in more contracts or do you see opportunities for growth to potentially exceed some of the numbers that you put out 10% to 20% as more capacity becomes available? Or do you kind of feel you have the capacity that you need today and there's not necessarily that much upside? We do have the opportunity to deliver growth outside of 10% in 2013 and our capital program is directly linked to that 10% growth.
Because of the opportunities that we're so excited about in some of the other plays we've pulled capital out of the Uinta basin and deployed it there to marry the capacity in the refining with our expected production results.
If we have more capacity we would be inclined because of the returns that we can enjoy there to invest more and we could achieve higher growth rates.
But that's all a matter of our capital allocation.
And we'll take our next question from Richard Tullis Capital One Southcoast.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Lee what were the well costs associated with the 2 unsuccessful wells in Malaysia? I don't have that rattling around in my brain.
Steve? I'd have to dig it up for you.
Yes Steve can get that information for you.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's fine.
And on the international side I noticed that you had gas production listed for 2012 but nothing for 2013.
What's the driver there? We're going to use that gas to reinject into the reservoirs as part of the production.
So it was a pretty insignificant amount of gas but it's going to be used in reinjection.
And we'll take our next question from Brian Lively - Tudor Pickering Holt.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Lee as you reflect on the stock reaction over the last week following the decision to sell the international assets and then the key for operating results what -- or can you articulate maybe what the market is missing here? And just in a sense how do you sort of convert that perception into being more positive? Well I think that when you focus on what we've been up to for the last 4 years we've been working to transform the asset base towards liquids proving more organizational focus.
We've made those steps in '12 and I'd say today that we are in fact a north American-focused liquids company.
We're now realizing tangible benefits of that cumulative effort both organizationally and operationally.
Gary outlined the execution that we had in multiple plays in North America and we are at a point where we're able to accelerate development into these plays.
Point of fact along the way we've had to sell nonstrategic assets.
I think that one of the questions we regularly answer 3 or 4 years ago was about complexity and we've reduced complexity and improved focus.
And in doing so you inevitably take some steps on the path to transition transformation that creates some choppiness on a calendar year basis.
I'd say at this point that's largely behind us.
The 3-year plan that we put out that's a first for Newfield.
Hopefully it gives you some visibility and some reflection of the confidence we have in the portfolio and the ability to execute.
At this point I'd say it's up to us to execute and deliver those results.
But I think the steps that we've taken in terms of pursuing options for international are the right steps from a strategic standpoint and we've worked hard to get ourselves into this position and we're excited about 2013 through 2015 planning horizon.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> So I guess then the read on would just be that to see the conversion and the equity price would just -- is just related to you guys doing the job and executing the strategy from here in terms -- rather than doing incremental strategic moves? Yes.
I think Brian when you get a chance to work through some of the details that Steve put out in the presentation and get some color and you take the opportunity to reflect in some of the comments that Gary made in terms of execution in the plays and then you think back to the several plays that we've taken from idea all the way through to successful development I think the track record speaks for itself.
We're highly confident that we're going to be able to execute.
Our drilling teams and geoscience teams that are focused in these plays are top of the heap in our opinion at delivering best-in-class results.
So we expect it to get better from here forward and with that you'll see those results rollout and you will see us executing the plan that we've put forward.
[Operator Instructions] And we'll take our next question from Gregg Brody JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Just curious I don't know how much color you can give us but if you were to affect the sale what's the tax implications for putting the cash back to the U.S.? How should we think about that? Gregg the way that will work is we basically have no U.S.
tax implications on proceeds up to a pretty substantial amount.
The result of having large net operating loss carry forwards which -- a portion which we used when we decided to no longer reinvest internationally and having foreign tax credits which shelter the gain we would have in the international side.
In country in China depending upon the nature of the sale that would be subject to an in-country tax.
I think the limit of that would be 10% of the total proceeds for all the businesses in China combined.
So that would -- that really is the tax exposure that I think of in the context of bringing that net cash as a result of an exit from those businesses.
Research Division</strong> So how do you think about the basis in that -- in those assets over there? Well we're actually heading down the path to sell the entities themselves is a going concern.
There is an international business that has holding -- is a holding company that has both Malaysian and China subsidiaries.
The employees are a very valuable part of the business.
They have created tremendous amount of value over there and we believe that it's a very attractive business so we're really not thinking about asset sale because it raises other complications and there's a lot more value with the employees as a team than just selling assets.
And we'll take our next question from Dave Kistler with Simmons &amp; Company.
Research Division</strong> When I look at the Uinta and I look at the returns on the vertical wells where you guys have pretty substantial inventory it looks like they're generating higher rates of return at this point than the horizontal wells.
Just kind of thinking about capital deployment going forward can you just walk us through why you're pushing towards the horizontal development there when the vertical wells are still generating higher rates of return or am I misunderstanding your slide deck at this point? No Dave you're right on.
The only thing that you'd be missing is the fact that Greater Monument Butte is a waterflood and it's not your typical resource development play.
We need to carefully match the water that we're putting in the ground with the amount of withdrawals that we take which are a function of the wells that we ultimately drill.
We believe that the improved responses that we are seeing today that were very closely tied with approximately a 3-rig program there are opportunities to expand that somewhat but we probably would cap out at about 4 or 5 rigs where we would start actually outrunning the water that we're injecting.
So at this point we've made the election to keep approximately a 3-rig running -- rig program running or so and in the investments that we're making in the Central Basin are less about being return driven today but as you can see we have a tremendous resource.
So we have a rather modest investment program there from a rig count standpoint.
We're there to drill and unlock this value that we already recognized in the well results and I've articulated on the Wasatch and the Uinta and really drive those learning curves.
I believe that over time we'll see more parity in the returns generated from the Central Basin horizontal program with those of the vertical program even though they are not apparent today and I appreciate that.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
I appreciate that.
And then one last one of the refining side of things.
As you guys look at growth out of that platform and you secured refining agreements already to drive it through '15 can you talk a little bit about maybe the pilot rail programs that are going on? Are you participating in those? How do you see those kind of moving forward? And could that add an additional leg of growth for production out of that asset base? Sure Dave.
There are some refining projects -- or excuse me some rail projects that are taking crude out of the basin and we're having some discussions about doing that.
We have taken a very modest amount of crude by rail out to both -- and I know those markets are in the East and West Coast and some actually up in Canada.
So we find it interesting.
I have to tell you that we see an opportunity to continue to expand the local market.
And I don't think that we are reliant upon using rail over the long term to get it out.
But we do find it interesting and it is something that we're going to continue to explore.
[Operator Instructions] Operator if are there no further questions I would like to thank...
Yes there are no further questions in the queue.
Okay.
There are no further questions I would like to thank everybody for dialing in this morning.
We look forward to visiting with many of you in the days and weeks ahead and updating you on our progress as 2013 unfolds.
So thank you again for your time and interest in Newfield.
Have a good day.
This concludes today's presentation.
Thank you for your participation.
Good day everyone and welcome to the Newfield Exploration's First Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
Just a reminder today's call is being recorded.
And before we get started one housekeeping matter.
Our discussion with you today will contain forward-looking statements such as strategic initiatives and plans estimated production and timing drilling and development plans expected cost reductions and planned capital expenditures.
Although we believe that our expectations reflected in these statements are reasonable they are based upon assumptions and anticipated results that are subject to numerous uncertainties and risks.
Actual results may vary significantly from those anticipated due to many factors and risks some of which may be unknown.
Please see Newfield's 2012 Annual Report on Form 10-K and subsequent quarterly reports on Forms 10-Q for a discussion of factors that may cause actual results to vary.
Forward-looking statements made during this call speak only as of today's date and unless legally required Newfield undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements.
In addition reconciliations of non-GAAP financial measures to GAAP financial measures together with Newfield's earnings release and any other applicable disclosures are available on the Investor Relations page of Newfield's website at www.newfield.com.
Before turning the call over to the Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer Mr.
Lee Boothby please let me provide a housekeeping request.
[Operator Instructions] Mr.
Lee Boothby please go ahead sir.
Thank you operator.
Good morning everyone.
Thanks for joining us today for our first quarter conference call.
Operationally we're off to a great start in 2013.
In fact we're right where we want to be towards our execution of our 2013 through 2015 plan and we're looking forward to sharing our updates with you today.
As always members of our management team are here today to answer your questions following our prepared remarks.
In late 2012 we made some strategic decisions that defined Newfield's future direction in our path to long-term value creation for our stockholders.
First the future of our company is in North America and we are now laser focused on delivering profitable growth from our 4 domestic growth engines the Cana Woodford the Uinta Basin the Eagle Ford and the Williston Basin.
You will see that our progress this year to increase the liquids production lower drilling costs optimized completion practices and improved overall project returns provide significant encouragement across all of our liquids focused plays.
Second we're on track to deliver strong domestic liquids growth in 2013 '14 and '15.
Our track record of more than 20% compound annual growth rate in domestic liquids production growth over the last 4 years helps to validate the growth potential of our assets and we believe our 2013 domestic liquids production should increase nearly 40% over last year.
We'll provide some additional comments later on the strength of our production and helpful guidance for the next quarter.
And third as we announced at year-end we are exploring strategic alternatives for international businesses.
These are quality assets with proven people a track record of execution and significant upside through our prospect inventories.
Our recent 1.5 trillion to 3 trillion cubic foot original gas in place discovery certainly validates the quality of our inventory and the upside in our Malaysian business.
The process is progressing well and we expect to have our data room open in early May.
I'm absolutely confident that we're making the right strategic decisions to build value for Newfield stockholders.
Our leadership team understands the critical importance of superlative execution in 2013 and we are united in our plans to deliver on our results.
You will see today that our first quarter accomplishments are certainly a step in the right direction.
Let me share a few of our exciting highlights to kick off the call.
Our Cana Woodford production in the first quarter was ahead of our original plan.
We continue to see very strong oil performance and our economic footprint is expanding.
Our most recent wells have averaged nearly 2 000 barrels of oil equivalent production per day that's gross initial production and our 60-day average gross production is about 1 300 barrels of oil equivalent per day.
As we have proven time and again our drilling performance and scalable resource plays shows rapid learning curve advancements over the first 2 to 3 years.
In the first quarter we lowered our drilling case cost per foot by about 30% when compared to our 2012 actual results and 20% compared to our fourth quarter 2012 results.
We're now drilling and casing our South Cana wells for about $925 per completed foot.
And we expect to continue to show future efficiency gains as our development progresses.
From our working interest in outside operated wells we know that we are leading the way in achieving these efficiencies in the Cana Woodford.
And there's additional information in today's @NFX to illustrate this point.
In the Williston Basin we delivered some of our best wells to date during the first quarter.
As a result of recent wells and better-than-expected performance from our existing wells we've increased our growth estimates for the Williston Basin.
We now expect our Williston production to grow 25% year-over-year compared to our original target of about 15%.
Our 4 most recent Bakken wells had average initial gross production rates of more than 3 100 barrels of oil equivalent per day and nearly 1 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day over their first 30 days.
During the first quarter we also drilled 2 Three  Forks wells with an average gross initial production of nearly 2 400 barrels of oil equivalent per day and they averaged nearly 900 barrels of oil equivalent per day over the first 30 days.
In the Williston we continued to show well cost improvements excluding about $900 000 in facility and artificial lift cost we are now drilling and completing our wells for $8 million to $8.5 million.
Our average completed well cost in the Williston for our Super Extended Lateral wells in the first quarter was $8.9 million and we recently drilled and completed a best-in-class well for $7.4 million.
Including facility and artificial lift cost our average gross completed well cost in the Williston in the first quarter were $9.8 million.
In the Eagle Ford we continue to post solid efficiency gains by drilling Super Extended Laterals or SXL wells as we call them we believe that the longer laterals improve returns and we're implementing them across the company's portfolio today.
In the first quarter our average well cost in the Eagle Ford were $7.7 million down from a fourth quarter 2012 average of about $8.4 million.
We are now drilling exclusively for multi-well pads in our West Asherton area and are today completing a batch of 6 new wells.
These completions will help drive that 12% quarter-over-quarter liquids growth that I referenced earlier.
Lastly we're progressing well in the Uinta basin both in the greater Monument Butte unit and in the Central Basin region.
Our early 2013 focus has been on improving drill times and optimizing our completions in the Uteland Butte.
During the first quarter we completed 4 additional Uteland Butte wells with an average gross initial production of about 1 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day.
Recent results are consistent with our prior wells and provide us with continued encouragement on the size of this resource and our future growth outlook.
All of these wells had lateral lengths of about 3 800 feet.
In March we spud our first Super Extended Lateral well in the Uteland Butte a 9 900-foot lateral results are expected midyear.
Later in the call today we will discuss our plans to drill longer laterals in multiple zones across the Central Basin.
Our Uinta production is expected to grow about 10% in 2013 and 20% in 2014.
This increase comes to the addition of new refining capacity in the Salt Lake City region.
Although we have the refining capacity in hand today to execute our 3-year plan we continue to explore other options to move crude out of the Uinta basin and into new markets.
These new markets could provide competition for our crude better price differentials and allow us to grow future oil volumes at a quicker pace.
Before we move to a more detailed discussion of our focus areas I'll cover our first quarter financial results.
To aid your modeling efforts I'll also provide some guidance on our second quarter liquids growth and expected costs and expenses.
For the first quarter our results exceeded first call estimates.
We earned $0.45 per diluted share on revenues of $651 million in the first quarter.
Our cash flow from operations was $323 million.
Our production in the quarter was ahead of our original plan and cash operating costs were lower than our full year guidance ranges.
Sales were 11.7 million barrels of oil equivalent in the first quarter which included 9.1 million barrels of oil equivalent from our domestic operations.
Our international liftings were about 2.6 million barrels of oil equivalent.
Our production in the first quarter was 56% liquids.
We've completed our transition to a liquids-focused company.
Most of our reduced costs early in the year like major expense for example were simply related to the timing of our full year capital expenditures.
When looking at individual expense categories you will notice we increased our domestic transportation expense.
As our NGLs become more material with growth in the Cana Woodford processing costs were reflected in the transportation expense.
Our realized prices are higher by a like amount and offset the higher transportation expense.
Consistent with our beginning-of-year forecast we expect to see strong liquids growth in the second and third quarters.
This increase is largely related to new pad completions in the Bakken and Eagle Ford and continued growth in the Cana.
We expect that our domestic liquids production in the second quarter will be about 4.5 million barrels of oil equivalent that's up more than 12% from our first quarter production.
Our international liftings in the first quarter came in higher than our beginning-of-year expectations at 2.6 million barrels.
And we still expect to produce about 7.2 million barrels of oil equivalent for the full year.
For the second quarter we expect international oil liftings to be about 1.8 million barrels.
As you know we are exploring strategic options for these businesses but our forecast assumes a full year run rate for ease of modeling.
I'll now turn the call over to our Chief Financial Officer Gary Packer to cover our operating updates.
Gary? Thanks Lee.
Good morning everyone.
We have some  meaningful updates this quarter and we're excited to share them with you today most importantly to demonstrate that we are on target to deliver on our 2013 through 2015 plans.
Our domestic production is now revving up significantly and we expect to see momentum build into 2014.
Our liquids growth improved our cash flow and transitioned us once again to a company delivering double-digit profitable growth with spending levels better aligned with our cash flows.
Many of the highlights that I will cover this morning are detailed in our newly designed @NFX Publication.
Let start with the Cana Woodford where we have 7 operated rigs running today in the Anadarko Basin.
Our first quarter net production averaged 14 400 barrels equivalent per day that's about 4 300 barrels a day higher than our fourth quarter 2012 average.
We continue to see excellent well performance.
Our recent focus has been in the south wet gas and oil portions of our acreage and we've completed 6 new wells in the first quarter and they are performing ahead of our type curves.
Our net Cana production should exit 2013 at about 26 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day up from about 10 000 barrels a day in the fourth quarter last year.
At that level it will become our largest producing asset.
That's impressive when you consider this has taken less than 3 years to move this play from the initial concept phase.
Our Mid-Continent team has done a great job for us and they are working other high potential play concepts today.
Our drilling in the Cana is becoming increasingly more efficient.
This is not a surprise to us as we have demonstrated these trends in multiple areas like the Granite Wash Arkoma Basin Monument Butte and the Williston Basin to name a few.
We are drilling our wells faster and cheaper through innovative bit designs mud systems and modified casing programs.
Our quarterly average drilling case costs in the South Cana were about $925 per lateral foot or more than 20% lower than our fourth quarter average of 2012.
I fully expect to see more gains as the year progresses.
Our 3-year plan is focused on the North and South Cana.
These development areas have about 500 potential locations on about 4 800 net acres.
These areas are where we currently have the most well control and the focus of our near-term drilling program.
Today we're leveraging other people's money and are rapidly collecting that in the central region of the Cana Woodford.
Today 2 outside operated rigs are running and we have interest in many of these new wells.
This helps us to cost-effectively expand our economic footprint and better understand our ultimate resource potential.
With a handful of successful wells in the central region we could add operated activity later this year.
We estimated up to 1 000 potential drilling locations in the central region alone.
Our Williston team is executing extremely well today.
Our production early this year is ahead of schedule and we expect oil growth this year from the Williston of about 25% that's up from our original expectation of 15% year-over-year growth.
We expect to grow about 25% year-over-year again in 2014.
Our drilling teams are capturing efficiencies through the longer laterals and pad drilling and as we summarized in our operations report last night our most recent completions in both the middle Bakken and the Three forks are performing very well.
In March we added a fourth operated rig in the Williston Basin.
All of our drilling today is being conducted from multi-well pads.
These reduce the time between wells allow us to simultaneously complete our wells faster and cheaper and we save money with shared production facilities.
At our current pace we expect to drill about 35 operated wells in the middle Bakken and 7 wells in the upper Three Forks this year.
During the first quarter we completed some of the best wells to date in the Williston Basin.
These were not only the highest IP rates we have seen but more importantly they captured efficiencies through less drilling days and optimized completion practices.
In our Sand Creek Federal area located in McKenzie county we completed 2 wells in the middle Bakken and 1 the Three Forks.
Our 2 middle Bakken wells have averaged gross initial production of 3 500 barrels of oil equivalent per day and a 30-day average of 1 100 equivalent per day.
The Three Forks well has a gross initial production of 3 450 barrels of oil equivalent a day and averaged 1 100 barrels over its 30 days as well.
Lateral lengths in these wells were approximately 10 000 feet.
Our returns in the Williston Basin continue to improve through lower completion cost and in the quarter we drilled a Three Forks wells with a 9 000-foot lateral for $7.4 million.
That was a best-in-class well facilities and artificial lift add another 900 000 barrels.
Let's move to the Uinta Basin.
We estimate more than 760 million barrels of oil equivalent incremental net unrisked resource potential in the Central Basin across our 139 000 net acres.
The size of the prize makes this an important asset for the company.
In fact the basin has the scale and the resource potential to drive our corporate growth and profitability for more than a decade.
Our objectives in the basin today are clear.
Number one is moving Uteland Butte and Wasatch plays into rapid horizontal development.
To date we've drilled nearly 50 Wasatch vertical wells and 4 Wasatch horizontal wells and about 15 horizontal wells in Uteland Butte.
Production data from both horizontal and vertical wells provides encouragement for the potential of these 2 plays.
Our goal is to efficiently accelerate development activity levels in Uteland Butte and the Wasatch.
Second on our list of these objectives is to partner with state authorities to advance regulatory rules to allow for the drilling of the optimal well.
Current regulatory rules and setbacks from section boundaries limit our maximum potential length to date to just under 4 000 feet.
We are working hard to advance these rules to allow longer lateral wells as our lateral lengths contact more of the productive horizon our production rates and EURs will increase while our cost per lateral foot decrease ultimately improving returns.
In addition they reduce surface disturbances and truck traffic due to fewer locations longer laterals certainly are our future.
I'm happy to report today that we are drilling our first SXL well in the Uteland Butte a 9 900 foot lateral.
We have 15 additional permits approved by the State of Utah in hand and plan to drill 5 to 6 additional SXL wells in 2013.
We will use the upcoming results to push for expanded permitting for SXL wells in 2014 and beyond.
In the Wasatch we have collected production data from the 50 vertical wells in the performance from the 2 producing horizontal wells that continue to impress us after nearly 300 days of production.
We have a solid understanding of the resources with at least 5 major identified productive oil horizons throughout the 1 200 foot vertical Wasatch intervals.
This is an oil saturated horizon offering potential for multi-horizon stacked lateral developments.
We are today working to secure permits for SXL wells in the Wasatch formation and hope to drill our first SXL wells later this fall.
Third it is imperative that we accelerate through tremendous value of our giant waterflood asset the greater Monument Butte.
We estimate more than 2 billion barrels of oil in place.
We have completed more than 600 40-acre waterflood patterns and we have more than 1 000 patterns remaining to complete.
As part of the waterflood development we plan to drill more than 200 20-acre infill wells per year and convert about 200 wells to injection per year over the next 6 to 8 years.
During the first quarter we averaged 4.2 days to drill a Green River well and increased our water injection levels to a recent high of 85 000 barrels a day.
We are maximizing our production utilizing our facilities to gather and reuse water and improve the overall efficiencies of our operations.
We are running 3 operated rigs in Monument Butte today drilling 20-acre infill wells and completing our substantial inventory of waterflood patterns.
Soon we plan to test 10-acre pilots in multiple areas within the unit.
And fourth on our list of objectives we must secure expanded and long-term markets for our growing Uinta production.
We have taken some significant steps over the last 18 months to secure future markets for this oil growth.
Today Tesoro is in the first of 2 planned turnarounds to ready their facilities for an incremental 9 000 barrels a day of refining capacity which is expected by late 2014.
We signed 7- and 10-year firm agreements with Tesoro and HollyFrontier securing 38 000 barrels a day of firm refining capacity.
We expect to grow or Uinta gross production to about 50 000 barrels a day by late 2015.
In addition we are aggressively exploring refinery markets outside of the Salt Lake City region.
Just last week we railed about 30 000 barrels a day with more planned to a refinery outside the Salt Lake City Basin.
Our ultimate goal is to create new markets for this high-value crude and provide future visibility on our growing oil sales.
I strongly believe that we have resource in the Uinta to support these markets for our growing oil production.
In the Central Basin all of our first quarter horizontal completions were in the Uteland Butte.
We've completed 4 the wells and average initial gross production rates of about 1 000 barrels a day with a 30-day average on the first 2 of about 715 barrels of oil equivalent per day.
These wells are consistent with our first 11 wells and we look forward to our midyear results from the first SXL wells in the Uteland Butte and we expect it to be a game changer for our economics.
Our goal is to continue to improve productivity and returns while lowering our F&amp;D cost.
The Uteland Butte is  a play that could rapidly move to horizontal development in 2014 through 2015.
Our net production in the Uinta Basin in the first quarter was about 21 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day and reflect higher than normal oil inventories in the field.
We talked about this on our February call so this is not a new issue and its impact was included in our full year guidance.
The inventory build in the field is related to turnarounds in the Salt Lake City refineries that I previously mentioned.
These are scheduled facility maintenance and recent expansion efforts to build capacity for our feed.
We remain confident that our net sales will increase to about 22 000 barrels a day in the second quarter and more than 25 000 barrels a day in the third and fourth quarters as the new refining capacity becomes available.
In the Eagle Ford our development efforts are focused on the West Asherton field and we are seeing exceptional improvements in our returns.
Today we are running 2 operated rigs and drilling SXL wells in common pad locations.
We are right on target with our Eagle Ford plan and expect to drill about 35 operated wells in the play in 2013.
During the first quarter we drilled 6 new Eagle Ford wells with average lateral lengths of about 7 500 feet.
These wells are in various stages of completion today with one of the pads in early flowback.
Our operation teams did an excellent job for us in the first quarter and our well costs were lowered by more than $400 000 when compared to our average cost in 2012.
Recent SXL wells were drilled and completed for $7.7 million gross.
As we predicted on our original guidance our production ramp in the Eagle Ford in 2013 will be back-end weighted due to the pad drilling and the timing of our simultaneous completions.
Our Eagle Ford net production averaged about 4 800 barrels of oil equivalent per day in the first quarter with no new pads coming online.
We are looking for a surge of oil production from new pads in the second quarter and third quarters and expect to exit 2013 at about 14 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day.
We expect that our Eagle Ford production will grow 75% year-over-year in 2013 an additional 50% in 2014.
Our Eagle Ford returns today are among the highest in the company.
We estimate that our SXL wells and gross EURs in excess of 550 000 barrels of oil equivalent with a production stream that is largely comprised of black oil.
That's a quick highlight reel from our major areas of operations.
In summary we are executing very well in 2013 we feel confident in our ability to meet our expectations for the year.
I'm encouraged by the improvements we are seeing in our drilling programs across the company and we're refining our completions to maximize EURs and production with today's execution building positive momentum for 2014 and 2015.
I'll now turn the call back to Lee for any closing comments.
Thanks Gary and thanks to all of you for joining us today for our first quarter update.
Over the last several months we've made some significant strategic decisions and have aligned our capital personnel and talents towards a common goal.
Being a profitable North American-focused resource company.
Our capital investment program this year remains at the $1.7 billion to $1.9 billion range the delta between our cash flow and our investments levels will be financed through our $1.25 billion credit facility which was undrawn at the end of the first quarter.
Our domestic liquids growth in 2013 is very strong and you see from today's results that we are improving returns and profitability throughout our operations today.
We provided some quantitative examples of lower well cost more effective completions higher EURs and improving operating expenses.
Our domestic focus today is on 4 key resource plays and we're transferring best practices rapidly amongst these areas.
I appreciate your investment and continued interest in our company.
Know that we are confident in Team Newfield's ability to execute on our plan and the plan trajectory will make as a larger stronger and more profitable company.
Operator I'll turn it over to you to assemble the questions.
[Operator Instructions] And we'll take our first question from Dave Kistler with Simmons &amp; Company.
Research Division</strong> Real quickly with production exceeding kind of the high end of your guidance in the quarter having production exceeding your expectations across your 4 key areas and taking up the Bakken production estimate there was no adjustment to the full year '13 guidance.
Kind of curious if you can walk us through are you expecting maybe greater declines on the gas front or just being conservative as you are working on executing your plan throughout the balance of the year? Dave I think it's very simply that it's early in the year.
We're off to a good start.
We are very encouraged by what you articulated across all of those areas.
I think that sustaining that momentum during the course of the year certainly would be strongly positive relative to the forecast plan.
But we're early stay tuned and we look forward to updating you on our progress at the end of the second quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then just as a follow-up.
In the Bakken can you kind of walk through maybe any discernible differences between the 2 Three Forks wells that you drilled? Obviously one of them was an absolute standout.
And just trying to think about was there any sort of design difference in the well geologic difference anything like that that helps you think through the targeting of your next 7 Three Forks wells? Well we think they were both great wells Dave.
I think as you indicated one is absolutely outstanding and we hope it has many brothers and sisters.
I would take it as very very encouraging.
As far as design differences I'll flip it over to Gary I'm not aware of any design differences between the 2 wells.
I think it's just a matter of uncertainty when you drill through a play like that but we'll keep them both.
Gary do you have anything on that? They're in 2 different areas of the field that probably has something to do with it.
I'm not aware of any differences in the design that we have between the 2 wells.
And we'll take our next question from Subash Chandra with Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> First of all I got to see the @NFX document back very helpful.
First question I guess Lee if you could just remind me on the international sale potential tax treatment and repatriation cost that might be associated with bringing those dollars back if any? Well I think that Subash I don't know that I've had a chance to talk to you but I know we've been in the road a lot over the last 6 to 7 weeks and talked to a lot of folks.
I think the way Terry described it very clearly is that it's a tax -- it'll be a tax-efficient transaction.
We'll end up leaving 10% behind for whatever the realizations are in China and everything else comes home.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And my follow-up is so the rail options I guess you're working on here are pretty small and I assume there are sort of ways to maybe get rid of some of the inventory you've built.
But could you address maybe how scalable this current effort might be? It's something that we're exploring.
I would suggest that for the barrels that we've moved thus far we have an opportunity to probably move about 3x of that this year it's something that we're currently exploring.
It -- we're not going to announce where we're moving it but we're moving it to one of the coastal refineries.
And based on how those runs take place it's our belief that they could be materially scalable from where we're at today.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> So 100 000 barrels is sort of what you think you could do this year and that includes what you -- your materially scalable comment? I would say we could probably do an incremental 100 000 barrels this year and that's just in basically batch loads.
Based on how that goes we could scale it significantly over the year yes.
I think Subash remember we're limiting within the next 2.5 years within the constraints and the timing of the expansions we've already signed up for.
So part of the scalability comment is kind of above and beyond and accelerating some of that inventory.
Looking forward it's going to take some time to develop those markets but I think it's very encouraging that there's interest being expressed on multiple coasts today and we hope to be able to establish some outlets outside of Salt Lake City.
I think that'll be net net positive for all of the -- our operations in the basin and frankly for everybody operating in the basin.
And we'll take our next question from Leo Mariani with RBC.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just hoping to dive into the Cana Woodford a little bit more.
You guys reported a strong batch of well results this quarter.
Of notice in that that group of results your 60-day rates were actually a little bit better than your 30-day rates.
Just wanted to get some comments from you guys on why you think the declines have been so shallow in that play? Kind of what have you learned so far? That would be helpful.
Leo thanks for reading the information that makes the guys feel good.
I think there have been a lot of people involved in the company pooling that information together and delivering results.
Remember that we've been pretty clear over the last several months that in 3 of our key areas we're utilizing control flowbacks so we're not producing wells to maximize IPs we're producing wells to maximize EURs and return.
So with that we're managing the drawdowns.
Downhole we think that gives us a much more effective stabilized completion and drawdown regime for the wells and should ultimately translate to what we're seeing in early returns higher EURs and higher returns for the wells.
So that would be part of the reason you'll see a higher later rate that you're just working through the math of managing the drawdowns.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
So I guess wanted to also get your sense on the Cana.
Obviously you guys have increasing lateral lengths there.
You talked about some cost reductions in terms of drilling dollars per foot.
Just wanted to get a sense of what the current long lateral well costs are right now and I guess you guys are hopeful that you continue to see improvements there so just wanted to get a sense of where they are now and where you think they could go eventually here.
Yes.
As far as the long lateral wells they're typically in about $11 million range that would be in a southern gas area.
In a development mode we think we have opportunities to bring those down further.
This is all in the area in the south.
As we move to the north we have an opportunity to remove a casing string.
We've done that thus far this year that brought -- drops out about $500 000 to $750 000 off of that those wells are a little shallower and we don't require quite the same casing program that we do in the south so I would drop that roughly $1 million.
And we'll take our next question from Amir Arif with Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just as you move from '13 into '14 I mean your production growth profile that was laid out increases from 5% to 18%.
Can you tell us if that is achievable with the current run rate of capital spending? Or does that require a pickup of drilling in your key plays? The short answer is yes.
It's achievable with our current run rates.
And if you look at the 3-year plan '13 '14 '15 I think the range of capital spend across that 3-year planning horizon was $1.4 billion to $1.6 billion so you can assume it's about $1.5 billion a year.
I think that's a key point in that 3-year plan and I think that also is exciting because what we're seeing here early in the year play out or the gains in our operating teams around the portfolio translate through that 3-year plan because we're anchored on the de-risked portion of the inventory that we carried in into this year at the end of 2012.
So I think we're in good shape to execute and execute it in range with the forecast CapEx.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then the follow-up question just on the Uinta as you get new takeaway capacity there will you get the differentials at that time or have you locked that in as you locked in the new takeaway capacity for the region? We have no fixed contracts on the barrels that we're moving right now outside of the basin.
So basically we're floating with the market and it's being priced similar to what we have in the basin.
If your expectation -- if we enter into a longer term agreement that it would be a price premium to what we currently would see.
And we'll take our next question from David Tameron with Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just on the rail issue can you guys talk about what the cost is to rail that out? And I realize that you don't have contracts in place and obviously you've left the differential for the region but could you just talk about what the cost would be? No I think it's premature to talk about the costs I mean we'll tell you more about the rail option as we get more information.
I think the exciting part is we're moving the barrels today we're testing the markets and all of that will develop as we move forward.
Gary if you have anything you want to add? No I just say David it's really net neutral to where we're currently at right now when we take into account the price we're receiving and the transportation.
So it's really -- it's too early to tell.
I look at these as kind of some test runs that we're making to see how it goes not only for Newfield but also the refiner.
LLC Research Division</strong> All right.
I think Gary in the Uteland Butte can you talk about the wells I think it's 11 wells you drilled prior to the ones you released today can you talk about what those look like at the back end of the curve? If they're holding up et cetera? Yes everything is holding up in those wells.
They've -- they flattened out pretty well and as you see I mean we're essentially you see a similar phenomena here to what we see in the Cana.
We're seeing 60-day and 30-day numbers about flat with each other about 600 barrels a day and I think that gives you a vision for what's taking place.
In February in our @NFX we put out some type curves and I'd say the wells are performing very well with the type curves that we published there.
And we'll take our next question from Brian Singer with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> In the extended offset dates you mentioned that you do plan to test some of the deeper benches in the Bakken later this year.
Can you just talk about that? And what is your hypothesis on this potential across your Bakken acreage position? The -- we'll be testing -- excuse me? Research Division</strong> A deeper Three Forks bench sorry.
Yes.
We like the potential and while it's pretty preliminary for us up on the Nesson Anticline so I would say in the areas of Westberg and Lost Bear we see the second benches as prospective.
We're going to be drilling a well here shortly that will target both the second bench the first bench as well as the Bakken and we'll be analyzing that for communication across all those zones and see how they perform.
If the second bench test is perspective there as I said earlier we see those benches perspective across the entire Nesson.
As we move off the Nesson we see it at least at this point we see it less prospective but it's early.
Research Division</strong> Great thanks.
And then just following up on the Uinta rail test.
Can you just give us the chronology of kind of what to expect here? You're doing the rail test now how long do those tests continue? And then how long would the next step be assuming the next step would be just determining whether signing a contract or -- I guess give us the positive case in terms of how you would get from these tests to future incremental production? Got you.
Well as far as where we sit right now we have already backshipped the volumes that we spoke to in the @NFX publication.
We are currently in discussions of moving a volume that could be up to 3x or 4x that and with success in those negotiations those volumes could start moving as early as May.
We have adequate capacity and inventory as we currently spoke and this gives us some additional flexibilities to navigate the turnarounds that are currently taking place with the Sora.
It will be premature for us to talk about how that translates into a longer-term agreement but that is certainly something that we are interested in as well as the refinery [indiscernible].
So it's a -- but that is something that I would look for at the end of the second  and through the third quarter for us to give more transparency on these additional rail options.
And Brian I think it's important to remember that we've got all the refining capacity we need in place out through 2015.
So think about the rail it's either acceleration or it's growth beyond the planned horizon at this stage.
So we'll keep you posted as the information comes in and we'll walk together.
And we'll take our next question from David Heikkinen with Heikkinen Energy Advisors.
Your Uinta program and your guidance doesn't include any of the other outlooks either rail or the pipeline study.
That's not in your guidance.
And then your current 2013 production any volumes that 100 000 barrels that would be moved wasn't in the original target as well.
The volumes in terms of the 100 000 barrels a day David I'll remind you in the February call we talked about inventory managing inventory through the turnaround.
So if that -- I wouldn't be thinking about that as an incremental volume just in terms of working through the barrels that we've got in the field today.
Okay.
And then in the Eagle Ford can you just get to the 7 000 barrels a day are you basically just completing the 6 wells that are waiting on the pad the completions are underway how does that stagger as you think into 2000 -- into the second quarter how many wells you'll have waiting on completion and kind of same thing in the third quarter? Yes we have a series of -- David we have a series of completions all planned in pad sequence for this year.
It looks to me as if we -- in the second quarter we'll be bringing on approximately 16 new wells through pads that will be contributing to that.
So it's not just the 6 that we've already drilled.
As we head into the end of the third quarter and into the fourth quarter we see about another half dozen wells coming in.
So in order to achieve the kind of -- this ramp-up that we focus we've got quite a few.
And we'll take our next question from Peter Kissel with the Howard Weil.
Research Division</strong> Maybe just one more on the Uinta rails here.
Just curious to see what the current rail car availability looks like for the insulated rail cars? And how much of a bottleneck that could be to scalability that was mentioned? Certainly it's a limitation today.
We have the rail cars arranged to move the volumes that we've already spoken of in the batch -- in a batch mode.
If we wanted to ramp it up more certainly it would be something that would have to be addressed.
But we're not contemplating that at this point our focus is on moving the volumes that we've already mentioned as well as the optionality that we have in 2013 and it's my understanding that the rail cars are in place to do that.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then one other quick question on an asset that hasn't been mentioned in several quarters and that's the Arkoma Woodford.
With the run-up in strip prices here is there any point in the near future where you see that competing well for capital versus the 4 main areas that you've highlighted in the call or is that still pretty far down on the totem pole? I wouldn't say it's down on the totem pole I'd say it's HBP so we've got that position all taken care of it is dry gas.
We've stayed away from having the conversations about a price trigger relative to activity.
Although the run-up we're certainly closer to the point where you can start thinking about investing there.
But our plan is anchored on the 3-year horizon on the liquids plays and I would say that we've got a ways to go on gas before the returns on -- in the Arkoma gas are going to compete with the returns that we're generating in oil today.
Especially with the operating gains that we're seeing day-to-day.
And we'll take our next question from Rudy Hokanson from Barrington Research.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Quick question.
Could you talk a little bit more about the prospects with the Wasatch wells where you were talking about 5 -- I think you said 5 possible areas with the stacked lateral? I was a little confused about what you've been finding there? And if you could talk more about what the potential might be.
Rudy I'll talk just very briefly about it and then I'll flip it over to Gary because I think he's gathering a couple of facts for you.
Remember the 50 wells that we talked about drilling the vertical wells.
So each one of those wells is drilled through the entirety of the 1 200-foot Wasatch section.
On average those wells have had about 6 completion intervals throughout that 1 200-foot section so co-mingled completion intervals.
So we know there's mobile oil from top to bottom in that 1 200-foot section and we know that that mobile oil was distributed across the entirety of that basin.
And you can look at the maps that we've put out here over the last 2 or 3 months where they've got updates in terms of well activity to kind of get a feel for the scale and scope of that footprint.
What Gary was talking about as we've presently got 2 wells down that are under completion which were our first 2 stacked laterals and they're shown on one of those handouts that we talked about.
What Gary went on to say is that there are several horizons and it's 5 or more if you want to think about it in those terms that we would imagine being able to think about multiple stacked horizontal developments in terms of each one of those horizons through the 1 200-foot thick Wasatch section.
But I'll flip it back to Gary I think he got some additional color.
Yes I guess the way we think about it Rudy is over 1 200 feet we have 26 mapped horizons.
In those 26 mapped horizons we can see 5 different target intervals where we think we can connect up to 5 in each one of those horizontal wells.
That allows us to adequately drain the entire resource.
So as currently as being talked about when you think about the Bakken with the Bakken targets as well as the multiple benches in the Three Forks it's very conceivable that you can imagine on an upside case where you could have multiple horizons in each one of these -- multiple horizontals in each one of these 5 horizons.
Now I'm painting a picture for an upside case that you could easily see how you could be talking about 15 or 20 wells a section from a horizontal standpoint to adequately drain these resource.
Now that number has not reflected any of the numbers that we've talked about.
Even when we talk about unrisked resource in our February announcement I think we were talking about 4 to 6 wells a section and that would be in the absolute upside.
But as we get more and more information this becomes a potential reality.
What we're currently doing right now in the 4 wells that we've currently drilled 3 of those wells have all targeted the same interval and we like what we've seen from the 2 that have been placed on production.
The fourth well has been drilled in a stacked perspective immediately above the horizon that we've historically drilled.
So now we're in the process of completing these wells and we'll be able to monitor how they interfere or communicate with one another and drain that horizon.
Based on that information it would be -- we believe it could be scalable to the other horizons.
It's very early on and again as I referenced in the call or in the -- in our prepared remarks the key to this is also getting the SXLs drilled getting these long laterals contacting more area.
We believe with the information we've already accumulated in conversations we're having with the state this month we believe we'll be able to get our first well drilled SXL well drilled this year.
Based on how that one goes we'll attempt to make that scalable in 2014.
So it's very early but we like what we see so far.
And Rudy I would just think very simply the easiest way to think about this is the Wasatch that 1 200-foot thick interval is a 3D spacing problem that's what we're trying to work through is the 3D spacing.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> As a quick follow-up as you work on this as soon as you drill how are you using seismic to help you delineate what might be down there? I'm just thinking of all the advances going on with seismic and being able to read some of these things that are going on in various reservoirs.
Are you increasing your use of seismic or is this still more of a using original information and then relying upon the engineering of the well right now? Well we've got 3D seismic data across most of the acreage in the Central Basin.
We've got a team of people that are working all the high-end attributes and modeling across the basin that's part of the value of having those 50 vertical wells plus all of the data that we've got in Greater Monument Butte.
And then we're also going to have microseismic data on the 2 stacked laterals that Gary just talked about and that's to test both the vertical propagation of the frac as well as the lateral propagation.
So I think we're loaded up on the technical side and as data flows in I think we'll build or refine it and it will be part of the solution in terms of the 3D spacing challenge that I talked about in the earlier question.
And we'll take our next question from Dan McSpirit been BMO Capital Markets.
You speak to the Cana Woodford becoming the company's largest producing asset.
Does this mean or does that mean this play affords the highest rate of return among the 4 core areas or is it simply more scalable than others at this point in time? Well I think we're generating really attractive returns in all of the development areas today and I think we've documented that fairly well.
And certainly we've been consistent over the course of the last several months in talking about the Cana Woodford particularly the wells we drilled down in the South Cana area both in the wet gas window and the oil is generating some of the highest returns in the portfolio.
But clearly because of the scale and scope of our operations in the acreage footprint and remember the success that we had in '12 on derisking acreage we're in a great position here to do what we said we were going to do at the beginning of last year accelerate the development.
So what you're seeing is the accelerated development in the Cana Woodford.
We're able to move the volumes today there but that's one of the advantages that we have with our portfolio is we can shift capital around between the 4 areas and balance out the needs at any given point in time.
Today Cana Woodford is carrying the freight and the other plays are generating nice returns as well but it is a strong part of our growth engine.
Got it okay.
And as a follow-up can you give us the operator rig count for first quarter '13 across the different operating areas? What does it look like at year-end here again across the same operating areas? And forgive me if I'm overlooking this guidance in what may you have already published.
You're asking about our operated rig count? Correct.
Yes I think that information was provided in February but for the one that we spoke we plan on having 7 rigs running through 2014.
So it's consistent with Lee's prior answer about kind of a flat capital program.
So we're currently running 7 rigs and that's expected we expect to run 7 rigs in '14 as well.
And we'll take our next question from Gil Yang with DISCERN Capital.
Inc</strong> Could you talk about the stacked laterals? A lot of companies have talked about doing stacked laterals but it never really seems to take off as much as the promise.
Is there a real advantage here? And what are the risks of pursuing that strategy? Gil we've actually explored and drilled some stacked laterals already.
We've already done this in the South Cana for instance where we've actually drilled laterals in a staggered fashion to minimize interference.
And that's proven to be quite effective.
We've also drilled stacked laterals in the Granite Wash.
As you remember as we were pursuing the Marmaton Redford Cherokee and so forth those were also multiple horizons drilled within the same Granite Wash section and we've proven that that to be an effective accretive way to develop the asset.
So -- and obviously in the Bakken it's currently taking place.
And whether you want to argue about communication there is a certain -- as we've always talked about a certain desired amount of communication.
But it's also about as we drill these stacked laterals just making sure we get adequate recovery of the resource that's in place.
Some of it may be in acceleration some of it's incremental.
So I think we're just applying a development scheme that's already -- we've already utilized in other areas.
I think the thickness of the section Gil is the key when you're thinking about comparing the results between where various stacked lateral approaches have been utilized.
And we've got over 1 200 feet a section here so we're in good shape.
Inc</strong> And maybe I've misunderstood you're not talking about stacked laterals out of the same vertical board you're talking about just stacking laterals out of separate vertical boards? No separate individual wells.
So the only -- a part of the stacked laterals at that the horizontals are going to be stacked in the section.
Inc</strong> Okay got you.
All right.
So there's no effort to put multiple laterals into the same vertical bore? We have no interest in increasing the mechanical complexity with multi-laterals out of a single well bore.
Not what we're talking about.
Inc</strong> All right that's sort of what I was thinking.
Second thing with the Bakken savings do -- you cited $900 000 maybe you talked about this in detail earlier I missed it.
But the $900 000 savings facility is that repeatable per well or is that on the first well you can somehow do some savings? The savings part was in the execution form at a  field level.
The $900 000 that you're talking about I think is a facilities and artificial lift -- completion in our -- facilities infrastructure and artificial lift cost associated with the wells here.
So you've got to drill and complete plus facilities costs and we're giving you both sides of that equation.
Gary do you want to add there? No I think that addresses it.
Inc</strong> Okay.
So the $9.8 million that you cited was the all-in well cost including the facilities fees? Yes.
We've historically recognized that a lot of times when our well costs are being compared to some of our competitors that the facilities costs are being left out of some of the numbers.
So we wanted to provide you the transparency in the breakdown between facilities and total well costs.
So we are clearly seeing advantages this year that we had not even anticipated as we entered the year through additional efficiencies in what is a rather mature play for us.
But then we're also providing you the extra clarity on the facility piece of that.
And we'll take our last question from Jack Aydin with KeyBanc.
Research Division</strong> One question MDU is building a refinery in the Rockies.
Are you talking to them? And trying to lock in some supplies to that refinery? Or could you give us a color on it.
Jack I'm sorry but it broke up when you were talking we didn't hear who you were referencing.
Research Division</strong> MDU.
Yes.
I'm not familiar with that refinery Jack and so I can't really comment.
I guess I'd like to thank everybody for tuning in this morning.
We look forward to updating you on our continued progress after the close of the second quarter.
Thanks for your investment and interest in Newfield.
Have a good day.
And that does conclude today's conference.
Thank you for your participation.
Good day everyone and welcome to Newfield Exploration's Third Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
Just a reminder today's call is being recorded.
And before we get started one housekeeping matter.
Our discussion with you today will contain forward-looking statements such as strategic initiatives and plans estimated production and timing drilling and development plans expected cost reductions and planned capital expenditures.
Although we believe that expectations reflected in these statements are reasonable they are based upon assumptions and anticipated results that are subject to numerous uncertainties and risk.
Actual results may vary significantly from those anticipated due to many factors and risk some of which may be unknown.
Please see Newfield's 2012 annual report on Form 10-K and subsequent quarterly reports on Form 10-Q for a discussion of factors that may cause actual results to vary.
Forward-looking statements made during this call speak only as of today's date and unless legally required Newfield undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements.
In addition reconciliations of non-GAAP financial measures to GAAP financial measures together with Newfield's earnings release and any other applicable disclosures are available on the Investor Relations page of Newfield's website at www.newfield.com.
Before turning the call over to the Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer Mr.
Lee Boothby please let me provide a housekeeping request.
[Operator Instructions] Mr.
Lee Boothby you may begin.
Thank you operator.
Hello and thanks for your interest in Newfield Exploration.
We appreciate you dialing in this morning.
I'm joined in Houston today by Gary Packer our Chief Operating Officer; Larry Massaro Heir Apparent for Chief Financial Officer; Terry Rathert our Chief Financial Officer for most of the last 20 years and Founder of the company.
And we'll be answering your questions at the end the call.
First we're going to go ahead and divide today's comments into 3 segments: We'll first summarize the year-to-date highlights.
You'll see Newfield is executing very well in domestic focus areas and we are on course to deliver on the 3-year plan which we initially shared with you in February; Second Larry Massaro will cover our third quarter financial results and provide some thoughts around the capital structure behind the execution of our plan; and then third Gary Packer will provide operational updates from each of our domestic focus areas.
In yesterday's release we introduced a new resource play in our own backyard in Anadarko Basin called “STACK”.
This play adds thousands of new potential drilling locations and expands our visible inventory in an area that we have a proven operational track record.
We're very excited about this significant expansion of our position in the Anadarko Basin.
So let's start with the summary of the year-to-date highlights.
On October 22 we signed an agreement to sell our Malaysian business for $898 million.
We expect this transaction will close in the first quarter of 2014 and we plan to use the proceeds to continue to accelerate our domestic liquids growth and reduce our short-term borrowings.
This transaction is the first of 2 that will ultimately divest our international businesses and transform Newfield into a North American focused resource company.
Today we are increasing our expected 2013 production for the second time this year.
Our 2013 production is now expected to exceed 48 million barrels of oil equivalent.
Domestic production will be about 40 million barrels of oil equivalent.
Our total capital investments will total about $2 billion this year when we include the Anadarko Basin acquisition that we announced in August.
We're delivering operational efficiencies.
We recognized that top-tier resource companies must constantly strive for better margins higher cash flow and improved profitability.
Our Williston Basin and Eagle Ford programs have performed very well with achievement of lower cost.
In less than 2 years the SCOOP and “STACK” Plays in the Anadarko Basin are expected to go from a start-up to more than 31 000 net barrels of oil equivalent per day early in 2014 and nearly 50 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day net by the end of next year.
We're demonstrating drilling and completion efficiencies in all of our key plays.
In addition we've expanded our drilling inventory.
Today's announcement of “STACK” play adds thousands of new perspective oil locations with the potential for strong growth and returns.
As a result we will add an 8th operated rig in the Anadarko Basin next week.
In addition we have advanced our learnings in the Central Basin of the Uinta the fewer days to depth in our recent SXL wells and strong initial production numbers.
Our Patterson Well in the Wasatch IPed at over 2 200 barrels of oil equivalent per day gross from a 3 200-foot lateral a record Newfield well in the Uinta Basin.
Our recent accomplishments have created certainty around our 3-year plan which was rolled out in February of 2013.
Today we have year 1 nearly behind us and have even greater confidence in our ability to hit our corporate level targets.
We intend to deliver on our promise of doubling liquids production from our 4-key plays by the end of 2015.
We believe that having several resource plays in which to invest is a competitive advantage and allows us to seamlessly ship learnings in capitals to the plays that provide both certainty and solid returns.
At the same time we continue to advance new plays that build visible future inventory.
Later this week we will have our annual strategy session with our Board of Directors.
The work product from this meeting will confirm our 2014 through 2016 plans.
As a group we will determine the best use of capital and fine-tune our investments for our plays to ensure we deliver on our stated production forecast and capital spending plans.
Following board approval we intend to share the details with you before year end.
Several weeks ago we announced the planned retirement in August of 2014 of our Executive Vice President Chief Financial Officer and Newfield Founder Terry Rathert.
As many of you know Terry has worn many hats at Newfield and his leadership has been instrumental in Newfield's success over the last 25 years.
His successor will be Larry Massaro.
Larry joined us about 2.5 years ago and has been leading our Corporate Planning and Strategic Efforts including our international divestiture.
I'll turn the call over to Larry to cover our third quarter financials and provide some color on our financial strategy.
Larry? Thanks Lee.
For the third quarter 2013 we earned $0.70 per diluted share excluding the impact of special items detailed in our release.
Remember that our international businesses are classified as discontinued operations and earnings from those businesses are reported on a separate line on the income statement.
Our $0.70 per share in earnings include $0.47 from continuing operations and $0.08 from discontinued operations.
Earnings from discontinued operations were lower by $0.15 per share as a result of our previously announced purchase where our outstanding preferred shares involve our Bowl High Bay [ph] assets.
This transaction was done to simplify the sale of our China business and we expect a corresponding increase on our proceeds from the sale.
Our third quarter revenues were $675 million including $189 million from the discontinued operations.
Cash flow from operations before working capital changes was $403 million.
Our volumes in the third quarter are more than 600 000 barrels equivalent above guidance with more than 1/3 of the additional production coming from our new “STACK” play.
We produced just over 12 million barrel BOE in the third quarter.
This includes 10.4 million BOE from continuing operations and 1.7 million BOE from discontinued operations.
We are on track to grow our domestic liquids more than 40% year-over-year adjusted for asset sales.
In addition to meeting our production expectations we also met or exceeded our original cost guidance.
For example our 2013 domestic LOE forecast stated on a unit of production basis is now expected to be more than 10% below the mid-point of our original guidance.
For the fourth quarter we expect production to total about 12.4 million BOE which will include about 1.9 million BOE from discontinued operations.
Let me talk for a minute on our financial structure and how the planned sales of our international businesses will be used to fund acceleration of our domestic businesses.
We expect to close the sale of our Malaysian business in the first quarter of 2014.
Proceeds will be used to pay down our credit facility and restore its full capacity of $1.4 billion.
As previously stated our forecast 2014 investments will still exceed cash flow although by a lesser amount than 2013.
We will fund the 2014 plan similarly and expect that our China sale will offset the deficit and again restore the facility later in the year.
Longer-term we will focus on improving returns and margins and driving towards free cash flow.
We will maintain our financial strength so that the featured discretionary spending can be focused on building drilling and inventory.
I'll turn the call over to Gary for the operations update.
Thank you Larry.
Our teams are executing very well in 2013.
We're building strong momentum as we enter 2014.
I'll provide you with some summary comments on our key liquid developments in Williston Eagle Ford and Uinta and reserve most of the time for our SCOOP and “STACK” plays.
So let's get started with the Williston.
Our net production was 13 400 barrels of oil equivalent a day well ahead of our guidance of 11 800.
We expect that our Williston production will show year-over-year growth of about 40% in 2013 compared to our original growth forecast of just 15%.
Our continued performance in the Williston relates to better performance from existing wells faster drilling times which lead to more wells drilled during the year and earlier first production followed by -- following fracture stimulation and completions basically reduced cycle time.
Our completed well costs year-to-date have averaged $8.7 million per 10 000-foot SXL and our well cost includes $800 000 in artificial lift and facilities.
Our 2013 wells are costing about $2.6 million less than a comparable well in 2012.
We completed 17 new wells in the Bakken during the third quarter with initial average initial gross production rates of 2 200 barrels of oil equivalent per day and about 570 barrels of oil equivalent per day over the first 90 days.
In addition we recently completed a well in the second bench of the Three Forks our Anderson 10H well.
This well had an initial gross production of about 1 775 barrels of oil equivalent per day and a 30-day average of about 620 barrels of oil equivalent gross.
We believe that at least 1/3 of our development acreage could be perspective for development of multi-zones beneath the Middle Bakken.
We are operating a fourth rig -- 4-rig program in the Williston today dominated by multi-well pads and SXLs.
Our early planning for 2014 envision similar levels of activity and continued production growth.
In the Eagle Ford our activity in West Asherton is in full development mode.
During the third quarter we brought on line 20 new wells and lateral lengths range from 5 000 to 10 000 feet.
The real impact from the new wells can be seen in our fourth quarter guidance where we are expecting average net production of more than 12 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day.
And here's a summary of our Eagle Ford highlights.
Third quarter net production averaged 8 200 barrels of oil equivalent per day.
We expect our full year production will increase about 70% over 2012 levels.
For 2014 net production is expected to grow about 30% year-over-year.
Our average gross completed well cost year-to-date for a 7 500-foot SXL of $7.3 million.
And we expect to drill 36 wells in 2013 and about 20 wells in 2014.
Our 2014 program will include 7 wells in the operated portion of our Fashing field in Atascosa County.
Let's move now to the Uinta Basin.
Over the last several months we have collected a significant amount of new data in Uinta specifically in the Central Basin.
This new data has helped to reinforce our view of the resource potential in the basin and we continue to advance our learning curves and work toward lower well cost in Uinta development.
Our investment levels and growth outlook in the Uinta Basin will be determined by available refining capacity the evolving regulatory environment and the allocation of capital to the projects with the best returns in our portfolio.
And let me quickly address each of these topics.
First let's talk about refining.
In the third quarter our Uinta Basin net sales averaged more than 2 000 -- 23 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day lower than our forecast of 25 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day.
Our sales were once again negatively impacted by unplanned refinery downtime.
Fortunately the out-performance we have seen in other focused areas more than cover this shortfall.
Again this is the advantage of having multiple focus areas to invest our capital.
As we plan for 2014 and beyond be assured that our investment levels in the Uinta Basin will be timed to match available growth in refining capacity and our ability to sell our production.
As I mentioned in recent months we've been experiencing refinery interruptions that affect our sales and there's an interesting graph in @NFX that helps to eliminate this impact.
As you know we've signed agreements with both HollyFrontier and Tesoro that adds about 20 000 barrels of oil of new capacity in the basin by 2016.
Over the last year our sales have been impacted by both planned and unplanned refinery interruptions.
Until we have better visibility that these projects are advancing timely we will modify our plans accordingly.
As a result over the last 2 months we've been shifting capital to the Anadarko Basin our SCOOP and “STACK” plays provide superior near-term returns and we maintain our Uinta inventory for long-term growth as our leases are held by production.
The second item relates to regulatory environment in Utah.
We are working with state regulators to mend field rules to allow for the drilling of the optimal future well and spacing.
Utah is a pro-business state and they understand how SXLs improve returns and reduce environmental impact.
We recently received approval to drill 2 incremental density pilots and 3 1 280-acre DSUs in the Wasatch giving us the ability to drill additional SXLs in 2014.
These pilots will test a multi-well stacked pad development concept.
In our @NFX publication on Page 18 we've included a graphic that depicts the multi-well potential in both the Uteland Butte and the Wasatch formations.
The final priority I want to reference is the optimization of our drilling and completion operations.
Our recent well results are greatly improved and show the advancement of our learning curve.
In @NFX you can see the results of our recent Uteland Butte SXL wells which have doubled the initial production of our SXL -- our XL wells and averaged about 1 700 barrels of oil equivalent per day gross.
A third SXL well in the Uteland Butte is in its early days of flow back.
In the Wasatch we recently completed our best well ever in the Uinta Basin.
The Patterson XL had an initial gross production of more than 2 200 barrels of oil equivalent per day and this is only a 3 200-foot lateral.
We estimate that our 5 short lateral wells drilled to date have an average EUR of about 500 000 barrels equivalent.
In late November we plan to spud our first SXL in the Wasatch.
We are confident that SXL wells are the key to unlocking the ultimate economic potential of this basin like they have elsewhere.
With the ability to shift capital efficiently through our portfolio we have options today to deliver on our stated corporate growth objectives improve the certainty of our projections and manage through any of these uncertainties.
Let's move now to the Anadarko Basin.
In yesterday's release we disclosed a new resource play in the Anadarko Basin.
Since catchy play names seem to be in we reference ours as the “STACK”.
The play was recently expanded through the 70 000 net acre acquisition closed in the third quarter.
“STACK” denotes the “STACK” nature of this new oil resource play combining 2 plays our North Woodford and our new Meramec Shale plays.
There's a graphic in @NFX that defines the stratigraphic column and depicts the 700-foot of oil saturated interval that we are exploiting.
The primary producers are the Meramec Shale and the slightly deeper Woodford Shale.
However there are other perspective formations across our acreage as well.
The Meramec is a Mississippi in age [ph] shale that lies directly above the Woodford.
It ranges in thickness from 275 feet to 475 foot across our acreage and has comparable porosity to the Woodford and permeability is significantly greater in the Meramec.
While Mississippi in an age [ph] this play should not be confused with the lime play further to the north.
We now have more than 225 000 net acres in the Anadarko Basin.
This includes more than 170 000 net acres perspective in the Cana Woodford and more than 150 000 acres in the “STACK”.
To date we have drilled 7 SXL wells in the “STACK” in which 3 of these wells are in the Meramec.
All of the wells results can be seen on Page 9 of -- in NFX.
Our Meramec wells have been very encouraging with initial gross flow rates averaging more than 900 barrels of oil equivalent per day and 70% of the production is liquids.
These are great early results in a new resource play with initial wells delivering solid rates of return.
The pipe curve for our “STACK” and SCOOP place are very similar.
These early returns will only improve as we have shown time and time again that we can improve margins by lowering development costs optimizing completions to enhance both production rates and EUR.
This is an oil play and we will be testing additional intervals and spacing in 2014 to determine our optimized plans.
Our new acreage requires us to drill wells over the next 2 years to hold the acreage by production and therefore we have been shifting capital into the region.
Next week we will add an 8th operated rig in the Anadarko Basin and we're planning to run at least 2 rigs in the “STACK” in 2014.
We will have more to share with you by mid-2014 and be able to more accurately communicate our ultimate resource potential that enhance drilling inventory.
This play has the potential to add thousands of drilling locations to drive our liquids great -- growth well into the future.
Our third quarter net production in the Anadarko Basin averaged 22 200 barrels of oil equivalent per day or about 3 700 ahead of our guidance.
This was related to the early completion of some new multi-well pads and altering our own operated stimulation plans.
We expect to beat our 2013 net production target for the Anadarko Basin of 7 million barrels of oil equivalent.
We have 2 new pads coming online late this year and expect a significant bump in production yielding a first quarter 2014 average of 31 500 barrels of oil equivalent per day net.
The Anadarko basin has quickly become our largest producing asset at Newfield.
We are extremely excited over Anadarko Basin's program and its ability to drive corporate growth levels.
In closing fun facts in our SCOOP program our 2013 wells in the SCOOP wet gas averaged over 1 800 barrels of oil equivalent per day in gross initial production and our 30-day and 60-day average rates are the same at more than 1 400 barrels of oil equivalent per day about 22% of the production is oil over the first 60 days.
In our SCOOP oil play recent wells have had average gross initial production of more than 1 500 barrels of oil equivalent per day and averaged nearly 1 200 barrels of oil equivalent per day over their first 90 days more than 50% of this production is oil.
These are all outstanding wells.
I'll turn it back to you Lee for closing comments.
Thanks Gary and thanks again to all of you for joining us this morning.
In today's updates I hope you can sense our excitement around our 2013 results and our outlook for the future.
We are focused on delivering our results and making the final transition to becoming an on-shore focused resource company.
Through the remainder of this week we will be reviewing our strategy with our board and discussing the various scenarios that we have to deliver on our desired outcomes.
We have options through the deep inventory of liquids drilling projects that we have in our portfolio.
Using these options we will select the best path forward to build value for our stockholders.
I look forward to providing you with our outlook for 2014 through 2016 prior to year end.
At this time we're happy to take your questions.
Operator? [Operator Instructions] And we'll take our first question from Subash Chandra with Jefferies.
Research Division</strong> So first I guess on the Meramec versus the Cana is there a way this time to calculate oil in place by the 2 separate targets? Well we said in the call script we've gathered some substantial core data.
We've got core through the entirety of the section our team's not yet had a chance to access all of our data they are in the lab being worked through.
So I think the final -- we are fine under those numbers will take place through the balance of this year.
And soon as we can get into a place to give you some more color on the several [ph] resource which I'd expect sometime early next year we'll put that out in the form that you can digest.
But at this point reference the call we've got 700 feet of oil column.
We've successfully tested 2 of 5 or more horizons in that 700-foot interval with 10 000-foot laterals.
Those wells on a composite basis the first 7 wells out of the sheet in the play are generating returns in excess of 35%.
I mean that's exciting.
When you think about what we've shown that we can do in terms of switching learning curves down and I think we are off to a great start.
And I think we've got a really bright future ahead in this play.
And certainly with the 700 feet of oil saturated section there's a lot of resource here to be worked.
Research Division</strong> Okay as a follow-up Lee I think previously we had talked about North Oil using -- that term having 20 000 acre position initially to work and develop.
Any further thoughts on that what the prospectivity now could be after these Q3 results? I think if you go to the @NFX publication we've actually shown the acreage block and it's obviously substantial.
When you look at the distribution of the 7 wells they test a block of acreage that's about 10 to 11 miles by 10 to 11 miles.
So we've got a sizable portion of the total acreage block that's already been tested and we'll continue to expand that with wells we have planned through the end of this year and early into the next year.
And I think from a de-risk standpoint I don't have a firm final number but I'd say we're probably at a point where we think we've probably de-risked something like 30% of the acreage somewhere and that's good [ph].
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So 30 to 150.
And we'll take our next question from Leo Mariani with RBC Capital.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just a quick question on the pending China divestiture.
Is that something you think likely you can get announced this year? Any guide you can give us in terms of timing as when you think that might come here? Yes.
We're working on that right now trying to get clarity around our Pearl development.
As you know the -- we have had to go do some of those additional inspections around the insulation process.
And so once we get that we give clarity to potential buyers and kind of hopefully get that process wrapped up in 2014.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
And I guess just in terms of your new “STACK” play here.
Are you guys seeing other competition out there from other operators? And do you think there's more acreage that's available that you guys could potentially capture in both “STACK” and SCOOP? Well.
I would say that obviously it's been a hot play and I think that -- I got to take my hats off to our team for what they have done in building this 225 000-plus net acre position.
Relative to the “STACK” play we've quietly chased that acreage for well over 2 years.
And I think the announced acreage position that we added in August really cored up that area.
And at this point with 150 000 acres and average working interest of around 60% across that acreage position we are very excited about the potential there.
And clearly our team continues to look for opportunities since we are actively drilling we're likely to continue to take up interest through the pooling process in Oklahoma but we don't have any other large-scale leasing programs underway at this time in that area.
And we'll take our next question from David Tameron with Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> Can you guys just talk about the -- I don't know what the depth goes from in your slides goes from 8 to 9 to 11 000 feet as far as the “STACK”.
Can you just talk about the general geology of what's your space in the Meramec as far as North to South East to West that type of thing? Sure David.
I mean essentially I think the biggest thing we need to be clear about is how Meramec sits in space to your point.
The Meramec sits between the source rock which is really the Woodford Shale and the Meramec does have some self sourcing.
But it's all sitting under a seal that Chester Shale and I think it's Slide 7 of the deck that's out there we show a cross-section.
This is a bit of a surprise for us quite honestly when we drilled our early wells targeting Woodford we expected to see a limestone in there much further down depth from the chuddy [ph] lime or the chat [ph] that you see much further to the north near the Kansas border.
We ended up finding the Shale there and we took some core and we're quite excited about it.
It's really a silica-rich calcareous shale.
We took the core got excited about it and ultimately drilled our first well which turned out real nice for us.
So as you take this play further to the north ultimately what happens is you lose that Chester seal that's on top of it and you end up without a cap to it and then that's -- it's much shallower slightly under pressure.
And then the bugs [ph] that were played up there on really some small kind of stack [ph] traps up in the lime play is how that differs from the play that we are pursuing which is really a much heavily fractured shale formation much like the Woodford itself.
Now the play does extend further to the East but again they have a lot of well control out there and we've already alluded to we've already determined kind of where we believe the sweet spot is at this play but ultimately it's going to take more activity to ultimately firm it all up.
But I would expect and as we already alluded to -- the well results look very very similar.
We're looking about somewhere between ultimately 800 000 barrels or 1 million barrels.
That's awfully strong.
With the returns that we have we're really encouraged.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just as a follow-up.
How should we think about and whoever wants to take this -- I know you said you've been chasing this for a couple of years but when you guys issued your guidance I guess back in February for '13 '14 '15 do you have any of the “STACK” built-in here or was it just more of the SCOOP in the forward guidance? No.
The only thing we had at the time that we did that would have been the Woodford targeting the Woodford portfolio.
We didn't build any of this into the inventory.
And we'll take our next question from Amir Arif with Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just first question just on the Meramec.
I think the IPs are showing little cuts of 70% and 90% but you're talking about 40% on the EUR.
Do you have enough -- do you have some production history for the EUR numbers? Or is that just your initial estimate based on the number of wells you have right now? Well remember there's a 2-product phase and a 3-product phase number so when you look at well test we are quoting essentially liquid barrels with a separator and then raw rich gas.
When you look at 3-phase product strain you're converting a portion of the gas strain to NGLs it's just simple math.
If you go back to the 2-product strain you can see that the liquid yields in these phase are very very strong at 70% 75% on the early pull back when you convert a portion of the gas strain to NGLs and you change in total mix.
That's a 2 [ph] product strain.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> That makes sense.
As a follow up can you just tell us how many wells you have tested in the Meramec by year end '13 and then by year end '14 based on your drilling plans? I think there's 3 more -- I'll let Gary -- Gary's looking through his notes but I think we'll have 3 more between now and year end.
Obviously part of the 2014 start into discussions with the board we've got a notional plan.
It was time but we're going to have to wait til we get the final approval.
Any color on that Gary? Yes.
We'll probably have in the Meramec by year end 2013 we'll have production history on 3 wells we'll probably have 5 drilled.
And as we head into 2014 ultimately the decision will be made on the fly as we're seeing more results.
With 2 rigs running up there we ought to be able to drill somewhere around 20 wells or so targeting both the Meramec and the North Oil.
And I would suggest right now it's probably equally split between the 2 plays.
And we'll take our next question from Gil Yang with DISCERN.
Inc</strong> It's been great getting results.
Can you just talk about that SCOOP oil curve and versus the results? I mean that well -- the well results are substantially above that curve.
Is there -- were you pumping that so that it's running above the type curve and should fall back down? Or is there just sort of an early indication that maybe your curves way too conservative? Well I hope it's the latter Gil.
The reality is down in the SCOOP areas as you head east to west across the play you really change faces pretty rapidly as we go from the wet gas to something that's -- to the oil-oil [ph] and then something in between.
So as we look to bin these wells in the different categories sometimes you end up juicing the overall decline based on just the mix of wells that we place in there.
So I think some of that is what you're seeing.
That said I think generally in recent activity over the last quarter or 2 we are seeing performance across the board in SCOOP higher than the type curves of what you see represented in the deck.
And we'll be looking at that very closely and I would anticipate revising that number up a little bit but that's maybe a little premature.
We still -- our result is obviously using the controlled fallback technique consistently and we are seeing better EURs over time as we lower that.
The other thing to remember is that year we gave you the best shot we had with the data that we had at year end '12.
We've been drilling these wells and accumulating the data.
Those type curves were built for a much broader total area for the play.
And we'll take the data that we've got and we'll revise on this as we see the technical data giving us a push in that direction.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So if I could sort of paraphrase what you both said is that the actual 7 SCOOP oil well's may be in a somewhat gassier part of the play so they're a little bit more productive on average than that type curve was built before? So the gassy oils are in the wet gas portion of the play.
It's possible that a few of the wells as you transition you could have some wells that are more gassy than the oil wells and therefore that's what you're seeing.
But as I said I believe we will see the type curve navigate higher overtime.
But you're sitting there and those wells today are probably 70% returns and will only get better from there.
If you look at the @NFX publication they've laid it out actually show you where the wells are and what the liquids mix is on Page 12 or SCOOP oil and Page 13 of that presentation is the wet gas.
You can see the distribution of wells and where they're at.
Clearly the SCOOP oil wells have -- are consistently higher oil yields from the 2-phase basis and I haven't added it up to get an average but it looks like the average is somewhere around 50% or a little bit higher and those 7 wells are part of that curve.
But it clearly very very oily.
Inc</strong> My second question is just on page -- regards actually Page 17 you show that nice ability to move barrels via rail if the local refinery capacity cannot take the barrels I think? If I'm interpreting that correctly.
If that's the case have you explored just the idea of rather than being confined to the basin just what's the opportunity cost of actually just moving -- railing the balance out and foregoing necessarily selling to the local market? Yes.
We've been looking at all these options for quite a while Gil.
Yes.
I mean we moved 250 000 barrels out this year and the frustrating part from our perspective is in addition to that we've still built our overall inventories by an additional 65 000 barrels.
And that's led to some of the reallocation of the capital trying to marry our production growth with the inventory growth.
And your question is is that we looked at it? And the answer is certainly yes.
As we sit here today we have 2 contracts in place that are ultimately going to leave us 38 000 barrels of contracted barrels in the basin.
I would expect over time what we'll see is that our production is going to far exceed the contracts that we currently have in place.
And as we get better visibility of that we will look to move more of the barrels outside the basin and that's likely going to be via rail.
So still being worked.
We need better visibility in all this.
And yes it is something that we considered a great deal.
And we'll take our next question from Brian Singer with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> On the “STACK” play you mentioned an @NFX that you're planning to assess the lower Meramec and then also what the right spacing is next year.
Can you just add some insight into what your hypothesis is on both of those? Sure.
The lower really only means that it's older.
And as you cut across the play as you can see from the diagram that's in there in Slide 7 there is some section in there that we haven't tested yet.
We're very excited about it we just haven't got around to it in the wells that we are drilling so we would expect that it would perform similarly to what we already have.
But we haven't put a bit into that lower section.
As we already referenced it's quite thick and -- but we're very optimistic for that.
The other portion to your question is on spacing.
That's a good question.
As we've seen in the South more recently we've had spacing pilots of 5 6 and 8 wells per section.
The 5 and 6 well spacing units we operated and the 8 was operated by another party.
Our first observation was is that we thought 5 was going to be a little tight.
Then we got onto our most recent branch pad it's 6 wells per section and we're seeing them perform extraordinarily well.
So I would say 6 is probably a place that you'd say maybe is the high side but that's only in 1 interval.
What really remains to be seen in the Meramec is how many different levels that we can target in both the Meramec and in the entire “STACK” play in the Woodford.
So it's very possible that you could end up with somewhere between maybe 4 and 6 wells per section so you got to really think about it as multiple horizons across the entire area.
So there's a diagram in there I believe that demonstrates some in the Uinta.
And by analogy I think you can kind of see what we're thinking much -- very similar to what's been discussed in the Bakken and the first and second benches of the Three Forks.
That's a concept that we think applies very well here.
Research Division</strong> That's very helpful color.
On a more big picture question the assets held proceeds from the international certainly helped the balance sheet here.
To what degree are you willing or planning to kind of dip into those proceeds in terms of spending and cash flow in the coming years versus balanced CapEx and cash flow? Yes Brian as I indicated our goal is to bring everything back into balance.
But certainly looking out next year there's going to be a deficit.
We don't expect that to be as large of a deficit we see this year.
And between the 2 asset sales that should more than cover the proceeds we need to kind of restore the fall [ph].
And we'll take our next question from David Heikkinen with Heikkinen Energy Advisor.
Looking at the “STACK” and kind of as you get into the details of development can you go through third quarter and fourth quarter just number of wells you completed both in the SCOOP and “STACK”? And then you said you have 2 pads that are going to be completed at the end of the year.
Just wanted to get into those specific details.
I don't have any -- as far as the quarterly activity David I can't really provide that to you.
I'd just suggest you get with Steve later on and he'll provide the details to you.
How many wells do you have [indiscernible] We have 3 wells on production currently and I think those were all well illustrated in detail in there.
3 in the Meramec...
In the Meramec and then we have 4 on the Woodford.
So those are all illustrated in the @NFX.
As far as the timing of those I think we had 2 of those wells very early in the year and the third of the Meramec wells was later in the year early third quarter.
And then for your development type curve you show how many days of flat production do you think while you're kind of draining that production network? It looks like it's somewhere around 50 days or so.
I really wouldn't think about it a drained list [ph] the fracture network.
This is something that we induced through the choke to really hold these wells back.
And then ultimately the purpose is as you described; it's to allow the frac to close in a more controlled fashion.
There's probably a lot more to it than that but probably 50 days or so.
And we'll take our next question from John Nelson with Citi.
Research Division</strong> Starting there to play sort of devil's advocate you had a very clear acquisition price of about $900 per acre for those assets you did mention in your prepared comments that there were some HBP requirements? I'm just wondering if you could sort of shed any light on what makes -- how to have made that an apples-to-apples per acre comparison what the value might be there? Well from a value standpoint I'm not quite sure what you mean on an apples-to-apples comparison.
I mean we look at -- the acquisition price was somewhere in the $600 to $900 an acre.
We've accumulated acreage in that position in grassroots leasing prior to making the acquisition that we did.
So as far as...
Research Division</strong> No I guess what I was trying to get at is if the acreage was expiring.
I imagine you're going to pay the teller [ph] a lot.
So HBP requirements sounds very reluctant [ph] to that acquisition or in general? Let me back you up here and help you to think about the acreage a little differently.
We drilled the well acquired port data had proprietary information that no one else has and we bought the acreage at a very attractive price.
That's the way to think about the “STACK” acreage.
It's an exciting play.
We had an opportunity where we had proprietary acreage -- technical data and we took advantage of it.
Research Division</strong> Okay fair enough.
And then I guess sort of a bigger picture follow-on.
You've seen consolidation activity in both the Eagle Ford and the Williston.
And obviously you'll bring in a tremendous amount of investor proceeds through the international sale but I'm wondering if you thought about potentially monetizing those assets and also further accelerate development in the Anadarko Basin? Well I think we've proven over the last few years that we are willing to move assets for the right reasons at the right time.
I mean prior to the Malaysian announcement we had over $1 billion in the preceding 2 years so we'll have divested nearly $2 billion to accelerate this transition to onshore North American resource play company.
I think the assets we've got we've been clear we like.
We're excited about the results that we're generating on these plays and we've also stated that we continue to believe that we have any optionality to move capital amongst 3 or 4 different development programs is a real benefit relative to planning and certainty and outcomes in that regard.
But we'll continue to look for opportunities to maximize the value of our assets.
And along the way somewhere or someplace and sometime I'm sure we'll have something else that we divest or acquire.
But right now we have nothing else on the block.
And we'll take our next question from John Herrlin with Societe Generale.
With the Meramec you mentioned that it was very permeable.
How permeable? You got me there.
John it's really good stuff I like that.
Let me jump in while Gary is looking through his notes and say something.
We're not going to have the -- we don't have the core data fully evaluated at this point but the data that we do have which was early on the first quarter that we've got showed that the porosity current data.
And the Meramec was above a cycle on all basis about a cycle above the data that we had generated out of the Woodford.
So just on a relative comparison basis which was Gary's comment the Meramec is superior based on the data that we have analyzed to what we've seen in the Woodford.
And I think the early production performance and the sustained nature of that performance all fits with that coordinator.
I guarantee you Gary will have the detail in his back pocket for you the next time you ask.
Well Campbell can always get it to me.
In terms of “STACK” play pad drilling 2015 and middle through '15? Yes.
I think that's a reasonable expectation John.
You know John when you look at that acreage the other neat thing about it is it's really pored up it's backed up well for drilling 1280s which certainly Oklahoma has moved a long way to allow us to do that.
So generally we drill these long laterals we're knocking down 2 sections per well.
And I think as we move into the pad drilling and spacing we'll probably be working on either side of the lease line to make sure that we're maximizing the HBP efforts on the acreage.
And we'll take a follow-up question from Subash Chandra with Jefferies.
Research Division</strong> I just want to confirm.
So you're doing the control flow back in “STACK” just as you are in down south? We are.
I would say that what we've seen in “STACK” and if you look at those curves there's the -- whatever it is 40 50 days it's kind of flat line of that period is kind of flowback and then there's the little dip that you see in the production curve.
That's actually going from primary production flow to artificial lifts.
So you see the conversion.
Each one of the play is different down south we've got a much longer time period for plateau production.
And then out in the Uinta again we're using controlled flow there.
That 2 200-barrel of oil equivalent per day well that we talked about was flowing at 2 500 psi when that data was recorded so we've got plenty of horse power behind those stands [ph].
So each area is going to be a little bit different and we're using it because we think it's the right approach in terms of bringing back these wells in the Uinta [ph].
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And so we'll kind of follow-up on the development type curve here in “STACK”.
So how many days forward are we seeing the artificial lift? And then finally where -- what's the pressure gradient up here versus SCOOP? The pressure gradiant here is just slightly it's normal.
And in some cases a little ahead of normal.
Depending on where we're at some of these wells will run gas lift initially in these wells.
Sometimes they'll come in for quite a while without having to put any gas to them.
And others will put gas to it yearly to help it unload.
So I would say generally speaking you ought to see anywhere between a week and 60 days depending on the well that we're talking about here.
And we'll take our next question from Majid Nikhanj with ITG.
This is actually Manuj from ITG.
I just have a quick question on the Meramec.
So you mentioned that it's partially self-sourced and then primarily sourced from the Woodford.
Can you just give a bit more color on that? And the Woodford I would assume it's overpressured in that northern region.
Is that correct to assume? If it's overpressured it's just slightly overpressured.
And yes we see organics both -- the Woodford Shale is the source for both the Osage the Mississippi this Meramec play that we've got.
But we do see organics in the play itself so when we actually look at it we've been surprised at the amount of vertical fractures that exist in the Meramec.
And that's going to be attributed to probably some of the sourcing that took place as well.
Got you.
So it's kind of like thinking of it as like partially self-sources as well as sourced from the Woodford? So all the maturity should be the same? You've got all that fetch area on the East side of the Anadarko so the Woodford is generating everything is moving up.
You've got the top seals.
So there's a lot of things that come together here that really keep the oil trapped in the right places.
So we're very very excited about it.
It's rich and we're going to have a lot more data here in a few months when we get finished with the core data and the production data.
Okay.
and the outline that you guys put on Slide 9 of your presentation for the Meramec overlap and it ends kind of a Northern Kingfisher is that just a function of where the Chester is or...? That's an outline that we thought was appropriate to describe the play.
Yes.
I think what you're describing is accurate.
Basically the Pennsylvania came in and eroded off the Chester.
So as you wrap yourself around the play you would go from the chat play up to the North.
And that same seal is removed as you move further to the Northeast.
That's how you'd describe it.
Okay.
And so there's a number of private operators up in Kingfisher that are active.
Are they chasing that same target as you guys or are they -- do you know that they're drilling horizontally in Kingfisher? I believe what's taking place and I could be mistaken but there was some early plays trying to chase the chat further up there.
And there's also been some drilling that the Devon did playing a slightly thinner Woodford over there and they had some success which has given us some encouragement that Woodford and may extend a little further a little bit.
So as far as there's a hunting play that's out there which is deeper that's underneath the Woodford.
But to our knowledge we've tried to capture what we believe ultimately will be the core of the play.
Okay.
And then just the very last question is the well-cost range I think you've increased the upper end of the range for that North Oil area to about $13 million from I think it was just $10 million? Is that just a function of reduced cluster spacing among your laterals? Yes.
We've been able to continually take trouble out of the system and during our drilling cost's down but as we've moved in transition in the tighter spacing the completion costs have gone up some.
The good news is that the UR's have gone up disproportionately.
So it's been a real good trade for us.
I suspect like many of these plays we'll get more and more experience and we'll start backing off on the size of the jobs and be able to take some cost out of there.
But we're continually we're reminded here basically taking cost out of your completions is not a place to start early in the play.
It's all about returns.
And we'll take our next question from Philip Cannell with Mariner Investment Group.
What are you guys thinking in terms of after-tax proceeds on the Malaysian sale? So yes we don't anticipate paying any tax on Malaysia.
We're going to bring that cash back tax-free.
So you should see some adjustments for working capital but that will be minor so it should be able to get almost full proceeds back.
Okay and then in terms of China is it a similar expectation in the year? Well China we would end up with a 10% tax on the proceeds there.
And so factor that in for next year whenever we get that sale complete.
And we'll take our last question from Andrew Coleman with Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just wanted to get into I guess the dispositional environment a little bit more.
I'm just kind of googling here a little bit in the last few minutes.
It looks like there's the St.
Louis line is kind of mentioned as well as there's the Osage Meramec and Schooner trend I guess.
I'm guessing you're in the Schooner trend -- that's some papers back in the late 70s you're talking about.
But I guess is that accurate? And I mean I guess they talk about that as I guess a deeper gas play.
So I guess do you have processing capacity locked in to kind of handle some of this wet gas and liquids as they come along? Okay.
You got a lot of questions in there.
That's okay.
No that's good.
But I see Google is working for you.
So yes to answer a couple of your questions yes this is in the Schooner trend.
Yes the Osage is the formation that exists between the Meramec and the Woodford Shale and we believe it ultimately it could be a target here.
And I think we alluded that in our script.
As we've already talked primarily most of this is an oil product that we're pursuing.
There is a lot of gas in the area.
As far as capacity we actually met on this yesterday afternoon with our team up there.
We believe there's quite a bit of excess point capacity in the northern portion of the Anadarko Basin.
We are currently going to be going out for an RFP with a number of providers to make sure that we can lock that in.
But within the near term fortunately most of the product is going be oil and we have good access to markets there.
And we don't anticipate -- all of the wells that we've booked up to date have been timely and we don't anticipate any issues there.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Great.
And I guess there's probably isn't issue with the -- you've mentioned also I think in the comments earlier about the -- I think the Chester I guess thinning and then as you go to the north I mean is that needed as a frac barrier? No.
I wouldn't think of it as that.
I mean the Chester was really just what kept all the oil in the Meramec and the Woodford.
It kind of formed the trap.
The zone is -- when you're sitting at 200 to 500 feet we're not worried about a frac barrier here at all so I wouldn't think of it as that.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then last question I guess.
How expensive are the fractures that are in the formation? Are they directionally significant? I mean is it something that would drill like the old Austin Chalk play? Or is it -- do you have a lot more ability going in kind of lay in your own fracs and place some possibly? Let us go back to what I said earlier.
Let us finish our technical analysis.
We've acquired a lot of data over the last few months.
We'll have more to say on the play early in the new year and we'll keep you guys posted as well results roll off.
But there's a lot of fractures and we're excited about the play.
I think those are the few key takeaways today.
I'd like to thank everybody for dialing in today.
As you can tell we're excited about how things are playing out excited about getting year 1 of our 3-year plan behind us and excited about the visit we had with our board on the balance this week.
We look forward to updating you on our 3-year plan before year end and we look forward to seeing you on the road as we continue to update you on the progress in these plays.
Have a great day.
Thank you.
And that does conclude today's conference.
We thank you for your participation.
Good day everyone and welcome to Newfield Exploration's Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
Just a reminder today's call is being recorded.
And before we get started one housekeeping matter.
Our discussion with you today will contain forward-looking statements such as strategic initiatives and plans estimated production and timing drilling and development plans expected cost reductions and planned capital expenditures.
Although we believe that the expectations reflected in these statements are reasonable they are based upon assumptions and anticipated results that are subject to numerous uncertainties and risks.
Actual results may vary significantly from those anticipated due to many factors and risks some of which may be unknown.
Please see Newfield's 2012 and 2013 annual reports on Form 10-K and subsequent quarterly reports on Form 10-Q for a discussion of factors that may cause actual results to vary.
Forward-looking statements made during this call speak only as of today's date and unless legally required Newfield undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements.
In addition reconciliations of non-GAAP financial measures to GAAP financial measures together with Newfield's earnings and release of any other applicable disclosures are available on the Investor Relations page of Newfield's website at www.newfield.com.
Before turning the call over to the Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer Mr.
Lee Boothby [Operator Instructions] Mr.
Lee Boothby please go ahead sir.
Thank you operator and good morning everyone.
Thanks for joining us.
We appreciate your interest in Newfield Exploration.
We've provided a thorough update of our 2013 results in yesterday's @NFX publication and in our earnings release.
We plan to keep today's year-end wrap-up relatively short leave ample time for your questions at the end of the call.
So our results in 2013 were strong.
Our team has executed extremely well during the course of the year and we entered 2014 with confidence in our people our assets and our ability to execute and deliver relative to our 3-year plan.
So here's a brief outline of today's call.
First I want to reiterate our strategic focus and illuminate our path to value creation for our shareholders.
We believe we're on a path to improving stockholder returns.
All Newfield employees are shareholders and I can assure you that our interests are aligned with yours.
Second our CFO Larry Massaro will cover fourth quarter and year-end financial results.
Our plan provides both production and cash flow growth and focuses on the development of the liquids-rich assets we have in our domestic U.S.
resource plays.
As you know we recently closed on the sale of our Malaysian business and Larry will update you on the use of proceeds and our ongoing sale of our China business along with our financial objectives in the near term.
And third our Chief Operating Officer Gary Packer will provide operational highlights from each of our domestic focus areas and a summary of our 2014 plans.
So let's get started.
Today our business strategy is clear and we intend to deliver on the objectives outlined in our refreshed 2014 to 2016 plan.
We've completed our transition to a liquids company and our near-term capital investments will remain focused on liquids-rich plays.
Our $1.6 billion budget this year is allocated entirely to creating value through the liquids growth with the SCOOP and STACK plays comprising nearly 1/2 of the total.
Although we have a strong inventory of national gas assets and the front end of the natural gas curve has improved of late our investment strategy remains unchanged.
Our returns from our oil and gas liquids plays remains superior.
Second Newfield is now better focused on what we call our plays of the future.
Over the last 4 years we've sold more than $3 billion in nonstrategic assets and reinforced our vision to be a top-tier domestic-focused resource company.
Our investments in the 3-year plan are expected to deliver more than 20% CAGR in cash flow and liquids production growth.
Furthermore you'll see that our lease operating expenses are moving in the right direction proof that the efficiencies in our domestic business are positively impacting the bottom line.
By 2016 we expect that our annual investments will more closely align with our cash flow from operations.
We are on course to improve our debt-adjusted production and reserve growth on a per share basis.
And third we continue to add both depth and quality to our portfolio of opportunities which is the key to our future success.
The recent addition of our SCOOP and STACK plays have significantly expanded our inventory and will provide decades of growing.
We have a significant resource base in the Uinta Basin where exciting work is now yielding improved results as we open up another large-scale resource play for us to attack.
We had some stellar results in 2013 and delivered the year 1 objectives of our 3-year plan.
I'll provide a quick summary of these highlights for you now leading off with proved reserves.
Evidence of our value creation can be seen in our year-end 2013 proved reserve disclosure which we issued yesterday.
Our domestic proved reserves were up 8% to 576 million barrels of oil equivalent.
Our domestic liquids reserves increased 26% during the year and our domestic proved reserves are now 52% liquids.
Our pretax SEC PV10 value for the domestic reserve reflects the pronounced shift towards liquids and was up 44% to $6.6 billion.
At year-end 2013 94% of our proved reserves were located onshore in the U.S.
and 56 were -- 56% were proved developed.
We moved a step closer to achieving our vision through the sale of our Malaysian business earlier this month.
We closed the sale on February 10 and used the $898 million in proceeds to eliminate short-term borrowings and get a jump-start on our 2014 drilling campaigns.
In 2013 we twice raised production guidance and once again exceeded our guidance ranges in the fourth quarter both domestically and internationally.
The 2013 production from continuing operations was 40.1 million barrels of oil equivalent exceeding our beginning-of-year estimates.
The outperformance was primarily related to the Williston and Anadarko basins.
We delivered on 2013's expectations for cost and expenses and the efficiencies in our development programs are translating to the bottom line.
In our cost and expense guidance for 2014 you can see that our full year expectations show an improvement in every category.
Earlier in my remarks I mentioned SCOOP and STACK's impact on expanding our drilling inventory but it's also worth noting we have quickly reallocated capital among our business units to facilitate faster development in the Anadarko Basin.
We remain firm in our belief that having a few quality areas in which to invest helps provide flexibility to shift people and capital to the best opportunities.
And today that is certainly the Anadarko Basin.
We continue to advance our understanding of the vast resource in our Central Basin area in Utah.
Our most recent horizontal wells in the Central Basin are highly encouraging.
Although it's early days we're seeing strong flow rates from our most recent SXL wells these are the 10 000-foot laterals in the Central Basin and consistent with our practice we will wait until we have at least 30 days of production to update you but expect that from us soon.
With the improved production rates these recent wells are expected to deliver returns that will compete within our portfolio.
Production information that we are collecting today in the Central Basin is helpful in our understanding of this vast resource.
In the Bakken and Eagle Ford we are now in full field development.
Through pad drilling and optimized well designs we are seeing solid returns.
These plays are providing strong oil growth and helping to accelerate our SCOOP and STACK developments.
2013 was indeed a great year for Newfield and I'm excited about 2014.
I'll let Gary Packer provide additional color on our operations in a few minutes following our CFO Larry Massaro's overview of the financial results.
Larry? Thanks Lee and good morning everyone.
By now I hope you had a chance to review our financial statements for the fourth quarter.
Excluding the items noted in our news release our net income was $66 million or $0.48 a share.
Cash flow was $398 million.
Both earnings and cash flow in the fourth quarter beat consensus estimates.
Fourth quarter production was 12.8 million barrels of which 2.2 million barrels came from disc ops.
We continued to see strong growth in our domestic liquids production up 11% quarter-on-quarter.
For 2013 we posted GAAP net income of $147 million or $0.94 per share.
Excluding the items noted in our news release our net income from continuing ops was $213 million or $1.56 per share.
For 2013 our cash flow from continuing operations was about $1.1 billion.
From a financial perspective there are 3 key things that are important.
First our 3-year plan is all about driving cash flow growth.
As we've mapped out the next 3 years we have a 20% compound annual growth rate and cash flow.
Our production base has shifted to liquids and our domestic areas are growing rapidly.
At $90-oil and $4-gas we estimate our strong growth in liquids over the next 3 years will allow us to generate cash flow from operations of about $1.6 billion in year 3.
Second we are capturing efficiencies in our operations.
From the cost and expense guidance in our release yesterday you can see positive trajectories in our annual projections for cash costs and expenses.
We are laser-focused as an organization on improving our returns and driving growth through our domestic developments.
Third we financed our transition to liquids while living within our balance sheet.
On the -- over the last several years we sold approximately $3 billion of nonstrategic assets and we have used our $1.1 billion of credit facility to bridge short-term funding deficits.
We recently restored the full capacity of our facility with proceeds from our Malaysia sale.
Newfield has a long history of managing the balance sheet and maintaining strong liquidity.
I assure you that we do not plan to deviate from this track record and we plan to use proceeds for planned asset sales in our projection of rising earnings and cash flow to reduce our current leverage.
In short our plan is designed to improve debt-to-EBITDA ratio.
Let me quickly give you an update on China sales process.
As you know the process was delayed last year due to a mechanical issue during installation of our topside.
We completed substantially all of the underwater surveys and are now working with our partner on the best path toward first production in 2014.
We continue to anticipate a sale in 2014 and we'll keep you informed as more information is known.
I'll turn the call over to Gary.
Thank you Larry.
Let me give you a quick rundown on our key drilling programs as we enter 2014.
I'll start my remarks today in the Anadarko Basin followed by the Uinta.
The Anadarko and Uinta basins are both large-scale liquids plays that combined are accounting for about 70% of our planned investments in 2014.
In yesterday's @NFX we provided a first look at our resource potential in SCOOP and STACK plays.
Combined these plays have added about 1 billion barrels of un-risked [ph] resource to the Newfield portfolio.
Our estimates are based on spacing assumptions of 1 320 feet and 660 feet between wells respectively.
Keep in mind all of our planned wells are SXLs.
We continue to see very strong results from our SCOOP and STACK plays.
Early wins can be noted in a couple of distinct categories.
First our well performance has been exceptional.
In yesterday's news release we published a summary table of our 2013 well results.
You will note that our SCOOP 90-day production rates are higher than our 60-day rates.
From the well performance we have experienced to date we raised the midpoint of our expected EURs associated with SCOOP.
We have reduced perforation clusters in our stimulations and have seen increased well performance.
We continue to optimize our completions today.
In STACK our 30- 60- and 90-day rates are very healthy and we are early in advancing the learning curves in this play.
We have 8 wells under our belt at year end and we are early in optimizing the best completion practices.
We are encouraged by early well results with wells exceeding our original-type curves.
In addition we are capturing mid-30% returns today and it's very early.
We know that our returns will improve with time and we continue to drive efficiencies in our programs.
To date we have been able to invest our savings through drilling efficiencies into more aggressive completion designs resulting in better overall well economics.
We have successfully tested 65-foot clusters in the SCOOP area and are now evaluating 50- and 75-foot cluster spacings in STACK.
Second a significant upgrade to our midstream gas gathering was just completed in SCOOP.
Our growth has been rapid due to the faster drilling times and improved well performance.
These are good problems to have but we filled the system capacity before expansion of new infrastructure was complete.
Obviously the cold weather also impacted ongoing construction projects as well.
The good news is that the upgrade is complete and it has allowed us to bring on an additional 4 500 barrels of oil equivalent per day over the last few days.
We will soon be moving 31 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day net.
We do not see this first quarter interruption impacting our full year estimates for the company.
Our 2014 program has several key objectives.
First we will be drilling the holed acreage while expanding the aerial boundaries of our STACK play.
Fortunately we were able to combine higher returns on our HBP needs.
In 2014 we will gather some significant new data in STACK.
Our test to date had been in the Upper Meramec and Woodford.
We have plans to test the lower Meramec in the second quarter as well as other perspective geologic horizons on this acreage.
In over the next 2 or 3 years we will have a much better determination of ultimate well spacing.
In @NFX we provided a graphic that will help you visualize the ultimate potential in this play as we do.
Our upside is significant and our well control today is helping determination -- our determination of our best path forward.
And finally we are ensuring that we have the necessary infrastructure to keep pace with our growth.
We have a new system up and running today in the SCOOP area and later this year we will sign an agreement for new infrastructure in our STACK area.
In the Uinta basin we are allocating our 2014 capital investment between 2 areas: the continued development of the GMBU waterflood and the ongoing assessment of our horizontal plays in Central Basin.
There's some exciting tests underway today that will help you and us better understand our resource as well as where overall returns stack up in our portfolio of investment choices.
The Central Basin program is where I would like to focus my update today.
Over the last several years we've been able to -- we've been working down 2 large plays the Uteland Butte and the Wasatch.
As we have worked with state regulators to modify the spacing requirements our drilling has now evolved to SXL wells consistent with best practices in other resource plays and we like the results to date.
We know these wells are the optimal wells for the future.
We have the drilling permit in hand now for our planned SXL wells in 2014 and continue to work with Utah regulators to permanently amend the field rules to allow these longer wells which will offer a more effective drainage of the resource.
Our recent SXL wells have provided some very encouraging early production data.
As Lee mentioned we don't plan to report the results until we have at least 30 days of production on several wells and a better understanding of what the new information means to the ultimate resource in the basin and our path forward for development.
Our investment levels and near-term growth outlook in the Uinta Basin will continue to be determined by the timing of refinery expansions the regulatory environment and our internal pledge to allocate our capital to the projects with the best returns.
We have signed agreements with both HollyFrontier and Tesoro that add about 20 000 barrels of oil per day of new capacity in the basin by 2016.
Both expansions are well underway and our first tranche will be available mid-2015 and the full 20 000 barrels a day will be available late 2016.
In the Williston Basin we are well underway with full field development.
Our teams have successfully made this transition and we have lowered our well cost to about $8.4 million including $800 000 in facilities.
For 2013 our volumes exceeded our forecast by 700 000 barrels and we've seen excellent well performance from our base production.
Our 4-rig program will continue in 2014 and we expect 35% to 40% year-over-year production growth.
We drilled 8 wells in the Three Forks in 2013 7 testing the first bench and 1 testing the second.
We remain encouraged and along with the industry we will continue to test these prospective horizons beneath the Middle Bakken.
In the Eagle Ford the rapid development of our West Asherton area led to a 60% production growth in 2013.
We drilled about 30 wells primarily SXLs from common pad locations.
For the year our average gross completed-well cost for a 7 500-foot SXL was $7.3 million.
Our activity in 2014 will be split between West Asherton and our Fashing field.
We are looking for year-over-year growth in 2014 of about 30% and we expect to drill about 20 wells including 7 wells in the Fashing field.
I'll turn it back to Lee for closing comments.
Thanks Gary and thanks to all of you for dialing in today.
We appreciate your interest in our company.
We enter 2014 with lots of enthusiasm and today's call was a great summary of our accomplishments in 2013.
Our results have been solid and our teams are executing a 3-year plan that is focused on the right performance metrics.
Those metrics are liquids growth cash flow growth improved profitability and inventory expansion.
The achievement of these objectives will lead to improved debt-adjusted production and reserve growth metrics and lower leverage ratios and we intend to deliver.
This time we'll be happy to take your questions.
I'll turn it back to the operator.
[Operator Instructions] And we'll go first to Dan McSpirit with BMO Capital Markets.
You've provided rates on SCOOP and STACK wells through 90 days now.
Is the range of results tight for the 90-day rates? That is do you observe outlying results beginning to appear either below or above? And if you could just talk to the kind of the flatness of the production profile across those 90 days for both the SCOOP and the STACK wells.
Dan I guess -- I think you have a couple of things going on here.
First we've talked about how we like to do the managed flowbacks and that's primarily an issue and a benefit down in our SCOOP area where we just managed to choke a little bit more effectively and we can manage that better.
As we move into the oil both in the STACK and the Eastern SCOOP typically these wells go on gas lift relatively early and your -- we're less effective in being able to manage that flowback.
Now that said recent activity in well results have strengthened where we're seeing these wells flow longer than what we historically have.
So I think as we accumulate more information over time you're going to see the back half of that come up.
The other thing I would suggest to you is as we get -- as we've managed the cluster spacing and improved upon that you will see generally improving data further out in the 60- to 90-day period as a result of these wells cumulating that kind of production time.
So it's both managing the data as well as improved practices being translated into -- through the 90-day period.
Got it great.
And as a follow-up can you sketch for us the midstream requirements in the SCOOP and the STACK plays over the next say 12 to 18 months? You touched on it in your prepared remarks.
I ask in light of the delay encountered with the gathering system and what that could mean for potential bottlenecks here going forward just in an effort to assess the risk that's all.
Yes I understand Dan.
In the South area it was purely a matter of the fact that our growth even surprised us in the success of some of the wells that we had down there.
What we did is -- we refer to it as gathering but it was actually some plant capacity issues and our ability to get the gas to those areas and get it processed.
We saw more capacity available to the North in the STACK area and it's interconnected.
We've been waiting on actually loose [ph] gas from SCOOP up in the area of STACK.
Now we have -- in our contract with DCP we provide for additional expansion as we have success and we'll continue to stay on top of that.
But we believe that this line that was recently added should remove any additional bottlenecks.
Now as we move up to STACK the biggest thing we got going there is the fact that it's primarily oil.
So the gas requirements are less and it's also in the vicinity of where most of the available production plant capacity is.
So I think we're set well.
We're going to actually take these to paper and contracts with some proposals that we're evaluating right now.
So before too long you ought to look for us to give you some more clarity on that actual contract.
And we'll go next to Amir Arif with Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> A couple of quick questions on the STACK.
What's the longest production history you have on your older wells out there? And how many wells are in the 90-day number? Longest -- I'll take that and Gary will give you some color on the number of wells but the longest producing well is the well that we drilled in the fourth quarter of 2011.
May or may not have heard us talk about it over the course of last year but the first well was not released publicly.
That was some of the earliest drilling that we did in the Anadarko Basin and that was related to our desire to build the acreage position that we now call STACK.
I think the total in the well count at 90 days is about 7.
7 wells in the carry-through to the 90-day rate all of which would be 10 000-foot laterals.
That first well was a 5 000-foot lateral and we used it to calibrate against expectations for the play.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> Okay and the spacing on the Upper Meramec have you tested 6 60 yet? Or is that something that you'll be doing in '14? No we haven't tested spacing yet.
Our focus as Gary indicated in his remarks is going to be on getting the HBP process rolling in terms of protecting that acreage so we've got a pretty solid plan there.
We do have some plan spacing pilots down on the loyal window of our SCOOP acreage so we'll be drilling some of those pilots this year.
We'll look to extrapolate that.
But the highest priority for our rigs in the north is getting the acreage HBP.
We'll keep you up-to-date as things develop there.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then final question.
So the lower Meramec test that you mentioned you'll be doing in 2Q I take it that'll be an acreage where you haven't drilled the upper Meramec initially just to hold the acreage? That would be correct.
We'll go next to David Heikkinen with Heikkinen Energy Advisors.
Really just thinking about your SCOOP and STACK performance and really trying to get into some of the granularity of how much capacity you have in the North area in the South area with DCP.
And just thinking about the -- those wells they're delivering frankly just much much better results and so I can see a path where you're going to hit surface constraints as you ramp up.
And so can you walk us through how that happens through this year and next year? Because that's clearly driving the majority of your growth.
Yes Dave I mean I'll just refer back to the answer to the prior question.
I think we've -- we think we've resolved it down in SCOOP.
We'll -- we have planned compression additions I know that we're going to be adding over time so I think we're going to be good there.
And again in the STACK area it's less gas than in the South and it's an area where there's plenty of capacity.
So we're anticipating about a lot of our growth and we'll be trying to make sure that we de-bottleneck anything that could come at us.
Maybe how much were you constrained in the first quarter? A few hundred thousand barrels I think would be the [indiscernible].
4 500 barrels a day or so which we now have back online.
Cool that's helpful.
And then kind of looking at your other regions and then strategically how they fit in the company with basically flattening of production and more limited inventory.
Do you start thinking about divesting the Williston or divesting the Eagle Ford? How does that incorporate? Well Dave I'll go back to the comments and I think you've followed us close enough and we've been pretty open about our sales process and in terms of assets and how we've utilized that to make the transition transformation to a resource-play focus.
Total is about $3 billion.
We've still got China on the table.
That's our priority for 2014.
We've shown a desire over the -- and executed against that desire of our 2 nonstrategic assets exiting the portfolio but we have no plans to sell any of our other domestic asset portfolios.
We think that they play an important role in the 3-year plan.
Our focus is on China and we'll keep you posted should anything change as the year unfolds.
[Operator Instructions] We'll go next to Leo Mariani with RBC.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just a question on kind of your Anadarko Basin acreage.
I guess you guys have got about 225 000 acres.
Just trying to get a sense of how much of that do you think has been sort of de-risked by the drill bit and then kind of any color that you would have in terms of I guess call it exploration versus sort of production drilling in 2014 there.
Yes.
So I guess on the first point 225 000 net acres that's about a 100 000-acre increase year-over-year.
A big chunk of that was the deal we announced in August that led to our announcement of the STACK play up in the North.
I would tell you that we're trucking along in SCOOP with regard to our drilling plans and I think that we're well on our way in terms of having that acreage protected and taken care of.
I don't have the exact count but I would guess you're probably approaching 50% of the way home there.
And we don't have any issues with regard to timing that are causing any issues of concern there.
I will say that in the North when we made the acquisition back in August we looked at the lease expirations associated with some of that acreage that we've been chasing for a couple of years and we went ahead and put the capital into extending those leases.
So with regard to the STACK play we've got plenty of time to just take care of that acreage and not feeling any stress in that regard today.
Go back to some of the investor publications that we put out here over the last couple of months on one of those were STACK.
You see a parallelogram that's about 150 square miles that have been de-risked.
And I think we've said in an earlier call that we thought we were somewhere around 40-ish percent on the acreage as being de-risked.
Obviously we're a fraction of that in terms of HBP potential.
But remember each 10 000-foot lateral protects 2 sections.
So I think those are the pieces that you need to be aware of and we'll keep you posted as the year unfolds.
LLC Research Division</strong> All right.
And I guess just with respect to your production guidance looking at first quarter of 2014 just seeing that you guys are kind of guiding down a little bit sequentially particularly on the oil.
Is that just a function of the midstream issues that you've had in the Anadarko Basin? Is there anything else of sort of going on with kind of well timing in 2014 here? No.
That's exactly it.
And again we're guiding to the midpoint that we originally put out last year.
And it would be important to note that because of that a lot of that interruption was in the SCOOP area.
It was affecting gas therefore it's mostly the impact of the NGLs in gas and not oil.
We'll go next to Dan Brasler [ph] with Jefferies.
I was wondering what you're expecting for Pearl proceeds? I know recently there have been a couple of transactions in Bohai Bay that imply maybe about a $200 million value to Newfield so just trying to get a -- your guys' view on the value for all of China specifically Pearl.
Yes Dan.
We're not giving guidance out right now on value expectations.
You'll see we'll release next -- later this week in our 10-K you'll see a $900 million PV10 number for China that's after tax.
We did see the Bohai Bay transaction that's an asset transaction.
What we're contemplating is a full exit.
It's a corporate transaction.
It's our sub and so the 2 things while related are actually quite different.
And we're hoping to get that done this year and we'll update you when we have better clarity both on installation and the process.
Okay great.
What is current production at Bohai Bay? Our first quarter production in Bohai will total about 150 000 barrels.
[Operator Instructions] And we'll go next to Dave Kistler with Simmons &amp; Company.
Research Division</strong> Real quickly looking at the composition in the SCOOP and STACK and kind of the conformity across the play can you talk a little bit about the wells you've drilled to date kind of the depth and the thickness of the areas that are targeted? And how that compares going forward? I'm guessing early on you're targeting the thickest areas but would love to get a sense of whether you've tested some of the center areas and is it showing the same sort of production responses? Yes.
I'll take that at a high level and if Gary's got anything to add Dave after my comments I'll let him jump in.
So certainly the -- we've put plenty of geology out in terms of the Anadarko Woodford East flank.
I think it's well-documented there's good well control.
Generally the Woodford is thinner in the North and also shallower depths than we have down in the southern portion of our SCOOP acreage.
So you do see a change running from north to south in terms of the depth of the target.
The far southern portion of the SCOOP acreage is the thickest observation with regard to the Woodford.
Up in the north you've got thicknesses that might approximate about 1/2 of that thickness that we see down in the South.
I would tell you that be careful with each individual horizon.
We go to STACK we're talking about a 700-foot thick oil-saturated window.
We've got Upper Meramec Lower Meramec Osage Woodford.
The important thing there is we've successfully tested and documented economic results in the upper horizon that would be the Upper Meramec; and the lower horizon which would be the Woodford and we've just got some tests to drill in between.
But we know there's oil we've got good core data and put the whole story together there.
So you'll see some variations of that.
But I think that across the acreage footprints that we have the thicknesses and the resource potential is well-understood well-documented and good well control.
I think those are the keys in terms of taking away.
It's not a lot of uncertainty from a geological standpoint in that regard.
The only thing I'd add to that Lee is as you said we've documented the overall thickness of the STACK to the North and the thickness of the Woodford to the south.
The area that has historically been talked about being a little thinner was North SCOOP so to speak.
And I think industry data there recently has supported some pretty darn good well results.
So we're now starting to see some of the thinner section still deliver competitive returns and that's good to see.
Research Division</strong> Great.
That's helpful and encouraging.
And then maybe switching over to the Central Basin Uinta area.
In the past you did a little rail when you got bottlenecked and built up storage levels with respect to being able to process through refiners.
As you look forward do you think about with success on the SXLs in those areas maybe accelerating rail? Or do you look at that more in terms of beyond 2016 and providing additional legs of growth at that juncture? Yes.
As we sit here right now the availability of rail is -- certainly still exists.
But we have the gas -- we have the oil contracts already in place that commit us to the levels through the end of 2016 and we need to make sure that we honor those contracts.
Anything beyond 2016 is certainly an opportunity but as we know those -- the rail contracts and those other refiners would require more material volume commitments and we would need to see the Central Basin well results more clarity on how those will produce over time before we could enter into those type of agreements.
It appears that there are no further questions at this time.
Mr.
Boothby I'd like to turn the conference back to you for any additional or closing remarks.
Well again I'd like to thank everybody for dialing in for today's call.
Thank you for your questions.
As you can tell we're excited and enthusiastic about the road ahead.
Our teams worked hard to put us in this position and I want to say thank you to everybody that's part of team Newfield in that regard.
We look forward to updating our continued progress as the year unfolds.
Thank you.
This does conclude today's conference.
Thank you for your participation.
Good day everyone and welcome to Newfield Exploration's Fourth -- First Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
Just as a reminder today's call is being recorded.
And before we get started one housekeeping matter.
Our discussion with you today will contain forward-looking statements such as strategic initiatives and plans estimated production and timing drilling and development plans expected cost reductions and planned capital expenditures.
Although we believe that the expectations reflected in these statements are reasonable they are based upon assumptions and anticipated results that are subject to numerous uncertainties and risks.
Actual results may vary significantly from those anticipated due to many factors and risks some of which may be unknown.
Please see Newfield's 2013 Annual Results -- Reports on Form 10-K and subsequent quarterly reports on Form 10-Q for a discussion of factors that may cause actual results to vary.
Forward-looking statements made during this call speak only of today's date and unless legally required Newfield undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements.
In addition reconciliations of non-GAAP financial measures to GAAP financial measures together with Newfield's earnings release and any other applicable disclosures are available on the Investor Relations page of Newfield's website at www.newfield.com.
Before turning the call over to the Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer Mr.
Lee Boothby let me provide a housekeeping request.
[Operator Instructions] Mr.
Lee Boothby please go ahead sir.
Thank you operator.
Good morning and welcome to our first quarter 2014 conference call.
We're off to a great start in 2014.
Our operating personnel helped us post another great quarter and we are executing extremely well across our domestic focus areas.
We look forward to providing you with today's update and taking your questions at the end of our brief prepared remarks.
I'm joined today by other members of our management team including our CFO Larry Massaro; Chief Operating Officer Gary Packer; and Steve Campbell Vice President of Investor Relations.
Let me open today with some highlights from the first quarter.
On February 10 we closed the sale of our Malaysian business for approximately $900 million.
This was a very tax-effective sale and proceeds were immediately used to fund a portion of this year's capital budget and to repay all of the borrowings under our revolver.
We fully restored the capacity under our $1.4 billion revolver.
Our first quarter production exceeded the mid-point of our guidance by more than 400 000 barrels equivalent.
Let's talk for just a second about oil growth not liquids but oil growth.
Our oil growth in 2014 is largely back-end-weighted.
The planning of new pads in proven plays like the Williston and the ongoing development in the Anadarko and Uinta Basins.
We expect that our second half 2014 oil production will be nearly 15% higher than our first half oil production.
In short we expect that our second half oil production will grow by more than 1 million barrels over the first half.
Again we are focused on oil growth and that is driving our forecast expansion and cash flow.
The cost and expenses for the quarter were in line with guidance and the projected improvements over 2013 and our cash operating costs are materializing.
The efficiencies in our operating expenses are leading to higher margins and improved earnings.
In February our midstream partner in the Anadarko Basin completed a significant upgrade for our SCOOP system.
We are today producing more than 35 000 net barrels of oil equivalent in the SCOOP and STACK and remain very confident in the growth trajectory outlined in our 3-year plan.
I continue to be very impressed with the results being posted in both our SCOOP and STACK plays.
In our @NFX publication we provided updates to our average performance versus the tight curves outcast 400 days.
Please note that the average of the 23 wells and SCOOP wet gas and the 15 wells and SCOOP oil continue to track above the tight curve.
In STACK we now have 11 producing wells across an area in excess of 300 square miles and the average production data show outstanding conformance to the type curve out to 600 days.
The key in resource plays is to meet and/or beat the statistical averages the data set grows and expense.
Stay tuned for more good news as 2014 unfolds.
In the Uinta Basin we are today drilling SXL wells in the Wasatch and Uteland Butte formations.
Several of the wells are online and we plan to share longer-term production data with you around midyear.
We are encouraged by both the early production and the recent progress we are making to lower completed well cost and enhance returns.
The Williston Basin and Eagle Ford teams continue to execute extremely well in these oil developments.
These plays will each grow by more than 35% year-over-year.
More importantly efficiencies of full field development are translating to the bottom line as these plays are helping to drive the improvements in our overall cost structure.
Gary Packer will cover more play-related highlights with you shortly.
I like where we sit today.
Our leadership team clearly understands what it takes to be a premier and the key is to creating shareholder value.
The ingredients include solid execution quarter-after-quarter deep inventory high-quality drilling prospects sustainable profitable growth and production and reserves and strong capital structure.
We've completed our transition to a liquids company and we are combining strong liquids and cash flow growth with an improving outlook on cost.
We are focused on delivering the targets outlined in our 3-year plan.
When executed this plan delivers a 20% CAGR in cash flow and liquids production.
We're on course to improve our debt-adjusted production growth on a per share basis it navigates our program where our capital investments and cash flows are more in balance.
We're confident that we are taking the right long-term steps to create value for our stockholders.
Before we get into our operational update  let me quickly cover our first quarter financial and operating highlights.
Excluding the items noted in our news release our net income from continuing operations was $60 million or $0.44 per share.
Cash flow was $345 million.
Both earnings and cash flow in the first quarter beat consensus estimates.
First quarter production from continuing operations was 10.7 million barrels of oil equivalent which exceeded the mid-point of our guidance by about 400 000 barrels of oil equivalent.
Our discontinued operations provided another 1 million barrels of oil equivalent during the quarter.
The China production was approximately 200 000 barrels.
We are pleased with how our cost and expenses came in for the first quarter of 2014.
As you know our 3-year plan is modeled around improvements in our cost structure which are driven by efficiencies in our developments.
With Malaysia sold and China being a very small part of this year's production investors can now see the Newfield of the future much more clearly.
We invested $397 million in our domestic business in the first quarter.
$26 million went to discontinued operations.
Our outlook for 2014 capital expenditures is unchanged and remains approximately $1.6 billion.
Before I turn it over to Gary let me update you on our China sales process.
We are completing our underwater inspections of a jacket and making plans to make repairs early this summer.
We expect to reschedule the installation of the LF 7 topside facilities for the third quarter and to achieve first oil production in the fourth quarter of 2014.
We continue to work with our bid group on the planned sale of China.
We anticipate resolution later this year.
We will keep you informed as more information is known.
I'll turn it over to Gary.
Thanks Lee.
Let me give you a quick summary of our drilling programs starting in the Anadarko Basin.
SCOOP and STACK plays have certainly received a tremendous amount of attention in recent months.
In fact there are more than 35 industry rigs running in these plays today.
Our first quarter net production in the Anadarko Basin averaged 29 500 barrels of oil equivalent per day.
We are producing today well more than 30 000 barrels equivalent per day net.
The 2014 growth forecast is on track and we still expect to exit 2014 with nearly 50 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day of net production.
The Anadarko Basin will receive nearly 1/2 of our 2014 capital investment this year.
SCOOP and STACK plays are allowing us to combine high rates of return a large operated acreage position high working interest and rapid liquids growth.
We remain extremely excited about our results to date.
See the Anadarko Basin is capable of driving our corporate growth in cash flow and production well beyond our 3-year plan.
I laugh when we get the frequent question when are you going to go faster? Keep in mind we have moved from the 1 operated rig in 2011 when we drilled our first well in the STACK area to 4 operated rigs in 2013.
Now we're up to 8 operated rigs today.
We've doubled our investment in the Anadarko Basin over the last year.
We continue to look for more ways to efficiently move dollars toward the basin.
It's easy to go fast.
The challenge is doing it efficiently and honor the commitments we have made in regards to our balance sheet.
So where are we today in SCOOP and STACK? I'll start with SCOOP.
We continue to see strong performance from our wells.
6 of our 8 rigs are -- operated rigs are running in the Basin.
In yesterday's news release we published a summary table on our first quarter well results.
Rates are consistent with our previous wells.
In today's @NFX we plotted all of our wells against our tight curves.
Based on the drilling data set we are very confident in delivering on our 3-year plan.
The SCOOP investments are generating the highest returns in our company today.
Our activity to date as well as industry activity has been heavily focused in the SCOOP South Wet Gas play where 21 rigs are running.
In 2014 we plan to drill about 20 Newfield wells in the South Wet Gas and about 25 wells in the South Oil.
We continue to see solid efficiency gains in the SCOOP drilling program.
In our first quarter the drilling cost per lateral foot decreased 17% when compared to our average of 2013.
We've modified our casing designs increase our lateral lengths moved to more [indiscernible] development pads improved drilling penetration rates and reduced downtime between wells a true team effort.
A significant upgrade was recently completed on our SCOOP midstream system.
We now have 200 million cubic feet a day of gas processing capacity.
As we mentioned earlier we had about 4 500 barrels of oil equivalent per day curtailed for this first 6 weeks to the year.
This expansion allowed us to return all of our curtailed wells to full production and tie in recent completions.
We expect the second upgrade this September to add an additional 80 million cubic feet a day of gas processing capacity.
In the second half of 2014 we'll be drilling our first operated wells in North SCOOP.
This is about 40 000 net acres that sit north of SCOOP and south of STACK.
There are 10 industry operated rigs running in this area today.
We have participated in several wells to date and are very encouraged by the early returns that we are seeing.
Stay tuned for more information from us later this year.
Over the next 2 years our production from the Anadarko Basin is expected to become more oily as we shift drilling activity into our STACK play.
We have more than 150 000 net acres in STACK and our working interest average is about 60% which is very high for Oklahoma.
In addition as the name implies we have STACK geologic pace in the Woodford and Meramec Shales that provide up to 700 feet of hydrocarbon column to exploit.
In addition to the Woodford and the Meramec other prospective formations exist.
We plan to test them in the future.
Our 2014 STACK program has several objectives.
First we are drilling the whole acreage.
We plan to drill about 20 SXL STACK wells for 2014 and for the next 2 years our drilling program will be largely dedicated to HBP efforts.
The second objective is to learn more of the optimal development well spacing.
We are placing our wells on adjacent east-west section boundaries and gathering spacing data as we HBP.
Each SXL well holds 2 sections.
Third we're quickly delineating and therefore de-risking our acreage.
To date we estimate that our drilling has de-risked about 1/3 of the STACK acreage.
Our 2014 program will test the boundaries of our acreage and we expect it will delineate and de-risk about 70% of our acreage by year end.
And fourth we plan to drill about 20 wells this year and are testing multiple objectives in the STACK.
We will be coring wells in several areas staggering adjacent Woodford and Meramec test as well as drilling upper and lower Meramec wells on tighter spacing.
If production results on 10 STACK wells to date then about on end 30- 60- and 90-day rates remain strong.
Our longest-producing STACK well has now been online for about 3 years.
This was a short lateral drilled in 2011 to test the exploratory concept.
Well that has now been online for 920 days and the production is still 65% oil and the cumulative production is 73% oil over a 3-year period.
This well gives us confidence in our tight curves and future oil growth projections.
We have 2 rigs running in STACK today.
We have production results on all of these wells and we feel very strong about their performance.
Our first net -- our first quarter net production in the Uinta Basin averaged just under 25 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day slightly exceeding our plan.
In the Uinta Basin we are advancing 2 plays the ongoing development of our Monument Butte waterflood and the ongoing assessment of our horizontal plays in Central Basin.
We are to date drilling our first handful of SXL wells in the Central Basin and we are encouraged with our early results.
We're drilling wells in both the Uteland Butte and the Wasatch plays with lateral lengths approaching 10 000 feet.
As proven in multiple other plays SXLs lower completed cost per foot maximize production rates improve EURs and rates of return.
We have 2 operated rigs running in the Central Basin today and plan to drill about 15 SXL wells this year.
Around midyear we will have production history on about a half dozen or so SXL wells to update you upon.
We remain confident that SXLs will be the key to unlocking the economic value of the vast resource in the Central Basin.
We have the necessary permits in hand today to execute our 2014 program and we continue to have constructive dialogue with state regulators and permanently amend field rules to roll out for SXL's development in the future.
Our investment levels and near-term growth outlook in the Uinta Basin will continue to be determined by the timing of refinery expansions the regulatory environment and our internal pledge to allocate our capital to the projects with the best returns.
As you know we have agreements in place with both HollyFrontier and Tesoro that add about 20 000 barrels of oil per day of new capacity in the Basin by 2016.
New transportation initiatives both rail and pipeline provide encouragement that our future crude growth will not only have a home but the potential to receive more favorable pricing in the market.
In addition to rail one of our refining partners continues to advance discussions and planning for a 60 000 barrel of oil per day oil pipeline on the Uinta Basin into Salt Lake city.
The Williston Basin and Eagle Ford developments are progressing extremely well.
These plays are benefiting from the synergies of full field development through SXL wells common drilling pads shared facilities and use of in-place infrastructure.
They're delivering solid returns and providing free cash flow to fund our large-scale programs in the Anadarko and Uinta Basins.
In Williston Basin we continue to run 4 rigs and expect to drill about 50 operated wells this year.
The first quarter production averaged nearly 15 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day.
This is about 10% higher than our fourth quarter 2013 rig.
We are on track to grow our Williston production to about 40% this year with a consistent 4-rig program.
We brought online 16 wells in the first quarter including 12 that are Bakken wells and 4 wells in the first member of the Three Forks.
As always we show 30- 60- and 90-day production averages and add-on effects.
Our Williston Basin wells averaged initial production rates of about 2 400 barrels of oil equivalent per day and our recent 10 000-foot SXLs were drilled and completed for an average of $8.4 million including facilities.
Our Williston team is executing extremely well and building on the efficiency gains achieved over the last 2 years.
In the Eagle Ford our first quarter production averaged over 11 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day and in line with our planned expectations to grow year-over-year volumes by about 30%.
We reduced this year's drilling program in the Eagle Ford to one rig which allowed capital to flow into the Anadarko Basin as previously mentioned.
We expect that our one-rig program will hold current production levels relatively flat throughout the year.
One rig will allow us to drill about 20 wells.
I'll turn it back to Lee for closing comments.
Thanks Gary and thanks to you all for dialing in today.
We appreciate your interest in our company.
We're off to a great start in 2014.
We beat first quarter production expectations and our cost and expenses are exactly as modeled.
Our operating teams are executing extremely well and we are focused on delivering on our 3-year plan which combines liquids growth with cash flow growth and improving margins and profitability.
As we said in February we believe the achievement of these objectives will lead to improved net adjusted production and reserve growth metrics and lower leverage ratios and we intend to deliver.
This time we're happy to take your questions.
Operator? [Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Amir Arif with Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> The first question is just to achieve the 50 000-barrel a day exit rate that you're targeting in the Anadarko Basin can you just summarize for us what you need on the midstream side for in terms of the STACK and the SCOOP for processing and takeaway? And then the follow-up question is the -- I believe this quarter you did test the Lower Meramec.
If you can give us any color on that well? As far as the takeaway for the exit of this year we referenced in the call that we have 80 million cubic feet a day that we're going to be bringing online in -- early in the third quarter.
And those are the requirements that we see to make the 50 000-barrel-a-day number.
And as far as the deeper test that well is currently drilling as we speak.
And it's called the Brueggen I believe.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> So that will come out with 2Q results? Once we have the 30- 60-day numbers we'll have it out to you.
Our next question comes from the line of Leo Mariani.
LLC Research Division</strong> I was hoping you could maybe speak a little bit more in terms of what you're seeing on rates of return on your STACK wells.
I know it's early and sort of how those kind of compare with SCOOP? Really nothing more to add other than what we showed in February with -- we just have the 2 initial wells and they're in line with expectations.
We generated a return on the first 8 wells of about 35%.
We expect that just to get better as they do on all these plays.
And that's very competitive in the portfolio and in our space.
They're not going to compete with SCOOP wells which are some of the best in the industry.
But we feel like both of them certainly deserve capital allocation in our program.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I guess as you guys progress into 2015 you talked a little about in your prepared comments about need to sort of HBP more STACK.
Does that mean we could see more rigs kind of move to STACK next year to satisfy those requirements versus SCOOP? Well the current plan contemplates that we will HBP from -- many of these leases already have built-in expansion capabilities.
We are examining all opportunities to reallocate capital and move incremental rigs into the area and I think Lee referenced that in the call.
So it's not currently built into our plan.
Rest assured that we're looking at every alternative and whatever we do will be accretive to the information we've already outlined in our 3-year plan.
Our next question comes from the line of David Tameron.
LLC Research Division</strong> In the STACK if I look at those 90-day rates it ticked up a little bit from the 60-day.
Is that just particular to these 2 wells or is that something you're seeing with some of the more recent wells you drilled including the ones at the end of last year? I think it's important to remember when you look at STACK and I think we've got a total of 11 wells in the curve that we published obviously the newer wells when you look at the details sit inside of the 90-day rate.
We've seen outcomes above and below the type curve.
The average sits right at or just above the type curve.
So we're very very encouraged of what we're seeing.
As mentioned earlier we continue to step out and test the limits of the play.
I think that's one of the features that we're going to be working on in 2014.
And I would say at this point that we've had a number of issues.
Remember it's HBP not development.
So all kinds of infrastructure related to managing developments and optimizing lift and all that stuff that's still yet to come.
I think when you look at the Mary well which I think was a new [indiscernible] lease that's a well that has continued to get better and better throughout its first 4 months or so of production.
So you've got a lot of different things going on in terms of completion optimization lift optimization and we're in HBP mode not development.
That's the key to keep in mind when you think about looking at these results.
I see a lot of people take head fakes on individual well data without having any understanding on what's going on out in the field.
It's a path for fools.
So I would say be careful those of you that are tempted to go down that path.
LLC Research Division</strong> All right.
And then for my follow-up let me choose.
Uinta and you guys have -- I guess in the fourth quarter when you previously talked about it you talked about that weighing of XL -- or SXLs being more Uteland Butte than Wasatch.
Is that still the plan? And can you tell us what your well cost run out there versus what you think a target well cost may be? Dave we continue to look to balance that out.
I would suggest to you that in your -- you said it accurately we had more Uteland Butte than Wasatch at the end of the quarter.
We're going to -- I would suggest that we'll probably see more balance in that as the year unfolds.
In regard to the well cost if you referred to the February @NFX we outlined Uteland Butte wells in a 10 to 12 range and the Wasatch well in a 13 to 15 range.
We like the progression that we're seeing year-to-date and in capturing the benefits of the SXL so I think we'll be navigating to the low end of those numbers.
And we're feeling more confident everyday that that's going to be the case.
But we still need to drill some more wells to prove that to ourselves.
Our next question comes from the line of Subash Chandra.
Research Division</strong> I was hoping maybe you could compare contrast when you look at SCOOP oil and STACK oil specifically against perhaps these other shale plays wherein they're multiphase reservoirs where the oil part it didn't particularly work well be it Eagle Ford or Utica.
And then my follow-up would be if that Cana oil was in your original -- or your prior view of what the de-risk acreage is in Cana which I think was around 25 000 acres.
I will jump in the first one while it's fresh in my mind.
If I miss a part of it take me back there.
I would say that the well that Gary referenced I think in the STACK play that has nearly 3 years of production history at this point or certainly chasing down 3 years.
It was drilled early drilled early in the oil window drilled well at depth and it was drilled there on purpose so that we could gather this information and continue to calibrate performance.
I would tell you that we've been very very pleased with the performance that we've seen both in SCOOP and STACK up up in the oil base.
I think that was probably the biggest risk in the play going in.
And certainly we in the industry we're not in the position to know one play versus another how that's going to work.
The STACK play is all in the oil [indiscernible].
If you think about the well results now we're seeing consistency and sustained performance over multiple wells across a large area of 300-plus square miles.
And everyday that goes by we get more and more confidence in that regard.
And with the planned program ourselves and the industry now that the industry has moved into the play there'll be 40 to 50 wells probably by year end that we'll be able to look at specifically there for comparisons.
So I think that the data set is going to be growing at a pretty good clip and we continue to see consistency there.
I think we you and everybody watching the plays will get very very comfortable.
And if you move to SCOOP I would tell you that things have been very exciting down the SCOOP and SCOOP oil as we moved into the oil window as we've seen much more gas energy than we certainly forecast going into the play.
And obviously having that gas energy for lift and sustained well performance has net-net been a positive.
And I'd say that that's a big part of the performance trend that you see now that we're documenting 10 000-foot laterals out past 400 days.
So I'd say both of those plays when you look at them relative to the suite of other plays and other basins and compare the numbers I think you'll come away feeling very very favorable.
I suspect and we're not in the Utica or some of the other plays you referenced so obviously we didn't keep up the data but I'd leave our friends in the industry to talk to you about their plays in those areas.
But when you cut across multiple plays and cut across [indiscernible] you've got different geology different phase composition different pressure regimes.
You've got a whole host of things going on and I don't think it's any one of those factors that you can probably hang your hat on.
I think in a number of instances at least the best I can tell from reading data and seeing presentations from our technical folks it looks like people have been burned by some bad phase behavior.
I would say we've seen none of that to date and in our plays and that's part of the reason why we're very very encouraged.
But going back to 2012 before we drilled the first well we were concerned that was a risk.
And I think the production data -- the neat thing about what we're doing is we're not up drilling for a geologic control at this point.
We're drilling for production control.
So the delineation's actually production delineation not geologic delineation of these plays.
And that's a pretty nice place to be.
Clearly we hope to see continuation of the good results in the northern portion of our SCOOP acreage but again our friends in the industry drilled a number of wells there a lot of rig activity up in that area.
We like the results and we expect to see success there.
But that's an area we haven't drilled any material number of wells at this point with Newfield's tether on it.
As far as the Cana question I'll put that over to Gary.
Well I guess I'd just follow up.
We talked in the -- we previously referenced to 150 000 acres in the STACK.
And when we've been on the road with many folks we've referred to some maps and we've talked about how about 1/3 of that acreage position with the 8 wells that we've had to date I would call production delineated.
And we have very consistent results across that in both the Meramec and the Woodford.
The exciting thing about this year our HBP strategy is going to allow us to reach out to the North and the East across the STACK.
And by the end of the year we ought to be in a position where we're sitting here and talking about 3/4 of our acreage position having a horizontal well in it.
A lot of our activity this year is going to be up there in the Meramec which is I think going to give everybody more confidence.
And I'd point out that the biggest step out that we've had to date the Yost [ph] well in the Northwest is one of our best wells drilled to date.
So it's nothing that we fear whatsoever and it's all within the acreage that we've targeted when we put our lease -- our accumulation together and we have an abundance of vertical well control across all the positions that says that there's really no difference across the position in which we're drilling.
So I'm not concerned about drilling up against edges and we haven't found an edge in any of the wells that we've drilled thus far.
The area to keep a close eye on this year as we continue to expand in the STACK would also -- the other area would be the Northern SCOOP.
And we talked about that 40 000 net acres.
Industry has done a heck of a nice job in improving the return prospectivity for that area and it's quite competitive.
And you'll see us this year I think we've got 4 or 5 wells on the board.
We'll drill some wells both in the wet gas which will be immediately adjacent to those that others have drilled successfully and generating compelling returns.
And you'll also see us just like we have in STACK about half of those wells will be out more in the oil space.
And so stay tuned for that.
Research Division</strong> Yes I'm sorry Gary do you have a number for de-risked SCOOP and how the Cana oil phase factors into that number? I don't have a number off the top of my head.
I mean we've got between well I would guess 75 000 acres in the SCOOP overall.
The vast majority of that has a well in it with the exception of the 40 000 acres in the SCOOP that I've referenced.
So I don't have it broken out.
If you go back and look at the release we had acreage split out by wet gas condensate window and oil window you'll be able to put the pieces of that together and just recognize the northern portion that we believe industry has de-risked a good portion of that acreage.
But we haven't drilled our wells there and that's the 40 000 acres that Gary references.
But majority of our SCOOP and STACK acreage is in fact in the oil window.
Our next question comes from the line of Dave Kistler.
Research Division</strong> Real quickly looking at the production guidance with a production beat above the high end in Q1 you mentioned that production going forward's going to be impacted by timing of completions various areas in terms of where they're completing whether it be Williston Eagle Ford or parts of the Cana.
Can you talk a little bit about is that why you're not bringing full year production up with the kind of beat that you delivered or are you being just conservative in nature? It's our conservative nature of course Dave.
I mean I think that you've been around us we're certainly conservative.
An answer to your question specifically we're sitting here at the end of the first quarter we carried good momentum out of '13 that shouldn't be a surprise to anyone.
We're very pleased with the results but we're 1/3 of the way through the year.
The timing issues that you're talking about pad drilling we've talked a lot about that over the years.
Clearly I'd love to be able to turn those pads on earlier in time but when you're drilling multi-well pads you got to drill case complete and there's some volatility in terms of timing related to that and that's certainly incorporated into our planning and then the infrastructure issues that Gary have all talked about.
So what I would tell you is let us see how the year unfolds.
We're very very encouraged with where we're at.
I think we've got good momentum and we'll get to the mid-point of the year and we'll give you an update.
Hopefully at that point we'll have enough visibility that we can show you some positive upside.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then maybe just diving in the Uinta for a second and your comment about it being currently free cash flow positive.
Will that remain the case as you progress on a 2-word [ph] program of SXL development? Or could that go back to a source of capital as opposed to a cash-generative engine? Dave as far as the free cash flow that was in reference to the Eagle Ford and Williston Basin.
And those are free cash flow positive.
Certainly as you suggest the Uinta Basin is going to be a consumer of capital as we seek to accelerate the resource that we have there.
But that certainly will not be the case in the Uinta overall.
Our next question comes from the line of Jeffrey Campbell [ph].
My first question was regarding the Gregory pad.
It looked like it had some pretty favorable-looking declines [ph].
And I was wondering is this a geological effect or does it reference some reservoir pressure control regime? It's -- the only significance I would caution -- or call out on the Gregory pad is that you're right they are performing quite well.
The 2 important things about that are: One it's a 5-well spacing.
And based on those early production results we certainly feel good about that.
The other thing is they're only XL wells.
These are just 5 000-foot wells.
And the only reason we would have drilled those as XLs is because we had an offset spacing unit with another operator or we would have drilled this longer.
I think what you're on to here Jeffrey [ph] is just the normal variability in results that you see across any one of these resource plays and nothing more than that.
And then certainly we're pleased with them but I wouldn't say it's any one more thing than the other.
As you know in the SCOOP area as you move east to west there's variability that exists in oil and gas yields and you're seeing some of that in there as well.
But it's just normal variability in a resource play.
Okay.
And my other question was it appears that you're currently targeting the Three Forks 1 [ph] in your Williston Basin.
I was wondering if you're going to do any exploration in any of the lower zones in the Three Forks over time or have you already arrived at the view that the Three Forks 1 [ph] is it? No we've actually drilled a second bench of the Three Forks well last year and it was a good well for us.
Just with the capital that we've allocated to the programs today we're more heavily weighted to the Bakken and the Upper Three Forks.
And we're going to allow our industry partners to kind of show us the way as far as some of the deeper benches.
We are constructive on the second bench for sure up on the west anticline where we drilled and others have drilled and we like what's been seen there.
But as far as beyond that we're going to allow others to take a lead in that.
Our next question comes from the line of Michael Rowe [ph].
I just had a quick question on the 4 SCOOP wet gas XL wells that you're showing here.
I think these were 4 800-foot laterals which should be lower kind of than the published type curve that you all have for the region.
So I was just wondering sort of how are these -- how the performance of these wells comparing relative to your expectations? And what may the capital costs be on these just given their short lateral length? As far as the -- I'll talk but Gary has [indiscernible] to say here.
But as far as the performance clearly the place to look is yield per lateral foot.
And I would say we've seen good conformance statistically in terms of yield per lateral foot or yield per thousand lateral feet.
We believe the optimal wells where we can drill them are the 10 000-foot SXL wells.
But as Gary indicated there are a number of circumstances where geology or offset ownership and things of that nature stand in the way of 1 280-acre spacing units.
In those occasions then we'll look to drill 5 000-ish foot laterals.
And so anything that's sub-5 000-foot lateral means that they've been drilled on a 640-acre spacing unit.
And you're going to see the same where there'll be some areas that produce higher-than-the-average yield per thousand feet and some will produce lower but we've seen good conformance relative to the yield per thousand lateral feet across the play today.
Good enough for you? Yes I think -- I'm not concerned about anything that's represented in there.
We're going to confine the bulk of our activity to the SXLs in the wet gas window to a degree that we can.
We have -- we don't have the 30- and 60-day numbers published for the first quarter but they appear to us to be in line and there is some graphics in our @NFX publication that actually does show our type curve relative to actual performance in the wet gas and that -- the slide that you actually looked at in there includes both XLs and SXLs.
So I'm -- we're not seeing any meaningful variability in any of those results.
Just normal variability like I referenced earlier geologically.
Okay great.
And then just quickly on the STACK play.
With regards to the Mary well it looked like there was a pretty high oil cut on that.
Is there something specific that's driving this or do you think that's just an anomaly and related to the general variability you're seeing across the wells you're drilling in the play? The STACK play as I said earlier the entirety of that acreage block that we put forward is in the oil window which means that we're actually drilling forward from east-west north-south black oil.
We published if you go back and look at the data that rolled out over the course of 2013 there's some places where we put out well data in terms of 2-phase production and you'll see a consistently high oil yield across that data set.
So obviously the Mary is not a surprise in that regard.
I think that the exciting part of the Mary is that we've had good solid sustained and actually improving performance over the course of the first 4 months of production.
So that's the part I'm excited about with regard to the Mary well and I think we're able to continue to generate those kinds of results as Gary indicated earlier as we move through the HBP phase into development then the results returns will just improve over time.
Our next question comes from the line of Brian Singer.
Research Division</strong> Sticking with STACK.
Can you just talk in broadly about how many different horizons you've now tested at STACK the differences if any in performance? And then you may not be planning this because you're in HBP phase but when you would test multiple horizons on the same section? Well our priority is going to be HBP mode.
I think Gary said that earlier.
Next 2 or 3 years we've got a lot of work to do there.
We will vary as he indicated the offset distances between laterals and where those laterals sit across lease lines from the section just to start gathering some of the spacing-type performance information that we'll need in the play.
But we don't intend to drill any development pilots or tie up rig time working on development pilots.
We think we have plenty of time to work that into the program as things kind of evolve if you will in that regard.
And I think they're going to be kind of measured as we work through the program.
So first order of business is focus on HBP.
We'll get the data we need to kind of verify our assumptions and spacing data to the extent we can during the HBP mode then as we move towards development then we'll get more into the spacing test and pilot.
As far as the horizons I wouldn't get too carried away with the horizons at this point in time.
We put out last year that we had tested the upper Meramec and multiple wells in the Woodford and multiple wells at the 700-foot interval.
So the way to think about that is the lowermost interval.
The Woodford has been tested successfully and the uppermost interval of the upper Meramec has been tested successfully.
It's about 700 feet of section.
If you split it up into geological horizons you could think about 4 or 5 different potential increments in there.
But I think it's way too early to get caught up in that level of granularity.
We just haven't had the time and the well count at this point to capture enough data to give you any more color than that.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then shifting to the Uinta Basin you mentioned add-on effects the thing you mentioned on the call the pipeline and then a refinery expansion.
Can you just talk about a little bit more detail about what you think the timing is there? And is this something that is going to be where Newfield is going to be a unique supplier? What type of market share do you think you can get? As far as the circumstances of the pipeline expansions we have -- Tesoro has a turnaround in first quarter of 2015.
And then they're essentially be at full capacity there in the first half of the year in the -- we'll start ramping up HollyFrontier's expansion in the back half of '15 and we'll hit our full stride there in early 2016.
That's going to allow us to be at about 38 000 barrels a day of committed capacity from those 2 refiners.
And 2016 we believe we'll have capacity to be producing well in excess of that.
We do have relationships and we'll have deals in hand with some other refiners.
That'll put us somewhere around 45 000 barrels a day or so.
I hope that they'll put us in a position our teams that we can be well north of that.
And that's really what it's going to take for us to either get some other refining projects in hand or more aggressively pursue rail.
And we'll probably at that point get into the plays that we can talk about for longer terms agreements with some of the rail providers.
I don't have the numbers off the top of my head regarding the market share.
I do know that each of those refiners are in fact refining some of our -- the other basin crude.
But I can't tell you the percentage.
We are far and away the largest producer and control most of that market share.
Our next question comes from the line of Jimmy Hubert [ph].
Jimmy Hubert [ph] from Iberia [ph] Capital.
In the STACK play I had a question.
If you have 20 STACK wells planned for 2014 how many of those are Meramec and how many would be Woodford? Yes it's like 2/3 of the wells are Meramec wells and the balance being Woodford.
All right.
And are there different lateral lengths for the 2 zones? Or do they -- do you drill both at the same lateral length? Our plan is to maximize lateral lengths.
We'll drill 1 280-acre spacing units every opportunity we get.
So you'll see delivered lateral lengths around 10 000 feet or just over.
Okay.
And then just one more question.
The wells into the 2 different zones the Meramec and the Woodford what are the costs per well for each different zone there? There's not a material difference between drilling the Woodford and the Meramec.
There's only 700 feet of vertical section from the base of the Woodford to the top of the Meramec.
So you can think about those wells in terms of to date performance and cost they're very very similar.
And what are the cost per well you think? Those wells range from $9 million to $12 million in the STACK both in the Woodford and in the Meramec Meramec as we referenced.
The biggest variability there has been our completion cost.
We continue to be able to find ways to improve our stimulation which oftentimes has a higher cost but greater EURs as a result of that.
But we would be navigating to the low end of that once we get a few more wells under our belt.
You can go back to last year we talked a lot about the distance between cluster-per-cluster spacing and we talked about reduced per cluster spacing.
We cut the per cluster spacing roughly in half during the course of 2013.
So fracture and testing [ph] along the lateral for the same delivered cost today is about 2x what it was entering 2013.
Those were all good things.
Our next question comes from the line of Dan McSpirit.
Just turning to the Williston Basin would you estimate to be the inventory of drillable locations remaining both Middle Bakken and Three Forks? And when do you see production actually peaking from your Williston Basin operations? Well obviously Dan it's all about how many wells -- how many rigs we allocate to the play.
Right now we're sitting here talking about 4 rigs for the foreseeable future.
We do grow outside of our 3-year plan our production volumes.
And we've been talking now about anywhere between 300 350 wells for quite awhile.
And what we've found is is that as far as our inventory and what we found is is that as we've been able to drive our cost down we've been able to unlock plays that were previously uneconomic but now certainly compete within our portfolio.
So I think that's -- that number has a bit of a moving target to it but that's generally speaking where we're at.
Got it.
Helpful.
And then just turning to the balance sheet quickly here can you sketch for us how leverage is expected to trend over 2014 and periods beyond? Certainly we can see it going lower.
I just want to get a better understanding of that trend and how capital is invested in the operations.
Yes sure.
I'll take that.
This is Larry.
As you've seen we've been debt suspending across our planned period.
Our goal is to get to 2016 and look to try and get to free cash flow neutral then.
That's what we kind of put out earlier this year in our February release.
As far as this year is going we're right on track.
We're probably a little bit better than we thought at the beginning of the year where we're still generating a deficit and we look to cure that through the assets that we've already talked about.
So we'll fund the deficit through the sale of our international and get to 2016 and be cash flow neutral.
Our next question comes from the line of Richard Tullis.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Looking at the Eagle Ford I know we haven't spent that much time on it it's not really a big part of your current activity but you did see a real nice increase in initial rates I guess 30% 40% there.
Was that mainly a function of changing completion method or maybe more focus on the 2 areas West Asherton and Fashing? I mean as far as overall you have some certainly leasing timing issues regarding the pads that we were bringing in.
We've also been playing around with spacing between wells.
And the wells that you are seeing that maybe showing up in the public arena are seeing a slightly higher IP and a little better decline profile.
And it's just a result of us continuing to identify what the right spacing is.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then lastly what's driving the increase in the LOE cost guidance? I guess it's up about 5%.
What are the main drivers there? On a unit of production basis it's down quarter-over-quarter and through the year.
But the main driver in absolute dollars is just frankly higher production.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Well you haven't raised the full year guidance though right? No we took it up just a little bit.
I think you'll see another $7 million or $8 million [indiscernible] And our last question comes from the line of Philip Cannel.
Could you break out further the mix in terms of liquids in both the Williston the 12 900 per day and the EFS at 11 000? What's oil what's NGL? If you look at our February guidance we break out average liquids per play.
But our Eagle Ford play is north of 85% black oil and the Williston Basin is around 70% black oil.
Okay.
And in terms of the SCOOP if you look at the decline curves from the wet gas to the oil why do you think that we're trending toward the decline curve on the wet gas but yet the oil curve if anything is even moving farther away from the decline curve? [indiscernible] in both the 2 wells at this point to kind of make a decision or should [indiscernible] the curve? The thing to remember about those curves those are average curves for the wells that have been drilled completed and brought online in that timeframe.
So when you get to the endpoint you've got one well.
So whatever the oldest well in that data set sitting out there so you see that well.
So as you move back through the curve towards zero you get the highest number of wells in the average.
And frankly that data is better data than looking out there on the tip.
So it's there as a mechanical calculation but the reason it looks like it's down is just simply you're looking at data from the oldest well.
And at the front end of that curve you've got 23 wells and at the very end you've got 1.
The same as across both of those curves.
In the case of the wet gas the curve the oldest well is slightly below the trend line.
And in the case of the oil that you're looking at the oldest well is slightly above the trend line.
Just a statistical aberration.
And do you think that we expect these to change significantly with the increased number of wells that are going to be drilled this year? I mean is there any way to know? I would take you back to our tight curve.
That's how we build all our models.
That's what we're looking at.
We're continuing to step out and evaluate and optimize.
We're encouraged that these are running above the type curve.
It will be a happy day if that turns out to be the ultimate field level average but we give you both so that you've got a reference point.
Again I think the key point is we're off to a good -- great start in 2014.
We're excited about the results being posted in these key plays.
We've got exciting results yet to come out later this year.
Stay tuned.
We're going to give you the data timely.
We're going to give it to you in a form that you can understand and frankly we look forward to having these conversations.
So with that I'd just like to tell everybody thank you very much for tuning in today and we look forward to talking to you again in July and we'll have some more good news to talk about.
Have a great day.
Thank you ladies and gentlemen.
This does conclude our conference for today.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Good day everyone and welcome to the Newfield Exploration Second Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
Just a reminder today's call is being recorded.
And before we get started one housekeeping matter.
Our discussion with you today will contain forward-looking statements such as strategic initiatives and plans estimated production and timing drilling and development plans expected cost reductions and planned capital expenditures.
Although we believe that the expectations reflected in these statements are reasonable they are based upon assumptions and anticipated results that are subject to numerous uncertainties and risks.
Actual results may vary significantly from those anticipated due to many factors and risks some of which may be unknown.
Please see Newfield's 2013 Annual Report on Form 10-K and subsequent quarterly reports on Forms 10-Q for a discussion of the factors that may cause actual results to vary.
Forward-looking statements made during this call speak only as of today's date.
Unless legally required Newfield undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements.
In addition reconciliations of non-GAAP financial measures to GAAP financial measures together with Newfield's earnings release and any other applicable disclosures are available on the Investor Relations page of Newfield's website at www.newfield.com.
Before turning the call over to the Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer Mr.
Lee Boothby please let me provide a housekeeping request.
[Operator Instructions] Mr.
Lee Boothby please go ahead sir.
Thank you operator.
Good morning everyone and welcome to Newfield's Midyear Conference Call.
I'm looking forward to providing you with today's update.
Our transformation period is clearly behind us and there are great things happening throughout our company today.
We're seeing tangible benefits from our efforts over the last several years to focus our company on domestic U.S.
operations high-grade our asset base and strengthen our balance sheet.
We announced yesterday we entered into a contract to sell our Granite Wash assets for $588 million.
We expect the deal to close in the third quarter and we intend to use the proceeds of the sale for reduction of long-term debt.
Execution over the last 2 years has been very strong.
We're meeting or beating our estimates and delivering strategic objectives outlined in our 3-year plan.
We're confident that this plan will continue to create value for our stockholders.
We're delivering growth across our refined portfolio today and we're delivering results.
Our second quarter oil production averaged 50 000 barrels of oil per day and has increased 32% year-over-year.
Each of our 4 focus areas is exceeding our beginning-of-year expectations.
Two weeks ago we raised our 2014 guidance and raised the midpoint of our oil forecast above the upper end of our original guidance for the year.
Our oil production is now expected to grow 30% up from 24% in our original plan.
This momentum is expected to carry forward to 2015 and 2016 and our production and cash flow forecasts are biased higher.
Consistent with our normal process we will conduct our annual strategic planning in the fall and communicate our 2015/2016 outlook by early 2015.
Changes we expect to make will be accretive to our current outlook more balanced oil growth cash flow growth and our desire to continue strengthening our balance sheet over our 3-year outlook.
We've also added significant inventory to our portfolio by capturing liquids-rich resource plays of scale.
The Anadarko Basin the SCOOP and STACK plays provide more than a decade of running room and today's update in the Uinta Basin demonstrates the economic potential for another large-scale oil play for future development within Newfield's portfolio.
Our 3-year plan places us on the right course and strategically combines liquids growth -- or cash flow growth and yields-improving margins.
We're on a path towards balancing our annual investments with cash flow.
We continue our track record of strong double-digit liquids growth rates.
Our focus today remains on the execution of our 3-year plan.
We're not just managing our business for a good quarter or a single year.
We're managing Newfield to be a healthier and sustainable enterprise for the long term.
Our vision remains clear: to be the premier E&amp;P company consistently delivering top-tier results.
Achieving this status isn't easy and it doesn't happen overnight.
We feel obligated to do more than simply find and produce oil and gas for a profit.
Consistent with this belief we published our first corporate responsibility report last week detailing our safety culture our environmental stewardship and the hard work that our people do every day to improve life in and around the areas where we live and work.
I would encourage you to go online and give it a read.
I'm joined in today's call by our CFO Larry Massaro and our Chief Operating Officer Gary Packer.
Our remarks today will be largely focused on the significant progress we had made in the Uinta Basin.
We posted some slides on our @NFX publication and we will reference a couple of these later in the call.
Our agenda today consists of the following: first our CFO Larry Massaro will provide a brief summary of our second quarter financial and operating results; and second Gary Packer will cover our operating areas beginning with an overview of our Anadarko Basin and Williston Basin drilling programs and spending the remainder of our time on the Uinta Basin and the results of our recent SXL campaign.
Before I turn the call over to Larry let me mention why I see today's Uinta Basin update as very significant for our investors.
Over the last several years we've been tackling multiple challenges in the Uinta.
These have ranged from a lack of refining capacity market disruptions HBP acreage efforts and the inability to drill longer lateral wells due to the pre-existing regulations.
Today you will hear about the significant progress we have made to improve our returns and propel our Uinta Basin assets to compete at the front end of Newfield's portfolio.
For the first time we now have a sample of long lateral wells or SXLs approximately 10 000 feet to improve the significant productivity of the resource and give visibility to the true economic potential in the Uinta.
Seeing 2 000 barrel of oil equivalent per day IP rates and 100 000 barrels of production over the first 100 days is exciting and these results will compete with any oil resource play today.
Second we're applying our lessons learned around our company to lower well cost.
Drilling and optimizing completions are core competencies at Newfield.
We've demonstrated time and again that we can lower well costs and improve returns at our field-level operating teams.
Newfield's focused portfolio is more alike than different today.
Our Central Basin wells look similar to our wells in the Anadarko Basin or the Williston or the Eagle Ford for exploiting stacked pays through SXL wells in areas that offer multiple horizons for development.
We are confident in our ability to lower cost improve returns and deliver another high-return oil play with a deep inventory of development locations.
I'll leave some stuff that for Gary to cover later and I'll now turn the call over to Larry for our financial update.
Thanks Lee.
And good morning everyone.
Along with our guidance raise 2 weeks ago we also increased our capital investment outlook for 2014 by $100 million to $1.7 billion.
This increase reflects the increased pace of our drilling in several areas and the addition of new acreage in SCOOP and STACK.
In the second quarter we invested $473 million in our domestic businesses.
The second quarter production was 12.1 million barrels surpassing the midpoint of guidance by 1.1 million barrels.
Our domestic liquids production was up 13% over the prior quarter and 40% over the comparable quarter in 2013.
Our oil growth is driven's by the Anadarko Basin the Uinta Basin and the Williston Basin.
Our strong production growth led to a cash flow beat during the quarter and our cash flow per share exceeded First Call consensus and came in at $2.43 per share.
Our earnings during the quarter excluding the items listed in our release related to derivates in future periods were $59 million or $0.43 per share.
As we noted 2 weeks ago our G&amp;A expense was about $15 million higher than guidance due to stock-based compensation which was driven by the increase in our share price during the quarter.
Other than G&amp;A our cash costs on a unit-of-production basis were in line or better than our quarterly guidance estimates.
China our discontinued operation provided about 40 000 barrels during the quarter.
You may notice that our full year expectation for LOE is up.
This is related to higher transportation expense and reflects our new processing agreements and our growing wet gas volumes.
On a unit-of-production basis we will be virtually unchanged throughout the year.
The slight increase in the second half LOE should be offset by higher realized prices for our sales volumes.
As Lee mentioned we signed an agreement Monday to sell our Granite Wash assets.
The effective date of this transaction will be July 1 2014.
Current production from these assets is approximately 65 million cubic feet per day equivalent of which about 60% is natural gas.
Year-end 2013 net reserves were approximately 38 million barrels of oil equivalent.
The transaction is expected to close in September and we intend to use the proceeds to call and retire our $600 million of senior subordinated notes due in 2018.
This will reduce our long-term debt to under $2.6 billion and lowers our debt-to-EBITDA by approximately $2 billion to $1.5 billion.
As I articulated before we believe that managing growth and balance sheet strength need to go hand-in-hand.
We will adjust our full year production estimates for the sale of our Granite Wash assets at closing which is expected toward the end of the third quarter.
Let me quickly update you on the sales process for our China business.
We've completed our underwater repairs to the jacket and are finalizing above-water repairs today.
We recently loaded our topside facilities on the installation barge and our plan is to find a suitable weather window to install the topside over the next month.
This will keep us on schedule for first oil production in the fourth quarter and 40 000 barrels a day of gross well from Pearl in late 2014 or early 2015.
We continue to work with our bid group on the planned sale of our China business and anticipate a resolution later this year.
We will keep you informed as more information is known.
I'll turn it over to Gary now for operations update.
Gary? Thanks Larry.
I'll start today in the Anadarko Basin.
SCOOP and STACK are very active today with over 40 rigs running.
The wells continued to perform extremely well.
We are seeing improvements in drilling costs.
We are now in full development in SCOOP South at optimal well spacing.
We now have about 85 000 net acres in SCOOP following the recent acreage additions.
Our production in the Anadarko Basin is more than 40 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day up more than 10 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day over our first year average.
With strong performance and execution we were able to make up our first quarter volume shortfall that resulted from infrastructure constraints and our 2014 growth forecasts are also increased.
SCOOP South our wells continued to perform above play average type curves.
In @NFX we updated the SCOOP Wet Gas results to reflect a new 5-well Yandell development plan.
These were XL wells with impressive production performance.
These wells had 30-day average production of nearly 1 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day and 730 barrels of oil equivalent per day after 90 days and these wells had an average oil cut of 41% over their first 90 days.
In addition we updated 30- 60- and 90-day production averages for our SCOOP Wet Gas SXLs.
These wells are still averaging 1 550 barrels of oil equivalent per day after 90 days.
Activity levels are increasing in North SCOOP which constitutes nearly half of our total SCOOP acreage.
We are drilling our first operated wells in north SCOOP today and own interest in about a dozen other outside-operated wells recently drilled in the area.
There are now 10 rigs running in north SCOOP of which 2 are Newfield operated.
We are encouraged with the results seen to date and look forward to sharing our operated results with you later this year.
We are on track to exceed our original production expectations for the year and are working closely with our midstream service provider to ensure the timely completion of planned gas compression updates throughout the balance of this year.
Let's move on to STACK where our efforts are focused on a few key objectives.
First drilling wells to hold acreage by production.
We're planning to drill about 200 SXL wells over the next several years to hold our position.
Second we are testing multiple geologic objectives including Upper and Lower Meramec and the Woodford.
These assessment efforts were balanced with our need to control acreage.
Third we are gathering valuable information on well spacing that will help us design the most efficient and profitable future development plan for this area.
We updated our well performance against the type curves for STACK in today's @NFX.
Longer term well performance on 7 wells in the 200 to 300-day time period you can see an uplift in projected performance and actual performance.
We have several new wells that are completing or recently completed and moving toward 30 days of production and expect to have an update for you later this fall.
We remain very encouraged with our oil production rates and how our gas-oil ratio is holding up over an extended period of time.
This studies a subset of more than 3 000 wells drilled in the area and our estimates for commodity split in our EURs appear to be very sound.
We are also seeing efficiency gains in drilling and completions.
We now project that we will drill 6 additional STACK wells in 2014 continuing to de-risk our play.
Increased well count is due to the efficiency improvements and refinement of our drilling programs.
As I previously mentioned we expect to have about half a dozen new STACK wells with 60- and 90-day rates in the third quarter and look forward to updating you then.
On to the Williston Basin and let me make a couple of quick remarks before jumping into the Uinta.
The Williston team has done a fantastic job continuing to lower well cost and executing in this high-return development play.
Year-to-date our 10 000-foot SXLs were drilled and completed for an average of $7.9 million including facilities.
This is down another $600 000 from our update in the first quarter.
Due to the drilling efficiencies and reduced time from rig release to first sales we expect to add another 8 wells into this year's capital program.
The second quarter production averaged more than 18 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day.
We are on track to grow our Williston production about 40% this year.
I will focus the remainder of today's call on the Uinta Basin.
Year-to-date our production in the Uinta Basin is running ahead of forecast primarily due to the improved production profile from our SXL wells in the Central Basin.
Our second quarter net Uinta production averaged 26 100 barrels of oil equivalent per day.
Let me provide a summary of key points today to help you understand why we are encouraged and how we intend to advance our learning curve to make these plays large-scale economic developments.
First the Uinta Basin offers us significant resource and a deep inventory of oil projects.
Furthermore we control it with high working interest and great access to service providers.
You hear us frequently refer to the Uinta Basin as a foundational asset.
The backbone of this asset is the giant Monument Butte waterflood but today's excitement is centered on the Central Basin and the recent results in our Uteland Butte and Wasatch horizontal plays.
Second we are very encouraged by the recent production performance from our SXLs in the Central Basin.
In today's @NFX you will find a summary of these results plotted against our type curves.
We are seeing strong early results over the 30- 60- and 90-day periods.
The third point is well documented through our actions.
We are committed to allocating our capital to the highest returns in our portfolio.
Our results today in the Uinta Basin demonstrate that these new plays will compete for future capital.
Our current SXLs are delivering returns of about 30% today.
We are actively advancing our learning curves to further improve profitability as we transition these plays to development.
Fourth we feel as a proven operator in the Uinta Basin -- we've been in the basin since 2004 and over the last decade have established a great track record in operating safely creating drilling and operational efficiencies and being a partner of choice with land owners and federal agencies and the Ute Tribe.
And lastly Uinta crude is a valuable feedstock with refining markets expanding in the Salt Lake City area as well as other new markets.
In addition recent new entrants are helping expedite rail transport and we believe that increasing competition for this oil will help improve our future realized prices.
A cross-section of the Uinta Basin can be found on Slide 7 in @NFX.
This places our Green River formation in context with our deeper horizontal plays in the North and the Central Basin.
We are today targeting the geopressured section in the Uteland Butte and the Wasatch.
This constitutes more than 1 400 feet of hydrocarbon column.
Yesterday we released results from our new SXL wells and plotted them against our previously published type curves.
On Slide 9 we detail our SXL program in the Central Basin.
Our recent 5 SXL wells had an average gross IP rate of about 2 100 barrels of oil equivalent per day and support our previously generated type-curve estimates.
We have plotted our recent wells against the type curves on pages 10 and 11.
Our well performance has been strong as seen on the 30- 60- and 90-day rates.
There's always a lot of interest in type curve performance so let me address this now.
In both the Uteland butte and the Wasatch we generated these projections over a year ago based on our early short XL well results.
In both cases we used a 2x scaling factor on those range of outcomes to project impact to the longer SXL wells.
It appears that this has been sound and we are very encouraged with the early results which generated 30% returns at early assessment well costs and are on a path for meaningful improvement.
Recall that these geopressured reservoirs -- that these are geopressured reservoirs and therefore do not require gas lift for well over 120 days.
Also remember we practice controlled flowback more consistently today than when the early SXLs that we used to develop our projections were produced.
On Page 13 we detail how our recent SXL wells in the Central Basin stack up against other high-potential developments in Newfield's portfolio.
As you can see on a 90-day cumulative production basis or on a revenue basis our SXL wells in the Uinta Basin compare very favorably to SCOOP our highest return play and surpass other well-known plays like the Williston Basin.
We are making critical advancements in 2 areas: increasing the productive capacity of our wells through longer laterals and improved completion and therefore lowering finding and development costs to improve returns.
Today we have seen improvement in our Uteland Butte play.
As you can see on Page 12 the time from spud to rig release has consistently decreased from 45 days to our recent best-in-class well of 31 days.
Costs on these recent wells are projected to be about $11.2 million and this is in line with our previous development range of $10.12 million for development in Uteland Butte.
From a return perspective we estimate that an 800 000-barrel Uteland Butte well drilled for less than $11 million will generate a rate of return of more than 45%.
As Lee said this play can and will compete in our portfolio.
In the Wasatch we have a more limited data set today to discuss with you but equally as exciting.
We plan to drill some additional wells through the balance of this year and we will use this information to determine our best path forward.
Production results from the Wasatch have equally been very strong.
However our well costs still remain at the high end of our $13 million to $15 million development forecast.
The resource provides ample encouragement to advance this program and we intend to apply the Uteland Butte learnings to the Wasatch and we'll keep you updated on our progress.
I'll turn this back to Lee for his closing comments.
Thanks Gary.
Thanks to all of you for dialing in today.
We appreciate your interest in our company.
You can tell from today's update that we are highly encouraged with our progress year-to-date.
As I said in my earlier remarks I'm extremely encouraged with our progress in the Central Basin and its position within our portfolio.
The results of our SXL wells are very strong and demonstrate the economic potential of the Uinta Basin.
Our Central Basin plays will add another large-scale oil play with decades of drilling inventory.
We're confident in our operating teams and we'll look to them to advance learnings curves to lower fining and development costs and improve our profitability and returns.
And we'll continue to share our progress as -- with you as we go.
In closing we remain focused on execution and delivering on our 3-year plan.
This plan combines liquids growth cash flow growth and improving margins and profitability.
Our transaction today to sell the Granite Wash goes a long way to improving the balance sheet and demonstrates our dedication to constantly high-grading our asset portfolio.
At this time we're happy to take your questions.
Operator? [Operator Instructions] We'll go first to Joe Allman with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> So just on the super extended laterals.
The Wasatch it appears to be performing on its -- it's just a few data points.
They're not necessarily a good statistical sampling but the Wasatch is underperforming the Uteland Butte.
Any geological reasons why that -- why you might predict that to hold true going forward? I would actually say Joe that I don't see it as underperforming.
I think the reference that you're making is when you look at Slide 10 that Gary talked about the Uteland Butte the 2 wells are shown quite above the top end of the range that we published back in December in terms of talking about our expectations from the play as we moved into drilling SXLs.
Including outperforming the type curves.
When you look closely at the Wasatch data you'll find out that the well on the bottom down there is tracking the 800 000 BOE curve.
That's the low end of the range for the Wasatch.
And the green well is tracking along the upper end of the range.
So when you put it all together the SXL wells in this data set are delivering an outcome in excess of 800 000 BOE per well and they've got incredibly strong early production which drives returns.
So I think that watching the type curves and looking at them well you made a good point.
Early on with a few data points you're going to see some noise.
But trust me we're very very encouraged with what we see here and there's a lot of data behind this.
And it reminds me a lot of the early discussions on STACK when we had to lay down on the type curve there.
Now we haven't laid down on our type curve that we've forecast.
That tells us that our technical teams are getting it right.
So we're excited.
Research Division</strong> No I mean clearly -- you have clearly great wells.
And so do you expect any differences between the 2? Or at this point now you geologically you expect them to perform about the same? Well I mean they're a little bit different geologically.
I mean we'd probably give you some color later this year or early next year when we update the portfolio.
But as far as production performance they're both in the same geopressured window and we've seen incredibly high productivity rates out of the wells.
So we'll probably see some well-to-well variability as we continue to drill across the acreage.
But if you look at the map in the handout I think the area that Gary and the teams have tested are probably some 14 15 miles east-west and 5 6 miles north-south.
So we've got a pretty big area that we've got this data set developing in now and it's a 1 400-foot section.
So Gary's comment on the Wasatch we've got more to do there because there's 1 200 feet of Wasatch section.
We have more data in the Uteland Butte as we drilled most of the early wells there to drive the learning curve.
So we're just farther along in the Uteland Butte but I expect both of them to be competitive.
We'll go next to Brian Singer at Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> How should we think about the Central Basin's success in the context of capital spending and production growth from the Uinta? In other words should we expect that you will spend less money than you planned and still meet your guidance? Spend the same amount of money and produce at higher levels? Spend more money and spend -- and produce at much higher levels? Or just you've got a greater inventory where you can maintain a rate of growth for a longer period of time? I think Brian the way I would look at it in the short term I think we've ended it.
Over the course of the last couple of years clearly the productivity that we're seeing out of these wells allows us to drive better production with lower capital input.
So that's the capital efficiency that Gary talked about.
So in the short term that's a great option inside of the portfolio.
When you look at the broader context of what's going on in the Uinta Basin and the positives in terms of 20 -- positives in terms of the entrants into the basin and driving volumes out of the basin on rail you're seeing some competitive movement there that we think is going to translate to improved margins.
So that will help with the returns.
At that point as we go through the planning process later this year or early next year we're going to give a hard look to what's the optimal capital allocation into the Uinta Basin how we're competing where are we on the learning curves.
I think as Gary told you the first half dozen wells generating 30-plus percent rates of return sounds a lot like the STACK story that we told a year ago.
So we're very excited.
I think this is a material positive improvement and it's going to provide other options.
As competition for the crude grows inside and outside the basin and people become cognizant of the magnitude of this resource -- which in Newfield's 230 000-acre footprint we've got over 1 billion barrels net to Newfield recoverable resource exciting stuff.
So when you start thinking about that translating I think out beyond the 2015/2016 time frame we're probably look to drive incremental growth out of the Uinta.
Research Division</strong> And it sounds like based on your comments on the refinery expansion say on the rail that you've got confidence that that's coming.
Is there a specific time where it all kind of -- where you reach critical mass from a takeaway perspective? Or is it just incremental per year? I'll let Larry and Gary give you some color because they're both involved.
Yes as far as -- I mean we'll see a significant ramp-up in the HollyFrontier refining capacity starting in late 2015 and that will continue through 2016.
We've layered in a third contract in there and that's bringing our volumes up to 41 000 and -- I think a little over 41 000 barrels a day or so.
But I'm excited about and I think Lee alluded to it earlier with the increased use of rail coming out of the basin I think that's really a game changer for us.
And as we see these results and returns continually to improve I think there's going to be opportunities for us to reach beyond that and access some of that rail market and really drive some incremental volumes.
We'll go next to Leo Mariani with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> I just wanted to get a little bit more color in terms of the Uinta.
You talked about how you guys were targeting the geopressured zones in the Uteland Butte as well as the Wasatch.
I'm just curious is this formation -- are these 2 formations pretty much geopressured across the whole Central Basin? And how do you guys think about prospectivity for these formations? You talked about an area that was I guess roughly 15 by 6 miles or whatever.
But do you think potentially this extends kind of well beyond that? Maybe talk to how you get to that 1 billion BOE of kind of recoverables.
Yes really it was reference to the Uinta Basin and that will be more fairly -- fully updated later in the year.
How you should think about the geopressured section is we have about 70 000 acres in that area that's defined in the @NFX and that entire area is geopressured.
Others have pursued the Uteland Butte elsewhere but that was in the normally pressured section quite a ways to the west.
So you ought to think about that entire section as being defined as that geopressured window which runs about 0.75 psi per foot.
And that really explains some of that early strong productivity you see in the type curves.
LLC Research Division</strong> All right.
That's helpful.
And I guess just jumping over to some of the asset sales.
Obviously you guys have sold the Granite Wash.
You're working on China.
And now that with Granite Wash how should we think about use of proceeds for a China sale here? It certainly seems as though you guys have a lot of capital coming in the door here in the next year.
Yes so China has been earmarked to cover the deficit that we have going into next year.
And so once we get China resolved you'll see us pay down the debts that they were now building.
And so that was always the plan for it and we'll be consistent with that.
We'll go next to Gil Yang with DISCERN.
Inc</strong> Great results in the Uinta.
I guess the increase in the HollyFrontier refining capacity sort of explains the pickup in the volumes you anticipate in 2016.
But given the results of improved market leave recently with the recent well results and that that transportation was sort of -- agreement was sort of set up a couple of years ago if I recall you must be pretty aggressively looking for the ability to expand.
So how do you sort of see your eagerness to expand that capacity? As well as how do you expect capital spending to ramp up in that region to meet that increased commitment? Well clearly the capacity is going to be out there for us.
At the end of the day it all comes down to the capital allocation.
That's really going to be part of our -- the planning process that we previously mentioned in 2015 and 2016 although we've already confirmed through our own behaviors last year in moving to 300 barrels out and what we believe is a substantial volume leaving the basin today via rail that the market exists.
So that's not something we need to explore.
And we think it ought to ultimately over the long term capture a higher commodity pricing.
So while we're quite interested in that again it comes back to a capital allocation decision.
And we're going to just invest in those returns that are the highest within the portfolio.
And Gil I'll pick up on your reference to a couple of years ago.
You're correct those refining agreements were virtually signed late '11 early '12 and it was 20 000 barrels a day of incremental capacity in Salt Lake City.
And what we said at that time we signed those agreements they allow us to underpin our forward planning to prove the resource drive down the learning curve and get this resource recognized to where it could compete against other crudes.
So I think we're well along that path.
I think the fact that we signed all of that capacity up.
Part 2 of that was other industry players as they start talking about growth needed to pursue other alternatives.
And we're very careful to say that we had all we needed at least through 2015 and 2016 and they've come in the other entrants and they're driving the market and driving the rail.
So I think you're seeing all the pieces come together now.
We're really happy to have the new entrants.
I think they're adding to the vitality in the basin.
And these well results this is a 3-year odyssey getting to this point.
So we're very very excited.
And I can assure you to Gary's point these projects competing at the front end of the line they're going to draw capital.
We'll go next to Michael Rowe with TPH.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> I was wondering just on -- sort of shifting gears to Anadarko Basin here.
As you get more production history for the STACK on the 11 operated wells you've got do you feel like it's outperforming your initial expectations in terms of oil cuts? I think you touched earlier about the GOR staying relatively flat kind of over time.
So can you just kind of help us think about how GOR will change throughout the life of the well based on what you know today and how that kind of fits into your 40% oil cut that you have for the life of the well in your type curve? Yes Michael.
I mean the wells are performing as we originally had predicted.
And as far as the GOR I mean I think one of the keys to how the wells are continuing to hang in there is in fact that we've seen good stability in the GORs over time.
As I alluded in my prepared comments the wells that we've -- we have identified all the wells that have produced from that Meramac STACK section across that entire area.
And when you actually look at the GOR performance on those wells they come out -- and even as far as 10 and 15 years out in the future they're still producing at 6 000 and 8 000 GOR.
So this is -- while many have had concerns that a lot of these oil reservoirs will come out and produce -- kind of blow down and produce basically dead oil that's not what the data has kind of supported.
And this is over -- the data we have actually looks out as far as 10 and 15 years.
And I think that some of the key to the strong production we're seeing and how -- the flattening of the curve that you see out there.
Yes and I would say just to add into the other part -- I think Part 2 of your question which I was buried up in the early part of the question performance.
The STACK play has been in line with our expectations in line with the published type curves.
So we're very excited about what we're seeing and the fact that we're now looking at data that's 2-plus years long on horizontal wells to go with the 15-plus years that Gary was talking about in the vertical wells it looks like everything is holding together very very well.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
I appreciate the color on that.
And then just one last question would be can you talk about the uplift that you're seeing from a reduced cluster spacing and any upsized profit? And kind of what you're -- what any plans you have on that front are going forward to kind of tweak the design on the completion? Specifically you're talking about STACK I take it Michael? Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> That's correct.
Yes it's something that we're always continuing to tweak.
I think we upsized our completions there.
There's been a lot of discussion we've seen in the basin from comments from some of the other operators that we've seen out there that have suggested that the upside completions are appropriate.
And those other operators are basically stimulating their plants with completion practices very similar to what we've adopted.
We got down as tight as some of the more recent wells so a 50-foot cluster spacing and we've seen good response from that.
I don't know where it will ultimately shake out.
At this early stage we'll continue to watch that.
But one of the things that I think is important just to see that we're getting this right is when you see those -- as we add in those 60- and 90-day numbers out in the future you're seeing the actuals actually slide up high relative to the type curve and get continually flatter.
And I think that's an important mark the tighter spacing.
And I think where you -- we have anywhere between 32 and 35 stages is feeling about right.
We'll go next to Dave Kistler with Simmons &amp; Company.
Research Division</strong> Real quickly in the Central Basin you guys talk about having 1 200 feet of prospective play in that geopressured area.
And I guess with more specifically the Uteland Butte having 100 to 200.
How do you think about landing laterals and the process of figuring out how to optimize performance of the wells that you land those laterals? Yes it's a good question Dave.
And a lot of that has already started even though we don't have a lot of SXL data.
Recall that we do have XL data out there that we've utilized.
At a high level the Uteland Butte's a carbonate.
It's a dolomite.
And we've already changed our landing zone and we've seen the reason for some of the more recent overperformance or strong performance in the Uteland Butte.
We attribute it to that changing your landing zones within that rather narrow section.
Now as we think about the Wasatch and the fact that it's 1 200 foot we have already -- and if you'll refer to the slide that in the @NFX there's a series of red stars.
And what those illustrate for you is is that we've actually tested 3 different sections within the Wasatch which is actually a sand and all 3 of those are -- have been very productive.
So while we have a lot more work to do as far as producing and drilling across the acreage we have in the very early days tested across that entire 1 200 foot successfully.
And Dave remember we had 50 vertical wells that we drilled out here that had on average 6 completions through the Wasatch interval.
So we've got copious amounts of data across the acreage footprint that -- we've got Mobil Oil good strong vertical inflow.
So it's not a mystery in terms of thinking about how much oil is there and I think we just need to knock down some additional tests and -- in the layers as we work through the section and continue to broaden the footprint on the SXLs in the Wasatch just a thicker interval.
But everything is positive at this point.
Research Division</strong> Sure -- no I appreciate that.
I guess where I was going with it is kind of what the possibility is on a longer term basis for stacked laterals in the play.
Yes clearly that's what it's going to be all about.
We've actually already done some of that already.
We've done some early pilots that are kind of in the weeds as far as what we're talking about today.
But we've already done some stacked pilots in the section between a couple of the horizons and it really got some great learnings from that that we'll be able to share more fully when we get on the road to see it.
Research Division</strong> Great.
Appreciate that.
A follow-up would be just when you think about what you're doing in the Central Basin how are you utilizing restricted chokes at this point? Are you or are you not? Obviously you've had success doing that in the STACK and the SCOOP.
Just thinking about how that rolls over.
Rigorously using the controlled flowback techniques.
It's most notably seen and I've referred to that previously in the call in the Wasatch production -- I mean early days we're using XL wells before we were really utilizing controlled flow and that's what these early type curves were generated from.
In the advent of using those you can see that we're producing a flatter more extended early data.
Specifically in the Wasatch but we're doing the same thing in the Uteland Butte.
And when you actually look at the cumulative production over time versus that type curve we're right on or ahead of where we wanted to be.
And we think that's a real key probably even more importantly Dave in the geopressured reservoirs to try to maintain and track that reservoir energy that we have in the rock versus producing it more aggressively early days.
So Dave to give you a feel early days in these wells when they're flowing back the teams were seeing flowing pressures in excess of 3 000 psi.
So if you wanted a flashy 24 hour IP rate we can give it to you.
North of 3 000 psi wouldn't be a problem at all.
We've really bought in the controlled flowback managing the drawdown early days in the completion phase is an optimization issue and we're doing it across the portfolio.
We're continuing to do it.
But very very strong wells.
We'll go next to Dan Braziller with Jefferie.
Research Division</strong> Some concerns I've heard regarding the STACK specifically that it might be more of a conventional play than a shale play.
I'm just wondering how you guys respond to that.
And if you can quantify shale composition in STACK versus SCOOP? And then along with that what do you need to see in the STACK before you're comfortable accelerating development here? Possibly from the asset sale proceeds rather than using those to improve the balance sheet? Well I'll take the first one and then I'll let Gary talk about -- Gary and Larry talk about what they're thinking in terms of optimization in allocation.
The easiest piece of data I can give you to let you know that whoever you're talking to about the Meramec doesn't know anything about the Meramec is that we had to go to the state of Oklahoma and provide a core sample to get it classified as a shale.
The state of Oklahoma which dictates these things has classified it as a shale.
We've provided core data indicative of that.
And therefore the conversation about conventional and not shale I mean depends on where you go in the play.
But the area we're developing it's a shale.
We wouldn't be able to drill the 1 280-acre spacing units in Oklahoma if it weren't shale.
Okay? So I'll let part 2 to go to Gary and Larry.
Larry? Yes I would say that if your question was would we accelerate any of these resource plays like the STACK with additional asset sales you saw that we sold the Granite Wash and that's creating lots of financial flexibility for the company.
With China on the horizon that's additional flexibility depending on the proceeds we'll get.
And so I see that the -- as the play gets de-risked we will evaluate every option to accelerate.
And I think the moves we've made has prepared our company for the balance sheet to pursue any of those things.
We'll go next to Rehan Rashid with FBR Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> Just maybe going back to Uinta.
Any kind of color around what's the oil in place for the Wasatch in the Uteland Butte? We're not ready to release that.
Are you talking about on a per-section basis? Research Division</strong> Yes.
Yes indeed.
Indeed.
Let us pull all the rest of the technical data we gather between now and the end of the year and we'll find the right place and time to put more of that information out.
But it's very large.
Research Division</strong> Okay good.
And looking at the type curve I'm just trying to figure out how to compare.
So in the type curve did you say earlier that managed flow was not going to be reflected in that? And then also in the type curve again to make the actuals kind of be more comparable how was artificial lift kind of brought in? Is that at the beginning? Or kind of same place where you have it today? Yes.
Well first of all and I think Lee alluded to this earlier we had about a dozen or so Uteland Butte normally -- or a dozen or so Uteland Butte XL wells.
And in a later time there we had been practicing controlled flowback and those are reflected in the type curves that were generated and so forth.
In the Uteland when I look at the Wasatch we only had a handful of wells that were drilled there.
And that use of controlled flowback at the time those XL wells were drilled and therefore when the type curves were generated didn't fully incorporate that.
So that's really the difference there.
Now as far as the timing of our artificial lift as you might have imagined Rehan the early XL wells had gas lift installed typically at about 2 months which is very long and extended versus many of these resource plays that require it very early on.
Because we're drilling the longer laterals we anticipated that it would take a little longer for it to require artificial lift.
So this is all pretty much reflected in these numbers.
Whether it was 90 or 120 days in the original plan I don't know but I suspect we're going to -- as we continue to refine our targeting we'll probably see the time that these things require to go on artificial lift be extended.
And also Rehan Gary made a point earlier just to reiterate.
The Central Basin acreage Uteland Butte/Wasatch is pretty hard pressure.
You're talking 0.75 0.8 psi per foot.
So it's anomalous relative to most of the plays you're talking about.
We want to be very very careful on this overpressured environment that we manage the wells the right way.
So we'll learn more.
As we get some more wells on line we'll continue to optimize.
But I -- if you look at the 30- 60- 90-day rates that's a pretty strong indication.
We've given all the data in there.
The consistency between the wells 5 wells averaging north of 2 000 BOE per day 24 hour IP strong performance out past the 90 days flowing on their own.
Those are all good ingredients and we like the play for those reasons.
We'll go next to David Heikkinen with Heikkinen Energy Advisors.
LLC</strong> As I think about the Granite Wash sale and it was a core asset several years ago.
And now looking at the evolution of the company with the Uinta large resource and a lot of interval stack in the same situation how do you first think about the Williston and your Maverick or Eagle Ford assets as core areas beyond the original 3-year plan? Well I think firstly you're right on all counts.
I mean Granite Wash assets are a hugely important positive asset for the company.
I mean it was part of our early efforts into the unconventional space.
It's a great asset.
We haven't drilled any wells there in 3 years.
So it's been on decline.
We've been fighting that decline to overcome the decline.
When we look at our portfolio the opportunities are evolving.
The depth and the quality are such that as much as I love that asset -- and I was there and helped build it right? Not being able to see in a time frame that makes any sense to any of us the ability to go back there and think about drilling wells it just makes sense to monetize it at attractive price put it in the hands of somebody that might have a different view or a different need take the proceeds and apply them constructively to the balance sheet and just continue to strengthen the company.
I mean this is not a 2014 event.
This has been a 3- or 4-year effort to get to this point.
We like where we're at and I think every step that we're taking makes us a little stronger and puts us in a better position to have multiple options to optimize.
So I think on that front I'll miss the Granite Wash I really will but I think we got a really really attractive price.
As far as the Williston and the Eagle Ford most of our portfolio is dominated by oil.
They're generating attractive returns.
They're in full development mode.
They play an important role and a constructive role in the 3-year planning horizon.
Williston Basin as a team continues to drive costs down the inventory expands.
We like that.
And our team has done some good work along the Gulf coast in terms of expanding some of our inventory under the old Fashing fields.
So we've got not just the Eagle Ford now and the Maverick we've got some Gulf Coast Eagle Ford that's getting mixed in there as well.
So I think all of that fits well with what we're doing and we're actually using the learnings in development mode to apply to the earlier assessment plays like STACK in the Central Basin.
We're taking the learnings out of those plays and applying them.
So I think they all fit together.
And most importantly Eagle Ford and Williston Basin are free cash flow-positive in terms of where they're at in the cycle.
So they just -- they fit with what we're doing and they're core and central to our liquids strategy and fit well in the 3-year plan.
LLC</strong> Just to sure the Gulf Coast Eagle Ford that's the first time I've heard that phrase.
Is that the equivalent of the Upper Eagle Ford or Lower Austin Chalk Eagle Ford combo? It's just a new name for the same thing? It's a small acreage footprint that we have in our old Fashing field.
You may recall we sold the shallow rights there some years ago.
We retained the Eagle Ford.
I'm just letting you know that it's part of the overall mix there.
It's not a large footprint.
It's something constructive that the team has done to add value.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And then in the STACK how many zones do you expect to be developing as you head forward and test? I'd love to give you the absolute final answer but we're -- as Gary indicated earlier in the call we're too early to know the answer.
I know that we've tested successfully 3 different horizons in the 700-foot intervals but I'm guessing that it'll be 3 to 5.
It depends on how close you can get in vertical dimension.
And we haven't done anything there to really work on the 3-dimensional spacing problem.
But I think we've got it in spades in terms of an issue that we need to work in the Uinta Basin.
We're working it in STACK.
And it's just something that we'll keep you guys appraised of as we look forward over the next 2 or 3 years.
Our priority in STACK is HBP.
Those 200 wells that Gary was talking about protect 400 sections.
So when you think about the acreage footprint it's a big deal average working interest north of 60%.
We want to take care of that acreage.
It's our first priority.
So that's our focus.
We have time for 2 more questions.
We'll go next to Phillip Pennell with Mariner Investment Group.
Yes Lee on the point that you just mentioned in terms of HBP.
From a cost standpoint how much additional benefit do you get from SXL as opposed to shorter laterals? Just in terms of derisking held-by-production in that play.
I'll give you my answer and then I'll let Gary give you some additional color since he's obviously on the ground.
I mean I think that we've proved to ourselves the most sufficient well to drill is the SXL well.
We've proved it in each one of the plays the we're operating in.
When you look at the drill times in a lateral protecting 2 sections with 1 well as opposed to drilling 2 wells we'll take the longer lateral everywhere that we can drill it.
Now is there an economic outcome with drilling short laterals? Absolutely.
As we move down the well curve there'll probably be some areas that we and others will drill at 5 000 feet.
But our preference is to drill 10 000-foot laterals everywhere that we can.
I have nothing to add Lee.
I think that's the plan.
It makes sense to us to hold the acreage as quickly as we can.
Okay.
So everything in terms of what you're trying to accomplish that make sense.
In terms of the Granite Wash what was the -- of the 40% liquids cut what was the mix of NGL in that? I think if I'm remembering the condensate volumes on a daily basis were just inside of 1 500 barrels and the balance is in NGLs.
And we'll go take our last question today from Jeffrey Campbell with Tuohy Brothers Investment Research.
Inc.</strong> Returning quickly to the issue of lateral length I mean I'm just curious if you could add a little bit of color as to why the Yandell development was done on an XL instead of an SXL.
And what's kind of the go-forward plan on SCOOP and STACK with regards to trying to increase the percentage of laterals drilled in the SXL rather than the XL? I'll let Gary take that one.
Yes it's 2 different things Jeffrey.
One as you move to the west in certain areas we get deeper and that's going to limit the lateral length that we can drill just operationally.
So you ought to be thinking about wells on a combined basis are going to be between 21 000 and maybe 22 000 feet overall.
So as I get -- drill deeper the laterals get shorter.
We would drill 10 000-foot laterals at every opportunity.
But in some cases we also won't own the offset sections to complete the DSU.
I think our Gregory pad that we drilled last year was also an example of where we have extraordinary production from an XL well that's benefited from all these learnings that we've had.
So we're not going to blink and deviate from the SXL plan and the only places that we'll drill are in those cases that I just defined.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
So just to quickly paraphase what you said if we see an XL where -- it's either as a result of a geology or blocking up the acreage.
But otherwise it's going to be SXLs? Well said.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
And I guess my other question was with regard to capital allocation.
You highlighted in the press release that the Anadarko Basin is currently getting about 45% of CapEx.
And I was just wondering going forward is this going to level off as some of the other plays like the Uinta ramp-up? Or can it still hold as a percentage or maybe even gain in percentage as the STACK drilling begins to increase? Well I've listened to Gary answer the variations to this question for most of the last couple of years.
And he points out that we've been drilling in the Anadarko Basin SCOOP and STACK plays now for about 3 years and we've been accelerating since the day we started.
So first year was $300 million spend and then $500 million and then $700 million.
So we have been accelerating.
I would expect that the returns continue to be competitive that we'll continue to push capital in that direction.
Our focus again to the 3-year plan is getting back to where our cash flow from operations and CapEx are in balance.
Beyond that it's an optimization game.
And I think that having multiple options in the portfolio you have SCOOP STACK and the Uinta Basin to drill high-return.
Oil wells is a high-class problem.
And I think that we're pretty doggone excited about that.
When you think about the Uinta and the focus today in the call it's a bit like the movie Field of Dreams.
If you build it they will come.
And that's what we've done.
So there's a bright bright future ahead and these assets are going to be core and central to Newfield for a long long time.
That does conclude today's question-and-answer session.
I'd now like to turn the conference back over to our speakers for any additional or closing remarks.
Well I'd just like to thank everybody for dialing in today.
I hope you can tell that we're both excited and confident.
I want to compliment our think teams on extraordinarily top-flight work that they've been doing to deliver results across the portfolio.
We look forward to continuing to update you on our progress the rest of the year and more goods news to come.
Thank you.
And ladies and gentlemen thank you for your participation.
This will conclude today's conference.
Good day everyone and welcome to Newfield Exploration's Third Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
Just a reminder today's call is being recorded.
And before we get started one housekeeping matter.
Our discussion with you today will contain forward-looking statements such as strategic initiatives and plans estimated production and timing drilling and development plans expected cost reductions and planned capital expenditures.
Although we believe that the expectations reflected in these statements are reasonable they are based upon assumptions and anticipated results that are subject to numerous uncertainties and risks.
Actual results may vary significantly from those anticipated due to many factors and risks some of which may be unknown.
Please see Newfield's 2013 Annual Report on Form 10-K and subsequent quarterly reports on Forms 10-Q for a discussion of factors that may cause actual results to vary.
Forward-looking statements made during this call speak only as of today's date and unless legally required Newfield undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements.
In addition reconciliations of non-GAAP financial measures to GAAP financial measures together with Newfield's earnings release and any other applicable disclosures are available on the Investor Relations page of Newfield's website at www.newfield.com.
Before turning the call over to the Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer Mr.
Lee Boothby let me provide a housekeeping request.
[Operator Instructions] Now Mr.
Lee Boothby please go ahead sir.
Thank you operator.
Good morning and thanks for joining our third quarter conference call.
It's hard to believe that 2014 is nearly behind us.
This has certainly been a great year for Newfield and our operational momentum will carry us into 2015.
Newfield posted another solid quarter and we've continued our solid track record of execution across the company.
Our third quarter production was 500 000 barrels above our guidance midpoint and our full year production is now navigating to the high end of our production guidance.
As you can see at @NFX we again raised our expectations for production from our 4-key focus areas.
We're delivering on our 3-year plan which combines strong liquids growth cash flow growth and balances our annual investment levels with cash flow in 2016.
The last 8 weeks in the energy markets have been brutal.
We were all reminded that oil is still a commodity and resets and equity valuations can rapidly occur.
Cycles are an inevitable part of our business.
And after more than 1/4 century Newfield has certainly navigated through several commodity cycles.
We have a proven track record in making sound business decisions and we have a deeper portfolio of opportunities today than ever before.
We have a strong hedge position and we have options.
And that places us in a very good position today.
Over the last month we've been evaluating a range of oil price planning scenarios and testing the economic sensitivities around our investment programs.
Although we don't plan to officially issue our updated 3-year plan until February there are some interesting takeaways from our ongoing work that I'll share with you this morning.
Following my remarks we will briefly cover our financial and operating results for the third quarter.
Last night's @NFX publication summarized our recent operating highlights and our Chief Executive Officer Gary Packer will provide additional details and update you on the great progress we are making across our operating areas.
As always we will be happy to take your questions at the end of the call.
Since the beginning of 2013 we've been managing our company under a rolling 3-year plan and the fundamentals of this plan will remain largely unchanged.
Number one we will continue to focus on liquids-rich plays.
Under any foreseeable near-term scenario we still see oil as the right commodity for our investments.
Our natural gas assets are HBP and will remain a great option for future investment.
We will continue to make investments that will grow our economic inventory and build for future success.
Secondly we are moving toward balance between our cash flow and our annual capital investments.
Our rapid oil growth cash flow growth and improving margins are working to close the gap and we expect 2016 to be the time period where we will achieve balance under various commodity price scenarios.
This operating and financial discipline is important and at Newfield it is a priority.
And third we will flex our investments to deliver attractive liquids growth optimize our rates of return and preserve financial strength.
Having a few focus areas provides us with options and we will continuously work to modify our investments to deliver the best outcomes for our stockholders.
Our planning efforts can be summarized by addressing a few key questions.
Number one oil prices.
How low? How long? And what's the impact on our 3-year plan? We have significantly hedged our oil production for 2015 and 2016 and recently added positions in 2017.
Newfield has long believed in hedging as a prudent way to mitigate risk to the business plan by ensuring cash flow and returns.
We are one of the most hedged companies in the peer group today and our hedges are well above the current strip prices.
Today we're about 80% hedged for 2015 and have protected a $90 oil price.
Our 2016 volumes are about 60% hedged at a similar price.
And the recently added hedges in 2017 total about 20% of production protecting a high $80s oil price.
Our 3-year plan is based on a $90 oil forecast.
We estimate that a $10 drop in oil price would impact our 2015 cash flows by about $65 million.
Again illustrating our hedges go a long way to protect cash flow and preserve the foundation of our 3-year plan.
If oil prices navigate to an $80 world service costs will undoubtedly reset.
By design we typically hedge forward a significant portion of our production over a 2- to 3-year period.
This protects our returns while service costs reset and margins improve.
How do we best flex our investments to maximize returns and advance the company? Question number two.
But we are fortunate to have options.
Our belief that having more than one investment region is reinforced in times like today.
Our capital investments consistently shift to maximize returns optimize oil production and grow cash flow.
Our highest-return investment region today is the Anadarko Basin of Oklahoma.
There is a gravitational pull to add activity in our SCOOP Springer Shale and STACK plays.
All of the investment scenarios we are considering for 2015 have an increasing percentage of our capital being allocated to the Anadarko Basin.
In SCOOP we are in field development and the efficiencies of pad drilling are evident.
As you can see in our @NFX publication we continue to drive well costs lower in STACK and are encouraged by the great results from our recent STACK lateral spacing test of the Upper and Lower Meramec Shale.
We will be increasing our activity levels in STACK as we drill to hold acreage and continue to prove up more development inventory for our future.
Our new Springer Shale play is providing very high returns and also we received dedicated rig activity during our 2015-2016 programs.
In the Uinta we remain encouraged and results from our recent Central Basin horizontal program continue to bear fruit.
Our recent wells have strong production results.
They're all SXLs and we are pushing well costs lower to improve returns.
We will continue to push forward in this high-potential oil play.
Without a doubt our operations in the Bakken continue to get more efficient allowing us to deliver more for less.
Last night we again posted new best-in-class wells in the Bakken drilling and completing SXLs for under $7 million.
These are highly efficient operations.
The key takeaway today is clear.
Newfield has high-quality options.
We will consider multiple scenarios and put forward the best plan to maximize oil growth grow cash flow improve returns balance our budget in the planned period and to add inventory for the future.
Our workforce today has been focused and mobilized to work STACK geologic plays in liquids-rich resource areas and can easily be shifted to ensure we align our talented people the best in the business with the best projects in our portfolio.
Number three what's the most appropriate level of investment under a reduced oil price environment? As I mentioned earlier we are running scenarios in oil prices ranging from the mid-$70s to the mid-$90s.
Consistent with our past practices our hedges will not be used to justify drilling in plays with inferior economics.
Our 3-year plan outlined expected annual investments of $1.6 billion to $1.8 billion in the 2015-2016 time horizon.
These are still appropriate bookings today with an $80 oil price likely causing us to shift investment levels towards the lower end of this range.
At the low end of our investment range I'm confident we can still deliver strong production growth in 2015.
Our solid performance over the last 2 years has created momentum and we will work to keep our standing as a top-tier oil growth company.
Again we plan to issue a more comprehensive update to our 3-year plan in February 2015.
Larry Massaro our CFO will now cover our third quarter financial results before turning the call over to Gary.
Larry? Thanks Lee and good morning everyone.
Third quarter production was 12.7 million barrels equivalent surpassing the midpoint of our guidance by 0.5 million barrels.
The sale of our Granite Wash had a small impact on the third quarter production and you will notice in our guidance that it impacts the fourth quarter by approximately 900 000 barrels.
Our year-to-date outperformance can be attributed to contributions for each of our focus areas.
With all key plays coming in ahead of guidance our domestic liquids production growth was up 7% over the prior quarter and 40% over year.
In the areas we are focusing all of our capital total production from 2014 is expected to be up over 50%.
Our cash flow in the quarter excluding changes in working capital was $321 million which equates to about $2.32 per diluted share.
Earnings during the quarter excluding the items listed in our release related to unrealized derivative gains were $72 million or $0.52 per share.
We met both cash flow and earnings expectations once again.
Our cash costs on a unit of production basis were in line with our earlier guidance projections and we should continue to see improvement over the 3-year plan.
During the quarter we received cash from nonstrategic asset sales of approximately $600 million the proceeds of which were used to cull and retire the $600 million of senior subordinated notes that were due in 2018.
This reduced our total debt to approximately $2.7 billion and lowers our debt-to-EBITDA to less than 2.
As Lee mentioned our plan is designed around improving several distinct metrics: liquids growth cash flow and managing the balance sheet.
The decision to monetize nonstrategic assets and strengthen our balance sheet has helped protect us in softening oil price environment.
Even with softer prices our portfolio is very resilient today offering both scale and quality.
The cornerstone of this program is Anadarko Basin.
The STACK and SCOOP plays have years of drilling inventory and are providing us with 30% to 50% rates of return even at today's lower oil price.
Our hedges are very strong and ensure that approximately 70% of our oil production over the next 2 years will get $90 price without further deterioration.
The foundation of our 3-year plan is sound and it will continue to be optimized as we adjust our plan to the market.
We intend to deliver on our objectives.
Let me quickly update you on the sales process for China business.
In August we set our production facility at Pearl and are today drilling development wells on the field.
We expect to have first oil production in November.
In early 2015 we expect the facility to produce at the peak gross rate of 40 000 barrels of oil per day.
We continue to work with our bid group to divest our China business and anticipate resolution later this year.
We will keep you informed on the progress of this sale.
I'll turn it over to Gary now for operations update.
Gary? Thanks Larry.
Let's start our operations update this morning in the Anadarko Basin where we continue to add acreage.
We now have 275 000 net acres up 25 000 acres since our last update.
Our Anadarko Basin production in the third quarter was 45 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day up more than 15% over second quarter and doubled over our comparable period in 2013.
As you know our year-end exit target was 50 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day.
We reached this milestone in the third quarter and now expect to average nearly 50 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day for the fourth quarter.
Our SCOOP midstream partner has done an excellent job keeping pace with our growth and recently completed significant upgrade to our system adding 75 million cubic feet a day of new capacity.
Today we have capacity to move 275 million cubic feet a day of gas and additional expansions are planned early next year.
We are in development in our SCOOP -- South SCOOP play and continue to see very strong well performance.
Our recent Briar pad came online during the quarter.
This is a 5-well pad with 4 of our wells being drilled as recent infills.
The Briar #1 and #2 average 1 250 barrels of oil equivalent per day over a 60-day period.
The Briar 3 and 4 are more recent and averaged 1 375 barrels of oil equivalent per day over a 30-day period.
These wells have a 10 000-foot lateral and 50% of our production is oil.
As we've said before the [indiscernible] SCOOP is multiple stacked horizons to pursue.
The first was a new play recently announced the Springer.
Stay tuned for more in 2015 and '16.
In the third quarter we disclosed our first operated well in the Springer the Jarred.
The well had a lateral length of less than 5 000 feet and initial production of nearly 2 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day of which 85% was black oil.
The well's 30-day average production was 1 220 barrels of oil equivalent per day and the oil percentage remained at about 81%.
This is an exciting new play and lies within our SCOOP acreage footprint.
The Springer has higher porosity and permeability than the Woodford and is slightly geopressured.
To date we have participated in 9 wells and will be participating in about a dozen more wells over the next few months.
Industry is today running 8 rigs in the play and we are planning an active operated rig program here in 2015.
We will have more details to share with you early next year.
Our recent drilling in STACK has helped the production delineate about 2/3 of our acreage.
in today's @NFX you will see a graphic depicting step-out locations and 30-day rates on some important recent wells.
We continue to see great results across our acreage position and are growing more confident every day about the scope and scale of this large resource development and try saying scope and scale and SCOOP and STACK in the same paragraph fast.
We recently tested our first STACK laterals in the STACK play 2 wells drilled in the Upper and Lower Meramec Shale.
The Connie and Freeman wells spaced 880 feet apart at the surface and were stacked 275 feet apart in the Meramec.
These upper and lower spacing tests have excellent well performance.
The wells had a 30-day average gross of 935 and 680 barrels of oil equivalent per day respectively.
The average oil percentage was 86%.
These STACK laterals have been online for 90 days and we've seen no interference between these wells.
Although it's very early both wells are performing above the type curve for the play.
We are highly encouraged with these tests which confirm the ability to have multiple development layers within the Meramec Shale.
Our drilling program today is helping the production delineate our acreage of tomorrow and provide confidence in our future development of this play.
The recent John well was drilled near the northwest boundary of our acreage.
This was a significant step-out and we now have strong well results more than 30 miles apart.
This is a -- there's a graphic at @NFX that depicts the size of this development.
Our 2014 program had several key objectives: holding our acreage through drilling; early testing of well spacing patterns for full field development; and importantly testing the STACK potential in multiple horizons.
We are progressing all of our objectives and continue to see improvement in our well cost and our rates of return.
Recent well costs in STACK have been around $10 million with a new best-in-class well at $9.8 million.
Our drilling and completion teams are doing a great job in the field and we know the learning curve will continue to advance.
Let me make a few quick comments about the Williston Basin before jumping into the Uinta.
Our Williston team continues to set the standard for development plays in this basin and they are delivering excellent results.
Year-to-date our 10 000-foot SXLs have averaged $7.5 million including facilities.
This was down another $400 000 from our update last quarter.
A recent best-in-class well was drilled and completed for $6.8 million including facilities.
The well had an IP of nearly 2 800 barrels of oil equivalent per day gross and averaged nearly 900 700 and 600 barrels equivalent per day over the first 30- 60- and 90-day periods respectively.
Our third quarter net production averaged more than 19 000 barrels a day of which 83% was liquids.
We are on track to grow our Williston production nearly 50% this year.
Next year's program we get the full benefit of these learning curves and we expect to deliver more for less as we do in each of our plays as we advance this development.
Our Uinta production has exceeded our beginning-of-the-year forecast by more than 800 000 barrels and we expect the year-over-year production will be up 15%.
Recall that our beginning-of-year projection was for 5% growth.
During the second quarter we released about a half dozen SXL wells and we are running 3 rigs in the Central Basin horizontal plays today.
We expect to have a similar update for you early next year.
Our most recent wells continue to show strong productivity and cost improvements.
A new best-in-class SXL was drilled and completed for under $11 million.
Lower completed well costs are the key to transforming these plays into large-scale economic developments of our future.
We are also encouraged with the significant rail volumes for the Uinta crudes today.
For the first time between 20 000 and 30 000 barrels a day are leaving the basin and markets for this valuable product are expanding.
We are confident that this will ultimately lead to improved differentials.
Newfield's growth forecast is tied to our takeaway capacity and we expect that our production will rapidly increase through 2016 as new refining expansions are completed on our behalf.
I'll turn it back to Lee for closing comments.
Thanks Gary and thanks to all of you for participating in today's call.
2014 is shaping up to be an excellent year for Newfield.
We're delivering on our promises and navigating through our 3-year plan that makes us bigger stronger more profitable with a deeper inventory.
We're focused on liquids and cash flow growth while being ever mindful of our capital structure and liquidity.
We enter 2015 with great operating momentum and multiple options to create value for our stockholders.
One of our core values is adaptability.
We have demonstrated our ability to weather cycles and our strong hedge position ensures cash flow to underpinned our drilling programs.
The value of our hedge book today is nearly $500 million.
Our hedge position is among the strongest in the industry and it will make a positive difference for our investors on the road ahead.
Thanks for your investment and interest in our company and we look forward to taking your questions.
Operator? [Operator Instructions] Our first question will come from Leo Mariani with RBC.
LLC Research Division</strong> I was hoping you could talk a little bit more to well costs here.
Obviously you all made a comment that improving those is really the key one of the keys to improving returns here.
It seems as though you're not anywhere near development mode yet in STACK or the Uinta but costs have come down.
Would you guys kind of be able to kind of venture any other kind of quantitative reduction? I mean you think you could see another 10% or 15% reduction as we get into a full pad drilling development mode in these plays? Any insight you have would be appreciated.
Thanks Leo.
I'll start off and I'll leave it with -- to Gary to give you any color and information.
I think the observation that you made is key that our key plays STACK and some of the SCOOP acreage are certainly not in development today.
We mentioned South SCOOP's in development.
Our Bakken and our Eagle Ford are in development.
And when you look at what we've been able to drive our teams have been able to drive in terms of those development efficiencies translate into lower cost lower unit cost and improved returns we're confident we'll be able to translate those.
But as we've said for much of this year STACK -- our STACK play's going to be dominated by HBP efforts.
And we're really complementary Gary and the team in terms of being able to work in some of the spacing pilots et cetera but we've already driven cost in STACK down below with our best-in-class well below $10 million.
And if you go back and look at the plan when it was released late last year you can see that that was a cost regime that we expected to get to in like year 2 to 3 in the plan.
So very very encouraged with what we're seeing there in the Uinta Basin results with SXL wells getting the right equipment and focus.
That play is not in development today either.
So all of those gains are still largely out in front of us and that's part of what makes us really really excited about the -- our future.
I think you pretty much said it Lee.
I mean driving the Williston down from $11.5 million to $7.5 million is just self-evident of what we can do in development plays.
It's what we'll continue to do.
I'd refer you to our February '13 @NFX.
We described a range of outcomes the lower end being development and I believe we're locked and loaded on delivering the low end of those well costs for each of our development plays.
LLC Research Division</strong> All right that's really helpful.
And obviously you guys also spoke about wanting to increase capital in the Anadarko Basin next year.
I certainly realize that plans are not fully set at this point but I guess is it fair to say that other plays that are largely HBP such as Bakken and Eagle Ford potentially could see reduced capital as we increase capital into your kind of higher-return plays that are still HBP-ing like STACK for example? Yes.
I think what I said is that we expect to see an increased percentage capital allocation into the Anadarko Basin.
We'll wait to set the final capital plan that we'll announce in February.
But the bookends in terms of the $1.6 billion $1.8 billion are intact.
I think we continue to state that we'll shift CapEx and people towards the highest returns.
We've said that to Anadarko Basin.
And at the end of the day I think you'll be pleased with the plan that rolls out in February.
Our next question will come from David Heikkinen with Heikkinen Energy Advisors.
LLC</strong> A nice improvement on your Anadarko wells quarter-over-quarter.
When we met last you talked about some of the surface constraints and just kind of the buildout of really gas gathering artificial lift and the like in STACK.
Can you give us an update on how that fits in as you are moving across the basin and when you get to an optimal level in your 3-year plan on that? Sure David.
I guess there's 2 pieces to that.
As you are well aware down in SCOOP we have that gathering in place.
And as I addressed in my comments we're seeing that expansion in key plays with all of our growth expectations.
Up in STACK it's a little bit of a different story.
We're about to execute a gathering agreement here in the very near term which will kind of lock us in for the lion's share of that STACK play.
We've spent a lot of time looking at both processing capabilities and residue takeaway.
We believe that from a processing standpoint there's enough projects either in place or committed to at this point to meet all of our needs.
Residue takeaway is certainly something we have an eye on.
There's a number of projects while not in place today that we're confident between '16 and '17 we'll be able to meet all our needs to get gas out of the basin.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And then in your @ -- in the @Newfield which is great you didn't include the Eagle Ford volumes.
Could you just give us what the liquids and gas was for the Eagle Ford in the quarter? Eagle Ford was about 12 000 barrels a day and it's about 85% black oil.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And then the -- and I know this is tough given the China sale process is ongoing but the big move in oil prices elicited a lot of questions from investors for us.
So could you bookend what your expectations would be it can be as wide a range as you like of what is reasonable given the pullback in Tampa? So what proceeds you should -- we should start expecting for that sale.
Yes I appreciate the question David.
But we're going to stay consistent with what we've said for most of the last 1.5 years.
It's a quality asset.
The divestiture process is underway.
We're doing it for strategic reasons.
Certainly oil prices have softened.
We'll know more on what to think about that asset in the future when we get the bids in.
So let us work through the process and we'll give you information as it unfolds.
And next we'll take a question from Michael Rowe with TPH.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> I was just wondering a little bit more about the Springer Shale.
I know you all will talk more about this asset in 2015 but looks like you highlighted in your presentation that you think there's a good amount of inventory in your SCOOP South acreage.
So could you maybe provide some more context around that and then whether or not you expect any prospectivity in your SCOOP North acreage? Well I think we've been consistent since we originally announced our plans in the Anadarko Basin the original leasing that what we liked about the east flank in the Anadarko Basin is that it provides multiple levels that we thought ultimately would be perspective.
And while our initial focus was on the Woodford because of our expertise in that horizon we clearly recognized several other horizons that ultimately led to the STACK plays.
So you can look back through the materials that Steve and Danny had put out the IR materials.
And you can see indications of other horizons on some of those cartoons that we believe are prospective.
It's not too hard to draw connections between some of the horizons that we have in the northern part of the play with the southern part of play and vice versa.
As far as the Springer Shale in context we're fortunate that it covers a significant portion of our acreage footprint down in the SCOOP play.
As indicated we're about 10 wells into that with good strong results.
So it's going to be a significant contributor for Newfield but there's a lot of drilling yet to be done by ourselves and the industry before we fully understand the extent of that play.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And I guess just staying in the Anadarko Basin on the STACK vertical spacing test were those 2 wells staggered in a SAL 2 [ph] formation? Or how exactly was that -- how exactly does that pattern look? And I guess which of those 2 wells was the more shallow well? Okay.
They were staggered 800 feet apart which would be obviously 6 wells per DSU on equivalent.
The Meramec in this section was about 400 foot thick.
They were 275 feet apart vertically so they were staggered in that fashion yes.
And there's a diagram in the @NFX publication that shows you the -- where those wells how those wells were laid out.
And please remember we're -- while we're going to continue to work to gain information on spacing our primary focus is on HBP.
So these wells are being drilled across lease lines so that we can protect the acreage.
So it's an excellent graphic and I'll turn it back to Gary.
Yes.
It's on Slide 8 in the @NFX and it also illustrates in there Michael that the Connie well was the shallowest of the 2 wells that we drill there.
And now we'll go to Dave Kistler with Simmons &amp; Company.
Research Division</strong> Want to both commend you and thank you guys for clearly articulating an outlook for '15.
Obviously there's going to be some variability in it but relative to peers that's definitely a welcome insight.
Above and beyond that when we think about your hedge position and the comment that you indicated that protects cash flows while service prices maybe recalibrate can you talk a little bit about the flexibility of your rig and your completion commitments or contracts with respect to how quickly you can change that rig fleet or renegotiate that pricing? Sure Dave.
First of all as far as completions we have no long-term commitments on the completions so we have ultimate flexibility in that regard.
Regarding our rig fleet we have similar flexibility.
I'd suggest about 50% of our rigs we have are under contract and even those contracts are rather limited.
They range anywhere from 6 to 9 months maybe 18 to 24 months on the outside.
So a ton of flexibility.
And as I think Lee referenced in there we're going to go ahead and we'll exercise that flexibility as required to where the best returns are being generated.
Research Division</strong> Great.
Appreciate that.
And then maybe switching back to China for a second if we just think about your interest in the well on a flowing basis so call it almost 20 000 flowing per day probably maintains peak rate for oh 1.5 years or so is it reasonable for us to assume at those levels that daily cash flow from it would be $800 000? And maybe over that time period it would be $440 million.
Just trying to come up with a number at which you would say “Hey we're not going to take a price below a certain level." And my math would equate to like $440 million of cash flow during that 1.5-year period.
Am I off base in thinking about it that way? Or is this -- we need -- or our plan is to just be U.S.
onshore.
And I don't want to say we're going to get rid of it at any price but I'm just trying to get a sense for that.
Yes.
Well again I appreciate the question.
I'm going to turn this one to Larry but I want to make a -- reiterate something we've said consistently since we announced that our plans were to exit China.
Exit from China for Newfield is not a sale at any price.
We're in a strong position.
Our job is to maximize value for our stakeholders our shareholders and we intend to do that.
So keep that first and foremost in your analysis and I'll turn it over to Larry to give you some color on the ones you asked.
Yes this is Larry.
That's not far off.
I mean you're looking at somewhere north of $200 million a year of cash flow.
I think you could probably go for about -- yes the plateau is probably more like 2 years that you're looking at there.
And so I think your figures are pretty accurate.
And next we'll take a question from Ipsit Mohanty with GMP Securities.
Research Division</strong> Just wanted to quickly -- maybe I can get a little bit of color on the Meramec wells that you've been involved.
When I counted them to me it was -- one of your neighbor there is -- they came out with a well which was probably higher on the 30-day IP rate but yours has a much better oil cut.
And just any broad strokes on the geology? Is that variable? Or specifically across your acreage are you seeing variability in your threshold regimes so on and so forth? Well certainly if you look at it just from the wells that we released today you can see that we have a very consistent oil percentage as we go from the John clear down to the southeast to the Slash C.
If I go from west to east out of the Cana field which was dry gas as we move further east certainly we will see a reduction in GOR and an increase in oil cut.
And I think we've published in things that actually demonstrate that in our numbers.
So yes we do see a variation across the area.
What we like about it is as we move further to east obviously the preferred commodity increases and we get to preserve our cash flows and our returns.
Research Division</strong> When you think about you've alluded to the fact that you would be basically choosing the best-return asset in your portfolio and Anadarko Basin takes place but within that basin when you think about the Springer in '15 and how do you -- how you plan to allocate capital to hold acreage and develop would you -- in terms of -- so where I'm going with it the 30 days but when you look at it from a rate of return just how do they compare with say the SCOOP and the STACK and as well as Uinta Basin? All right.
So I'll -- I think I've got the gist of your question so I'm going to answer it as follows.
Anadarko Basin we talked about the gravitational pull is strong.
We've said that it's our intent that in all likelihood irrespective of the oil price environment we see going into '15 it's going to get the lion's share of our capital allocation percentage.
We've been accelerating there each of the last 3 years.
We started with about $300 million investment level in '12 and to $500 million.
We'll be close to $800 million this year.
So clearly all of that's working together.
I think when you think about the other things to talk about STACK derisking 2/3 of the acreage we mentioned on the call has been derisked.
And I think that clearly the results have been strong and consistent across the broad areas.
So hence the derisking and the confidence in that being a large-scale development play.
I'd love to run the development today but that would be an illogical statement to make and a bad decision.
We wouldn't pass the IQ test because we're focused on HBP-ing our acreage and continuing to gather spacing results so along the lines what Gary articulated.
And we would expect that that will play out over the next plus or minus 3 or 4 years as far as getting that acreage held by production.
But I don't see it shifting strongly to development inside of the next couple of years because we've got a lot of wells to drill there.
The fact that we're drilling strong wells with solid returns makes those decisions very very easy and we'll continue to optimize in that regard.
In terms of the rate of return question you can just count on the following.
Newfield is going to work every day.
Gary Packer I mean folks running our business work every day to optimize our investments.
So we're shifting capital where we're generating the best returns.
We're going to drive our planned results.
And as I've said Newfield today we have a lot of high-quality options and you can expect us to make smart decisions in the next inning.
Our next question will come from Richard Tullis with Capital One.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Lee looking at the well results that were provided in the @NFX document this quarter versus last quarter it looks like particularly the SCOOP and the STACK the 30-day rates really most of the IP rates took a nice step-up versus the first half of the year results and I realize there's probably some differences in lateral lengths.
But any change in drilling completion methods? What was driving the better results in the third quarter completions primarily? Yes.
I'll let Gary give you some color on that.
Yes.
No.
No we're going to continue to drive and look to optimize.
And it's something we stated all along Richard is this: don't focus on individual wells because you guys can't know the things that we're changing.
In actuality the well lateral lengths are pretty darn similar.
And what you saw there was whether you're looking at IP 24-hour IP or 30- 60- or 90- as you alluded to we're seeing anywhere between 20% and 40% improvement.
Now these are obviously all unbounded wells.
And over time we'll get into development and some of those numbers will down a little bit.
But we're extraordinarily excited about the profiles that we're generating now our completions team and the teams that we've got in the Mid-Continent are really refining the recipe for what's going to work with us.
And I continue and I expect that we'll see further improvements.
Our next question will come from Jeffrey Campbell with Tuohy Brothers Investment Research.
Inc.</strong> I think we've gotten a lot of good color on the SCOOP and the STACK so I'm going to shift gears over to Williston for my 2 questions.
My first one is that new nat gas flaring rules now in place have the potential to restrict new well drilling in the Williston Basin.
Do you anticipate this presenting an impediment to your drilling plans in 2015? The answer is no.
We are meeting I believe today -- Newfield's current production meets the standards that are going to be necessary 2 and 3 years out.
So we're very comfortable with where we sit today.
We have our eye on it can't -- we always got to be working this but we're quite comfortable with the arrangements we have in place and the infrastructure we've got established to date to meet all those requirements.
Inc.</strong> Okay great.
That was a comforting answer.
And also with regard to Williston there's some disagreement that's emerged as to whether or not the more expensive plug-and-perf completions provide a real economic advantage over sliding sleeve.
Do you currently favor one method over the other? And if so can you add some color on that preference? Yes.
Clearly we have a preference.
We continue to utilize the plug-and-perf versus the cemented options that are out there.
As far as color goes I think at the end of the day where we are focused on is it's all about returns.
It's all about cost and we have examined many of the different outcomes that have been reported.
And while we do see isolated areas where one completion may be preferred versus another you step back across the board and we still see the ultimate benefit the best returns being generated by the processes and the procedures that we're utilizing and we can't really argue with that when we're sitting here looking at wells today at $6.8 million.
We have AFEs coming in that we'll probably participate in well over 60 wells this year.
We still see AFEs coming in at $14 million and very very high and expensive completions.
And that's just -- again we've looked at it all we've examined all we see the whole bandwidth of outcomes out there and we like the plan that we've got in place.
And we have time for one last question and that question will come from Brian Singer with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> The balance sheet's been strengthened by the Granite Wash divestiture.
You highlighted your hedge position.
If we look at the outspend of cash flow before asset sales it's been relatively constant in recent years.
How do you think about that? And how should we think about that going forward? Should we expect a tolerance of that constant-type level of outspend? Or do you see a significant narrowing? If prices fall do you have tolerance so that actually widen? Yes Brian this is Larry.
No.
I mean this year look we went into it knowing we were going to have a significant outspend.
That plan that we were executing on has been in place now for a couple of years.
And as part of that plan was we were going to have a narrowing of that deficit next year and then look for getting to cash flow-neutral kind of in 2016.
The recent softening in oil price certainly bring us -- it was another challenge for the industry but we've run a number of scenarios that allows us to still reach our objectives.
And so we're going to keep spending discipline.
We're going to narrow the deficit.
And we're going to seek being cash flow-neutral as soon as possible and look for that in 2016.
We'll start to look to the -- if oil prices stay down we'll look to the low end of the capital range that Lee talked about and narrow down that number.
So we don't expect to see that same deficit next year.
Yes I'll just jump in Brian and add that we stressed it in the call but at the end of the day we're going to maintain at Newfield operating and capital discipline.
I mean I think at the end of the day it's important.
That's what we've committed to do with our board.
That's what we've been working towards.
And again everything that we're doing today is in concert with the 3-year plan.
Research Division</strong> As a follow-up looking at Slide 9 of @NFX you've got your STACK well performance type curve and the performance versus that type curve.
And it looks like the well performance is generally online in line with type curve until -- with the type curve until about day 200.
And I'm wondering if there's something that you're seeing in the decline rates at that point or if it is just the well count is still too small so it's hard to draw any big conclusions.
I like your lead off Brian.
I think that the thing about STACK and I don't think we can stress this enough that we're sitting here giving you all of the data that we've generated in the STACK play kind of as it rolls off and compliments to our technical team.
I mean our folks did the analysis and did the forecast on the type curve before we'd ever drilled one of these wells.
So you'll never hear me say anything bad about performance in line with the type curve.
And clearly as we drill wells to Gary's point we'll have some wells above and below the type curve.
But the recent results while they're going to be very very early in this curve are strong.
I think the play is getting stronger.
And don't forget the cost that we've taken out of the equation is the biggest positive I think when we think about the overall play.
And that's really what's driving the improvement in the returns.
We're excited about the play and it's just normal statistics in terms of that play out through 500 or 600 days if I'm remembering that curve.
So we're really feeling good about the play.
Okay.
And thank you very much again for dialing in for today's call.
We look forward to updating you on our further progress early in the new year.
Have a good day.
And once again that does conclude our conference for today.
Thank you for your participation.
Welcome to Newfield Exploration's fourth quarter and Full Year 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
Just a reminder today's call is being recorded and before we get started one housekeeping matter.
Our discussion with you today will contain forward-looking statements such as strategic initiatives and plans estimated production and timing drilling and development plans expected cost reductions and planned capital expenditures.
Although we believe that the expectations reflected in these statements are reasonable they are based upon assumptions and anticipated results that are subject to numerous uncertainties and risks.
Actual results may vary significantly from those anticipated due to many factors and risks some of which may be unknown.
Please see Newfield's 2014 annual report on Form 10-K and any subsequent quarterly reports on Form 10-Q for a discussion of factors that may cause actual results to vary.
Forward-looking statements made during this call speak only as of today's date and unless legally required Newfield undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements.
In addition reconciliations of non-GAAP financial measures to GAAP financial measures together with Newfield's earnings release and any other applicable disclosures are available on the Investor Relations page of Newfield's website at www.newfield.com.
Before turning the call over to Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer Mr.
Lee Boothby let me provide a housekeeping request.
Please limit your questions to one question and one follow up.
This will help Management get to more of your questions today.
Mr.
Boothby please go ahead sir.
Thank you operator.
Good morning and thanks for joining our year-end 2014 conference call.
We disclosed a great deal of news yesterday afternoon along with our 10-K.
By now I hope you've read through the information which included our fourth quarter earnings and operations results our year-end 2014 proved reserves our 2015 capital budget along with our production and cost guidance for the first quarter and full year and a detailed @NFX publication which includes lots of new information on our results to date and our strong rates of return in our plays in the Anadarko Basin.
Since late last year we have been laser-focused on preparing our 2015 game plan.
We have proactively adjusted our business plan to align with the reality of low oil prices.
And our priorities for 2015 are very clear.
First our plan preserves financial strength and liquidity.
One could call it value over volumes.
But we've reduced our capital investments by about 40% year-over-year and focused our dollars on our highest-return area the Anadarko Basin.
Second we want to ensure that our STACK play is HBP.
We have worked to production-delineate more than 300 square miles and we are fortunate that we can couple the need to HBP with some of the best returns in the industry at today's prices.
The recent results in our STACK play are excellent and we are delivering 30% to 40% returns at today's commodity prices and service cost.
We believe our margins will continue to improve as the year progresses.
Third we want to be opportunistic.
We continue to add to our position in the Anadarko Basin which today is approximately 300 000 net acres.
We are hopeful that there will be opportunities for us to consolidate through bolt-on deals in the Anadarko Basin and we want the financial strength to do so.
Newfield is a leader in the area and we are building scale in a region where we have a proven and distinct competitive advantage.
And lastly we are preserving our options for the future.
Although today's plan was prepared in response to the reality of today's market the key ingredients of our long term plan are largely unchanged.
At the right time we will again focus on stronger levels of liquid production and cash flow growth.
We have a deep portfolio of liquids-rich assets that are largely held by production.
Before I get into the specifics of our plan let me quickly cover our 2014 highlights.
In 2014 we demonstrated superlative performance across the company and delivered on our value creation targets for shareholders.
We exited 2014 as a larger more valuable and better focused company.
Newfield was second-best-performing E&amp;P stock in the S&amp;P 500 index and we finished the year with a top quartile performance within our peer group.
The Anadarko Basin has earned its place at the top of our highlight list.
The economics in our SCOOP Springer and STACK plays are very resilient.
Our returns continue to get better as rig basin service costs reset to align with a new and lower near-term oil price outlook.
The SCOOP Springer and STACK plays have added tremendous value.
We have improved confidence in the consistency of our well results and the plays' potential to drive strong economic production and reserve growth for many years to come.
We push well costs lower returns higher and production delineated more than 75% of our STACK acreage.
In today's @NFX publication you will see that we are drilling our SCOOP and STACK wells on a per-foot basis for about half what we drilled and completed these wells for in 2012.
In today's @NFX you will see that our recent well results are outstanding.
We are seeing significantly lower well costs and we increased our STACK type curve by 20% or about 150 000 barrels from the 800 000-barrel figure to a 950 000-barrel EUR today.
This reflects results from a broad sample of wells across our acreage.
Our Anadarko Basin production more than doubled year-over-year and we added 65 million barrels of oil equivalent of new proved reserves.
The basin now comprises nearly 30% of our company's reserves.
This world-class resource provides us with shale scale with lots of running room and strong economics.
Across the company our drilling campaigns last year led to a 14% increase in our year-end proved reserves adjusted for asset sales.
This translates to an R/P of greater than 250%.
And those reserves were added at a total cost of $14.50 per barrel and we now have a greater than 14-year proved reserve life index.
At year-end 2014 our proved reserves were 645 million barrels of which 52% were proved developed and about 60% were liquids.
Our SEC PV 10 grew 18% to $8.8 billion.
And keep in mind that we sold more than $1.5 billion in non-strategic assets during the course of 2014 as well.
Our domestic production for 2014 was approximately 48 million barrels of oil equivalent with volumes materially exceeding the high end of our original 2014 guidance when adjusted for the sale of our Granite Wash properties.
Including China we produced 49.2 million barrels of oil equivalent in 2014.
Importantly our cost and expenses showed continued improvements throughout the year.
We significantly strengthened our oil hedges in early 2014 protecting our cash flows from the oil price correction.
And our China sales process however was impacted by the timing of the oil price collapse.
We are retaining the assets and in late 2014 brought our Pearl Field online.
At current oil prices cash flow from China will be about $130 million in 2015.
Pearl is now producing more than 13 000 barrels a day gross from three wells and is expected to ramp to a peak rate of about 30 000 barrels a day gross around midyear.
As mentioned earlier we sold approximately $1.5 billion in assets during 2014 improving our balance sheet and lowering our debt to EBITDA ratio.
Proceeds from the timely sale of the Granite Wash in late 2014 were used to redeem our 2018 senior sub-notes and reduce our leverage going into 2015.
And lastly we advanced the [inaudible] of new liquids-rich resources throughout the company.
In the Anadarko Basin we added the Springer to our resource inventory.
Among the many STACK plays in the Uinta Basin we saw some very encouraging flow rates from the Wasatch and Uteland Butte and today we disclosed our first well from a new play call the Upper Castle Peak.
We have other exciting exploration concepts in the STACK geologic horizons in the Anadarko Basin and in the Uinta but will be tested on the road ahead.
Before moving to 2015 I will quickly summarize our mostly recent quarterly results.
Production in the fourth quarter was 12.7 million barrels of oil equivalent about 400 000 barrels above our guidance range.
All of the outperformance was from our domestic business.
We lifted 300 000 barrels from China in the quarter.
Excluding several items listed in our news release our net income from continuing operations in the fourth quarter would have been $53 million or about $0.38 per share on revenues of $495 million.
Our net cash provided by operating activities before changes in operating assets and liabilities was $337 million.
So now to the 2015 outlook although 2014 seems like a distant memory we entered this year with a great operating momentum and optimism about our future.
The outlook for our industry changed dramatically however as we entered 2015 and the reality that oil prices could remain lower for longer mandated that we make timely adjustments to our plans.
I'm confident that we will manage through this challenging time and position our company to once again focus on higher growth when the margins across our business return to more attractive levels.
The good news is Newfield has high-quality options.
With the exception of SCOOP and STACK our focus areas are all held by production and we can defer development without losing opportunities.
The lion's share of our 2015 capital investments have been reallocated to the Anadarko Basin.
We are fortunate to have a large high quality asset that can deliver solid returns even at today's commodity prices.
We moved decisively in early 2014 and strengthened our oil hedges before the market deteriorated.
Today our derivatives position sets us apart with a current value of about $800 million.
Our hedges were designed to give us a soft landing in the event that oil prices fell significantly.
At today's strip our hedges will add revenues of about $400 million in 2015 and around $350 million in 2016.
Our balance sheet capital structure and derivatives position afford us both time and options.
Our 2015 plan has been designed to substantially balance our cash flow with capital investments preserve liquidity and maintain solid coverage ratios.
We do not have any significant long term rig or service contracts outside of the Anadarko Basin.
Today we are working with our service providers and leveraging our operating scale to align costs with commodity prices.
We are seeing material service cost reductions today and we are focused on materially reducing these costs across our operating regions.
Our capital budget for 2015 is $1.2 billion.
We have high-graded our investments into the Anadarko Basin and we are taking significant actions to reduce our G&amp;A and operating expenses.
Our plan incorporates the cost savings we have captured to date.
We have seen drilling and completion's costs reduced by about 15% to 20% in our active areas and expect reductions of at least 25% in certain services by year-end.
Our lease operating expenses are down about 10% to date and we expect reductions of at least 15% by year-end.
We have reduced our G&amp;A by 10% year to date and including other initiatives we expect at least a 15% reduction in full-year G&amp;A.
We have vigorous new initiatives underway across the organization to lower cost structure improve margins to compete and win in a lower oil price environment.
Despite our reduced investment levels we intend to deliver solid growth.
Our 2015 production is expected to be 52 million to 55 million barrels oil equivalent.
This equates to a 15% to 20% growth level adjusted for asset sales in 2014.
Year-over-year domestic production is estimated to increase 5% to 10% adjusted for asset sales last year.
We expect our liquids growth will be up 32% including China and 18% domestically.
Our second half volumes are expected to be higher than our first half volumes domestically.
And when you add China our fourth quarter 2015 volumes are expected to be about 7% higher than our fourth quarter 2014 volumes.
At the end of the 2015 reporting season we think this will separate us from the pack and we are not deferring completions to inflate our late 2015 growth projections.
As we said earlier approximately 70% of our investments this year will be allocated to the Anadarko Basin where we plan to run 10 operated rigs and drill about 100 wells.
Our industry peers will also be active in the basin and our non-operating drilling activity is expected to remain high during the course of the year.
Our confidence level in STACK continues to grow.
Our most recent wells showed solid economic improvements at every stage.
We are drilling faster.
We expect our STACK SXL wells will be drilled in less than 25 days in 2015.
That's a 40% improvement over our 2013 average and 25% over last year and we are not yet in development mode.
We are drilling wells cheaper and we have quickly applied our learning curve from SCOOP to our operations in STACK.
Our 2015 well costs for STACK are estimated at $8.5 million down from our original forecast of $9 million to $12 million.
Completed well costs have fallen faster than we anticipated through service cost reductions drilling efficiencies and optimized completions.
Once in development we expect to see continued efficiency gains.
Drilling to-date has production-delineated about 75% of our acreage.
This is up from about 33% this time last year.
We have high confidence in our development projections.
Again our STACK program is delivering solid returns across an area of more than 300 square miles.
We recently increased EURs for our STACK type curve by 20% to 950 000 barrels of oil equivalent.
And our rates of return in STACK at today's commodity prices and costs average 30% to 40%.
As service cost continue to drop our returns should further improve.
We show our expected returns at varying prices in today's @NFX publication.
In less than four years we've grown our net production from the Anadarko Basin to a fourth quarter 2014 average of 54 000 BOE per day.
We expect that our Anadarko Basin program will grow more than 40% in 2015 and our year-end net exit rate will approach 70 000 BOE per day.
The high grading of our 2015 investments required near-term reductions in activity levels in our Williston Eagle Ford and Uinta Basin programs.
Our production in the Williston Basin was up 50% in 2014 and will remain relatively flat this year despite cutting our rig count from four rigs in 2014 to one rig in 2015.
Our drilling will primarily be focused on our core acreage along the Nesson Anticline.
Our team continues to deliver best-in-class results with plans to drill and complete our 2015 SXL wells for about $6.5 million including facilities.
Our acreage in the Williston is HBP and we will be poised to add activity as prices and service costs align.
The most significant change in our investment plan is in the Uinta Basin where we plan to temporarily cease all drilling activity.
Our Greater Monument Butte unit is a conventional water flood characterized by higher lease operating expenses and sensitivity to dramatic oil price fluctuations.
Our near-term focus is on reducing our field level operating costs and improving our margins.
We remain encouraged with the results from our SXL drilling campaign in the central basin region of the Uinta and we summarized our 2014 drilling results in @NFX.
You will see that these wells have high sustained production rates and strong ultimate recoveries.
Our focus last year was on lowering well costs and we achieved some significant advancements in 2014.
Progress we made in the Uinta was reflected in our production growth with the basin growing about 15% year-over-year compared to our beginning-of-year forecast of 5%.
Our recent plan to reduce investments down to just $82 million in 2015 will obviously impact production.
We expect our Uinta production will decline about 15% in 2015.
The Uinta Basin assets are also held by production and we will be prepared to add activity when the market provides appropriate signals.
Salt Lake City area refiners have added new capacity on our behalf and we affirm capacity agreements in place.
We do not expect any material shortfall fees associated with these agreements in the near term.
The maximum exposure for 2015 and 2016 is about $10 million in total.
Longer term if we were to elect to a limit our future drilling the annual shortfall fee could approach $40 million per year beginning in 2017.
Today we don't view these penalties as significant enough to warrant drilling wells that would otherwise be uneconomic just to satisfy contracted volumes.
Again we plan to continue high grading our investments to ensure the best rates of return at the corporate level.
Uinta Basin is a very large oil resource with significant upside in our unconventional horizontal plays.
We have more than 5 000 potential drilling locations and about 1 billion barrels of net oil resource to pursue in the basin.
Improvements in future oil prices along with ongoing efforts to lower costs improve margins and find new markets for our oil sales will work in tandem and we expect that the Uinta will again compete for capital within our portfolio in the near future.
As promised we kept our remarks brief this morning.
Newfield has high-quality options today and we are taking the right steps to ensure we successfully navigate today's business environment.
Newfield delivered outstanding operating results in 2014 and we continued a streak of solid execution across our company.
Although today's market presents new challenges I'm confident that our teams will deliver on our key objectives in 2015.
These are; to deliver a superior execution under a reduced capital budget that aligns with cash flow; to deliver strong growth and to continue to improve returns in the Anadarko Basin plays; and to find innovative ways to improve margins across the remainder of our legacy portfolio.
Longer term our portfolio of assets is capable of stronger levels of growth in both production and cash flow.
The resource table in today's @NFX depicts a deep inventory locations that are held by production and will be ready to drive our growth when the margins in our business return to acceptable levels.
Until then our operating plan is sound and will ensure that we both create value today and preserve value for tomorrow.
Thanks for your investment in our company and we look forward to taking your questions.
Operator? [Operator Instructions].
We will take our first question from Subash Chandra with Guggenheim.
It was really quite an achievement when you add value like this in a down cycle.
I know its hard work over the years but this really is quite phenomenal.
First question and a follow up the first question is on infills and density pilots maybe.
I note delineation is what you're doing but as you get to 75% is there a program in 2015 to test density? So first I'm going to take a moment because I think I spoke I want to thank you for your comments on behalf of our team.
Our team has worked incredibly hard to reposition the company and this is not the result of waking up one morning and having good things happen.
It's a lot of good hard work by a talented team that I'm fortunate to work with and lead.
So thank you for your comments.
With regard to infills and density pilots our team has continued to work focused on HBP to drill wells straddling lease lines.
We were drilling wells in multiple intervals within the STACK play and we continue to add other horizons into the test.
So I will tell you we'll continue to do that activity.
I don't believe that it would be appropriate for us to turn the ship away from the HBP focus and the results and the returns we're delivering today say that we can continue on the path that we're on.
I'm excited about getting to that development phase but we've got plenty of experience in multiple plays today with regard to spacing.
So I think we've got a pretty good idea what the plan will look like going forward.
But we'll continue to work it in with regard to HBPing the acreage and over the course of this year and moving into next year we'll keep you apprised of the results.
But I think you can look at that map on @NFX and you can see the distribution of wells I think the team delivered exactly what we told we were going to do in 2014.
And again our confidence level is very very high in those plays today.
And my follow up is at this stage Meramec versus Woodford could you talk to some of the differences between the two horizons practically and geologically? Well the Meramec sits on top of the Woodford separated by carbonate interval gross age.
We are testing intervals throughout the Meramec section.
I think we've tested three different intervals within that 400 or 500 foot section and we've continued to test the Woodford across that acreage position as well as down in the SCOOP where we've moved out of the wet gas condensate window up into the oil window.
So we're very excited about the results that we're seeing.
Specific to STACK we continue to see competitive results between the Meramec and the Woodford and it's not something that we've done at this point to go ahead and segregate.
I think that we tested three horizons they all work.
We tested the Woodford in multiple locations.
It's all working.
I think we told you originally that we thought there would be three to five horizons to exploit and I would say we're well on our course.
The results we're delivering are in accordance with our plan.
Thank you.
And we will go next to Leo Mariani with RBC Capital Markets.
Obviously I appreciate the fact you're taking a conservative tact to start the year.
Just wanted to get a sense if we continue to see the cost reductions that you're expecting over the next several months.
What relative type of pricing might we see for you to accelerate and spend a little bit more? Do we need to get back up to say $70 or something before you would decide to spend a little bit more money can you just talk through that process? Well I think the key words in the call in my mind are that we've designed a balanced play.
And we've got a balanced program for 2015 appropriate for the $55ish world that we see today.
Clearly as we continue to generate results and hopefully prices improve we'll get to a point where we generate incremental cash flow.
But we're not going to move away from that balance.
We've been chasing balance now for the last three years.
The market conditions have forced balance.
We'll work our way forward in a very prudent manner.
Higher prices higher cash flow.
We've got plenty of high return opportunities to invest it will transit to more activity.
Conversely if we settled into a lower price environment for longer I think I said earlier that we can navigate several years into the future and await that day when better returns come.
Now I'm hoping for the earlier return to a more buoyant oil price but we're covering the bases and doing the right thing today for tomorrow.
And in your prepared comments you certainly spoke about trying to be opportunistic for potential acquisition opportunities here is that largely in Anadarko Basin where you're focused and do you think there is significant more acreage to pick up over there? Well I think the - what we believe is having lived through multiple cycles our leadership team that environments like this lead to opportunities and you've got to be in a strong position to capitalize on those opportunities.
Clearly there are other areas in the Anadarko Basin that we have an interest in.
And I guess we're politely letting everybody out there know that we're in the game.
So if opportunities show up there I promise you Newfield will be in that game.
Thank you.
We will go next to Michael Rowe with TPH.
Obviously you have a lot of growth year-over-year and exit to exit out of the Anadarko Basin in 2015 with the majority of the capital going there.
So my question is you had a nice Q4 of 2014 with a lot of wealth coming online probably sooner than you expected.
So can you may be give us a sense for your anticipated PDP decline for the Anadarko exit to exit and maybe just your level of confidence in that declined number given the flush rate of production you had exiting 2014? Well I don't have - so I'll protect myself I don't have an absolute number in place for the rate of decline on the base production.
I will tell you that our base production outperformed in 2014.
Our base production is constructed off the type curves that we publish.
I think our team does an extraordinarily good job in terms of managing.
In fact we have a group of people that are in place just to manage base production so we did everything we can every day.
Performance against type curves has been strong so our confidence in the production forecast and the growth rates is very very high.
So I'm not concerned about there being any decline rates or anything like that in the base production in Anadarko that aren't fully and completely accounted for in our forecast.
And then just one follow-up would be I guess there's not a lot of added detail about the Springer Shale in the presentation which makes sense given limited operating history.
But was wondering if you could maybe talk a little bit more about how much capital that asset could attract in 2015 and maybe how it compares to the existing targets that you all are investing capital into in the Woodford and Meramec sections? Well I would tell you that the Springer play the results we posted as well as some of our friends in the industry if you will Continental notably where we've been in a number of their wells and they've been in a number of our wells have been very very strong.
I think that translates to really high-quality target.
Good hydrocarbon rich good permeability all the things you like to see.
What I was really excited about with the results posted in 2014 is all of those high return high rate wells were 5000 footers.
So we do plan to allocate CapEx to the Springer as part of our SCOOP development activity in 2015 and we will be testing both 5000 and 10 000 foot laterals.
So I'll keep you apprised as the year unfolds but we see it as a strong economic target as part of the good news story in Anadarko Basin.
Thank you.
We will go next to Dan Guffey from Stifel.
In the STACK wondering how much production history and how much delineation will you need to see before segmenting the Meramec and Woodford intervals? And then also can you remind us how much of your 210 000 net acres in the STACK are prospective for each formation? All right let me make sure I think I might have missed the back part of your question so you can bring me back there.
First part as far as how much do we need to see to have confidence in the forecast.
I'll remind you and I think it's in the @NFX the first year of drilling out here was late 2011.
So we've got developing multi-year production forecasts.
We've had really really strong performance across that period in terms of the actual results versus modeled performance.
That would be reservoir simulated model performance.
We're upgrading the type curve in today's release or yesterday's release and today's call by about 20%.
That's a combination of targeting locating within the section.
It's a 700 foot thick overall section and STACK.
Top is about 400 or 500 feet to Meramec and the bottom portion is Woodford.
We now have wells throughout that interval and when you look at the map that's in @NFX I think you'll be able to conclude that we're delivering good strong results across the horizon and in both intervals.
So frankly as long as the statistical data says that the wells drilled in the play are more alike than different we'll probably keep it that way.
Because doesn't make any sense for us to have 15 different plays to try to talk to you about.
We're giving you a type curve that we think represents the play and I think the results delivered demonstrate that we're doing a good job predicting performance.
I expect it'll only get better from here.
And on the back end of the 210 000 net acres do you think the Woodford and the Meramec are both prospective across all of the acreage? Is that what the data has shown or is it segmented? Well if you look closely at the map and the @NFX we actually have outlines and that we've had those outlines of the domain for - since we announced the play back in August of 2013.
So there's a Woodford outline and there's a Meramec outline.
I'll caution you to say that the edges are not absolute.
But you'll see that we have drilled wells where they overlay one another and we've drilled wells that are outside of the Woodford and only in the Meramec.
So you can get some feel for that looking at the distribution of wells that have been drilled.
And if you put a tape down and say what's 300 square miles look like it'll cover most of that area up there and I think the split out on the wells to date.
Just to give you a feel so it's not skewed we've got about 40% of the wells that have been drilled.
I think total you can go back and check this tally or get with Steve I think it's 40% of the wells have been in the Woodford and somewhere around the 60%ish have been in the Meramec to date.
And then on my second question in the @NFX update you provided well economics for each of your core areas.
And in the SCOOP wet gas window you're modeling a 5900 foot lateral verse the extended laterals for every other area.
In that wet gas window are there lease geometry issues or reservoir limitations or will you work toward that closer to 9000 foot lateral in the wet gas? Well it's - as you move into the wet gas window you're getting deeper.
You've reached limitations in terms of rig capacity.
We've settled in in that 6000 6500 5500 foot is what we've been delivering all the way along the play there.
So it's a combination of factors but I think it's mostly mechanical.
Gary you have anything you want to add there? Yes I think there is some geology involved but most of its the limitation due to depth.
Everywhere we can drill the longer laterals we're drilling the longer laterals.
Thank you.
We will go next to Ipsit Mohanty with GMP Securities.
Your 1Q guidance suggests that it's probably flat or a little incremental over 4Q yet your 4Q 2015 over 2014 shows a healthy growth of 7% 8%.
I think in your comments you mentioned that you're not grow depth of completions towards the back end of the year.
So I'm curious how you're seeing - what is the quarter-over-quarter cadence production cadence look like in 2015? So what you'll need to do and I think the data is pretty well laid out the team has pulled together is you contract the domestic U.S.
Those are all of our resource plays and you can get a good stable view of what's going on there in terms of activity and it all fits together.
The only noise in the U.S.
portfolio would be the timing of pads and things that are normal to resource play development.
So we'll work through those issues and that's all incorporated in our forecast.
The other piece that we touched on is the timing of China.
So you get the second half of the year you got the full impact of China approaching the peak rate of around 30 000 barrels a day around midyear.
I think those would be the two primary things that you would want to look at.
Gary you have anything you want to add? Yes we're down in the first quarter relative to the fourth quarter and a lot of that was just timing of completions in the Anadarko Basin.
And as you said we're already - we're going to be up in the second half over the first half of the year.
And then could you - you're not drilling in Uinta and Eagle Ford yet you see - I see on your some pin slices on your CapEx by in your presentation would you care to comment on the capital spend in Uinta and other? Yes there is capital in those areas.
And it's really just the wind down of activity.
We've been dropping rigs steadily in the first quarter.
We have now totally exited the Uinta basin from activity and we are about to exit the Eagle Ford.
Okay but then you're not deferring those completions that you've drilled other wells that you've drilled in Uinta and Eagle Ford your other? It's going to be a part of the production in 1Q 2015? Yes all those wells will be completed immediately following the drilling.
We've done the analysis internally and the best - the thing that makes sense in our portfolio is drill complete and produce not delay the production.
And then my final one if you could give us some color on how your China production profile looks like for mid-2015 or rather beyond 2015.
Does it flat line along with the exit rate or does it grow if you could talk on that please? We reach peak rate in mid-year 2015.
You'll have a plateau period I don't know how many months that'll last and you'll go on a normal decline.
It's a conventional field horizontal developments and conventional reservoirs.
Thank you.
Thank you.
We will go next to Brian Singer with Goldman Sachs.
I wanted to follow-up on a couple of your earlier points.
You talked about the opportunity to add to your Anadarko position to further build scale.
How much quality acreage in SCOOP and STACK and Springer do you see is out there and fragmented beyond yourselves and two other large players? Or is your focus as you seem to reference in one of the early questions building a position in more exploratory or step that acreage in other parts of the basin? I would say Brian about all we're going to say today is that we're going to be opportunistic.
I can promise you we aren't going to chase ran pasture acreage to pad counts.
But there is attractive acreage out there and there are people that control acreage that we view as attractive.
And the market conditions and the timing is right we'd like to add them to the portfolio.
But it'll be within the context of the core plays.
And then we saw obviously another very strong quarter in the Anadarko Basin looking at your guidance it would appear to imply some slowdown in sequential growth versus your recent quarter trends.
Is this Newfield being conservative or are you referenced backlog building here in the first quarter? Can you provide a little more specifics on the timing of completions versus perhaps the level of conservatism or your decline rates? Yes I think I touched on it in one of the earlier answers but most of the variability quarter to quarter we've had it's just a timing of pads.
Because we've been doing a lot of pad drilling and that certainly is still going to impact us in terms of timing in the Anadarko Basin notably in SCOOP where we've been in development for most of the last 1.5 years or so.
I would tell you that beyond that take 40% out of the capital budget there is a general overall slowdown.
But I think Gary and the team have been managing that very well and we've been dropping rigs over the last several weeks of the timing of China and all this comes together to leave us in real good shape $1 billion $1.2 billion we can tread sideways in the market.
So I think that's kind of the way to think that we're sort of at maintenance level but in the core plays we're growing at a healthy rate.
Gary? Yes the only thing specific to SCOOP and STACK Brian I would add is that in the SCOOP play that's historically been just one or two wells per pad and we're going to do more pad drilling in STACK.
And what you're going to see this year is we're going to make a more - we'll have a more balanced program between SCOOP and STACK.
So the pad drilling and as we move to STACK will have a higher oil cut which will make the apparent production growth look slower.
Thank you.
We will go next to Dave Kistler with Simmons &amp; Company.
With respect to your comments of pushing drilling in the SCOOP up into the oil window is that related to in any way shape or form making sure that you have sufficient take away capacity or processing capacity? And I would guess is also related to the weekend GL presses.
No it's just related to attractive economics as we develop the wet gas condensate window we're moving into the acreage up dip.
It's about getting it HBP and securing the acreage for the future.
And then thinking about idling activity in the Uinta and the Eagle Ford and obviously liquidity isn't an issue but do those potentially become divestiture assets or targeted for divestiture with the amount of running room you have in the Anadarko Basin? Well I think we've demonstrated over the last several years that we've been able to sell assets.
I think we've had asset sales at appropriate times in the market.
What we have in those other areas are solid core asset positions.
I think Uinta Basin just the horizontal piece of that so 1 billion barrels of potential.
So I'm not going to tell you that things aren't for sale but we have no plans to sell any of these assets and I think we've seen and demonstrated the benefits of being able to operate across multiple areas.
I think you look closely at the @NFX publication I'm really impressed with what the team has delivered in STACK and at SCOOP and the Williston Basin.
And if you look at the percentage gains over time you'll see an amazing level of consistency there.
That tells you that the organization is a learning organization.
It's working as a team and frankly first opportunity to go back to work and have those competing in the return space with our other plays we're going to go back to work in those basins.
We will go next to David Tameron with Wells Fargo.
Lee if we think about a bounce back a potential bounce back in prices where does that - you get an extra $500 million tomorrow where does that go to work as far as reallocation? Do you start to put stuff back in the Bakken a little more in Uinta? Or can you give us some color on that? I'll let Gary and Larry give you some color since they've been in the middle of --involved with the planning.
I think first place we'd take a look at his balance sheet and make sure the balance sheet remains strong.
It would really determine probably most by the volatility that we would see.
It would be easy to put incremental activity to work in the SCOOP and STACK plays.
That's the first place we would make incremental investments.
But as we saw more long term rally and if they were moving into the $75 to $80 range and it looked like we had stability there clearly the plays in the Uinta Williston would get incremental activity.
Okay Gary not to read too much into what you said but - so $75 is that - $70 $75 is that the way you're thinking about the Williston Uinta as far as where it makes more sense? Sure that makes sense as far as having incremental cash flow to think about investing in areas outside of the Anadarko.
We're investing in the Williston in 2015.
Okay and then final question there on - or second question the Williston.
You drilled - it looks like you drilled 50 plus wells there in 2014.
Yet it says you can keep production flat with one rig? Can you help me out there with that logistically how that's happening? Is it backlog or how does that work? Yes that's a big part of it David.
We entered the year with four rigs running and hence the capital you see in there in our allocation $135 million $150 million or so is just completing that program and getting those wells completed.
As we sit here today we're down to two rigs.
We'll run two rigs through I think it's about May and then we'll drop back to the single rig that's referenced in the script.
Thank you.
We will go next to Jeffrey Campbell with Tuohy Brothers Investment Research.
I just wanted to ask a couple of questions a little bit of detail with the Anadarko.
The first is with regard to the Springer in 2015; is this being drilled primarily as a standalone zone or is it being drilled on existing pads or is it going to be drilled in tandem on multi zone pads are all of the above? I think it's pretty much all of the above Jeffrey.
And we are strictly targeting the Springer in the individual wells but there may be some areas where we're targeting Woodford as well.
And as a follow-up can you provide us with any updates on Anadarko multi zone STACK tests planned for 2015 or even potentially 2016? As far as multi zone tests we don't have any specific plans to do any multi zone or STACK completions if you're thinking about multi laterals in particular.
Everything that we drill is mono bore.
We believe in the long lateral SXL.
So each one of those laterals will be targeted in a specific horizon and if there are any other activities related to that Gary can give you some color.
Yes we drilled three that attacked multiple zones in parallel with one another in 2014.
They were anywhere between 880 and 1000 feet apart and we saw no destructive interference between those.
So we got really good early information - yes up in the STACK area.
I think that information was posted earlier or last quarter if I'm not mistaken if you want to go back and look.
Right that was really what I was referencing the question-- Yes that sort of activity will continue to feather in.
But I thought you were asking about multi laterals so my apology.
Thank you.
And management has time for one final question from David Deckelbaum with KeyBanc.
I'm curious if you could provide more color on the midstream agreement with MarkWest that was announced today on building out the Anadarko position there? It's strictly a gas deal.
It's confined to the STACK area.
As you recall we did a deal with DCP down in the SCOOP area and it includes both gathering and processing.
And how many years in your current program do you feel it'll take you until you're in development mode in SCOOP STACK areas? Well we're in development mode in SCOOP today.
The STACK area we've talked about earlier in the call that it would take the next three years to get all of that HBP.
You will see us shift towards development activity there and once the finish line on HBP is clearly in sight.
So I would say probably we will continue to be dominated by HBP activity for the next couple years and in year three you'll start to see development activity would be my guess.
And the last one if I might are there other opportunities to expand in China beyond the three well program and if so when is the decision date on that? There are Newfield - there probably are but they'll have somebody else's name attached to it than Newfield.
We're going to stay focused on our Bohai Bay and Pearl assets and we have no intention of expanding in China.
Operator? And I'll turn it back over to you for any final remarks.
Okay thank you.
Well I would like to thank everybody again for your investment in Newfield and your interest in Newfield and your time today.
I want to thank you for recognizing the great results that the teams delivered and we're looking forward to delivering more great results in 2015.
So we'll keep you posted.
Hope you have a good rest of the day and we'll talk to you again soon on the road.
That does conclude today's conference.
Thank you for your participation.
Welcome everyone to the Newfield Exploration First Quarter Conference Call.
For opening remarks and other housekeeping items I will turn the call over to Steve Campbell Head of Investor Relations.
Good morning everyone and thanks for joining us this morning.
We are off to a fantastic start in 2015 and we have a lot of information to share with you today.
Our speakers on today's call include our Chairman Lee Boothby and our CFO Larry Massaro.
Our COO Gary Packer and the remainder of our executive team will also be available to answer your detailed questions at the end of today's prepared remarks.
I remind you again please limit your time today to one question and one follow-up.
This certainly allows us to get to more of your questions today.
Before handing the call over to Lee let me make a couple of comments.
We issued a detailed @NFX publication last night along with our earnings release and we will reference some of these slides this morning.
As you know today's call is being recorded and will be available on our website along with the earnings release the financial tables and our non-GAAP reconciliations.
As always today's discussion will contain forward-looking estimates and assumptions and these are based on our current views and most reasonable expectations.
Many factors could cause actual results to differ materially from what we discussed today.
A full disclaimer for you is located in our earnings release and in our most recent 10-K.
I'll now turn the call over to our Chairman Lee Boothby.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</strong> Thanks Steve.
Good to get you involved in the call.
Good morning everyone.
Let's get started.
We're off to a very good start in 2015 and we are on course to deliver on our business plan.
The priorities in this plan are very clear.
First our plan aligns our investment levels with our expected cash flows today and ensures we maintain financial strength and liquidity.
We right-sized our investment levels and shifted the lion's share of our capital to the Anadarko Basin where we are seeing very strong and improving rates of return.
We executed three very important financial transactions during the quarter that put us in a very strong position today.
We issued equity and paid off our credit facility.
We issued new 10-year senior notes in an attractive 5 3/8% [5.375%].
And in April 2015 we retired a commensurate amount of debt due in 2020 and we upsized our credit facility by $400 million to $1.8 billion and extended its term by two years to 2020.These transactions were carefully considered and we see them as the right steps in today's outlook for lower oil prices.
Second we are focused on drilling in STACK to hold our large acreage position by production.
Our confidence in the scale and economic success of STACK continues to grow with each well.
You'll hear more on today's call to support our encouragement around the Anadarko Basin and its potential to drive our corporate growth well into the future.
And lastly we're now positioned to ramp up activities in SCOOP and STACK at the right time.
We recently announced the combination of our Rockies and Onshore Gulf Coast business units into one operating region allowing us to expedite the shift of both human and capital resources into the Anadarko Basin as well as reduce future G&amp;A cost and realize greater efficiencies.
Be assured as we continue to see improving margins we will again focus on even stronger levels of liquids production and cash flow growth.
We have the people in place today to execute our future plans.
Before I provide an overview of the progress we are making in the Anadarko Basin I'll turn the call over to Larry Massaro to provide a quick summary of our first quarter operating and financial results.
Thanks Lee and good morning everyone.
As we close out the first quarter we're executing extremely well.
Our 2015 operating plan is intact and we are on course to deliver our key objectives which combine growth with an improving cost structure.
We entered this year quickly flowing what was a $1.7 billion investment rate with rigs operating across four basins.
We quickly reduced our budget to $1.2 billion and aligned it with expected cash flows.
This reallocation reduced activity in South Texas and the Rockies while shifting capital to our highest return plays in the Anadarko Basin.
On that cash flow statement it appeared that we invested about $500 million in the quarter about 20% of this was simply cash payments from 2014 capital investments.
We actually invested about $400 million in the first quarter as we wound down drilling programs and completed an inventory of wells that carried across year-end.
We expect that our fourth quarter 2015 investment level will slow to about $250 million.
For the remainder of the year we expect to run one rig in the Williston Basin and 10 rigs in the Anadarko Basin.
Our production in the first quarter topped the midpoint of our guidance by 300 000 barrels totaling 12.6 million barrels of oil equivalent.
Our domestic production was 11.7 million barrels of oil equivalent.
Adjusted for asset sales this represents year-over-year growth of 21%.
More importantly our domestic liquids production was up 26% year-over-year.
In our guidance note that our second quarter domestic production is expected to grow 5% over the quarter.
Discretionary cash flow from operations was $255 million or about $1.76 per share topping consensus estimates.
Net income for the quarter excluding several one-time items detailed in our earnings release was $0.02 per share.
The most significant item was a non-cash ceiling test write-down related to the significant drop in oil prices.
As a full cost company this charge was certainly expected and was in line with our recent disclosures in our Form 10-K.
This is a non-cash charge.
It has no impact on our credit facility or our debt covenants.
We expect another ceiling test write-down in the second quarter as $90 oil prices in 2014 are replaced with significantly lower 2015 prices in the 12-month trailing average.
Our plan for 2015 projects improving cash operating costs throughout the year.
We are taking the right steps today to lower our cost structure and improve margins across the company.
Our first quarter domestic lease operating expense per barrel equivalent dropped more than 15% over the prior year.
Our G&amp;A expense will benefit from our recent reorganization and head count reductions.
Excluding the one-time costs associated with these actions we estimate that our G&amp;A expense will fall by about 15% or more than $40 million in 2016 and beyond.
Our interest expense will also benefit by $10 million per year due to lower rates on our recently issued senior notes.
These are significant positive changes to our cost structure in future periods.
As Lee mentioned in his opening remarks the capital market transactions we executed in the first quarter were well-timed allowing us to navigate uncertain market conditions.
At the end of the first quarter we had nothing drawn on our revolver.
With about $2 billion of liquidity our capital structure is the best it has been in more than a decade.
The focus this year will remain profitable growth continued cost structure improvement getting the STACK HBPed and ready to deliver strong future growth as we prepare for full field development and maintaining balance sheet integrity.
I'll turn the call over to Lee for an update on our Anadarko Basin.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</strong> Thanks Larry.
I'd like to spend the remainder of today's call on the Anadarko Basin more specifically share some additional information with you on why we are gaining more confidence in this play's ability to deliver corporate growth for years to come.
We're on track to deliver 45% production growth from the Anadarko Basin in 2015 and we expect that our first quarter average net rate 53 000 barrels oil equivalent per day will grow to an average of 57 000 net barrels oil equivalent per day in the second quarter and we expect to exit the year with more than 68 000 BOE per day.
The slight drop in our first quarter daily average is simply related to the timing of pad completions and planned shut-ins for offsetting completions.
Be assured we're on track to deliver our growth projections in 2015.
While excited about this growth we're even more excited about our increasing rates of return the improving productivity of our wells and the data we were obtaining from a large number of STACK wells that have now been online for two years or more.
Let me provide a few distinct examples to help you better understand our excitement and growing confidence levels in the value of STACK.
Our well results continue to get better.
On slide seven in the @NFX publication we included six STACK wells that on average have higher 30 day 60 day and 90 day production rates than our 2014 wells at more than 800 barrels oil equivalent per day for both the 30 day and 60 day average rates and 765 barrels oil equivalent per day for our average 90-day rate.
The oil percentage on a wellhead basis was about 80% over the first 30 days and averaged 74% oil over the first 90 days.
The wells validate our type curve increase at year-end 2014.
These wells were drilled across three separate townships and we continue to see very consistent and repeatable results as we work to HBP our acreage.
When you average the 30 STACK wells we have released over the last two years the 30-day average oil percentage is greater than 80%.
Again this is an oil play and our acreage was purposely assembled in the updip portion of the play in what we call the oil window.
This is the area that we targeted and we're really proud to own it today.
As we move south and west towards the traditional Cana play one would expect the gas cuts to become materially higher.
We have about 100 wells planned for the Anadarko Basin in 2015 and we're gathering data very quickly.
There are an additional 15 operated wells in the basin that have recently commenced production or are in various stages of completion.
We look forward to sharing more long-term production history with you around mid-year.
Let me comment on an issue that has come up in a few of our investor meetings and discussions gas oil ratio or GOR.
We are seeing very high oil production in the early life of our wells.
This production is holding up extremely well in our longest dated wells.
Our oldest well was drilled four years to test the STACK concept.
After four years that well is still producing 62% black oil.
In addition to the first STACK test we also had the benefit of more than 2 000 vertical wells drilled and completed over the last half century.
These wells had commingled production from a multitude of shallower horizons all sourced by the Woodford formation one of the nation's most prolific source rocks.
Form this large data set of legacy vertical producers we took a representative sample across our acreage position and examined the GOR over time.
Although the oil volumes from these vertical wells weren't impressive by today's standards what was impressive was the consistency of the GOR over the life of the wells.
On slide eight in @NFX we shared our original six-well sample with you.
We used this information to create our type curve assumptions.
To date our four oldest wells which now have at least two years of production history have performed in line with our forecast GOR.
The GOR is remarkably consistent with our sample of legacy vertical wells and with our early type curve assumptions in STACK.
Our model GOR assumptions appear to be very sound.
Recall that our economic assumptions for the STACK play assume an average oil yield of about 40% over the life of the well.
That's a three stream production representing 40% oil 30% NGLs.
That'd be 70% total liquids over the life of the well the balance being 30% natural gas.
We know that the GOR will increase over time and we feel that our forecasts are in line with our expectations and performance observed to date.
We believe that Newfield controls the best acreage in the play.
And as you move west again we expect the play to ultimately transition to dry gas.
Our original lease capture was focused on the oil window.
So make no mistake.
The plays on our STACK acreage are oil plays.
Slide nine shows that the initial oil cumes in STACK are very high.
Over the first five years we estimate we will produce about 60% of the total recoverable oil and nearly 80% in the first 10 years.
Our high initial oil rates in the early life of these wells materially enhance our returns even at the budgeted $60 three-year average oil outlook.
Slide 10 shows the first year economics of the STACK well computed on a three-stream basis.
Our production as reported as wellhead production or two-stream oil and natural gas but it's important that you understand the economic uplift created by three-stream processing.
Our operating teams in the Anadarko Basin are doing a fantastic job today and we are leading the industry.
The initial learnings from our SCOOP development have been rapidly applied to STACK.
Our most recent wells have been drilled and completed for about $8.5 million gross already in line with our full-year average forecast.
Our well costs are down nearly 50% on a cost per lateral foot basis over the last three years and we're excited about where we may be by year-end 2015.
The real prize lies in development mode while we are certain that significant savings can be realized.
There's no better comparison in the Williston which is now in full development.
Our 10 000-foot lateral wells in the Williston are today being drilled in just 15 days from common pad locations for an industry-leading low cost of less than $6 million including facility cost.
My final point today relates to the significant resource potential in stacking development wells in multiple horizons across our acreage.
The STACK play has more than 700 feet of oil saturated column in the Woodford and Meramec shales.
Our competence in well performance was demonstrated at year-end when we increased our STACK type curve by 20% to our current estimate of 950 000 barrels.
To date we've completed four spacing tests in STACK all with very encouraging early results.
As illustrated on slide 11 in @NFX we now have tests in the Woodford-Woodford Meramec-Meramec and Woodford-Meramec as tight as 880 feet apart horizontally and 175 feet apart vertically.
Although it's way too early for definitive conclusions the average for these eight wells has performed in line with our 950 000 BOE type curve.
And three additional operated spacing tests are planned for later this year.
We kept our remarks brief this morning to leave ample time for your questions.
I will close simply by saying Newfield has high quality options in SCOOP and STACK today and we are taking the right steps to ensure we position the company to compete and win in today's environment and accelerate development in the future.
To date we have delivered outstanding operating results and we intend to deliver on our full-year objectives.
Thanks for your investment in our company.
We look forward to taking your questions.
Operator? Thank you.
Our first question comes from Subash Chandra with Guggenheim.
Yeah.
Hi Lee.
One question one follow-up.
First question is the $8.5 million well cost is impressive and how do you see that working down over the next couple of years with pad efficiencies? Then of course we're all asking the same question of operators how much of that is service deflation versus operator efficiency? And my follow-up is the target zone in either the Meramec or the Woodford how thick is the zone you're trying to stay in? Are you measuring that in tens of feet or is that less than 10 feet? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Okay well Subash good to talk to you this morning.
I think you've got three or four questions in two so I'll compliment you on that as well.
I'll try to cover them all.
So the first one on $8.5 million we're super pleased to be at the $8.5 million line at the end of the first quarter.
When you think about the forecast that we put forth at the beginning of the year we were thinking $8.5 million would be a good average outcome for the year.
So I would tell you that we're ahead of schedule.
Of the savings that have been realized to date to get to that $8.5 million it's split about half service costs and half efficiency gains.
So the part that we really like is the efficiency gains side of the equation because that's the piece that we get to hold on to when market conditions turn and commodity prices rise again.
So ahead of expectations year-to-date.
I indicated we think that we'll have additional gains as the year unfolds.
We'll also have the benefit of – we had a lot of carryover activity into the quarter that would be included in those costs and we hope to see a better run rate as we approach midyear.
So look forward to us giving you an update midyear and we'll give you some clarity on what we think the balance of the year is going to be.
As far as the STACK play the Meramec sections depending on where you're at let's say it's 300 feet to 500-feet thick.
Generally the Woodford sections 150 feet 250 feet thick.
We talk about it as being a 700-foot thick oil saturated section.
When we acquired the acreage position we set out to buy it; we didn't buy edges.
So as you move away from our acreage position north south and east you do approach edges but we don't have material edges if you will from a conventional standpoint within our acreage footprint so that's a positive.
I think it's one of the contributors to the consistent results that we're seeing across the acreage block.
And I would bet at the end of the day that we'll develop horizons that will be somewhere between 100 to 200-foot thick target intervals.
And with regard to targeting within this section we've not worked out all of the details yet in terms of specific windows.
But clearly the team's got the ability to land in 10 foot 20 foot horizons and stay there over the course of the 10 000-foot lateral.
But generally we want to think about it as how many layers can we develop in this 700-foot section.
We've got to drill additional spacing tests and get more definitive data there to give you an answer on that.
Thank you.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thank you.
And we'll go to our next question from Leo Mariani with RBC Capital Markets.
Hey guys.
Lee in your prepared comments you basically mentioned that at some point there could be a right time to ramp up in SCOOP and STACK.
Can you provide a little bit more color around the thought process there on when you would ramp? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well I think that we indicated when we came out with the $1.2 billion budget that we were going to be – remain focused on financial strength.
I think we've done some things to further bolster that during the course of the first quarter.
Ultimately as you know Leo we've been navigating towards balance.
So I think that some upside in terms of the commodity some improvements in margins generation of incremental cash flow I think that's what we'd like to see.
Those types of conditions translating to having more resources available to deploy we'll probably more likely not translate into accelerated activity.
We think accelerated activity is the right first priority for the company coming out of this.
We want to get the acreage HBPed and we want to get to development as quickly as we can.
That's helpful.
And I guess just looking at the Meramec I'm trying to get a sense of what your longest-producing wells are in that zone.
I think you guys originally targeted more the Woodford I think you said your oldest Woodford well was roughly four years just trying to get a sense of your longest producing Meramec well.
And if you'd also just comment on how long your recent downspacing pad is at Meramec? (21:08).
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> I'll let Gary give you some color on that one.
Yeah the history on the Meramec is it's about four years as far as the longest history we have.
As far as the additional downspacing we've got three well pairs planned for this year at 880 feet and we're going to be in one non-operated spacing unit that I think will be conceivably a little tighter than that.
All right.
Thanks guys.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thank you.
Our next question comes from David Heikkinen – I'm sorry.
Our next question comes from Dave Kistler with Simmons &amp; Company.
Good morning guys.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Good morning Dave.
So real quickly looking at the production guidance and obviously a big Q1 beat if I take the midpoint of the 2Q production guidance you already at the low end or completed half of your production for the full year.
Can you walk through a little bit on maybe why the conservatism in forward guidance or what might have prevented you from accelerating that at this point? And if I missed that earlier in the call I apologize.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> No not at all Dave.
Thanks for your question.
I think that the – we're certainly in a good position.
I think the 2015 plan is shaping up well at this stage and we like where we sit.
There's a great deal of activity in SCOOP today down in the south.
It's both operated and non-operated.
What you can't see and maybe don't fully appreciate all the logistical challenges when everybody's getting in starting to develop out there and drilling spacing units.
So there are periods that you have to plan for shut-ins and other activities along with the normal sequencing with regard to pad drilling.
So we've got two other variables there that in a perfect world you wouldn't have to deal with.
So we're shutting our wells in when offset operators are completing theirs.
They're shutting theirs in when we're completing ours.
And that's part of everybody that's playing down there's production forecast at this point.
So I'll tell you that's something we do take into account.
I think the second quarter does give you some indications.
We see a nice uptick in production and certainly you've got a commitment I think we stated it in the call if not I'll make it clear here.
We'll certainly revisit our forecast for the year around midyear.
Okay.
I appreciate that.
And then in the past you've been pretty active with bolt-on acreage transactions and you've been vocal that that's certainly something that you'd look at going forward.
Can you talk a little bit about how you're thinking about that today? Has the environment changed? Is it a tighter supply-demand environment with respect to accumulating acreage? Any kind of color there? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Sure.
Well thanks for that question.
I think it does give us (24:03).
At first I'll start out with saying we've got many opportunities today.
So we're long on options and long opportunities.
We've talked about the most important priority.
First of those is HBPing our acreage.
I think we're well on our way.
We've got a good schedule.
We think things could develop where we can actually accelerate the HBP which would allow us to accelerate development.
And certainly the payoff for our investors is getting to the development stage in the play.
So that's number one on our list.
Clearly coring up our lease positions I mean throughout our history we've tried to do that and I think it makes sense.
It's something that we want to do.
We think we've identified the core of the play.
We know where we want to be in that regard and we're going to continue to stay focused on that.
As for deals we continue to look.
But I'd tell you given the slight rise in commodity prices I think that in today's world many of the sellers have what we believe are very unrealistic expectations.
In fact I'd go so far as to say that maybe even sky-high expectations.
So in that regard we'll stay in the game but Newfield's not going to make an investment that doesn't make sense.
And we'll go to our next question from David Heikkinen with Heikkinen Energy Advisors.
Thanks guys.
As I think about your STACK results and I think you were just hitting on that kind of mowin' the lawn as you move into development mode and you are factoring in that offset downtime.
Is it development mode this year? Is it development mode next year? Just trying to think of when things transition from HBP to true development and how that STACK oil wells waiting on completion with kind of inventory builds and then contracts as you think through the remaining 12 months? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> All right I'll take the first part of that and then I'll let Gary fill in the blanks for anything I leave out.
I like the mowing the lawn analogy.
I typically call it Sherman's March to the Sea.
I think that's really the place that we want to get to.
I mean getting into development mode when you've got thousands of locations and the best team in the business strong completing wells for you we want to get there as quick as we can.
I think we've been consistent over the course of the last year to talk notionally at sort of the planned activity levels that we think will be a couple years before we're really into development mode.
So I'd say it's more of a 2017 event than a 2015 2016 event to the extent that business conditions develop to allow us to accelerate we certainly could pull that back this direction.
But I suspect that I'd stay focused on 2017 as being the year that we shift into development mode.
Gary you got anything you want to add? Well in 2016 we ought to have about three-quarters of our acreage HBPed.
And as we alluded to acceleration of activity will lead to acceleration of learnings which then allow us to capture more of the cost savings earlier than being in full development.
But as Lee suggested 2017's the year in which we step into multi-well pads.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Gary just said something to trigger another thought.
When you think about the costs that are being delivered and the returns that are being delivered today these are first wells in a drilling spacing unit.
It's just amazing what we're able to deliver in this play today.
So we're super excited and I can't wait to get into development mode.
And we'll go to our next question from Sean Sneeden with Oppenheimer.
Hi.
Thank you for taking the questions.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Hello Sean.
Maybe Lee or Larry a follow-up from the M&amp;A question.
if you guys think about and recognizing kind of where we are with the strip but if you think about just the general concept of M&amp;A is the preference for you guys to stay within the current footprint or would you guys look to expand into other areas? What kind of would drive one or the other? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> I'll let Larry take the lead on that.
Yeah.
I mean the way we look at that is we've got such a great operating capability.
We're always going to lean toward the operating footprint we have.
We have a lot to do in the Anadarko Basin to secure the value.
So I don't see us kind of going outside the current operating footprint.
It would have to be a pretty amazing deal for us.
Okay.
That's helpful.
Then just maybe one housekeeping question.
On G&amp;A in the quarter it looked a little bit above guidance.
Was that mainly due to the closing of the office? And if so what do you think kind of run rate G&amp;A at this point? Yeah.
So we had some extra costs associated with one-time charges.
In January we had a reduction in force.
It costs us about $10 million.
And recently which will hit us in the second quarter we've got some reorganization costs which are going to end up – again being additional throughout the year that total at $35 million.
That's inclusive of our lease in Denver.
And in terms of the actual G&amp;A there's also some costs associated with the rise in the share price attributable to our cash-doubled shares and the way we look at our share plans that are noncash aspect.
So you're seeing a slight rise in that just because of the winds at our backs on our stock price.
In terms of the savings you're going to see from the actions we've taken I mentioned in the call script we're going to see about $40 million of saving start to roll in in 2016 and beyond.
And we're just getting our arms around that now we're pretty excited about the impact of that as well as the impact on the interest expense segment you saw.
Our next question comes from Robert Du Boff with Oppenheimer and Co.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Yeah.
Hi.
Good morning guys.
I just wanted to move real quick to the Uinta Basin.
I'm just curious how oil differentials and service costs are trending in that basin and what conditions you need to maybe pick up activity there going forward? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well I'll start off with the service cost reductions and I'll flip it to Larry on the differentials.
As far as service cost by this point we've dropped all our rigs so it's difficult to actually measure them but we can certainly impute them from some of the other areas.
So we have an active program being undertaken right now to project some of the new completion efficiencies that we're seeing elsewhere.
And looking at what that impact would be in our central basin horizontal program.
But we think it would be significant.
I would expect that we would see above average i.e.
beyond 20% 30% savings if we were going to get out there and re-drill a well today.
Again the team's working on that and we look forward to an opportunity to put a rig back in there and test some of these things out.
And on differentials what you've seen is with the oil price fall the way our contracts are structured many of them have historically guided toward a variable percentage in the oil price.
Actually at this low point in the price cycle you start having more impact from the part of our contracts that are fixed expense and so when we look at that differentials have actually kind of gone to $14 which is a much higher percentage differential.
And so we see that as certainly punitive on the quarter but with the rise in share price you'll start to see that come back – the rise in oil price you'll see that come back in line with kind of more historical percentages.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> The only thing I'd add to some of the comments here is the focus we've had on operating expense reduction and that applies to the Uinta where they've really been leading the charge as far as driving down their cost structure but everybody across the board.
I think in the quarter we showed 15% 16% reduction.
I think we're just getting started there.
I think there's some other opportunities and I would hope we'd be in an 18% to 20% by year-end on our overall operating expense.
So a lot of great work going in there to becoming more efficient and preserve our margins.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> All right.
Great.
Thanks very much guys.
Congratulations again on a good quarter.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thank you.
And we have time for one last question from Richard Tullis with Capital One Securities.
Inc.</span></strong> Hey.
Good morning everyone.
Thank you.
Lee just get back to Anadarko Basin.
It looked like there was a little bit of a downtick in average initial rate per lateral foot if you adjust for the lateral in the SCOOP.
What was primarily driving that? Was it just drilled in a different area versus like 14 well? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah I'll let Gary Packer give you some color on that because he's certainly intimate with the details there.
So as you noticed we had a good step up in average rates 30 day 60 day 90 day in STACK.
To really understand what's going on in SCOOP the summary of it is it's just a function that we have more oil and less gas and therefore on a BOE basis it's translating to what appears to be a lower number.
If you wanted a little bit more granularity in that when you actually look at the oil phase that we're pursuing out there we really only drilled one well there and that particular well it was a slightly longer well but it was the – one of the furthest east wells we've drilled.
And as we move east in the play we pick up a higher oil percentage.
In this case we actually had a 61% oil cut versus the prior year at about 50% or so.
When you move into the wet gas last year we had a considerable number of wells that we were drilled.
And those wells produced at about 26% oil cut.
This year the wells that we've drilled the five that we reported were at 30% oil cut.
And that's really a function of choke management.
What the teams have developed and we've been talking about this for quite a while reducing our drawdowns and holding these wells back a little bit earlier on and we're finding some of the additional benefits not only in increasing our EUR is the fact we're actually getting a higher liquids cut in the separator as a result of that.
So really compliment them for continuing to look at their operating practices and it's really going to get translated to the bottom line.
Inc.</span></strong> Thanks Gary.
And just real quick could you provide an update on activity in China and what sort of pricing you're realizing in the second quarter oil pricing? As far as the activity we are now concluding our drilling operations.
Things were done very well.
I think production's gross basis is somewhere around 24 000 barrels a day and we still have another well that we're going to be bringing on production.
So that's going real well.
Larry as far as pricing in the (35:12)? Yeah.
On the prices so what we saw in the first quarter if you relate it to WTI we saw about $2 premium on our sales in the Pearl River which is the bulk of the revenue.
I think you'll see that improve slightly this year; it'll get a little better.
So pretty much in line with what we thought.
And we have time for one last question from Biju Perincheril with Susquehanna.
Hi.
Good morning.
Lee I think it was a couple of quarters ago you talked about in the lower section of the Meramec and looks like that's been one of your better wells.
And I was just wondering if you have any other tests in that lower section among the wells that you haven't identified as upper or lower and if you have a view today of whether you have two potential horizons in the Meramec? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> So I'll start by saying when we got into the play and we first started talking about it if you go back a couple of years ago now we started talking publicly.
We said that ultimately we thought there would be three to five horizons to be developed across the acreage.
I think that we've got a good line of sight that that's still a reasonable range of estimates.
We're going to need to drill additional multi wells facing pilots to kind of refine that estimate.
As far as individual tests our team is testing upper lower middle upper middle lower middle upper Woodford lower Woodford.
And one of these days we'll get around to testing the Osage which sits between the two.
It's oil saturated as well.
So we're going to continue to test multiple intervals within the 700-foot section and we'll just keep you posted as it goes.
But I'll tell you that top middle bottom it's all working and it's only going to get better from here.
Okay.
Thanks.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thank you.
And that concludes today's question-and-answer session.
At this time I'd like to turn the conference back to Mr.
Lee Boothby for any additional or closing remarks.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</strong> Thank you operator.
I'd just like to thank everybody again for your interest and your investment in Newfield.
We're excited about where we're at today.
I hope you can take that away from the call.
We've got a great team and they're delivering great results and we look forward to updating you on our progress as the year continues to unfold.
Have a great day.
That concludes today's conference.
We appreciate your participation.
Welcome everyone to the Newfield Exploration Second Quarter Conference Call.
For opening remarks and other housekeeping items I will turn the call over to Steve Campbell Head of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Good morning everyone and thanks for joining us on this very early start today.
By now I hope you've had a chance to review our release from last evening at our @NFX which had a lot of new details on our exciting STACK play in the Anadarko Basin.
We plan to reference some of these slides in @NFX so please have it ready during the discussion.
Speakers on our call today include Chairman Lee Boothby; our COO Gary Packer; and our CFO Larry Massaro who will all be available at the end of the prepared remarks today to answer any of your questions.
As always please limit your time during Q&amp;A to one question and one follow-up.
This simply allows us to get to more of your questions.
Before handing the call over to Lee let me remind you that today's call is being recorded and it will be available on our website along with today's earnings release the accompanying financial tables and other non-GAAP reconciliations.
Today's discussion will contain forward-looking estimates and assumptions that are based on our current views and our most reasonable expectations.
Many factors could cause actual results to differ materially from what we discussed this morning.
A full disclaimer is provided in our earnings release and in our most recent filing to the SEC.
Thanks again for dialing in and I'll now turn the call over to our Chairman Lee Boothby.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</strong> Thanks Steve.
Good morning everyone and we appreciate your interest and investment in our company.
Newfield is delivering strong results today across the company's portfolio.
We will see in today's @NFX that we met or exceeded our expectations across all of our operating regions.
Although the focus today is on the Anadarko Basin team Newfield is (1:46) extremely well.
We had markedly lower well costs in the Anadarko and Williston Basins and we extended the track record of exceeding production expectations in the Eagle Ford Williston and Uinta Basins.
Our teams are looking for innovative ways to lower operating expenses enhance margins across the business and their efforts are flowing through to our bottom line.
I'm confident we have the people and assets in place today to emerge stronger and more profitable once commodity prices stabilize.
But make no doubt about it these are challenging and volatile times in the E&amp;P business.
After about five years of oil prices in the $90s we are today coming to grips with oil prices in the $50s and implications of a lower prolonged price scenario.
We are proactively making strategic decisions to manage our business through today's cycle.
Our business plan differentiates Newfield today as we focus on two primary issues.
First ensuring that our balance sheet remains strong and that we have ample liquidity in place to build shareholder value during today's oil price environment and to emerge stronger when prices recover.
Our hedges provide certainty in our cash flows through early 2017.
Second we are high-grading our investments.
Today nearly all of our activity is in the Anadarko Basin.
There is a healthy tension between our desire to build inventory in the Anadarko Basin and accelerate STACK development and the need to protect liquidity.
Today we increased our capital budget to $1.4 billion up $200 million.
The increase relates to adding about 20 000 net acres to extend our positions in the Anadarko Basin our decision to accelerate drilling to hold our acreage and move into full-field development.
Anadarko Basin is economically resilient and our returns are improving.
By drilling an additional 15 wells in 2015 we will offset about $40 million of lease renewal expenses and ensure that 100% of our acreage is HBP by the end of next year.
We believe that our business plan carefully balances these important issues.
The financial transactions we executed earlier this year strengthened our balance and ensured that we have ample liquidity to not only weather a prolonged period of lower oil prices but also to succeed and add value.
We will maintain a strong balance sheet.
We are focused on maintaining our leverage ratios at or near current levels and we would look to sell other noncore assets as required to preserve our strong balance sheet and liquidity.
Exactly one year ago today we were growing more concerned about the trajectory of oil prices and moved aggressively to strengthen our hedge position.
Our fears were founded and our hedges have been instrumental in preserving our cash flow.
In mark-to-market at the end of July our hedge position would add about $490 million in revenue in 2015 and an additional $250 million in 2016.
This gives us higher certainty in our future cash flow and we view our hedges as a differentiator amongst our peers.
Our corporate development team and strategic planning teams have done an excellent job of mitigating risk and putting our company in a position of relative strength and I applaud their efforts.
Over the last five years we took dramatic steps to better focus our portfolio in capital investments.
Before the oil price decline last year we had executed about $2.5 billion in non-strategic asset sales and used the large (5:11-5:13) the development of SCOOP and STACK and this has paid off.
We will continue to consider using sale of additional non-strategic assets to fund our future acceleration plans.
In early 2015 we quickly cut our capital expenditures and funneled more than 70% of our planned investments into the Anadarko Basin.
We are fortunate to have an asset today that warrants investment and provides strong returns at today's oil prices.
You will clearly see today that our returns in the Anadarko Basin continue to improve.
Even with the backdrop of low oil prices we believe it makes sense to further consolidate into one of the industry's best plays and use our competitive advantage in the Anadarko Basin.
Competition for acreage in the STACK region has increased in the face of better drilling results.
We are successfully adding late-stage leasehold and extensional acreage today.
With the disconnect between buyer and seller expectations for acquisition opportunities in the region we view acreage additions as a better value proposition to exploit our distinct operating advantage.
Perhaps the drop in oil prices and the realization that oil prices could stay lower for longer will create more reasonable acquisition opportunities for us in the future.
Before we go on to the second quarter details let me quickly summarize what I believe are the key takeaways in today's operations update.
Number one our well results in STACK are improving.
In today's @NFX we share with you results from an additional 17 STACK wells and continued strong performance from our SCOOP development drilling.
To date we have drilled and completed 46-operated SXL wells in STACK.
Number two we are rapidly production-delineating our STACK acreage as we push to get it held by production.
The wells we have drilled to date are geographically dispersed and we continue to push rigs towards the edges as we align drilling plans with lease requirements.
We are encouraged by the consistent and commercial results we are realizing across the acreage.
The acceleration in STACK allows us to minimize lease renewal cost through higher value drilling investments.
The rigs we've added are on a well-to-well basis and we have the ability to quickly slow investments if oil prices further deteriorate our cash flow outlook.
Number three our STACK wells are oil wells.
We built our position in STACK in the oil window and our wells are averaging about 80% black oil in the first 30 days production.
To date average black oil volumes from our 46 wells are outperforming our type-curve assumptions.
Slide 11 in @NFX depicts this outperformance and supports why our confidence is continuing to grow.
Later in our remarks we'll better explain how the play transitions from wet gas to black oil across the play fairway.
Before we were testing multiple geologic horizons and this will be a STACKed development play.
To date we have successfully tested the Upper and Lower Meramec as well as the Woodford.
There are other prospective zones that we plan to test in the coming months.
To date about 70% of our STACK wells have been drilled and completed in the Meramec shale.
We are rapidly lowering our well cost in the Anadarko Basin.
This is particularly impressive in STACK where we are not yet in full-field development.
Recent wells have been drilled in as few as 12 days and our recent wells are averaging about $7.9 million including facilities.
We hope to keep a good portion of these savings even in a rising oil price environment.
Our well costs today are down about $600 000 from our first quarter update and we know that in development mode we will easily shave another $1 million or more off the completed well cost.
By analogy simply look at what our team is delivering today in the Williston Basin.
And lastly we're accelerating activity and the timing to full-field development.
By year-end about 60% of our acreage in STACK will be held by production and all of our acreage will be HBP by the end of next year.
With this increased activity we now expect that our fourth quarter production from the Anadarko Basin will average about 71 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day net and we expect to deliver strong and economic growth from SCOOP and STACK in 2016.
You will hear more on these topics when Gary provides our operational update a little later.
I'll now turn the call over to Larry Massaro to summarize our second quarter financial results.
Larry? Thanks Lee and good morning everyone.
Financially the second quarter was very solid.
We are seeing the combined benefits of lower service costs learning curve improvements and efficiency gains and our own efforts to reduce expenses and improve margins across the business.
Year-to-date we've invested about $730 million excluding capitalized interest and internal cost.
We expect that our investments in the second half of the year will approximate the first half including about $400 million in the third quarter and $275 million in the fourth quarter.
Our capital investment budget for the year is $1.4 billion up $200 million.
The increase is attributable to 20 000 new acres in the Anadarko Basin increased drilling activity and faster drilling times.
In terms of production we extended a healthy streak of beating our projections through solid execution of strong well performance.
Our domestic production in the second quarter came in at the upper end of our guidance despite losing about 200 000 barrels equivalent related to weather and our midstream provider's curtailment in SCOOP.
Total production in the second quarter was 14.1 million barrels equivalent of which 51% was oil and 65% was liquids.
Our domestic production grew about 7% quarter-over-quarter to 12.4 million barrels equivalent.
Adjusted for asset sales this represents year-over-year growth of 13%.
More importantly our domestic liquids production was up 22% year-over-year.
The strength in our production year-to-date has allowed us to raise our full year guidance to 53.5 million to 55 million barrels equivalent with all the increase attributed to our domestic operations.
Our domestic production is now expected to be 48.5 million to 50 million barrels equivalent.
Discretionary cash flow from operations was $347 million or $2.14 per share topping consensus estimates.
Adjusted net income for the quarter excluding several one-time items detailed in our earnings release was $0.46 per share.
The most significant item was a non-cash ceiling test write-down related to the significant drop in oil prices.
(12:05-12:07) expected and was in line with our recent disclosures in our Form 10-Q.
This is a non-cash charge.
It has no impact on our credit facility or our debt covenants.
These impairments are a function of full-cost accounting and significantly lower commodity price in the 12-month trailing average.
We have taken both prompt and significant steps to improve our cost structure across the company.
In the second quarter our reoccurring lease operating expenses was well below guidance at $4.60 per BOE.
Second quarter LOE was lower than our full-year run rate due to the timing of expected expenditures.
We again lowered our full-year LOE expectation to $5.20 per BOE.
As we noted last quarter our recent restructuring and head count reductions will reduce future G&amp;A expense by $40 million a year and our annual interest expense will drop by about $10 million a year due to the lower interest rates associated with our debt refinancing earlier this year.
As Lee referenced we are committed to maintaining a strong balance sheet and ample liquidity.
As we seek to leverage our competitive advantage in the Anadarko Basin and our desire to transition to full field development in STACK later next year we know we must tailor our investment levels to the oil price environment and our cash flow expectations.
If oil prices stay in a sub-$50 per barrel range we would likely reduce our 2016 expenditures to maintenance mode levels.
We estimate that we could maintain our domestic production levels for about $1 billion.
Should prices strengthen to $55 to $60 per barrel we are capable of strong domestic production growth supported by improving rates of return with a capital budget similar to 2015 investment levels.
Newfield clearly has high-quality options today.
At the end of the second quarter there was nothing drawn on our revolver and we had approximately $2 billion of liquidity.
We are fortunate to be well ahead with cash flow significantly protected into 2017.
I'll turn the call over to Gary Packer for the operations update.
Thanks Larry.
As you know we are only allocating drilling capital to two areas today the Anadarko and the Williston Basins.
So let me give you an update on the Anadarko Basin and share some recent updates from our operations in STACK.
In addition to STACK we continue to see great results from our SCOOP and Springer plays and look forward to testing other potential geological horizons in the basin over time.
During the second quarter we brought online 14 new SCOOP oil wells including our first SXL well in the Springer shale.
We continue to see good results in the development where we are running five rigs today (15:03-15:05) more heavily to STACK and SCOOP oil and the results are evident to our high oil cuts.
We have eight rigs running in STACK today.
One of our most encouraging data points in today's update relates to our consistency in the STACK wells.
On slide 7 in @NFX we provide 30-day average production rates for 17 new wells stretched across the acreage which covers more than 300 square miles.
We now have 46 SXL wells of which 32 have been completed in the Meramec shale.
We are confident that a significant portion of our acreage will be developed with STACK wells in both the Meramec and the Woodford.
We have drilled five pseudo-pilots to date to test horizontal and vertical well spacing some of which have been online for more than one year now.
Although early these pilots are providing encouraging results.
Please reference the geologic illustration on slide 12 in @NFX.
To date we have successfully tested multiple wells in Upper and Lower Meramec as well as the Woodford.
We have more than 700 foot of saturated interval across the large portion of our acreage and we have taken whole cores throughout the acreage to better understand reservoir quality and reservoir thickness.
As expected our STACK results continue to improve reflecting the rapid advancements we are making in our drilling and completion operations.
Our most recent wells have higher 30- and 60-day rates and not all the wells have 90-day production rates yet.
On a well-head basis the oil percentage from these wells averaged nearly 80% over the first 30 days.
We are not surprised by these high oil cuts.
In fact we intentionally captured the oil window with our initial leasing concept.
Slide 9 is important to understand.
As you move from the dry gas Cana Field to the north and east across our acreage the play transitions from a wet gas to a black oil.
Note that the 30-day average oil cuts across the acreage.
In addition to our first Meramec well drilled some four years ago now we also had production data for more than 3 000 vertical wells drilled over the last 50 years.
These wells commingled production from a multiple of zones all sourced by the Woodford.
The GOR or gas/oil ratios we are seeing today are very consistent with historical production data our pre-drill reservoir modeling and our type curves.
Recent well results from our North STACK acreage helped validate our encouragement and our GOR assumptions appear to be very sound.
In the first quarter we introduced slide 11 which originally just showed our expected oil cumes over the first decade of production.
Today we enhance disclosure by providing you with the actual production from the 46 SXL wells we have drilled to date.
You can see that the wells are highly correlative to our type curve.
Furthermore we today provided actual cumes on 21 Meramec wells with tighter frac cluster spacing.
Some of these wells have now been online for nearly one year.
Tighter frac cluster spacing is generating significantly higher oil production and has now become our norm.
We continue to optimize our completion design.
You can see we are making great strides.
Based on our 950 000 barrels of oil equivalent type curve and today's lower cost our wells are expected to pay out in just two years.
Our returns are being enhanced by higher oil production early and the significant reductions we are making in well costs.
See slides 14 and 15 in @NFX.
It's important to understand that more than half of the cost savings we have seen to date are related to efficiencies as demonstrated by reductions in days versus depth and not simply lower service costs.
Our most recent drill and complete cost in STACK is $7.9 million down $600 000 from our first quarter average.
We frequently participate in wells operated by others.
And from this data (19:20-19:22) industry in drilling days and cost.
Our days to depth on our most recent operated wells have been drilled in as few as 12 days.
The real prize lies in development mode where we are certain that we will achieve at least another $1 million savings in our completed well cost.
And our teams are pushing to get us there as soon as possible.
As for other active development plays let me close with a quick update on the Williston Basin.
Our team continues to find innovative ways to improve our margins through faster drilling times improved efficiencies and optimized completions.
Recent SXL wells in the Williston Basin have been drilled in about 14 days and for an all-in cost with facilities of about $5.5 million.
Newfield has a long and proven history of driving learning curves and improving returns in full-field development.
The Williston is a great example.
You can review recent history and see the same trends in the Eagle Ford the Granite Wash the Arkoma and in SCOOP.
The Williston is a great proxy for where we will ultimately be heading in our STACK development.
I'll now turn the call back to Lee for closing remarks.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</strong> Thanks Gary.
Gary and his teams are delivering excellent results throughout our operating regions today (20:44-20:45) excel in today's environment.
You can tell from the tone today that we are excited about our recent results in the Anadarko Basin.
This is a large-scale resource play and we have the people and the operational expertise to continue improving results and enhancing margins.
We're focused on the right metrics today.
We're executing across the company.
We are high-grading our investments.
We have effectively managed our risk.
We are aggressively attacking costs and expenses and improving margins.
We're exploiting our competitive advantage in the Anadarko Basin.
And we are mindful of our balance sheet and we'll work to maintain a strong liquidity position.
I will close by simply saying Newfield has high quality options today.
To date we have delivered outstanding operating results and we intend to deliver on our full-year objectives.
Yes these are challenging times but Newfield is well-positioned to continue delivering value to its stockholders today (21:40-21:43).
Thanks for your investment in our company and we look forward to taking your questions.
Operator? And we'll take our first question from Dave Kistler with Simmons Company.
Please go ahead.
Your line is open.
Good morning guys.
Morning Dave.
Hey thank you so much for all the additional disclosures.
Really helpful and certainly showing a consistency that's appreciated.
One thing when I was looking at the forward oil guidance I was hoping maybe you could dive into this a little bit more.
Obviously implies a trend upward still for the balance of the year.
But that's primarily domestic-oriented with international coming down.
Can you just talk about the nuances of those two things? Well as far as the relationship clearly domestically we're driving the oil production out of the Anadarko Basin and you're going to see a significant ramp up as we look into the third and the fourth quarter.
If you look at international as far as the cash flow that's going to be coming off of that asset it's rather flat in 2015 and 2016 and then will decline in the future years.
As far as production goes we'll see production down in China about 20% or 25% next year but we're going to preserve the cash flows just because we'll have a lack of capital spending.
So everything is coming in exactly as we had anticipated both domestically and internationally.
Okay.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Dave just to clarify if your question was in regards to this year the China guidance is unchanged at 5 million barrels.
The difference between the second quarter and the third quarter is simply timing of lifting.
We had an extra lifting that moved into the second quarter.
The daily rate is around 26 000 barrels a day so that's our peak rate from the wells that are on.
Well I appreciate that clarification.
That's exactly what I was looking for.
And then as we think (23:46-23:50) curve that you guys are climbing rapidly in the Anadarko Basin can you talk a little bit about how you balance downspacing interval testing and completion science in this low-cost environment? Does it make more sense to find an area that holds all the production that you know you're generating strong returns and just pursuing that aggressively? Or does this more sort of balance the production testing all of these things make more sense? Just if you give us some clarity around that.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well I'll start Dave.
If you look at @NFX we've got the dimensions on kind of the acreage footprint.
You do a quick math on that you're talking about an area that's in excess of 1 200 square miles.
If you take a look at the phase envelope data where we've got all of the oil yield data the 80% liquid yield and we've kind of highlighted where you moved from the dry gas into the wet gas condensate window into our oily acreage.
Right now with the drilling results that have been accumulated driven by Newfield the addition of some of the – our friends in the industry offset operators if you will you've got a box that's about 30 miles by 50 miles diagonally across that acreage position.
So some 1 500 square miles that's been production delineated and we're talking production delineated with (25:17-25:20) and it's a large resource.
Our focus first and foremost: HBP the acreage.
The acceleration program allows us to finish that process before year-end 2016.
We will continue to test laterals on either side of lease lines and the paired spacing information that we've put out to date just makes sense but it doesn't make sense in our view to move away from the focus on HBP at this point to drill full spacing pilots.
Just no need.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> The well results have been so amazingly consistent top to bottom through the 700-foot thick interval that I'm kind of excited about thinking we'll get into development mode we'll have a fully HBP footprint and we'll have a couple of miles between producing wells and we'll be able to let the team go in and develop it the right way right up front so we're going to stick to our plan.
And we'll take our next question from Subash Chandra with Guggenheim Securities.
Please go ahead.
Your line is open.
Yeah.
Good morning.
My first question is about those eastern wells.
There was I guess a different IP30 is how you're thinking of the economics of those wells versus those due west and if there's any changes there in terms of cost or decline curves.
I know it's early but if there's any conclusions.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> I think the conclusions are we're excited about those eastern tests.
You'll recall that that was part of the plan.
Actually in 2014 into 2015 we wanted to expand the footprint.
You'll note that there are overlays structurally across that acreage footprint that kind of give you a picture that in the far eastern edge northeastern portion of the acreage footprint TVD depths are about 8 000 feet.
The western edge you approach 12 000 feet.
So clearly there is a 4 000-foot-or-so change in elevation from east to west.
But as far as the well results they are very much in line with our expectations; and since the ultimate targets are shallower on the eastern side we would expect ultimately in development mode that those wells will be cheaper than the wells drilled on the western side of the acreage.
But at this point I would say very excited and positive and results in line with expectations.
Great.
Thanks.
And my follow-up is in the average wells a couple were not included in the list at sub-optimal completion could you just then maybe talk about how you were completing the wells and how you are now completing the wells? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
I'll let Gary give you some color on that.
Yes Subash there were only two wells that we had excluded from the data that we provided disclosure on.
Those wells both tested larger stage spacing and cluster spacing and as a result of that they achieved rates that are really not representative of what we think our forward plan is.
The number that we have in there those wells produced a 60-day rate of about 625 barrels of oil equivalent a day or about 80% of the tighter spacing wells.
So still very interesting wells but we just don't think represents what our forward plan is.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> And Subash I know Gary talked about it in the call but if we look at slide 11 the tighter frac clusters in the Meramec are yielding higher than accelerated oil recovery hence the focus on the tighter cluster spacing now that we have proven that that's the way to go in this play.
And our next question comes from Jason Smith of Bank of America.
Please go ahead.
Your line is open.
Pierce Fenner &amp; Smith Inc.</span></strong> Hey.
Good morning everyone.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Morning Jason.
Pierce Fenner &amp; Smith Inc.</span></strong> So we – you guys in the past have done a great job of monetizing your non-core assets over the past few years.
With the clear focus on the Anadarko can you just maybe give an update on where you stand on that process and kind of where all the moving pieces fit in? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well I think the steps we took earlier this year certainly the equity raise and the revolver extension and the debt offering that Larry talked about earlier leave us with $2 billion of liquidity there.
So I'd say first and foremost we don't have any pressing needs to sell any assets today but I think we've been crystal clear – at least I hope we've been.
I'll try to make it crystal clear in response to your question.
But the non-strategic assets it's not a question of if it's just a question of when.
And we know how hard it was to sell $2.5 billion of non-strategic assets in a $90 world.
We have no pressing need to sell it but certainly at the right place and time we would sell non-strategic assets to further accelerate activity in the Anadarko.
Just go on record for that statement but all things being equal since we don't need to sell I'd probably prefer to sell in something other than a $50 oil price environment.
Pierce Fenner &amp; Smith Inc.</span></strong> Got it.
I appreciate that.
And also I appreciate the commentary around 2016.
So I want to make sure first that I understand that 55% to 60% is kind of the bogey right now for grow or don't grow.
And then I think you guys were at 10 rigs in the Anadarko last quarter.
Can you just give an update on where you are today and what lead time you need if you do decide to ramp further? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> I'll let Larry give you some color.
And if he forgets anything like he sometimes does I'll jump in and cover him.
How about that? Yeah.
Look guys.
I think at 55% to 60% we're going to have a nice growth rate so I'm not worried about our ability to grow differentially in the industry.
When you get to the $50 in the current oil price environment we're still going to be in more of a maintenance mode but that still really gives us some modest growth so don't look for us at $50 to go flat.
We'll still have a little growth in the portfolio.
The STACK and SCOOP plays are going to continue to drive that.
And we'll take our next question from Robert Du Boff with Oppenheimer.
Please go ahead.
Your line is open.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Yes.
Hi.
Good morning guys.
Congratulations on a good quarter.
I saw you added 20 000 acres in Anadarko Basin.
Can you just talk about how costs are trending for picking up acreage and the potential to continue to add there and basically what is your I guess threshold in terms of looking at maybe the gassier side of the STACK? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
So Robert I appreciate your question.
I think we've given all the color that I plan to give at this time.
We'll keep you posted on our efforts there as the year unfolds and at year-end we'll give you a full update on our acreage position where we're at.
Let's just say that we're very pleased with the additions and I think it makes good sense that we're able to execute on our clear competitive advantage in the basin.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Okay.
Understood.
And if I can get a follow-up then.
Just hoping to get maybe a little more color on that $7 million level target for the STACK.
Does that just purely represent savings in full-development mode? Or does that contemplate any further service cost cuts? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> So yeah.
What I said in the call was that hats off to Gary and our operating teams and our management.
Between Gary and the operating teams they've just done a fantastic job.
I mean the progress in the Williston Basin the progress in the Anadarko Basin both SCOOP and STACK industry-leading results today drilling STACK wells in as little as 12 days.
You go back and look at the @NFX and see the progression year by year.
So these are the best kind of gains.
Largely there are gains from exceptional teamwork exceptional talents driving down the learning curve.
So when we talk about experiences in the second quarter I'll tell you that today my expectation was 7.5-ish million dollars probably (33:06) today.
We're going to drive those towards $6.5 million and hopefully in the course of moving new development as we indicated in the call there's another $1 million or so to drive out of the equation.
You can look at the Williston Basin.
You can see what we've done there.
Gary referenced the Arkoma.
If you want to go all the way back to Granite Wash we've done it every place we choose to deploy.
So these are normal natural progressions that we expect to accrue and we're running ahead of schedule.
So at that point I would tell you that very pleased.
We've got $7 million in the sights and we're not going to stop there.
Gary you got any color you want to add? No I mean there's no further service cost reductions baked in to our forecast.
And our next question comes from Leo Mariani with RBC.
Please go ahead.
Your line is open.
Hey guys.
I was hoping you could give us a little bit more detail on some of the spacing tests that you guys have in place at this point.
And then I guess you guys feel confident at this point that the Upper and the Lower Meramec are distinct reservoirs and could you maybe talk about some of the different spacing numbers you guys are using for inter-well spacing between the Woodford Lower and Upper Meramec? In terms of the spacing remember that we haven't done any full pilots at this point so the spacing that we've got we're giving you all that we have which is I think it's a collection of five different two-well pairs that are drilled on either side of lease lines.
If you go back and you look at this @NFX and the last publication all of those are diagrammed.
So what we've done is we've located on either side of the lease line and we varied spacing down to as tight as 880 feet.
880 feet would be kind of six wells per horizon and we've said consistently that we're very very encouraged with the results that we've seen.
It's all we have at this point.
We've tested multiple levels within the Upper Meramec multiple levels within the Lower Meramec and we've tested the Woodford.
So we've got three horizons that are all working very very nicely and frankly beyond that I'll stick to the story that we've told since we announced the play back in 2013.
Ultimately we expect that there'll probably be three to five horizons exploited in the STACK play across the acreage footprint.
The other side (35:29) get at HBP and continue to improve the data and we'll keep you informed as things unfold.
All right.
I guess just jumping over to your domestic oil production guidance in the third quarter.
Just noticing that it's ticking down a little bit versus the second quarter numbers.
Was just looking for some color beyond that if it's just well timing at this point or maybe there's some conservatism there? Yes.
Primarily what you're looking at is continued declines in those basins that we're no longer investing in both Uinta Basin and Eagle Ford.
And then it's just routine timing of pads and our developments in both SCOOP and STACK.
And we'll go next to Dan Guffey with Stifel.
Please go ahead.
Your line is open.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Hi guys.
Congrats on a really good quarter.
Thanks Dan.
Thank you Dan.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> You guys have mentioned 70% of your STACK wells have targeted the Meramec.
I guess how should we think of that split going forward between the Meramec and the Woodford? And then I guess can you discuss any performance differences between the two intervals? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well I think that there's a slide Dan – I don't know if you've had a chance to look at that Dan but you can see how we've kind of distributed the wells to date throughout the section and 70% in the Meramec.
The Meramec is the thicker of the two intervals when you think about Meramec Woodford in terms of the pair.
So logically speaking you could almost see a third a third a third-type distribution.
Just happens to be that 70% of the wells to date have been drilled in the Meramec.
And this is kind of by plan.
So we'll continue to work through that progression.
I think when we get to the end of HBP-ing the operated footprint out here we'll probably have some few hundred plus wells that we'll be able to look at as far as the data set.
And once we see the finish line for HBP then we'll be able to start laying out kind of the full development spacing pilots and get the data that we need to really optimize that development.
But at this point we'll continue to progress as we are.
Probably another one of the drivers that we have there is most of our historical performance whether it's in the Arkoma or down in SCOOP is on the Woodford so we're preferentially investing in the Meramec because it's the newest of the plays and it's quite honestly has a considerable inventory and we're continuing to progress our learnings there and therefore focus on the early drilling.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
Remember the original – Gary makes a good point – the original STACK discovery well was a Woodford test.
That led to the recognition that the Meramec was a target.
So really good point.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Great.
Thanks for the color.
I guess kind of ask a little bit differently trying to look at your inventory.
I guess can you break out the percent of your total acreage that's prospective for the Woodford? And then how much do you think is prospective for both the Upper and the Lower? I know it changes as you go across the basin but just trying to think of how many – I know you mentioned three to five intervals but how much of that is consistent across the entire acreage block? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
I think that's probably all the color we're going to give today.
We update our inventory calc annually so you can expect the next update on inventory potential to be early next year.
We had 5 500 locations on the books in the Anadarko Basin starting this year and I can say the well results make us feel a little bullish with regard to the upside from there.
And our next question comes from Biju Perincheril with Susquehanna.
Please go ahead.
Your line is open.
Hi.
Good morning.
Lee on that inventory question or you mentioned three to five horizons.
Just to clarify is that just in the Meramec and Woodford or are you including some of the shallower horizons there like the (39:35)? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> When we're talking about STACK at this point we're talking about the interval from the top of the Meramec to the base of the Woodford and anything in between.
And can you remind us again that 5 500 locations that was included at year-end future locations? What was the assumption in terms of new horizons? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> We took the data that we had at year-end based on the tests and the information that had been accrued.
I think if you did the simple math you could probably come back and say that it was around two on average.
Okay.
Thanks.
And then on the completion improvements.
We've talked about our perf clusters.
Can you talk about what also are you planning to do rest of the year? For instance is there any plans to test a slickwater completions versus the gel fracs that you're doing today? Yeah.
There's a number of things that we're going to be experimenting with everything from gel loading the amount of proppant we use to the type of proppant we use.
We're spending a considerable amount of time looking at different diversion techniques where we can actually go with broader stages cut our costs but nevertheless get the same amount of stimulated rock volume.
We're experimenting with the fluids.
Historically we've been pretty much using crosslink.
Today we're actually looking at not pure slickwater jobs but something that would be viewed as more of a hybrid job.
And then the other thing we're doing is we're looking at actually using field-produced waters to make up the completion fluid.
So our teams are spending a considerable amount of time looking at all of those things.
And our next question comes from Josh Silverstein with Deutsche Bank.
Please go ahead.
Your line is open.
Inc.</span></strong> Yeah.
Hey good morning guys.
I was hoping you guys could just touch a little bit on some of the midstream and the processing and the takeaway capacity out of the basin.
I know it limited you guys by a little bit this quarter.
So anything that you guys are working on with some of your providers to enhance those facilities? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
So we were limited a little bit by a turnaround on SCOOP.
That was a little bit unexpected.
That's since been corrected and we're at full capacity down there.
We don't see any limitations in the STACK.
We haven't had any limitations there on gas; that doesn't produce that much gas.
What we're looking at there is creative ways to go gather the oil in lower cost.
So our focus right now is on that.
We don't see limitations coming out of the basin.
There's a number of projects that are being discussed.
We'll continue to expand that whole corridor for the STACK and SCOOP so we're looking at participating in those studies and thinking about how we're going to grow our production there.
We're obviously constrained at the moment.
Inc.</span></strong> Got you.
Great.
And then I know you talked about high-grading to more of the oilier areas within the Anadarko Basin for next year's program.
Is there a high-grading even within the Meramec play as of this point? And I wonder if you're thinking about the Springer opportunity.
Is it going from maybe just a handful of wells to closer to 20 or 30 wells next year? Just to think about the direction there.
First of all within the Meramec we haven't seen any opportunities to high grade.
We're seeing pretty uniform performance like we talked about so nothing within the Meramec.
As we think about SCOOP in the Woodford there will be a general trend for us to move east into the more oily Woodford versus the wet gas Woodford down in SCOOP so certainly there's going to be a move there.
The plan in 2016 is really not set yet.
I anticipate there'll be more Springer activity than what we experienced this year.
But still it's more – still in a state of flux there to determine exactly what those numbers would be.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
Remember the Springer there's no real pressing need to install HBP by our Woodford activity to have to accelerate activity so it's simply the high-grading optionality and we'll execute based on our plans and forward forecast.
And we'll go next to Ipsit Mohanty with GMP.
Please go ahead.
Your line is open.
Yeah.
Hi.
Good morning guys.
Morning.
Just looking at your slide 9.
I appreciate the kind of details you've given.
But as you go about HBP-ing the STACK what's your plan to keeping the oily consistent especially when you're going to the Southwestern part you're getting into the dry gas window.
Just curious to see whether you would go ahead and sort of actively drill that to hold it or would you just pass on that? Any color on that please.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> So the answer is we're going to HBP our entire STACK footprint.
All the wells that we're drilling within the Newfield STACK position generate attractive economics in today's commodity price world.
The dry gas the reference is Cana proper.
It's a historical play there in the Anadarko Basin some big well-respected competitors in there like Devon Cimarex and Continental.
They own that; it's HBP.
Frankly if we'd had the opportunity to add that acreage into the portfolio when we were putting this position together we'd have probably done it.
So when you think about Newfield I think the acreage description that we've given you and kind of the yield map if you will tells you the story.
You go back and drill inside of the delineated wells you're going to see average liquid yields in line with what we've delivered today.
We just don't see that there's going to be any variance going forward.
Okay.
And if I heard you correctly you're running eight rigs in the STACK now.
Could you please give us the number of rigs you ran in the SCOOP and STACK in 2Q and currently? In 2Q we would have had five rigs running in SCOOP and five rigs running in STACK.
And right now? Five rigs running in SCOOP and eight rigs running in STACK.
Great.
Thank you guys.
Great quarter.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thank you.
And it looks like we have time for one more question.
And we'll take our final question from Dan Braziller.
Please go ahead.
Your line is open.
Hey.
Thanks for taking my question.
Just sorting through the CapEx guidance raise trying to get an incremental net well cost.
Do you know what the average working interest is expected to be for the 15 additional wells you'll be drilling? And then also on CapEx wondering the difference between the $730 million that you've spent so far in the first half compared to the $927 million on the cash flow statement and if both numbers include the recent acreage acquisition or not.
Thanks.
Yeah.
So the working interest that we're in this kind of net series of wells are kind of in the 75% working interest range.
As far as when you look at the capital that we spent in the first half of the year on an accrual basis we spent a little over $700 million.
We did on a cash basis spend about $900 million.
There was – the difference was the carry-in from the prior year.
And so that was what you saw was the kind of big working capital come in in the first quarter and work that off and you can see that kind of go back to a steady state the rest of the year.
Got it.
And then the acquisition cost – is part of it in there or – and can you disclose how much of it is in the first half then? Yes.
The acquisition was – as far as the acquisition (47:41) the majority of that's going to be in both the second and third quarter.
You can see it smooth out into those three quarters.
We've got some of that in the second quarter but you also see some trickle into the third.
Yeah.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> That's it.
Wait till later this year.
We'll give you more color.
And that concludes our Q&amp;A session.
I'd like to turn the call back to our speakers for closing remarks.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</strong> Thank you operator.
Thank you all for your investment interest in Newfield.
We appreciate your questions today.
We look forward to updating you on our progress for the remainder of the year.
Have a great day.
Thank you.
And that does conclude today's program.
You may disconnect at this time.
Thank you and have a great day.
Good day and welcome everyone to the Newfield Exploration Third Quarter Conference Call.
For opening remarks and other housekeeping items I'll turn the call over to Steve Campbell Head of Investor Relations.
Please begin.
Good morning and thanks for joining us today.
By now we hope you've had a good chance to review our release and the @NFX that we issued last night.
The slides in @NFX will be helpful references during our call today.
Following prepared remarks from our Chairman Lee Boothby we will have our executive assembled and ready to take your questions.
As always please limit your time during today's call to one question and one follow-up.
This simply allows us to get to more of your questions.
Let me remind you that today's call is being recorded and will be available on our website along with our earnings release the accompanying financial tables and non-GAAP reconciliations.
Today's discussion contains forward-looking estimates and assumptions based on our current views and most reasonable expectations.
Many factors could cause actual results to differ materially from what we discuss today.
A full disclaimer is provided in our earnings release and in our most recent 10-K and 10-Q.
Thanks again for dialing in today and I'll turn it over to our Chairman Lee Boothby.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</strong> Thanks Steve.
Good morning everyone and thanks for dialing in to our third quarter conference call.
Your investment in our company is very much appreciated and we look forward to providing you with a solid operational update today as well as taking your questions at the end of our prepared remarks.
It's hard to believe that 2015 is drawing to close.
Despite the challenges presented by low commodity prices Newfield has worked to differentiate itself from the pack through solid execution quality assets and the sound business plan.
We're executing very well across the organization today.
Although the lion's share of capital is being invested in Anadarko Basin we continue to deliver best-in-class wells in the Williston Basin and we are actively working to improve our base production levels and reduce our cost structure across the enterprise.
We truly have an all-hands-on-deck mentality today and we're aligned to deliver on our key goals.
Just as important as today's production beat is the progress we've made to lower our cost and expenses.
Notice that our third quarter cash operating expenses were significantly lower than guidance.
We are building on these efficiencies as we prepare to enter 2016 and leaving no stone unturned when it comes to the pursuit of margin expansion.
We're successfully retooling our company to be profitable in a lower commodity price world.
Newfield is differentiated in several distinct ways today.
First we're focused.
Over the last five years we've sold non-strategic assets reinvested proceeds into our plays of the future.
We've realigned our organizational structure to reduce G&amp;A expenses while deploying talent to our highest return plays SCOOP and STACK.
Second we've demonstrated the ability to effectively manage the inherent risk in the E&amp;P business.
We took proactive steps last year to ensure our cash flow by hedging a significant portion of our production into 2017.
In addition we strengthened our balance sheet and liquidity position through key capital market transactions earlier this year.
Our strong financial footing has been paramount to building shareholder value in today's oil price environment.
We intend to emerge as a better stronger and more profitable company when commodity prices recover.
And lastly we're very fortunate to have an asset that can deliver both strong returns and growth in a low oil price environment.
The Anadarko Basin offers strong returns today and we know that development economics will be significantly better tomorrow.
We are highly encouraged with the results we're seeing today in the Anadarko Basin.
There is a comprehensive update in today's @NFX publication.
You'll see that our teams continue to advance learnings to deliver superior well results optimize completions and improve returns It's important to note that for the first time our net daily production from the Anadarko Basin has now eclipsed the combined production from the remainder of our domestic assets.
This is quite a milestone considering that the SCOOP and STACK plays literally started from scratch just four years ago.
Due to the strong growth from the Anadarko Basin and our efforts to maximize base production across the company we today raised our full year expectations for 2015 production and we will enter 2016 with strong operational momentum.
In STACK we have now drilled nearly 70 wells and have seen strong well results across our acreage.
With each well we gain increased confidence in the play.
Although the primary focus of our STACK drilling program today is to HBP our acreage we are learning about well spacing both on the surface and sub-surface and we will be ready to enter full field development in 2017.
Our growing Anadarko Basin assets provide us with a deep inventory of high return drilling locations that will lead Newfield's growth and profitability for many years to come.
Other critical 2015 initiatives relate to our efforts to improve margins across the company.
We have worked to significantly improve our cost structure.
These gains have many contributors including high-graded capital investments reduced service costs innovative efforts to lower LOE redeployment of our people and the right-sizing of our workforce.
Our estimated 2015 lease operating expenses on a unit of production basis are expected to be nearly 25% below 2014 levels.
We are expecting that LOE will be down an additional 5% to 10% from current levels in 2016.
Our 2015 estimated net G&amp;A expense will be down about $25 million over 2014 levels adjusted for one-time reorganization costs.
Our 2016 G&amp;A expense is expected to be down $40 million from this year's level.
In addition our future realized prices are expected to improve in STACK through better oil price differentials.
We're seeing great demand for our STACK barrels today due to both API gravity crude quality and geographic location.
Before covering our financial results for the third quarter let me make a few preliminary comments about 2016 and how we're seeing our business plan taking shape.
We're running multiple scenarios in preparation for 2016.
Although fluid I can share with you some of the bookends around our analysis.
First we're working toward a capital budget that substantially balances with our expectations for cash flow inclusive of hedge revenues.
As we've said repeatedly our primary focus today is on maintaining liquidity and a strong balance sheet.
We expect to enter 2016 with ample capacity under our $1.8 billion credit facility.
This is an investment grade facility with no redetermination concerns.
Its term was extended earlier this year out to 2020.
We estimate that our maintenance capital funding level is around $900 million.
Nearly $800 million would be associated with drilling and completions and the remainder would be allocated to infrastructure leasehold and land renewals.
At today's strip prices our 2016 hedges should add about $260 million in revenues.
This year our Anadarko Basin volumes will be up nearly 50% over 2014 levels.
We enter 2016 with momentum and expect that the continuing growth of SCOOP and STACK in 2016 will more than offset the natural declines in our other domestic areas that are not receiving capital investments today.
Our production throughout 2016 is expected to be relatively flat throughout the course of the year should we undertake maintenance capital investment levels.
This will put us in a great position to accelerate and again focus on strong growth once the commodity prices provide the appropriate catalyst.
We plan to issue our final 2016 capital budget and guidance along with our fourth quarter and year-end earnings in February of 2016.
We're confident in our plan's ability to maintain a strong balance sheet generate lower operating cost improve our returns and advance STACK toward full field development in 2017.
Let me quickly cover our financial results for the third quarter.
Increasing volumes coupled with improved costs in the unit of production basis define the quarter's highlights.
Margin improvements were evident in our cash operating cost.
On a unit of production basis LOE was 15% below our guidance for the quarter and nearly 25% below the comparable period in 2014.
G&amp;A expense excluding one-time costs associated with our reduction in force and restructuring cost was about $3 million less than guidance.
Our capital investment budget for the year remains approximately $1.4 billion and includes capital invested year-to-date to acquire additional land and leasehold in the Anadarko Basin.
Through the first nine months of this year we sold $77 million of non-strategic assets as we continue to refine our portfolio in high-grade investments.
Year-to-date we've invested about $1.1 billion excluding capitalized interest and internal costs.
There is a helpful table on page four in @NFX that outlines our capital investments by quarter which includes our change in accruals.
In terms of production we extended a healthy streak of beating our projections through solid execution and improving well performance.
Our domestic production in the third quarter exceeded our guidance midpoint by 400 000 barrels led by the Anadarko Basin.
For the third quarter our production in the Anadarko Basin came in about 2 100 barrels of oil equivalent per day ahead of our forecast split equally among our three primary commodity products.
Total production in the third quarter was 14.3 million barrels of oil equivalent of which 63% was liquids.
Our consolidated oil production during the quarter was 42% higher than the same period of 2014 adjusted for asset sales.
Domestic production was up 10% year-over-year adjusted for asset sales.
Domestic production grew 3% quarter-over-quarter to 12.9 million barrels of oil equivalent.
We lifted about 1.4 million barrels in China during the quarter surpassing our guidance by about 125 000 barrels.
Due to our production outperformance year-to-date we're again raising our annual forecast.
Our full year company guidance is now 55.3 million barrels to 55.8 million barrels of oil equivalent.
Our domestic production is now expected to be 50.0 million barrels to 50.5 million barrels of oil equivalent.
Discretionary cash flow from operations was $280 million or $1.72 per share.
Discretionary cash flows were a couple of pennies light to consensus primarily due to divesting or payout of previously expensed cash-settled restricted stock in the third quarter as well as severance and other reorganization costs.
Adjusted net income for the quarter which excludes several one-time items detailed in our release was $0.21 per share.
The most significant item was a non-cash ceiling test write-down related to the significant drop in oil prices.
As a full-cost company this charge was certainly expected and was in line with our recent disclosures in our Form 10-Q.
This is a non-cash charge and has no impact on our credit facility or debt covenants.
These impairments are a function of full-cost accounting and significantly lower commodity prices in the 12-month trailing average.
Let's move on to our operations update.
I'll spend the rest of today on the Anadarko Basin.
We're excited about our recent results which demonstrate material gains in several important areas.
First improving well performance.
You can see from today's results that our production from the Anadarko Basin is tracking well above expectations.
Today we raised the expectations for our fourth quarter average daily rate from the Anadarko Basin to about 74 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day that's 6 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day ahead of our beginning of year estimate and 3 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day higher than our estimate last quarter.
Second we're seeing continued gains in drilling efficiencies which are leading towards lower well cost.
In our STACK play our estimate of well cost at the beginning of the year was $8.5 million.
Today we're drilling and completing wells for $7.5 million or less.
Our days to depth are averaging about 16 days and our best-in-class wells are drilled in 12 days.
Third we're effectively optimizing completions.
We're making material advancements in our completions and early results are very promising.
Lastly we're planning for future development.
We have marketing agreements now in place for both oil and gas takeaway in STACK and we're developing an extensive network to allow for the distribution recycling and reuse of our frac flowback water.
This will be advantageous as we enter full field development.
Let's talk about each of these gains starting with the improved well performance.
In @NFX we released results from 22 new SXL wells.
We now have 68 wells in our STACK dataset and the results have been very consistent across an area that covers more than 1 500 square miles and spans more than 50 miles from corner to corner.
In fact there is a tighter correlation in our STACK results than in any of the resource plays we've been associated with to date.
Our most recent wells have higher 30-day and 60-day rates and not all of the wells have yet reached 90-day production rates.
Average 30-day rates from our 22 new wells exceeded last quarter's wells by 100 barrels of oil equivalent per day.
On a wellhead basis the oil percentage from our new wells averaged nearly 80% over the first 30 days of production.
By the end of this year we expect to have drilled about 100 STACK wells.
This is a very significant dataset and it is providing us with high confidence in our future forecast.
SCOOP is in full development and pad drilling is generating strong returns.
Our recent Williams five-well pad came on at about 6 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day gross of which 70% was oil on a two-stream basis.
We have two additional SCOOP pads that will begin production shortly and help push our average net production from the Anadarko Basin to about 74 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day in the fourth quarter.
We continue to lower well cost in STACK through innovative bit designs mud and motor optimizations and the targeting of the most affective drilling zones within the Meramec and the Woodford.
Today well costs are about $7.5 million but more importantly we can see the path to significantly lower well cost once we move to pad drilling and full field development.
We estimate that more than half of the cost savings seen to date is related to efficiencies and field level optimizations and not simply result of lower service cost.
From our participation in outside operator wells we know we are leading industry in drilling days and costs.
Perhaps our most significant developments to date are coming through recent completion optimizations.
Recall that our first 26 STACK wells had identical completions.
We felt early that it was critical to have a large consistent sample set across our acreage footprint.
In 2015 we began to optimize completions in both SCOOP and STACK adjusting different variables to find the optimal well for full field development.
Recent variables explore the use of zipper fracs diverting agents high concentrations of fluids and proppants and slickwater fracs.
We're very encouraged by the early performance results from these optimizations.
Within a larger sample set and time we will know the magnitude of the impact on our EURs and rates of return.
Stay tuned we'll have more to share with you in the way of data very soon.
We recently signed new agreements that will help ensure that we have good markets and the best possible differentials for our growing STACK production.
As of today our STACK oil is trucked to Cushing Oklahoma.
Under our new agreements we'll begin piping about one-third of our STACK production in January of 2016.
And by the end of the second quarter 100% of our STACK oil will be piped into Cushing.
We've seen a growing appetite for our STACK barrel which is a 42 degree to 45 degree API barrel.
We will soon have the ability to batch our oil to ensure the best price.
We expect our differential to NYMEX WTI will decrease from about $4.50 per barrel today to about $2.50 per barrel early next year.
As you can tell our remarks today we are very encouraged with the continuing progress that we're making in the Anadarko Basin and we'll be happy to discuss additional details during our Q&amp;A.
So in closing I'd like to say Newfield is an very good place today.
But we didn't arrive here by chance.
We took the right step 12 months to 18 months ago and hedged forward oil sales to ensure our cash flow.
We upsized and extended our credit facility through 2020 ensuring our liquidity position and eliminating redetermination risk.
And we sold $2.5 billion in assets at yesterday's commodity prices.
These strategic decisions were timely and help put Newfield in an advantaged position today despite a very challenging macro environment.
We're fortunate that we can provide our shareholders with both volumes and value.
Growth and shareholder value creation are not mutually exclusive regardless of where we find ourselves in the inevitable commodity price cycles.
Thanks for your investment in our company and we look forward to taking your questions.
Operator.
And we will take our first question from Richard Tullis with Capital One.
Please go ahead.
Inc.</span></strong> Hey thanks.
Good morning.
Good quarter Lee.
So we saw a nice uptick in the STACK well productivity.
When you take a look at the latest SCOOP oil wells with a 90-day oil production looks like there was a bit of drop in the percentage of oil my calculation is like 42% versus 51% from the earlier results.
I might be off a little bit but what was the main driver for those declines? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
I think it's important when you look at the Anadarko Basin and SCOOP and STACK – and I'll get to the specific question in a moment – to remember that we're drilling across various positions that have been phase envelopes.
So you're going to see a natural variation across the play.
We've got plenty of data.
We know where we are in the phase envelopes we know what the expectations are.
But from quarter-to-quarter or dataset-to-dataset you'll have pad wells coming into play.
As we move towards the development you'll have both the noise that comes in from OBO activity as well.
But small variations a few percentage points one way or the other are nothing to be concerned about.
So what I would tell you on the SCOOP wells down there we had the five-well pad that was referenced we're very very pleased with the results and they're in line with our expectations in the play.
And the same is true with regard to STACK.
I can't think the last time we had any surprises with regard to phase composition and production types in this play.
We've got plenty of data and it's pretty well defined at this stage.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
And last question from me what's the current oil price realizations in Uinta? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> So the current oil price realizations we continue to sell that crude at a discount -- seeing currently about a $13 differential to WTI.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Thanks a bunch.
Appreciate it.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Sure.
Thank you.
Have a good day.
And we can take our next question from Kashy Harrison with Simmons &amp; Company.
Please go ahead.
Good morning and thanks for taking my questions.
I know you've outlined a path to balance CapEx and cash flows in 2016 while keeping domestic production flat.
I was hoping you could provide some just early color on what production allocation may look like between the SCOOP oil SCOOP condensate SCOOP Springer and STACK? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well I had said carefully that we're going to come out with our final guidance which will include an update on the portfolio well count locations and the 2016 mix in February 2016.
We're going to stick to that schedule.
The commentary on maintenance capital was to give you a reference point.
We've said pretty consistently on the road since earlier this year that in a $50 and below world that you can probably expect Newfield to execute a balanced plan.
We're presently in a $50-ish world.
When you think about it in those regards so we're thinking that more likely than not we'll have a balanced program going into 2016 put ourselves in a position to time the recovery if you will in the commodity and step on the accelerator at the right time.
But balanced program is the right place to go and it will be Anadarko-centric.
We'll have to finish our HBP drilling which will be a large part of our activity in 2016.
And then once we move into the full-field development stage in STACK notionally 2017 forward you'll have a more consistent forecast from that point forward.
Okay.
Thanks for the color there.
And do you have any planned non-core asset divestitures that you may use to fund full field development maybe in 2017? Or just add to liquidity and improve the balance sheet? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well we've been careful to say that – and I think we've demonstrated it with $2.5 billion of asset sales that funded our transformation – every asset has a lifecycle.
So over the course of time and it's not question of if it's when and clearly we do have other assets in the portfolio we could consider for divestment.
But specific answer to your question we have nothing – no planned sales at this point in time.
We do have assets that would be considered for disposition at the right place and time when we choose to accelerate activity in the Anadarko Basin.
So answer to that's yes not today.
Okay.
Well.
Thank you.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Sure.
We'll take our next question from Leo Mariani with RBC.
Please go ahead.
Hey guys I was hoping you could break down the complexion of the wells the 22 wells in STACK you brought on in the quarter in terms of how many of those targeted the Meramec versus the Woodford? And I was just curious if there was any update on any of the previous spacing pilots out there on STACK? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
Leo most of the wells in fact probably all of the wells in the quarter were actually Meramec.
So that really answers that.
What was the other question you had? Just looking for an update on some of the previous spacing pilots that you guys have looked at there? Yeah.
I mean everything – we continue to produce above the type curve on those wells.
We've got a total of five wells or five patterns I guess that we've got in place and we have no other plans this year and we'll be looking into 2016 and maybe we can sneak a few more in.
As Lee alluded to earlier our focus is all about the HBP there.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah Leo I think the other thing to remember when you look at the overall dataset as we approach 70-odd wells through the course of the drilling we've got about two-thirds of the total test in the Meramec and about a third in the Woodford if I remember.
I think those are numbers that we've put out previously.
Obviously as we move around HBPing there will be places where we're testing Meramec and places where we're testing Woodford.
But it's been roughly pretty consistent around two-thirds one-third over that time period the last four years.
All right.
That's helpful.
I just wanted to qualify the one comment that you made Lee.
You talked about the theoretical maintenance CapEx of $900 million and flattish production.
Is that flat year-over-year in 2016 versus full year 2015 or was that flat with fourth quarter of 2015? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> It would be flat year-over-year when we're talking about maintenance capital.
But I would say that with the scenarios that we're running at this point in time we would expect quarter-to-quarter in that regime to be pretty flat all the way through the year.
Okay.
Thank you.
And we'll take our next question from Robert DuBoff with Oppenheimer.
Please go ahead.
Inc.</span></strong> Yes.
Hi.
Good morning gentlemen.
It looks like China has outperformed your guidance all year; is it really outperforming expectations or is this just related to the timing of liftings and how should we think about production of that asset going into 2016? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
I would say that China is producing in line with our expectations.
It's a function of timing of liftings and we're running slightly ahead of the schedule that we put out at the beginning of the year.
But we're pleased with the performance in China and we'll update you forecast-wise on what that looks like later this year as we get ready for next year.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Great.
And just a follow-up thinking about a more balanced budget for 2016 what would be the appetite for adding acreage in SCOOP and STACK? And can you comment on the market for those assets currently? And kind of your outlook for M&amp;A in a $50 oil price world? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well I think that – look we've got competitive advantages and strong position and we're going to compete for every acre that makes sense.
Certainly we understand the play and we've got a good strong position and we'll look to add to it opportunistically when those opportunities present themselves.
Inc.</span></strong> All right.
Great.
Thanks for taking my questions.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thank you.
Our next question will come from Ipsit Mohanty with GMP Securities.
Good morning folks.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Good morning.
Just looking at the significant improvement you're showing quarter-over-quarter on STACK wells to the extent that you can what's the biggest reason for these wells? is it just drilling completion techniques or is it something in the acreage that you're going and drilling at various portions? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well I'd say that I listed a whole smattering of things that we're testing and I guess the first thing I would tell you is remember that we're relatively early in this dataset.
Not all of the wells have made it to 90 days.
So we had good 30-day and 60-day data.
The focus is on optimizing completions.
And we've kind of got a menu it's sort of an all of the above things that make sense.
I listed diverters we've previously talked about reductions in cluster spacing on the perfs targeting where do you target within the various horizons for the best completions.
It's a combination of a lot of factors and I think the follow-on point that you're probably wanting to ask is when do you see this translate though to EUR.
We'll give you an update on our thoughts on EUR when we come our with our 2016 plan.
But clearly a 100 barrel oil equivalent per day increase in the average quarter-over-quarter.
1 000 barrel a day type 30-day IPs.
We're excited about it.
I think that's the key takeaway.
Great.
Thanks Lee.
And then when you talk about maintenance capital there's another goal I believe of achieving HBP in the STACK.
Is that possible by year-end 2016 with a maintenance capital or you need to push it to 2017? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well I think that what we said earlier this year is that we were going to stay aggressively focused on HBPing our STACK acreage as that was our pressing need.
Now we're fortunate that we have high return wells that we're drilling we're not in development mode.
So typically we'll drill a 10 000-foot well and we'll protect two sections and then we'll move about two miles away and we'll drill the next two section.
So it's a lot of work we'll be at about 100 wells by end of this year.
We'll need a touch over 200 wells to get the core footprint HBPed.
So it tells you that there'll be a lot of drilling.
The rig count is shifting in favor of STACK.
That's been happening during the course of the year.
I would guess that at a level of funding that you're talking about $900 million $1 billion type funding somewhere in that zip code we'll be 90% plus HBP by the year and we'll finish up the HBP early in 2017.
All right.
Thanks Lee.
Great quarter.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Sure.
Our next question comes from Dan McSpirit with BMO Capital Markets.
Thank you and good morning.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Morning Dan.
The STACK wells continue to show improvements in productivity whether you measure it in absolute terms or on a per foot of lateral basis.
What should we expect in terms of the rate of change going forward given the completion optimization operations underway today? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well I think that the shortest answer is that it's still early innings.
I think there's a lot going on a lot that we're doing a lot that other competitors in the play are doing.
I think we're all learning from each other.
Clearly I would expect to see some continued learning and positive results related thereto but the pace the actual rate of that change I'm not going to try to answer that today.
I just think that we're still early innings and there'll be some more wins before this is over with.
Got it.
Thank you.
We'll take our next question from Dan Guffey with Stifel.
Please go ahead.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Hi guys and congrats on a great quarter.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thanks Dan.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Just wanted to dive in a little bit more on spacing.
I know you mentioned you're done with spacing tests for this year just curious your thoughts on if 880 feet or six wells per section is the right spacing? And then also on your third and fourth test that you guys did or I guess your third specifically as you were previously defining it you had two in the Meramec that were stacked and staggered vertical spacing was around 175 fee.
Are you seeing any degradation or communication that's pushing down or pulling down some of those production rates from those pilots or are all of them essentially at or above your type curves? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
So let me – I'll start with a high level commentary.
I don't know that we said that we weren't doing anymore pilot tests between now and year-end.
I think we'll have ongoing well pairs two-well pairs.
We have no specific multi-wells spacing pilots being drilled.
But we do continue to – we do plan to continue to drill two-well pairs where we can across the acreage footprint just makes sense so you can gather the information.
I think the results that we've seen from all of the wells that we released to date have been in line or above the published type curve.
So we've been very pleased there.
We've not seen any negative interference effects or degradation.
So another thing to be very pleased with.
The closest we've been able to get is 880 feet I believe.
And the reason for that is when you drill across lease lines State of Oklahoma rules that's as close as we can get.
So practically speaking that's about six wells per horizon if you wanted to think about it at that level.
I think we feel pretty comfortable with the results we're seeing there.
We'll have to wait for the mood the shift into development to drill multi-well pilots and I'm sure we'll test spacing tighter than that once we get there.
But right now we're very encouraged with the results.
We'll continue to add to the dataset.
When we get the acreage footprint HBPed it's going to be a pretty fantastic place to be because we'll have all of that spacing and well performance data before we ever actually get into the development mode.
That's a luxury we haven't had in any of the previous plays.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay great.
So I mean it's sounds like the data what you gathered this year the inventory number that you provided at the beginning of the year this year the inventory in STACK should significantly increase when you put your numbers out in February of 2016 is that correct? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well I think we're very encouraged.
We'll update the inventory and the well counts and give you that information as part of our year-end dataset consistent with what we've been doing the last two years three years.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Great.
And then again on optimizations I know you said you're kind of – it's a full menu of trying out many different types.
I guess how close do you guys feel like you are to reaching optimization and do you think all of 2016 will get you to where you need to be when you enter full field development mode and actually have a recipe that you consistently use? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> So I would tell that we'll continue to learn as we move through the development of this play.
I would expect to see continued improvements as we said earlier.
I think the key to remember is our team starts at time zero in these plays not to chase press releases and big IPs but to design the development well.
So we're working on the development well designs today.
We want compact tight complex fracture networks and that's really what the focus is.
I would take you back – I don't know if we've talked Dan but I'm sure you've heard Steve and others and some of the materials we've put out.
I love looking at what the team's accomplished in the Williston Basin and we're drilling and completing 21 000 foot wells 22 000 foot wells there today for $5 million including facilities.
And those wells are virtually identical to the types of wells that we'll be drilling in STACK.
So when we get to development mode I wouldn't bet against team Newfield.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Fantastic.
Thanks for the update guys and congrats again on the quarter.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thank you.
We'll go next to David Heikkinen with Heikkinen Advisors.
Please go ahead.
Morning guys.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Good morning.
The fourth quarter guidance of 74 000 barrels equivalent a day what's the oil percentage expected in that? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Gary will flip the page in the book here for you.
Okay.
I think it's about 36% somewhere thereabouts.
Okay.
Yeah.
And so you are on trend still to get to the 40% oil percentage in 2016 so that kind of continued to pick up into next year.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
I don't know if you heard the earlier response David...
Yeah.
Basically (36:18) President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> ...the small variations quarter-to-quarter that's just noise.
I think the trajectory is all positive and we're really pleased with the performance against the type curve.
So I think we're all set there it will just be a question of pace.
Yeah.
We've seen other operators – you're meeting or exceeding your oil volumes and then getting an uplift of incremental gas and NGLs that are kind of gratis or gravy on your economics.
And do you expect that to continue as you look forward or is that just – or do you still get to the same mix of 400 000 barrels of oil and 950 000 barrels equivalent from an EUR standpoint? Just trying to get an idea of – oil's making it but does gas and NGL even beat more and give you some more juice? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
Well I think that the politest answer I can give today is let us accumulate some more time on the wells that we've released today.
We're going to add additional wells in the course of the fourth quarter.
So we'll go into next year with 100 wells in our dataset.
So the dataset is growing at a pretty rapid pace in that regard.
Clearly with the uplift that you're seeing on the early returns on these wells my expectation is it will ultimately translate to an uptick in EUR.
So you will see improvement across the product mix: oil NGLs and gas.
And then I think talking to Steve last night there was some downtime in the Eagle Ford in the quarter and then you had higher ethane in the Williston that brought your NGL realizations down.
How does that flow forward into the fourth quarter? The NGLs that we saw increased in the Williston Basin.
We'll – we're anticipating that it will flow into 2016.
Okay.
So that keeps going.
Thank you.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> It's all about capture up there.
Thanks guys.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yep.
Thank you.
And we have time for one last question and we can take that from Josh Silverstein with Deutsche Bank.
Please go ahead.
Inc.</span></strong> Thanks.
Morning guys.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Hey Josh.
Inc.</span></strong> You mentioned some of this in your comments with the transportation moving from the truck to pipe increasing some of the netbacks by about $2 per barrel.
I was hoping you guys could provide whether it's in terms of BOE or percentage the margin uplift you guys are anticipating seeing as we flow through next year as the Anadarko Basin becomes the majority of the domestic volumes? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> I think probably the best answer rather than me making it up on the fly is just to tell you that let us complete the plan.
We'll get the details of the plan and when we release all that information you'll have all of that data in there.
I mean I think trend lines quarter to quarter that you've got in 2015 probably give you pretty good visibility.
We're not going to change dramatically from one quarter to the next but small percentage changes can be driven by the things I referenced earlier in the call: pad drilling locations all kinds of different things that play into that.
Inc.</span></strong> Got it.
And if you guys were in that the $900 million maintenance mode where would that low 50-ish percentage of the Anadarko Basin flow through to 4Q 2016? Is it well over 60% or is it just kind of a gradual step-up each quarter? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> I'm not sure I followed the questioning.
So let me ask you to go ahead and repeat.
Inc.</span></strong> So the Anadarko Basin production has obviously increased as a percentage of total domestic volumes.
I was just curious if – it sounds like upwards of 90% of the spent is going to go into that Basin while the others...
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
Inc.</span></strong> ...
somewhat decline.
Where does that kind of percentage go to looking out a year? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
So I'll stick to the same comment.
We'll give you the 2016 absolute figures when we come out in February with that data.
The trend line I think you're on to a good line of reasoning.
I think the Anadarko is going to become a more dominant part of the portfolio.
We mentioned in the call that we've gone past 50% and clearly the margins are improving there.
So Anadarko Basin the economic draw the gravitational pull we've been talking about the last two years or three years just continues to get stronger and stronger.
And it will translate to materially improved margins 2016 forward.
We kind of like that.
Inc.</span></strong> (40:50) President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Okay.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</strong> Well I guess think that was the last call.
So we'll go ahead and thank everybody for tuning in this morning.
Appreciate the questions.
Look forward to updating you on the full year 2015 results and our 2016 plan going forward.
And again thanks for your interest and investment in Newfield.
Have a good day.
And this does conclude today's program.
Thanks for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Have a great day.
Good day and welcome everyone to the Newfield Exploration fourth quarter and full-year ending 2015 earnings conference call.
For opening remarks and other housekeeping items I'll turn the call over to Steve Campbell Head of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Good morning everyone and thanks for joining us today.
By now I hope you've had a chance to review our release and our @NFX that we issued last night.
As always the slides in @NFX will be a very helpful reference during our call today.
Following our prepared remarks from our Chairman Lee Boothby we'll have our executive team here and available to take your questions.
As always please limit your time during the Q&amp;A to one question and one follow-up.
As you know this allows us to get to more of your questions at the end of the call.
Let me also remind you that today's call is being recorded and it will be available on our website along with our earnings release the accompanying financial tables and non-GAAP reconciliations.
We will reference certain non-GAAP measures so please see reconciliations at the end of our earnings release today.
Today's discussion will contain forward-looking estimates and these assumptions are based on our current views and our most reasonable expectations.
In summary statements in this morning's news release our @NFX and on this conference call today regarding expectations predictions or the future are all forward-looking statements intended to be covered by the Safe Harbor provisions under federal securities laws.
There are many factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from these expectations including those we described in the press release and @NFX and our 10-K which was also filed yesterday.
Thanks again for dialing in.
I'll now turn the call over to our Chairman Lee Boothby.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</strong> Thanks Steve.
Good morning everyone and thanks for joining us today.
We disclosed a great deal of news yesterday afternoon including the filing of our Form 10-K.
We will do our best to briefly summarize our 2015 results as well as update you on the progress we're making in our Anadarko Basin assets and our plans for 2016.
As always we will leave ample time to take your specific questions at the end.
These are indeed challenging times for the energy sector.
More than a year ago now we grew concerned about lower-for-longer commodity prices and took progressive steps to strengthen our hedge book reduce investment levels right-size our workforce and preserve margins by slashing costs across the business.
These efforts were evident in our fourth quarter results and our outlook for improved costs and expenses in 2016.
With the challenges presented in 2016 we must remain vigilant in our pursuit of lower costs and improved efficiencies.
We continue to adapt our near-term business strategies to preserve the health of the company and ensure we are in the best possible position to not only weather 2016 but to emerge with improved margins and a readiness to compete and win when commodity prices ultimately strengthen.
I'm confident that we have the people the plan and the assets to get it done.
Our priorities as outlined in our 2016 outlook released last night are crystal clear.
Number one preserve liquidity.
We reduced activity levels and better aligned our investment plans with cash flow expectations.
You will see that our 2016 budget is down more than 50% from last year and we have high-graded the lion's share of our capital to the Anadarko Basin where returns are more resilient today.
Our second priority is to HBP STACK.
STACK is a premier asset with industry-leading returns under any plausible long-term commodity price scenario.
It's critical that we retain our acreage and continue to push toward full field development where we are confident that the returns will continue to get better.
Third reduce operating expenses and preserve margins.
This is a continuation of the solid progress we made in 2015.
You can see from yesterday's guidance that 2016 LOE and G&amp;A expenses are projected to be down significantly.
And we are looking for other avenues to safely reduce expenses.
And fourth we're commencing a process to sell additional nonstrategic assets.
We've had a number of inbound calls and progressed some of those discussions.
However none to date have resulted in a transaction.
These discussions have encouraged us to launch a more organized effort to gain price discovery and ultimately transact on select assets.
Although we have a desire to sell assets we are not alone in that wish.
We recognize that this market could quickly become saturated with distressed sellers.
Proceeds from a potential sale would improve our financial flexibility and allow for opportunistic bolt-on acquisitions and acceleration in Anadarko Basin activity if oil prices rally or to simply manage our short-term borrowing levels.
I can assure you that our people from the office to the field are focused and aligned to execute these four priorities.
A little later in the call I'll provide more details on our 2016 outlook.
But first let me cover our 2015 highlights.
2015 was a great year for Newfield and its stockholders as we continued a multiyear streak of solid execution against our targets and delivered on our key objectives.
Now to the highlights.
Early 2015 we recapitalized our company and took proactive steps to reduce leverage and enhance liquidity.
When coupled with our strong hedge position these measures helped to offset the negative impact of low commodity prices and differentiated our balance sheet from many others in our peer group.
The strong financial footing allowed us to successfully execute our game plan.
Our 2015 game plan was certainly simplified.
Capital investments were reduced by about 25% over 2014 and we were laser focused on our exciting Anadarko Basin drilling programs where we saw improving drilling and completion costs throughout the year.
In 2015 each of our focus areas exceeded our beginning-of-year production forecasts and we beat our guidance which was raised twice during the year.
Production was driven by SCOOP and STACK which achieved a record fourth quarter net production average of about 75 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day.
From a startup less than four years ago SCOOP and STACK today comprise nearly half of our total company production and over half of the total proved reserves.
We took aggressive steps to reduce domestic LOE and our per-unit expense is down by more than 25% compared to 2014.
We acted quickly to address G&amp;A and took action in 2015 and early 2016 that have reduced our head count by more than 20%.
These measures equate to an estimated $45 million per year savings in 2016 gross G&amp;A.
Our Anadarko Basin proved reserves increased 50% to 269 million barrels of oil equivalent.
Positive additions helped partially offset significant price-related revisions.
Total company proved reserves decreased about 20% year over year to 509 million barrels of oil equivalent of which about two-thirds are proved developed.
Proved reserve additions during the year equate to a reserve replacement ratio of approximately 180% or 350% depending on the inclusion or exclusion of positive revisions.
There's a detailed accounting in cost incurred in reserve additions and revisions in our release and our 10-K.
Let's move on to a summary of our fourth quarter and full-year financial results.
Our production in the fourth quarter was above guidance at 14.9 million barrels of oil equivalent of which 47% was oil and nearly two-thirds were liquids.
Fourth quarter domestic production was at the top end of guidance at 13.5 million barrels of oil equivalent.
Our Anadarko Basin production beat our forecast levels by nearly 1 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day.
Excluded several items listed in our release our net income from continuing operations in the fourth quarter would have been $50 million or $0.30 per share on revenues of $362 million.
Our net cash provided by operating activities before changes in operating assets and liabilities was $289 million.
Our hedges added about $500 million in incremental revenues in 2015 and helped to underpin our cash flow.
We estimate an additional $365 million in hedge revenues over the next two years at current strip prices.
Our 2015 production was 56 million barrels of oil equivalent of which 5.4 million barrels came in from our China assets.
Adjusted net income for 2015 would have been $164 million or $1.02 per share when excluding unrealized losses on commodity derivatives the premium to call notes and impairments.
Revenues for 2015 were approximately $1.6 billion and consolidated net cash provided by operating activities before changes in operating assets and liabilities was approximately $1.2 billion.
Let's talk about 2016 and the key objectives in our near-term business plan.
As I said in my opening comments 2016 is all about preservation of liquidity holding our STACK acreage and finding creative ways to improve margins in a low oil price environment.
We have a deep high-quality and economically resilient inventory to attack today in the Anadarko Basin and this is the centerpiece of our 2016 plan.
Our total capital budget is $625 million to $675 million down more than 50% at the midpoint from 2015.
There's a pie chart on slide 8 in our @NFX publication that depicts our plant investments by region.
On a unit-of-production basis our outlook for cash operating costs has improved and can be attributed to the following.
Our domestic lease operating expenses on a unit-of-production basis are expected to be more than 15% below 2015.
As we focus our investments in the Anadarko Basin the benefits are increasingly more apparent in our margins.
Lease operating and transportation expenses here are just over $5 per BOE the lowest in our liquids portfolio.
As SCOOP and STACK production growth offsets declines in areas with higher operating expenses and lower realized prices we expect to see continued improvements in our margins.
As I mentioned earlier our gross G&amp;A expense is expected to be $45 million lower than 2015 and we continue to look for ways to reduce G&amp;A and streamline our operations.
Despite the large cut in our capital investments our 2016 domestic production is expected to be relatively flat with 2015 at about 50 million barrels of oil equivalent.
China liftings are expected to total 4.3 million barrels of oil equivalent and no additional investments are planned in China.
About 80% of our 2016 budget is planned for the Anadarko Basin so this is where I will focus the remainder of our discussion.
SCOOP is currently in active development and we are drilling wells from common pads using shared production facilities and accessing markets through established midstream infrastructure.
SCOOP constitutes about $200 million of our 2016 investments.
Within our SCOOP program we will focus largely on SCOOP oil and the Springer Shale in both nonoperated and operated areas.
We continue to see good Springer results and benefit from the fact that much of our prospective Springer inventory is already HBP'd.
STACK investments which total about $300 million in 2016 will be focused on HBP'ing our acreage and ensuring that we hold this premier asset for future development.
Today about 50% of our acreage is held by production.
We expect to invest $50 million to $80 million in land costs in the Anadarko Basin largely in the STACK area.
We're confident that our returns will further improve as we transition to full field development.
There are some slides in our @NFX publication that I'll reference today starting with slide 12.
Here notice that we are now reporting our well performance on a three-stream basis.
We made this change for a few simple reasons.
First it's better disclosure and reports actual volumes by product from plant settlements and eliminates the need to estimate NGLs.
Second our type curve is three stream and it makes comparisons to our average expectations much easier.
On slide 14 notice the significant improvements we are seeing in well productivity.
This illustration chronicles STACK well performance by year and clearly shows the improvements we have made to optimize completions and targeting.
Here we show all 77 wells drilled to date plotted against our type curve by year.
And all information is on a three-stream basis.
We will continue this practice going forward.
Last year we raised our three-stream STACK type curve by about 20% from 800 Mboe to 950 Mboe to reflect data from large sample of wells.
Our 2015 wells are performing well above the type curve today.
As we've said our STACK type curve represents a play average across a vast area.
History tells us there will be variability in individual well results over a large area where all hydrocarbon phases are present.
And we remain very encouraged by the consistency of the well results over the last three-plus years.
On slide 13 we plot results from Newfield and industry wells throughout the STACK area where confidence in the play continues to grow.
Today there are more than 30 rigs running and about 350 total wells have been drilled and completed to date.
There are an additional 100 wells permitted.
We have announced a leading position in the oil window and are benefiting from technology service sector infrastructure and the science being done by large high-quality operators all around us.
In 2015 we expanded our footprint and extended our acreage position to the north and west where we are seeing high levels of industry activity today.
In addition to the primary Meramec and Woodford targets we have additional prospective horizons that we and industry will be testing in the future.
We have thousands of prospective wells in inventory and realize the importance of holding our acreage for the future benefit of our stockholders.
We continue to see improvements in our drilling efficiencies.
On slide 15 we show our completed cost per lateral foot and the progress we've made over the last several years.
Lower costs per foot have come by targeting the most effective drilling zones improvements in penetration rates through changes in bit designs as well as drilling fluid and motor optimizations.
From our participation in the wells drilled by others we know that our results are industry-leading.
Our best-in-class SXL wells are drilled and completed for about $750 per gross perforated interval including facilities.
We expect that our 2016 wells will cost about $725 per gross perforated foot.
Well costs across our acreage will vary and the reasons are very important to understand.
First drilling depths range from more than 12 000 feet to less than 8 000 feet.
Second in some areas to the north and west we are often required to set an extra casing string and this adds about $0.75 million or so to completed well cost.
And next about one-third of our total wells in 2016 will be XL wells 5 000-foot lateral lengths.
We plan to test XL wells this year to better understand the economics of XL wells while holding acreage that would not allow for the drilling of SXL wells.
Several of our peers in the area have seen solid results from XL wells and we intend to continue to deliver the same.
And finally we continue to tinker with our completions to find the most optimal design for future development.
We're employing zipper fracs diverting agents higher fluid and proppant concentrations and using both hybrid and slickwater fracture stimulations across the Anadarko Basin.
We're very encouraged by the strong performance from 2015 wells and the improvements that have accrued over the last several years.
These ongoing experimentations will create variability in both well cost and production performance.
Although the STACK drilling program provides industry-leading returns at today's oil prices it's more important for you to understand where we are heading.
We envision significantly lower well cost once we move into full field development.
On slide 15 we contrast in difference – in today's costs with what we internally refer to our vision well.
We have a line of sight on completed well costs including facilities as low as $6 million in future development.
On the left side of slide 16 we outline our 2016 assumptions for STACK well costs operating expenses and our average working and net revenue interests.
To the right of these assumptions we show pre-tax rates of return using a variety of well costs and commodity prices.
You can see the impact that a $5 move in oil or a $0.5 million reduction in completed well costs has on our returns.
We've taken steps to secure takeaway and attractive markets for our growing Anadarko Basin volumes.
As of today we're beginning to move STACK oil by pipe to Cushing Oklahoma.
By midyear we expect that 100% of our production will be on pipe to Cushing.
This is a high-quality crude and we expect our differential will ultimately be about $2.50 off NYMEX WTI.
You will see improved differentials in our guidance today.
We remain very encouraged with the continuing progress we're making in the Anadarko Basin and we'll be happy to discuss additional details with you during Q&amp;A.
Let me close with a summary on the remaining investments in our 2016 CapEx.
We plan to run a single rig in the Williston Basin through midyear and expect to complete 12 to 15 wells this year.
Our most recent wells have been drilled and completed for just under $5 million including facilities.
In the Eagle Ford we will invest solely through our outside-operated program in the Fashing area and this constitutes about $28 million.
Although these teams have done an outstanding job to enhance economics we simply must shift our limited capital towards the Anadarko Basin and our HBP needs.
We also expect to invest about $23 million in two joint ventures that we have recently signed last year one in the Arkoma and the other in the Central Basin of the Uinta.
In each of these ventures a significant portion of our interest is carried.
Our rationale is fairly simple.
One demonstrate recent advancements in drilling and completions gain a better understanding of play economics and offset firm transportation and refining commitments that are negatively impacting our cost structure today.
In the Arkoma Basin we've already drilled several of the wells with superior early results on production and cost savings.
Newfield is the operator of both ventures.
So once again thanks for dialing into our call today and for your interests and investment in Newfield Exploration.
We are fortunate to have premier assets in the Anadarko Basin and we are actively driving down our well costs and improving returns.
Our priorities are very clear today.
They are centered around preserving liquidity maintaining a strong balance sheet to weather a very challenging period of low oil prices.
We know the importance of holding our Anadarko Basin acreage to drilling and retaining this important asset for our future growth.
I'm confident that we have a sound near-term business plan to not only survive but to emerge as a leaner better-focused and more profitable company.
That concludes our prepared remarks this morning.
And we'll now take questions.
We'll take our first question from Dave Kistler with Simmons &amp; Company.
Please go ahead.
Morning guys.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Morning Dave.
Just kind of thinking a little bit about some of the spacing information you guys have shared with us in the past.
Can you update us as far as now that we have longer production history what both the horizontal spacing still looks like and what the vertical spacing looks like from kind of a stacked and staggered approach? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> I can tell you what we've done.
We haven't put any new information out so you can go back and pick up the results that we've put forth.
The tightest spacing that we've tested – and remember these are generally wells drilled on either side of lease lines.
So in Oklahoma you got to be 440 feet off.
So the tightest spacing that we've tested in STACK at this point's about 880 feet.
And we won't be able to go below that until we drill an actual spacing pilot on a DSU.
So at this point that's the tightest we're going until we get our HBP situation satisfied.
And then within that Dave there were multiple tests – Woodford/Woodford Woodford/Meramec Upper Meramec Lower Meramec in a variety of different offset distances.
I would tell you that it's a relatively loose data set at this point and I wouldn't draw any huge conclusions from it.
But everything is positive.
All the wells continue to perform at or above type curve.
We saw no negative effects at the tightest spacing so we're very very encouraged in terms of thinking about what the ultimate spacing might be.
And we continue to think that we'll have multiple layers ultimately to be developed.
I will point out that some of our high-quality peers in the area that have already got HBP acreage have some high-density pilots planned and we'll be watching with great interest.
It's easy to see what they're thinking and frankly their thinking is in line with our thinking in terms of the number of horizons and the ability to space wells out in the four to eight wells per horizon type level.
Okay.
Appreciate that.
But you haven't seen many differences in terms of any communication (23:27) – okay.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> All positive at this point.
Perfect.
And then when I think about the forward production guidance – and wells are outperforming type curves – what did you use as far as a type curve in that production guidance – i.e.
trying to get a handle on the conservative nature of guidance perhaps? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well I'll say thank you on behalf of the entire team for calling our guidance conservative.
My friends sitting around me would tell you that they're focused on costs and efficiencies and driving those down but as I indicated in the call our focus is all about HBP today.
I think that we're very very happy to see where the wells sit relative to the type curve.
We're not making any type curve adjustments at this point in time.
I mentioned in the call that while we haven't seen any material variability across the acreage at this stage there's still that potential.
And we don't see a need to adjust the type curve up.
From a positive point if it continues to perform at those levels that will translate to a positive outcome relative to the 2016 guidance.
Our next question comes from David Tameron with Wells Fargo.
Morning.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Dave.
Lee just let me – so can you give me those HBP numbers again? I kind of cut out there in part of the call.
It sounds like – where do you think you'll be end of 2016 and then where at the end of 2017 as far as HBP in the STACK? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> 2015 I think I quoted in the prepared remarks that we ended the year right around 50%.
Yep.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> I'll remind you Dave that we added acreage during the year and I mentioned that to the north and northwest.
I don't know if you heard those comments.
So there's a little bit of a bounce in terms of where we stand on HBP - Okay.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> – versus what we might have projected when we had a lower acreage count.
So that's the first thing for you to consider.
The numbers we're referencing are relative to the current footprint.
So 50% HBP.
The core the original STACK acreage where we drilled when you look at that map and the added effects you'll see that that's been pretty well peppered so we'll have a lot of activity moving north and then ultimately northwest over time.
We would expect to end 2016 at around 65% or so with the reduced capital program HBP'd.
We would expect 2017 to move up in the 75% 80% range assuming a continuation of same.
I think ultimately we'll keep you posted as we go.
We're picking up incremental acreage on poolings so there'll be some noise from period to period in terms of what the actual acreage account is.
But I think those are pretty good numbers.
So 50% at year-end 65%-ish at year-end 2016 75%-ish at year-end 2017 is what we're thinking right now.
Okay.
That's helpful thanks.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Sure.
And then if – I'll just ask this question because – and you may hate me for it – but the entire story right now on your stock seems to be right somehow Newfield has to issue equity they got to do capital markets they got to sell something even though your balance sheet's strong.
From my seat right you don't need to do anything.
Can you just talk how you're thinking about your capital structure and anything you can say along those lines? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well I think I'll start by saying we never hate you just for the record.
You may hate the question but just not me.
Okay.
Thank you.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> I don't even hate questions.
I think that we all recognize that the current business environment – I called it challenging.
This is my 33rd year in the business.
There have been four major events so that means every eight years or so we go through one of these periods.
What bothers us most about the current period is it embodies part of 1986 part of 1998 part of 2008.
So it's serious.
And frankly I think industry – some of the people that have taken steps in that regard are doing so probably because they see the environment as equally challenging.
Frankly our view is that since we're going to protect our assets and protect the investment of our stakeholders stockholders we're going to keep all viable options on the table to preserve the health and the enterprise.
I think I said that in the earlier comments.
Yep.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Our bias as you know over the years we've funded – the entire transformation the company has been towards asset sales and we've talked about moving that process along.
I think the shift from non-core assets into the SCOOP and STACK assets in the Anadarko Basin makes sense.
We've been on that path for the last three or four years and we'll continue.
But we sold $2.6 billion of assets over the last five years including just under $100 million of assets that nobody heard about in 2015.
So it's been an important part of the game plan and I think that we'll continue to be prudent in that regard.
And I think that the broader question that you're probably asking – we've seen peers accessing the capital markets.
We do understand the rationale.
We can see the need to enhance liquidity manage debt levels.
We've reduced our capital spend back towards cash flow and I think we're taking all the prudent steps that we can.
But part of being prudent is that you always keep all the options on the table to preserve balance sheet strength and that's what allows us to execute our near-term plan.
It was critical to us in 2015; it'll be critical to us again in 2016.
So I think that's kind of my long-winded view.
But again 1986 was bad; 1998-1999 were no fun; 2008 no fun absolutely.
2014 2015 now we're into 2016 might be the worst of them all.
Okay.
Let's hope not.
Thanks for the color.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well Dave and if it's not we're going to be in the adequate position to step on the accelerator on the ride up but we want to see positive movement in the markets before we step on the accelerator.
Sounds good.
Thanks.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thank you.
The next question comes from Michael Glick with JPMorgan.
Hey guys.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Hey.
So maybe to follow up on David's question there.
I mean can you just speak a little bit more to leverage and kind of what your comfort levels are from a ratio perspective over the next year or two? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well I think we've been pretty clear and spoken about that quite a bit over the last year or so.
I think we found ourselves – and again compliments to our team here.
Proactive timing and execution last year left us in good stead.
We look at where we finished the year and that all feels nice and comfortable.
Last year we were sitting here talking about how difficult the business environment was at $50.
Today we're sitting here looking at numbers in the low $30s.
So it's certainly in a different environment today.
But I'll let Larry give you his color on leverage ratios and how we're thinking about it.
Sure.
I think we've said in the past that we've kind of targeted a net-debt-to-EBITDA roughly around 2.
I think that's a really good healthy enterprise in these kind of lower commodity prices you're seeing.
That – challenging and companies certainly experiencing higher leverage ratios.
We're not immune to that either although we've been able to through the actions that we pointed out kind of keep it in and around there.
So we'll continue to monitor that and that's our expectation is to stay at healthy levels but that'll be dependent on product prices.
And then shifting to STACK you obviously went through the year-over-year improvements.
But could you maybe provide a little bit more detail on the drivers in 2015 in your plants and test techniques in 2016? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well I rattled off a lot of the things that we're doing in the call.
I think I'd reference you to the call script and certainly you can follow up with Danny and Steve if you want additional details.
But we're testing larger job sizes hybrid fracs higher proppant concentrations tighter fracture cluster spacing.
It's an all of the above but our team has demonstrated over the last three or four years that the scientific method works at Newfield.
So we don't change 15 variables at one time and then tell you "Look at the great job that we did." We actually do it systematically so that you can understand what you're doing.
So I think our team will take those steps during the course of the year and we'll be able to tell you as 2016 unfolds what we believe the secret sauce is for the STACK play.
Our next question comes from Josh Silverstein with Deutsche Bank.
Inc.</span></strong> Hey good morning.
Good morning guys.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Hey Josh.
Hello? Inc.</span></strong> Hello can you hear me now? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah I can hear you.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay great.
Thanks guys and good morning.
Was just thinking along the lines of the asset sales.
I note the program has started to divest assets in the Anadarko Basin over 50% of total volumes in 2016.
Just trying to get a better understanding of how you guys want to transition the company over the next few years.
Is the goal to really make this kind of a pure-play focus on the Anadarko Basin so you could sell assets elsewhere and redeploy a more capital to consolidate the Anadarko Basin? Just kind of thinking how this transition period works as you guys are trying to set up for the next cycle.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> So I'm not sure I understood all your question but I'll take a stab at it Josh.
So the first thing we have been rotating into the Anadarko Basin over the course of the last three years just given the scale and scope of the asset portfolio that we put together there and the results being posted.
I mentioned that we sold $2.6 billion of what we call nonstrategic assets over the last five years.
That helped fund our transformation including building those positions that we love dearly today.
Our focus has to remain on HBP'ing the STACK acreage.
We've got most of SCOOP taken care of.
We do have some wells planned there as indicated in 2016 but it's mostly about focusing on getting STACK HBP'd and putting us on a position so that in 2017 we can start some of the tighter spacing pilots and a move towards development which was one of our targets that we talked about during the course of 2015.
We want to remain opportunistic obviously relative to opportunities that will come up from to time in those core areas and we want to be able to take advantage of it.
You saw us add 20 000 acres in the core of SCOOP and STACK in 2015 and it's my hope that we'll see additional opportunities like that develop in 2016 and on the road ahead.
We want to keep Newfield strong and in a position to act.
Ultimately relative to what we call nonstrategic assets we've said consistently over the last couple years it's not a question of if it's just a question of when.
I think our team broadly that means all of the folks that work in managed assets understand that we're making smart decisions for in the business in the intermediate and long term.
And I think that they've shown the ability to deliver results in that area.
So as we make those decisions we'll shed assets in areas if we get an attractive price and we'll have that cash available for the all-of-the-above strategy that I've kind of outlined in the Anadarko Basin.
If we don't see a good price we're fortunate because of steps taken last year and results posted in 2015 that we don't have to do anything.
I think in that regard we'll be patient and make sure that if we sell an asset it's at a price that we'll be proud to tell you about.
Inc.</span></strong> Got you.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> The stimulus for us has been inbound calls and people know that we have quality assets and we've been open about saying that at some point in time we'll let them go.
I said clearly in the script that we've had lots of discussions on lots of assets.
We're just telling everybody now that it probably means that – show up with your best number or expect to participate in a process.
That's the polite translation of what we said today.
Inc.</span></strong> Got you.
Yeah that was the gist of the question and clearly the production's going in that direction the capital's already there and just wanted to see if that was kind of the longer-term trajectory of where the (36:10) - President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> (36:10).
The gravitational pull continues to get stronger and stronger and stronger every day.
We love it.
Inc.</span></strong> Great.
Thanks guys.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thank you.
Your next question comes from Subash Chandra with Guggenheim.
Yeah.
Hi good morning.
Lee as far as 2014 just curious if we look at that 2015 curve and if you compared maybe first half of 2015 with second half of 2015 if you would have seen a meaningful difference a meaningful improvement? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
Subash I mean obviously if you look at the curve I can tell you constructively that since the first half of the curve has most of the well count the highest number of wells that's the part that you ought to lean strongest on.
As you move to the end of that curve that's where – the oldest well from 2015.
So the first half of the curve has all the benefits of the most recent activity and results.
Clearly it's well above the curve.
We want to be able to see that sustain itself before we make any additional adjustments to the type curve.
But in general if you look at all of the wells since there's 50-some odd wells if I'm remembering correctly in that curve every bit of it's fracking at or above the type curves.
So that's part of our comment saying we feel really really good about the results being posted.
My hope is that the work the teams are doing today with all of the testing in terms of variables on the completion side will further enhance productivity but I'm really proud of what the teams delivered in 2015 and excited about 2016.
Okay.
Yeah.
That's helpful.
So along those lines in these latest oil wells latest-gen STACK wells are you seeing any change in how they perform naturally what they produce at when they're on artificial lift the duration artificial lift et cetera.
So perhaps the curve after day 90.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well again I'm going to remind you – and I don't have the stats in front of me.
I'd tell you follow up with Danny and Steve.
They can give you some color on the number of wells per unit time on that curve.
I just know that if you look at the second half of that curve it's first half results kind of the way to think about it.
But the first half of that curve is all the results.
That's kind of a way to think about it if you want to think about it on average.
So it's not a single well outcome it's a composite average of all the wells that have been drilled.
Our next question - President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Follow up with Steve and Danny.
They can give you additional color you might want there.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from John Herrlin with Société Générale.
Yeah.
Just two quick ones for me.
Lee regarding asset rationalizations for something like Utah will you open a data room or will you be more passive in what you were describing as companies approaching you? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
I mean we've got some quality companies where we have people that we know and trust that – would probably entertain discussions with them directly.
No reason to run a process if you don't have to.
There may be some assets that we choose to run a process just to make sure that we've got a broad test of the market.
Okay thanks.
And next one from me in the @NFX you had the STACK well cost; what about the SCOOP? About the same or – ? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah the SCOOP I would say that we'll pick up the normal efficiencies.
We're in development there but I would expect that you'll see well costs in a similar vein to what we've been advertising there going forward.
All right.
Thank you.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> All right.
Thank you John.
The next question comes from Biju Perincheril with Susquehanna.
Thanks.
Good morning.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Morning.
On the JVs in Arkoma and Uinta what's the scope of those programs now? And do you see this as something that could lead to a bigger JV down the road? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well I think the scope of the programs are to test what we can do with current technology.
So I'll use the Arkoma as a basis for the discussion because we've not started drilling in the Uinta but I'll give you some color there as well.
So the team had the idea that we've learned a lot since we stopped drilling dry gas wells in the Arkoma several years ago after the financial crisis.
We moved from gas to oil in terms of our focus and we wanted to go back and see if we could apply those learnings and how to translate it in terms of spud-to-TD times and cost.
So we've drilled five or six wells there now on this promoted basis.
I think the exciting part was the very first well in the program was drilled in half the time of the best-in-class well drilled five years earlier.
So that was a real shot in the arm.
And then the productivity of the well – we'll update you these programs later in the year but just to give you the early returns on that well productivity of that well was the best in the field.
So that gives us visibility in that dry gas asset there in the Arkoma that at gas prices down in the $2.50 $2.75 if oil decides to hang around in the $35 $40 range we could go back to work drilling gas wells and not lose any sleep over it.
That's kind of exciting.
At the same time it probably tells you that lower-for-longer on natural gas is going to be around for a while.
The other side of that on the Uinta that's oil.
And we had the same learnings that we've taken both from the Anadarko Basin the Williston Basin and the Eagle Ford.
And we've put a team together and they've been working for the last year or so.
The teams that delivered the sub-$5 million cost in the Williston and their challenge is to go to the Uinta Basin and prove we can do it there too.
So the first part of this is to go back can we drill them faster? Can we drill and complete the wells much more cost-effectively? We know what the producibility is out there.
We've got lots of good production.
We just need to drive the costs down.
And on the other side of it we've got some commitments to refiners.
So this gives us an opportunity to demonstrate the economic value of the asset continue to advance the learning curve and satisfy the requirements to move oil to the area of the refiners.
So it's kind of a win-win-win proposition in that regard.
We'll start the drilling on that program here sometime in the second quarter.
Thanks.
And then especially in the Uinta do you see with the commitments to the refiners this program to get a longer-term JV there? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well I think with success we're open-minded.
It's a win for the refiners in Uinta it's a win for our partner in the Arkoma.
Good business relationships tend to grow and we're open-minded in that regard.
If it's beneficial to Newfield and our stockholders and beneficial to our partners you'll probably see more of that activity.
Okay.
And my follow-up was in the STACK area.
You've been looking at – kind of back into the sort of the latest wells even adjusting for the two-stream versus three-stream.
There's been a nice pickup in the latest batch.
Just wondering how much of that is where you're drilling within your acreage versus some of the completion optimizations you mentioned before and can you sort of give us some idea of where you are with the completions today versus say a year ago? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> I would say the completions are probably moving toward the middle innings if you want it to put in baseball terms.
And I would say that the results you're seeing are a product of geography geology and creativity.
So it's kind of all of the above.
It's not just completions.
It's not just geography geology; it's a combination of factors that led to that improved performance.
And I don't a percentage breakout for you.
Maybe talk to Steve and Danny and they'll give you some more color but that's the right answer.
And we'll take our final question from Will Derrick with SunTrust.
Inc.</span></strong> Hey guys.
Good morning.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Hi.
Inc.</span></strong> Question – talking about completions in the STACK with your recent wells and updated completions are you all seeing any improvement in oil rates I guess over time as a cut of the whole mix? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> I think that if you look at the shape curves on slide 14 demonstrated relative to our type curve you'll see pretty good conformance.
We've seen good consistency.
The hope would be that some of the combination of factors that we're talking about higher proppant concentrations one of the things I know Gary and the team are working on today.
We're working on tighter cluster spacing talking about diverters.
There's all kinds of different points that are being attacked.
Ultimately the objective is to improve the yield on a cost basis and that would mean improving the economics.
If we get the double benefit if you will of multiple factors working for us then you could see an uplift.
But I think the – with four or five years of producing history now the actual production characteristics of the target reservoirs are pretty well understood.
You'll need to calibrate based on where the wells are located so that you know that you've got where you are in the phase envelope.
Most of our acreage is in the oil window.
There's a wet gas condensate window.
There will be a volatile oil window.
Generally the volatile oil window is very narrow.
You'll grade ultimately into dry gas so there'll be a large area of dry gas as you move west and southwest away from us.
When you talk to Newfield you're talking about oil window play largely.
We do have some exposure in the volatile oil and the wet gas condensate regime but we don't have any dry gas exposure at this stage.
And that concludes today's Q&amp;A session.
I'll return the floor to our presenters for closing remarks.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</strong> Well I just want to say thank you again.
I know it's a tough time for everybody these days and I know it's no fun for our investors and analyst friends that are working with the same issues that we are but I want to conclude with both saying thank you for your support and thank you for your investment and interest in Newfield.
And I hope you take away from this that we remain excited and encouraged about the road ahead and we will deliver.
Have a good day.
Okay.
This does conclude today's program.
Thanks for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Have a great day.