Good morning.
My name is Angela and I will be your conference operator.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the O-I First Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the call over to Mr.
John Haudrich Vice President of Finance.
Sir you may begin your conference.
Thank you Angela.
Good morning and welcome everyone to O-I's first quarter 2011 earnings conference call.
I'm joined today by Al Stroucken our Chairman and CEO; Ed White our Chief Financial Officer; and several other members of our senior management team.
Today we will discuss key business developments review our financial results for the first quarter and discuss future trends affecting our business in 2011.
Following our prepared remarks we'll host a question-and-answer session.
Presentation materials for this earnings call are also being simulcast on the company's website at o-i.com.
Please review the Safe Harbor comments and disclosure of our use of non-GAAP financial measures included in those materials.
Unless otherwise noted the financial results we are presenting today relate to adjusted net earnings which exclude certain items that management considers not representative of ongoing operations.
A reconciliation of GAAP to non-GAAP earnings can be found in our earnings press release and in the appendix to this presentation.
I'll now turn the call over to Al who will start on Chart 2.
Thank you John and good morning.
Our adjusted earnings were $0.47 per share in the first quarter of 2011 compared to $0.48 last year.
Overall higher shipments and production levels were offset by additional costs including incremental cost inflation.
Our total shipments in tonnes were up 7% over the first quarter of 2010.
More than 5% of the increase was attributable to our recent acquisitions in South America and China.
The rest came from organic growth driven primarily by our global sales and marketing initiative Glass Smart which is successfully generating profitable business with new and existing customers.
Sales volumes were up across all regions and end-use categories.
Higher shipments increased production levels and our machine operating rate improved to approximately 93% on a global basis during the first quarter.
Significant flooding in Australia during January impacted sales and production at our Brisbane plant which reduced our earnings by $0.04 per share in the first quarter.
While our selling prices were up slightly the combined effect of price and product mix was essentially flat with prior year.
Overall additional costs offset the benefit of higher volumes and production levels.
We incurred incremental cost inflation due to a higher labor raw material and energy prices.
In particular energy prices in some markets increased rapidly over the course of the quarter and I'll expand on that later.
Operating expenses were up as we roll out our new global Glass Smart sales and marketing program and begin the deployment of our SAP system in North America.
Furthermore additional debt to fund the recent and future acquisitions led to a higher interest expense.
We expect to see similar business trends in the second quarter.
Shipments will be up in all regions on a year-over-year basis.
Our recent acquisitions and continued organic growth will drive stronger volumes as our markets continue to recover.
Improved shipments will translate into increased production and higher operating rates.
Yet we also anticipate higher costs.
Cost inflation has accelerated again due to rapidly increasing energy prices.
Operating expense and interest expense will also be up in the second quarter.
However a stronger demand profile as well as terms in our key customer contracts should support the pass-through of additional cost inflation over the course of 2011 and this should start supporting earnings in the second half of the year.
Now let me review our operating performance beginning with Chart 3.
Here we show first quarter segment operating profits for the company as well as for each of our 4 regions.
Total operating profit was $199 million in the first quarter up from $193 million last year primarily driven by stronger performance in both Europe and South America.
Our European operating profit was $71 million up $15 million from the first quarter of 2010.
Shipment levels improved by low-single-digits from the prior year led by stronger growth in both wine and spirits.
Demand was particularly strong in France and Spain.
Despite additional cost inflation higher production levels led to lower manufacturing costs on a per tonne basis.
In North America operating profit was $59 million down from $63 million in the prior year due to the increased investments and several initiatives including Glass Smart and SAP which I mentioned previously.
Shipments in North America were up slightly in the first quarter of 2011 despite poor winter weather and the residual impact from prior year contract renegotiations.
Volume trends improved over the quarter indicating a more favorable run rate heading into the second quarter.
In fact we expect to restart 2 idled furnaces in the second quarter to meet increasing demand.
This will improve capacity utilization and benefit segment profits in the second half of the year.
Our North American team finalized our multi-planned union negotiations in the first quarter and we believe both parties are satisfied with the terms of this agreement.
Importantly new hourly employees will be eligible for a cash balance pension plan rather than the traditional defined benefit pension plan.
Our South American region generated operating profit of $45 million in the first quarter a 22% improvement over the prior year.
Total shipments were up approximately 50% 5-0 percent.
The acquisitions in Brazil and Argentina accounted for 35 percentage points of the volume boost.
Robust organic growth represented the rest of this improvement.
To support rapid growth we have been importing glass into Brazil.
Leveraging our extensive footprint is one of our great strength at O-I but this has led to increased transportation costs which impacted our South American margins.
Most of the markets that we serve in South America continue to experience robust improvement in their GDP and our growth rates have exceeded general market trend.
This performance underscores the clear appreciation of glass in these markets as well as the efforts of our entire team in the region.
Given strong growth we continue to increase productivity in our current footprint.
Also we are planning future capacity expansion in the region which will help reduce higher transportation costs.
Our Asia Pacific operating profit was $24 million down $13 million compared to the first quarter last year.
$9 million of the decline pertained to the flooding in Queensland Australia which shut down our plant in Brisbane for several weeks.
Our Australian team did a great job bringing the plant back into production safely and serving our customers during this very challenging situation.
Total glass container shipments were down more than 10% in Australia and New Zealand.
In addition to weather issues the strong Australian and New Zealand dollars negatively impacted exports particularly wine.
Also higher interest rates have reduced disposable income and domestic consumption levels in those countries.
Growth remains strong in China and we have begun integrating the 3 plants we purchased in the fourth quarter.
One of our recent acquisitions is just outside the city of Guangzhou and we are in the process of expanding capacity at this new site and selling our property in the Guangzhou central business district that will be developed for other retail or commercial uses.
We expect the proceeds from this sale will fund our future expansion in the area.
And as a result we will both increase our capacity and improve our overall cost position in one of China's most important glass markets.
Globally we are seeing market conditions improve and our recent acquisitions are beginning to generate real value for O-I.
And I'll now turn the call over to Ed.
Thanks Al.
Let's begin our financial review with the first quarter reconciliations for sales operating profit and EPS on Chart 4.
First quarter 2011 segment sales increased 10% to almost $1.7 billion.
The combined effect of price and mix was essentially flat with last year.
While average selling prices increased slightly compared to the prior year this increase was offset by a shift in product mix as beer business began to improve.
Normally we break out the impact on price of North American monthly or quarterly cost pass-through provisions.
However the impact was immaterial in the first quarter as natural gas prices have not shifted much and escalating freight costs should be passed through in future periods.
7% higher sales volume increased the top line by $95 million reflecting both additional organic sales and benefits from last year's acquisitions.
Finally currency translation increased our top line by $59 million in the first quarter.
Moving over to segment operating profit.
The first quarter was $199 million up $6 million from the same period last year.
Segment operating profit benefited slightly from price and mix.
Higher volumes improved operating profit by $18 million largely driven by strong growth of higher margin business in South America.
Manufacturing and delivery costs increased $6 million.
The combination of inflation of $49 million this quarter and the $9 million impact of the Brisbane plant flooding offset the $52 million benefit from last year's footprint activities and from higher capacity utilization this year.
As expected operating expense increased $12 million reflecting investments made in several initiatives that Al mentioned including Glass Smart and our North American SAP deployment.
And currency translation provided a small benefit this quarter.
Overall in the first quarter we saw about $40 million to $45 million of contribution from positive operating leverage driven by organic growth.
This is reflected in both the volume line and the benefit of the higher capacity utilization which flows through manufacturing and delivery.
Operating leverage was most pronounced in Europe and was the biggest factor that led to Europe's 27% year-over-year increase in segment profits this quarter.
However cost inflation offset operating leverage and we will review this factor more in a minute.
Finishing with the EPS reconciliation our adjusted net income was $0.47 per share in the quarter compared to $0.48 in the prior year quarter.
Operating profit was up $0.03 from the prior year and reflected the benefits of higher sales and production volumes this quarter.
Earnings were impacted $0.04 from unfavorable nonoperating items largely due to higher interest expense on incremental debt to fund future acquisitions as well as those completed during 2010.
Corporate and retained costs were down slightly from the prior year mostly due to the benefit of additional machine and equipment sales during the quarter.
Furthermore certain corporate initiatives including our glass advertising campaign as well as other supply chain and IT projects were light in the first quarter but will ramp up as the year progresses.
Finally our only Note 1 item this quarter was a $6 million after-tax restructuring charge related to the closure of our plant in Guangzhou and the planned sale of its property that Al mentioned earlier.
Let's move to Chart 5 for more detail on our balance sheet and free cash flow.
On March 31 2011 cash was $430 million and total debt was nearly $4.4 billion.
So net debt was $3.9 billion an increase of over $900 million from the first quarter of last year as we put our balance sheet to work to fund several acquisitions in 2010.
Our net-debt-to-EBITDA ratio was about 3 at the end of the first quarter and that's at the upper end of our annual leverage target of between 2x and 3x EBITDA.
Shifting to free cash flow.
Please keep in mind that seasonality in our business usually results in the use of cash in the first half of the calendar year followed by a strong source of cash in the back half of the year.
The first quarter was a $158 million use of free cash flow compared to $80 million use of cash in the first quarter last year.
This greater use of cash was due to a larger increase in working capital compared to the first quarter of 2010.
The working capital increase this year reflected higher receivables due to sales growth and additional inventories to support seasonally stronger shipment.
However the working capital investment was partially offset by lower capital expenditures restructuring payments and asbestos payments.
Regarding asbestos let me reiterate our position given the recent unfavorable jury verdict in McLean County Illinois.
First our basic fact pattern has not changed and asbestos remains a limited and declining liability for the company.
As far as the recent jury verdict we continue to deny the conspiracy claim made in this case and will vigorously challenge this verdict if necessary in the appellate courts.
O-I as well as other defendants have successfully challenged similar conspiracy jury verdicts in the past.
Therefore we have not made any changes to our asbestos-related liability and we do not anticipate any changes to our 2011 financial outlook as a result of this case.
Now moving to the right side of Chart 5 you see our debt maturity schedule as of the end of the first quarter.
Our most current bonds are not due until 2014 that leaves only the bank debt due prior to that time.
Given current attractive credit markets we are in discussions with our bank group regarding refinancing options of our bank credit agreement in the second quarter.
On Chart 6 we present our business outlook for the second quarter.
I will walk through the usual directional guidance on key business drivers that affect earnings and cash flow and will also provide an update on cost inflation.
Let's review each of the key business factors starting with price mix.
Given modest cost inflation in 2010 we saw only minimal benefit from annual cost pass-through provisions in the first quarter this year.
Consistent with this prices should be up only slightly in the second quarter and we expect this benefit will be offset by a change in mix.
However we anticipate a more receptive marketplace for higher pricing over the course of this year particularly in Europe.
Al will expand on this shortly.
Sales volume like the first quarter we expect second quarter shipment trends will remain in line with our full year outlook for volume which we anticipate will improve between 5% and 10% from 2010 levels.
Cost inflation.
On our last earnings call we provided a 2011 inflation outlook that ranged between $150 million and $180 million.
Since that time we've seen a number of events impact the global energy markets.
Well I would like to update you on our energy exposure by region.
In South America and Asia Pacific the clear majority of our energy is purchased under annual fixed agreements.
In North America more than 85% of our customer agreements include monthly or quarterly cost pass-through provisions.
So we have limited exposure to further escalating energy prices in those regions during 2011.
In Europe a majority of our energy spend is fixed for 2011 but the remainder is subject to market pricing especially natural gas.
Given recent volatility in European energy prices which is impacting our variable price position we are providing more information on the right-hand side of this chart.
If average first quarter energy prices in Europe persists for the full year our global 2011 cost inflation should approximate $200 million.
The annualized impact would of course be even higher than this projection if we didn't have the majority of energy already covered by fixed price contracts.
We estimate that a 5% change in European energy prices mostly natural gas from the first quarter average impacts our energy costs in the region by $7 million to $10 million on an annual basis.
While it is very difficult at this stage to accurately forecast energy inflation this year this information should provide additional insights on our cost profile.
Now moving to other manufacturing and delivery costs.
We expect to see footprint savings and higher operating rates benefit our manufacturing costs in the second quarter.
Other costs.
Regional operating expense should increase $10 million from the prior year due to the investments in Glass Smart and SAP.
Corporate costs will increase about $8 million to $10 million from the prior year mostly due to higher pension expense and various corporate initiatives.
Finally second quarter net interest expense should remain in line with first quarter levels.
Now I will turn it back to Al.
Thanks Ed.
I would like to comment on the market dynamics we have seen over the last few years and add some more recent observations and I will focus on Europe given our energy exposure there.
Since 2007 we have increased our selling prices to successfully repair our margins even during the recession.
Yet in 2010 our prices in Europe declined slightly given the combination of cost deflation and soft market conditions in the region.
While we maintained our focus on price some of our European competitors took a different route reporting price deterioration of more than 6% while at full capacity utilization.
We were still seeing pockets of pricing pressure this last fall when we negotiated our 2011 annual European customer contracts.
Since then several things have changed in Europe.
Demand for our glass containers has strengthened and energy prices have rapidly increased.
Our long-term European customer contracts contain pass-through provisions that allow us to recover inflation albeit with some time delay.
But most of our business in Europe is covered by annual contracts based on pricing that was set last fall.
Nevertheless because market conditions have changed so significantly we have notified these customers that we are instituting an energy surcharge to recover rapidly escalating fuel costs.
As we look through the balance of 2011 demand should improve further especially as we enter the summer season in Europe.
Supply is tightening in part due to the permanent capacity closures over the last 2 years.
Strong demand tightening supply and cost inflation are clear signals that the tide is turning and this sets the stage for a more robust 2012 pricing negotiation which will commence later this year.
Also our annual cost pass-through provisions on long-term contracts will result in higher 2012 pricing.
Globally we are also seeing stronger demand and tightening supply.
In particular as markets improve in Europe and North America there is less capacity or less excess capacity I should say available to supply the fast-growing emerging regions.
As a result we are restarting the 2 furnaces in North America and plan to add capacity in Latin America and China.
This should support continued improvement in free cash flow generation.
Of course we will remain flexible and respond to changing market conditions.
Over the long term we do of course remain committed to our business strategy.
That means we will continue to expand in attractive emerging markets both through acquisitions and organic growth initiatives.
We are investing in innovation and technology and we are strengthening our ability to offer our customers innovative and brand differentiating glass packaging solutions.
Through our execution of these strategies we expect to create additional shareholder value and to increase free cash flow to approximately $300 million in 2011.
Thank you and now I will ask Angela to open up the lines for your questions.
[Operator Instructions] And your first question is from the line of Tim Thein with Citigroup.
First Ed a question for you is on the volume pull-through that you reported when you combine the -- going back to the kind of operating income bridge the $18 million from volume plus the $52 million in terms of higher utilization that equates to about a 74% pull-through.
And I just want to make sure we're -- I'm comparing kind of apples-to-apples here and going back to what you had said prior quarter about assume 40% to 60% in developed markets and then the acquisition-related growth coming through closer in line with segment margin levels.
Can you just kind of parse that out in terms of what you're comparing and what we should expect going forward from those 2 lines? Tim our guidance on incremental and decremental margins is -- you've got the right range that we've talked about publicly.
What you have in the $52 million benefit that you see in the footnote there on Chart 4 that includes about $15 million of footprint benefit which is really not an incremental benefit because that's just the cost that we're taking out from the closure of the 2 plants in North America.
So you'd have to reduce that $52 million by -- that's less $15 million to $17 million number.
Okay so call it 55% to 60% kind of range is that fair to use going forward? Yes and again it always depends a little bit on what regions are seeing it.
And so you've got a higher fixed costs especially in Europe so you'll get -- you'll be a little bit on the high end of the incremental range.
You'll see less of that in some of the markets where it's more variable.
Okay great.
And then secondly on the price mix is it still valid? In the last quarter I think you had said -- assume that could be up to 1% for this year.
Is that based on what you report in the first quarter what should we be thinking about for the balance of the year? This is Al.
We're still looking at that as our objective and target.
The question of course is going to be a little bit how mix is going to play into this? Especially as beer is going to recover the beer volume typically tends to have a lower average price than the rest of our business so that may impact a little bit than the comparison.
But from a price perspective that number is about right.
Okay.
And just on that mix point though you called out Al wine and spirits in the quarter and then also the organic strength in South America which I would think would be favorable to mix.
Why was that the headwind that you cited in the first quarter? You saw in the comments that Australia and New Zealand dropped off considerably in their wine area and they tend to be fairly high-priced especially also now with the currency having that impact.
Then our acquisitions in China are generally beer volumes so that and price levels in China tend to be lower.
So it's really region as well as industry mix that is playing into this.
And your next question is from the line of Ghansham Panjabi with Robert W.
Baird.
Ed thanks for the energy transparency in Europe.
Can you just tell us how much of your energy spend in Europe is variable due to natural gas volatility? And is there any instrument out there that will allow you to hedge out that exposure going forward? It's about 40% and the market there really are -- it's kind of purchase contracts so there's no real hedging or financial derivatives that you have.
So that's what we try to do and a lot of it is kind of set up at the end of the year get it going getting ready to go on to the next year.
Okay.
And then Al this question is for you.
Can you just take us through the thought process behind the furnace startups in North America? I mean it seems like volumes were basically flat in the first quarter.
Have you secured additional business that justifies the additions? Yes.
Of course we went through these contract negotiations that we've talked about many times over the past couple of quarters so we have been actively pursuing other volumes in other business and we're gaining some of those customers.
But what we're seeing as well is an overall broader growth in demand in general.
And you will recall that I believe it was in the first quarter conference call I said "If we see beer picking up like 3% or 4% we're going to have shortages in the marketplace." And fine we haven't seen that full percentage yet but we also have a seasonality in the marketplace which is putting quite a bit of pressure at this point in time.
But just to clarify the new volume that you picked up is that beer volume replacing beer volume or is that a slight shift in mix as well? It's a shift in mix and where we have picked up beer it's been in the craft year sector which of course is also the faster growing segment of the marketplace.
One thing that perhaps rounds out this picture because it's not just a North American situation where markets are tight it's really across-the-board with the exception of Australia and New Zealand one of our competitors in the Americas has notified their customers in the wine business I believe it was that they need 100 days lead time for orders.
And in Europe well we've seen one competitor going out and asking for 6 months lead time on orders.
So what we're seeing is that demand has clearly strengthened and especially with this quite a bit of the volume that has been taken out of the capacity over the last couple of years most probably the supply-demand balance point is at a lower point than it used to be in the past.
And your next question is from the line of Rick Skidmore from Goldman Sachs.
This is actually Alex Ovshey on behalf of Rick.
We have a couple of questions.
First is just on the contractual pass-throughs that you have in North America inflation.
Can you just provide a little bit more detail around the timing and exactly what components of your inflation get passed through? Well the pass-through provisions typical are for the more volatile cost components and in North America that's typically natural gas as well as transportation.
Natural gas as you can very well surmise from the published data has not moved as volatile-ly as we have seen in the oil industry.
And so there really has not been a real inflation in the energy side as far as combustion energy is concerned.
Now with regards to transportation of course we have seen diesel prices going up significantly and those pass-through provisions have a 3-month delay.
So on a quarterly basis then the freight rates get adjusted to our customers and so we'll recover some of that as we go into the next quarter and that should be fairly evident then when we report out on the second quarter.
That's helpful.
And then just shifting...
Fuel is about 20% in North American COGS.
And so that other 80% then is more of an annual pass-through if you have a multiyear contract.
Then just shifting to Europe and how you're thinking about price there.
Is the focus really to offset inflation? Or are you also looking for opportunity to enhance margins in Europe as you did over the last number of years? Well we want to make sure that we have the right sequence.
First we have the greatest need of course to recover the inflation and that is going to be the main focus area.
If we however see a continuation of the very strong demand that we are expecting at this point in time or continuing into let's say the August September timeframe when contracts start to be renegotiated that will certainly also have an impact on the potential of doing something with regard to margin enhancement.
And your next question is from the line of George Staphos from Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
This is actually Benjamin Wong filling in for George.
For my first question if you use the current run rates on commodities and inputs is the inflation estimate more or less than the $200 million that you provided? And then I had a follow-up.
Well we think that there may be about a $20 million of potential upside to those numbers at this point in time but of course it's very difficult to predict.
That really depends a lot on the political situation how that's going to evolve.
Okay so it could be $20 million higher? Yes.
And then on free cash flow given the deficit in the first quarter was more than last year what gives you confidence that you can still achieve $300 million or more of free cash flow? Well the buildup in the inventories is of course is based on the projected takeoff that we expect going into the high season.
And since we have limitations into our flaks with regard to expanding our capacity during the high demand period we have to build up the inventory to be able to serve our customers.
The difference between last year and this year is particularly pronounced in Europe.
Where last year we were still under an inventory control regimen in the first quarter and then as a result even demand was not very high but we still missed some shipments in the second quarter of last year.
With the demand profiles and projections that we're seeing at this point in time we just don't think we can let our customers run that risk to be unsupplied for their demand.
So as we sell this inventory then of course that is automatically then going to generate the cash and that's why our confidence level of the $300 million is still in place.
And your next question is from the line of Al Kabili from Macquarie.
I guess Al first question for me is could you help us frame out a little bit more in terms of the opportunity for fuel surcharges in Europe? And then in the back half of the year what percentage of the European business do you see potential opportunity to recover some of this cost inflation in the back half? Let me frame this situation a little bit for you Al.
You know from past discussions that about 70% of our volume in Europe is subject to these annual contracts and I think if you look around at our competitors they have a very similar approaches and percentages.
Now clearly we have to go out with this surcharge and it's a modification of an agreement that we made a couple of months ago so it will require some give and take in that process.
It will depend very largely of course on whether there is supporting move by others that are seeing the same inflation rate.
If we have -- I don't think that's the case but if we should have competitors that don't see inflation then of course that will make that a little bit more difficult.
However one other aspect that we have to take into consideration is that those competitors that last year filled their capacity with more aggressive pricing of course have very little room now to get productivity improvements in the course of this year to absorb some of the brunt.
So I would assume that the inflation pressure on quite a few of our competitors is in fact much more substantially greater than in our case so I'm generally very positive about our ability to get a decent recovery of some of the inflation that we're seeing in the energy sector.
Okay.
So we should see that price mix at least for Europe moving up in the back half if you're successful there? Absolutely.
Okay.
And I guess the second question I guess this is for Ed.
Ed if you could help us just bridge the North America decline a little bit for us given the $15 million of footprint savings I know there was some cost investments going on there but it still seemed -- the decline still took me a little bit by surprise given the $15 million of footprint and maybe if you could help us bridge that.
Well the North America did have that benefit.
If perhaps and Ed can comment on the cost structure.
What we did have of course in the first quarter of last year was still the tail end of the supply of the beer contract that we have which had some upside in volumes and contributions that we did not have this year.
So you have to look at it as well not only from a cost structure but also from the market dynamic structure.
And then in the first quarter of this year we've also still had some activities in preparing the facilities for increased utilization because we did some shifting of capacities last year to other facilities and they're still ramping up.
Yes Al getting ready for the shutdown of 2 factories we were running our North American footprint mill at full capacity to the first quarter last year.
So what you're really seeing a little bit of a timing issue that I think could get more normalized as you look out to the rest of the year.
And you'll see that really nice upturn I think coming back more in the back half.
And your next question is from the line of Chris Manuel from KeyBanc.
Congratulations on a solid quarter in spite of a lot of issues.
Speaking of one of the issues when you look at Australia and what's happened there did that start -- when did that start to get better? Well I would say one data point doesn't make a trend yet but certainly what we saw towards the end of the quarter was that beer was recovering somewhat in Australia in particular.
There was a combination of course you all have heard about the floods and the wet summer that Australia had so that may have had an impact.
But what we're really seeing is that the policy of the central bank in Australia which is driven really by the raw material boom that Australia is experiencing is raising the interest rates and most of the mortgages in Australia are variable mortgages and pulling a lot of purchasing power out of the population.
And that has had quite a bit of impact on beer sales.
And if you look at the brewers that have reported from that region it's quite obvious that they're all suffering quite significantly and nobody at this point in time is yet making a big prediction of a recovery.
That may be due to the fact of course that we're running into the winter season now in Australia and New Zealand.
So it's very difficult to see any strong demand anyway.
So everybody is really waiting for the end of this year which is moving in through the spring and summer period for them to see whether that's going to recover.
Our activities however in the last 8 or 9 months have been to fairly heavily go into other sectors of the market as well.
We've been trying to get greater position with our light weighted bottles for the wine industry even though that overall wine export is declining but still our share of that segment is improving.
So it's going to be a while I think before they recover.
I would say and I tell the people in Australia that it's almost like they went into the recession with a 2-year time delay.
Okay that's helpful.
And my follow-up is it's sounding like from your commentary that in most regions of the world volume is coming back very nicely that the supply demand balance being very very good.
As I see it the biggest risk is last time we had energy costs directionally where they are today that's when demand began to get clipped.
How do you assess that balance as you look forward? Do you see energy costs et cetera how they impact the consumer as something that could kind of stunt some of that momentum or how do you think about that? I think there are 2 perspectives.
One is with regard to the overall purchasing power of the population and of the consumers so if transportation costs become very high if many other factors that have an energy component get passed through to the consumer eventually there's of course going to impact their overall purchasing power and that may then potentially also impact consumables.
However the secondary aspect that we look at as well is competitive positioning with regard to what's happening with plastics what's happening with aluminum.
And there we see the same push as well.
So I would say if we will see an impact it's most probably an impact of what will be reflected on a broad basis in the economy rather than specifically to the markets that we serve.
[Operator Instructions] And your next question is from the line of Alton Stump with Longbow Research.
I think most of my questions have been asked at this point.
But just in the first quarter Al the all-in corporate and other expense line was quite a bit lower than what I had modeled.
And I know you've made a comment they'll be up $8 million to $10 million in 2Q.
Was there anything that was special that made that number lower? Or was that just too high with my assumption for the first quarter? No.
I think overall we were I think pretty clear on what we said we think our OpEx are going to be in the course of this year.
We have used some judgment as we've gone into the year and we saw inflation picking up to say "Okay is this the right time?" I think overall we have looked at some projects and say "Okay we can push that out for a couple of months without hurting the intent and the purpose of the strategy that we want to pursue." And that's most probably most of what you see reflected here.
In my prepared comments when I talked about our machinery business which shows up in corporate retained and other and we had a major project complete and shipped toward the end of March which almost is a one-off.
So we really talk about that number as kind of an annual number.
And the quarterly puts and takes are more just showing the ebbs and flows of project and things like that.
And coming back to this machinery comment which fails out to give some perspective about what's happening in the glass industry.
When I looked at published reports from some of our competitors in the machinery sector it's clear that their order books have held up quite a bit which again I think is a good trend indicator that demand for glass is strengthening and people are making investments again or upgrading their facilities or streamlining their operations which also again is a very positive perspective.
Your next question is from the line of Tom Mullarkey with Morningstar.
I have a question about the South American business.
How much longer are you going to expect to see the margins depress due to extra shipping charges going in there? And if you exclude the imports what did the operating margin of the product produced in the country actually do versus last year? Well I would say overall clearly the demand that we're serving at this point in time does only make sense to serve it from the present locations for a transition period.
So we're presently working on some projects that will allow us to help local capacity to cover that demand and then the entire freight as well as duty aspect would disappear.
I would say I don't have specific numbers about how much of that freight component is but we have not seen a margin compression in Asia Pacific due to the market -- sorry in South America due to the marketplace.
So what we are seeing -- the full effect that you're seeing is really this issue of supply and demand from other locations.
And your next question is from the line of Mark Wilde from Deutsche Bank.
[Audio Gap] for Mark Wilde.
Most of my questions have been answered but I'm just wondering if you could just elaborate on that machine equipment sales benefits if you can actually quantify that? Well it was almost $8 million $10 million and it was a major project.
We manufacture -- we design and manufacture machinery for ourselves and we sell them to our licensees.
So you'll see that in our royalty line and then it comes through in the sales and profits on that equipment.
And it's generally included in the overall outlook for the year but the timing of course can be very tricky at times and so we do not know exactly in which quarter it will happen.
There's also a parts business that goes with that.
So when you have 500 600 machines around the world that are running O-I equipment the parts is sort of a steady business and then you have the major projects that go on top of that.
Okay.
And if you could just go back to Brazil can you talk about the demand trends in the quarter was that pretty much in line with what you were expecting heading into the quarter? Yes.
What we have seen is beer was a little bit weaker because it's been very rainy in Brazil as well as in most of the world I would say.
So that had an impact and you see that also reflected in some of the reports by the brewers that saw a little bit lower demand.
But what we're also seeing in Brazil is a very strong growth in areas that typically in North America you would not find in package and glass which are nonalcoholic beverages and so on.
So that is still going very strong.
And your next question is from the line of Philip Ng with Jefferies.
Inc.</strong> Just had a quick question on North America.
You're obviously starting up some plants I guess demand's picking up.
Is that startup cost going to weigh on margins for 2Q? How should I be thinking about that? I think it depends a little bit on the timing when it occurs but at this point in time we're scheduling this for about mid of the quarter and so I don't think it's going to have a negative effect.
I think whatever there is going to be as far as maintenance and engineering expense to get it back up will most probably be absorbed by the sales and the returns that we got on the sales in there.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
So we should see the normal seasonal pick up in the cost...
I would say in then then in the second there you would see the benefit from it.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
And then just a little more color on the energy surcharges for Europe.
If you guys are successful implementing everything you guys talked about would you be able to fully offset the incremental inflation on energy? Well I would say that given the timing of this and when the inflation started and when we in fact will see those surcharges then put in place you mostly are going talk about 5 to 6 months from the beginning of the year until this starts to take place.
So then recovering what you have lost in those first 6 months is most probably not going to be feasible.
What you are going to get it is you prevent it from continuing to impacting you in the future.
And we have no further questions at this time.
I would like to turn the call back to Mr.
John Haudrich for closing remarks.
Thank you everyone.
That concludes our first quarter earnings conference call.
Please note that our second quarter 2011 conference call is currently scheduled for Thursday July 28 at 8:30 a.m.
Eastern time.
We appreciate your interest in O-I.
Again thank you and don't forget to choose glass.
This does conclude today's conference.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Angela and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the O-I Second Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the call over to Mr.
John Haudrich Vice President of Finance.
Sir you may begin your conference.
Thank you Angela.
Good morning and welcome everyone to O-I's second quarter 2011 earnings conference call.
I'm joined today by Al Stroucken our Chairman and CEO; Ed White our Chief Financial Officer; and several other members of our senior management team.
Today we will discuss key business developments review our financial results for the second quarter and discuss future trends affecting our business in 2011.
Following our prepared remarks we'll host a question-and-answer session.
Presentation materials for this earnings call are also being simulcast on the company's website at o-i.com.
Please review the Safe Harbor comments and the disclosure of our use of non-GAAP financial measures included in those materials.
Unless otherwise noted the financial results we are presenting today relate to adjusted net earnings which exclude certain items that management considers not representative of ongoing operations.
A reconciliation of GAAP to non-GAAP earnings can be found in our earnings press release and in the appendix to this presentation.
I'll now turn the call over to Al who will start on Chart 2.
Thank you John and good morning.
Our second quarter 2011 adjusted earnings were $0.59 per share down considerably from $0.84 last year.
Clearly we are disappointed with these results and our performance was unacceptable.
Heading into the second quarter we expected our earnings would be in line with the prior year despite elevated cost inflation.
However we incurred significantly higher manufacturing costs which more than offset the benefit of higher shipments on a global basis.
Market demand has started to rebound after several years of unfavorable trends in our business.
Shipments in tonnes were up more than 6% in the second quarter driven by recent acquisitions as well as organic growth.
In fact demand was up across all key end-use categories on a global basis.
This should have been a very favorable environment for O-I given our work in the past to create significant operating leverage from improving demand.
However we incurred much higher manufacturing costs due to elevated cost inflation production issues in North America and market challenges in Australia and New Zealand.
Cost inflation accounted for most of the additional manufacturing costs.
While inflation was not a surprise energy prices in Europe have increased faster and to a greater extent than we expected heading into the year.
And we have discussed this trend in detail during previous earnings calls.
We have implemented an energy surcharge in Europe to help offset the impact of the most recent spike in energy pricing.
The combination of our surcharge this year and expected higher selling prices next year should fully offset the impact of 2011 cost inflation on a global basis.
In North America poor operating performance resulted in manufacturing inefficiencies and supply chain issues.
As a result we incurred higher production and logistics costs as well as additional expenses for product loss.
Challenging market conditions in Australia and New Zealand resulted in sharply lower demand in those countries.
And in response we reduced our production to match supply with demand which led to a higher unabsorbed fixed cost in Asia-Pacific.
As we respond with urgency to these issues my leadership team and I are focusing on our core operations to restore high productivity level.
We also need to significantly improve our ability to generate a more accurate business forecast.
Serving our customers and maximizing our long-term earnings are our highest priority.
Despite our disappointing operating performance we can point to a number of positive developments this past quarter.
Organic growth was 3% excluding the impact of a much lower demand in Australia and New Zealand.
We generated $97 million of free cash flow and we acquired the remaining interest in our 7 Brazil operations from our minority partner.
O-I will now fully benefit from future growth and profit improvement in the attractive Brazilian market.
And finally we refinanced debt to extend maturities and increase financial flexibility.
Looking to the third quarter we expect shipments will be up in all regions and end uses on a year-over-year basis.
As we focus on fully restoring our operating performance we will still incur higher manufacturing costs during this transition period.
And as a result we expect third quarter adjusted earnings will improve from our second quarter results but likely lag the prior year.
Looking to the full year we have revised our 2011 free cash flow target for a number of reasons.
In Australia we are restructuring our footprint in response to changes in demand.
This will result in additional capital spending and severance costs.
In North America we will rebuild inventory levels to avoid repeating significant supply chain disruptions as demand improves.
And in Europe we expect some restructuring costs as part of the purchase price for our recent VDL acquisition.
And finally we will invest in capacity expansion in South America to improve margins and support growth.
As a result our 2011 free cash flow target has been reduced from $300 million to between $200 million and $250 million.
Now I will review each of our segments and I'll start with Europe our largest region on Chart #3.
Europe performed as expected.
Operating profit was $107 million compared with $104 million in the second quarter of 2010.
The benefit of favorable currency translation and higher shipments offset elevated cost inflation.
Shipments were up mid-single digits in Europe as demand grew across all key end-use segments.
Selling prices were flat with the prior year reflecting the annual contracts negotiated last year when supply demand conditions and inflation levels were much softer and those we are experiencing today.
In response to the higher cost inflation we have successfully negotiated energy surcharges of approximately $15 million to $20 million in the second half of the year.
Overall we expect to fully pass on the impact of 2011 cost inflation on Europe to our surcharge this year and higher prices next year.
And in the future we plan to include prospective inflation provisions into our annual customer agreements there.
Several days ago we announced the acquisition of VDL which operates a single glass plant in Vergeze France located near the Nestlé Waters' Perrier bottling facility.
We have strengthened our strategic relationship with Nestlé and are now the leading glass container provider for both their Perrier and San Pellegrino brands in France and Italy respectively.
Moving to Chart 4.
Our South American operations also performed as expected and generated operating profit of $53 million in the second quarter up from $49 million last year.
Volumes were up more than 35% year-over-year.
Our strategic acquisitions last year accounted for most of this growth.
But the region also posted double-digit organic growth driven by Brazil Argentina and Peru.
But the benefit of higher shipments was mostly offset by higher costs.
So segment operating -- sorry -- segment profit margin was about 18% which was lower than we typically see in this region for a few reasons.
First we incurred additional cost inflation.
While our second quarter prices were flat with the prior year we expect to recapture cost inflation through higher prices beginning in the third quarter.
Second our Brazilian operations were sold out and we shipped glass from other countries in the region to meet growing Brazilian demand.
These shipments had associated freight and importation penalties that allowed us to meet growing demand before we commit more capital for expansion in the region.
Throughout the glass [indiscernible] situation we incurred some costs to realign machinery and increase capacity in Brazil.
And to support continued growth we will further debottleneck our operations there.
We are also planning a Greenfield plant in South America to support our customers' long-term growth needs.
And finally as I mentioned already we bought out our minority partner in our Southern Brazil operations and we expect this transaction to be accretive in 2011.
Moving to North America on Chart #5.
Heading into the second quarter we had expected higher earnings compared to the prior year.
We anticipated stronger shipments combined with footprint initiative sales.
However North American's operating profit was $56 million down from $87 million in the prior year.
Most of the decline was due to $26 million from production inefficiency higher freight costs and product loss.
Due to a number of operating issues we were not able to meet all of our customers' needs.
And as a result shipments in North America were down slightly despite fundamental strength in all key end-use markets other than the mega beer brand.
We have always prided ourselves on our operational excellence and our ability to meet or exceed our customers' expectations.
We failed to meet those standards in the second quarter but we expect to significantly improve our service level in the back half of the year.
The graph on Chart 5 depicts the chain of events that led to our issues in the region this quarter and keep in mind that the last result [ph] does not represent specific data.
The blue line represents our effective manufacturing capacity while the yellow line illustrates seasonal demand pattern.
We permanently closed 2 plants in North America in mid-2010 to realign capacity with lower demand following the conclusions of contract renegotiations with key customers.
Given soft demand last year we were focused on efficient working capital levels and we maintained tight inventories as we entered 2011.
And the green dotted line represents inventory levels to show relative trend.
But again it's illustrative.
Then as 2011 progressed several things happened.
First demand started to pick up in North America but the growth was in wine spirits and craft beer and not in mega beer brand.
This mix created additional complexities that we underestimated.
For example more SKUs result in shorter production runs which require greater flexibility in our plant.
We struggled with a greater number of job changes at several plants and did not achieve the same production efficiency that we typically see with the mega beer brands.
Second we had a number of production interruptions that required downtime for repairs.
As you can see this downtime coincided with seasonally stronger demand.
As a result we did not achieve the productivity improvements that we expected in the second quarter.
And third longer lead times on repair parts delayed the anticipated restart of 2 previously idle furnaces so we did not get the much needed additional capacity as fast as we had expected.
As a result of these issues tight inventory became short inventory at several locations.
And to serve our customers we had to reallocate production to other facilities in North America.
Now this in turn disrupted those plants' normal manufacturing patterns which led to incremental costs.
Since production sometimes occurred to plants hundreds of miles away from the customer we also incurred significant higher freight cost all of which unfortunately coincided with spiking diesel costs.
You can see the domino affect that started with production issues early in the quarter.
Now to address these issues we have initiated a plan to both restore our inventories to sustainable levels and improve production efficiency over the course of the second half of the year.
First we're taking immediate action to rebuild inventory.
We restarted our 2 previously idle furnaces and they were up and running by early July.
This added approximately 5% more production capacity to the region.
We are also leveraging our global footprint by shifting glass from other regions to increase North American inventories by about 5%.
And finally our North American plants will of course run at high operating rates through the end of the year.
As a result of these actions we expect to rebuild North American inventories and reduce the risk of significant future supply chain complication.
Over the next 6 months we are focusing on returning to operational excellence in North America.
Most of our inefficiencies during the second quarter was tied to discrete production issues which we do not expect to recur.
Nevertheless we are conducting thorough manufacturing audits of our 19 North American facilities to determine if there are any unidentified production risks.
Of course we will take the necessary actions to remediate if anything is found.
Finally we are actively collaborating with our customers to improve the SKU accuracy of their demand forecast as well as our production forecast.
This will then help avoid the many unplanned changes and changeovers that compromise productivity.
A more effective supply chain will benefit both O-I and our customers.
And for future customer contracts we will look to include provision from forecast accuracy to create clarity about supply commitments and ownership of cost variances.
To avoid additional disruption in this difficult period we have delayed our SAP implementation in North America until early 2012.
Let me reiterate our second quarter performance in North America was unacceptable and full remediation of these issues is priority number one.
Now moving from North America to Asia-Pacific on Chart 6.
Heading into the second quarter we expected our Asia-Pacific profits would be down from the prior year as a result of lower demand in Australia and New Zealand.
And we've been discussing this trend over the past few quarters.
However actual results were significantly lower than anticipated.
Asia-Pacific earned $9 million down $22 million from the prior year.
Although total regional shipments were up slightly from the prior year all growth was attributable to our 2010 acquisitions in China.
Our shipments of wine and beer bottles in Australia and New Zealand were down nearly 20% from the prior year.
This resulted in $7 million of lower profit contribution from sales.
Two macroeconomic headwinds drove the precipitous drop in shipments in these 2 countries.
Stronger currencies have negatively impacted wine exports and led to some fundamentally different approaches by our wine customers to their future business models.
Domestically beer consumption was down considerably as high interests and savings rates have lowered consumers' disposable income and this has cost a severe cutback in consumer spending.
While we anticipated lower shipments demand trends in the wine and beer markets deteriorated faster than expected in the second quarter.
In particular Australia wine producers reduced in-country bottling given the dramatic increase in the value of the Australian dollar.
In response we reduced production to balance supply with lower demand resulting in $10 million of unabsorbed manufacturing costs on top of the loss sales contribution from lower costs.
Given these developments we are taking the following actions.
First we recently named Steve Bramlage as the new President of the Asia-Pacific region who replaced Greg Ridder who is leaving the company.
Greg will report to me and serve as a member of the global leadership team.
He previously served as the Treasurer and Vice President of Finance for O-I and more recently as the General Manager of our New Zealand operations.
We believe Steve will provide a fresh perspective to address the market challenges in the region.
Second some of the issues that we face in Australia are longer term in nature.
And as a result we will need to properly align our capacity with changing long-term demand.
We will restructure our Australian operations in several phases.
In July we implemented the first phase by permanently closing one machine line in Australia.
And for the immediate future other supply and demand imbalances will be managed through continued temporary downtime.
The next phase of our restructuring plan will likely require additional permanent capacity adjustment in Australia.
This plan must ensure that we retain the right capabilities and invest in the necessary technologies for our customers.
Also we need to maintain flexibility to meet future demand levels in the event of an upswing in the market.
Australia is now entering its seasonally strongest period so it's prudent to delay restructuring activities until later this year.
And we expect that restructuring will conclude by the mid-2012.
This restructuring in this region may result in up to $50 million of capital expenditures and severance costs.
Up to half of this cost will be incurred in 2011 and the balance would fall into 2012.
Overall these actions should improve our cost profile in Australia.
And I will keep you updated on our decisions regarding the scope and implementation of restructuring activities in future earnings calls.
Now moving to Chart 7.
We remain committed to our long-term strategy which continues to deliver value for O-I.
For example our focus on operational excellence has generated $245 million of savings between 2007 and 2010 driven by our footprint realignment initiative.
As we refocus on our core operations we have been redesigning our organizational structure in each region.
We are bringing manufacturing and supply chain functions under one regionally integrated operations list.
This structure will remove the functional clutters in our operations and provide a more holistic approach to optimize the entire process flow.
And this will help maximize operational efficiency and provide better visibility and control over production costs.
Regarding strategic and profitable growth in 2010 we acquired 10 plants located in fast-growing emerging markets that are generating an average operating profit margin of approximately 20% and creating a significant growth momentum.
Last March our new go-to-market approach has enhanced the effectiveness of our organic marketing efforts and has boosted our growth in South America 5 to 7 percentage points above average market growth.
We are already seeing success in our other regions as we replicate this initiative globally.
New capabilities like Vortex or Lean+Green wine bottles and Black Glass are driving additional sales in all regions.
While our strategies are driving value a number of other factors have undermined our ability to generate the improved financial performance that we expected when we set our longer-term targets back in 2010.
And these factors include first the economic downturn impacted the markets that we serve longer than we expected at that time especially with continued high unemployment in the developed market.
And also the mega beer brands have not recovered as we anticipated when we were exiting the recession.
Second the expropriation of our highly profitable Venezuelan operations and of course throughout the recent challenge with our operating performance that I discussed in detail with you.
And finally I believe that at present our current earnings profile does not support acquisitions of the magnitude speed and impact that we discussed at the last Investor Day.
And given these developments it is unlikely that we will achieve the longer-term targets that we discussed early last year and we are currently revisiting these targets.
I will now turn the call over to Ed.
Thank you Al.
Let's move to Chart 8.
We included much of this information in our press release and in Al's comments so I will only touch on the highlights.
Second quarter 2011 segment sales increased nearly 17% to more than $1.9 billion.
Recent acquisitions and improving market conditions drove more than a 6% increase in tonnes shipped.
This boosted the top line by $97 million.
You can also see that currency translation substantially increased the top line especially in Europe.
Moving over to segment operating profit.
The second quarter was $225 million compared to $271 million last year.
Higher volumes contributed $26 million but manufacturing and delivery costs increased by $78 million.
Higher costs were largely driven by $61 million of cost inflation as expected.
But an additional $26 million of North American production issues and another $10 million of unabsorbed fixed costs in Australia and New Zealand were not foreseen.
Finishing with the EPS reconciliation.
Our adjusted net income was $0.59 per share in the quarter compared to $0.84 in the prior year.
Lower operating profit reduced earnings $0.21 from the prior year.
Earnings were impacted $0.04 from unfavorable non-operating item largely due to higher interest expense on incremental debt to fund 2010 acquisitions.
Retained corporate costs were about flat with the prior year.
Higher marketing spending and non-cash pension expenses were offset by $10 million of lower management compensation which reflects adjustments to multiyear incentive plans and the impact of lower 2011 earnings.
Also the merger of businesses in Brazil resulted in a tax benefit.
Finally we had 2 Note 1 expenses this quarter as outlined in our earnings release.
Let's move to Chart 9 for more detail on our balance sheet cash flow and capital structure.
On June 30 2011 cash was $260 million and total debt was approximately $4.3 billion.
The net debt was $4.1 billion an increase of more than $1.2 billion from the prior year's second quarter reflecting financing for acquisitions made last year and the impact of foreign currency translation on our debt.
Our net debt to EBITDA ratio was 3.2x as with the end of the second quarter well below the bank covenant limit of 4x.
However our ratio now exceeds our leverage target of between 2 and 3x EBITDA so future debt reduction will be a priority.
We believe this range represents an efficient capital structure for O-I and provides the financial flexibility needed to execute our strategy.
Free cash flow was $97 million in the second quarter compared to a $6 million use of cash last year.
Lower working capital levels and capital spending more than offset a decline in earnings.
Let me shift now to our capital allocation priorities and repeat what Al has said.
We are clearly disappointed with our results this quarter and we regret the impact that this has had on the O-I share price and on our shareholders.
At our current stock price we understand that a share buyback may be viewed as a compelling use of cash.
However we need to focus on debt reduction to lower our leverage to below 3x EBITDA by year end 2011.
Further it is essential that we dedicate some of our current year cash flow to restructure Australia to rebuild inventories in North America and to begin to expand capacity in South America.
Turning to capital expenditures.
Our 2011 estimate has been reset.
We now expect up to $375 million of CapEx given the restructuring and capacity expansion I just mentioned.
Finally we're very pleased with the successful completion of our $2 billion bank credit agreement earlier in the second quarter.
We also redeemed in the second quarter higher cost senior notes using attractively priced term debt.
On Chart 10 we present our business outlook for the third quarter.
There are clearly many moving parts in our business especially as we are taking actions to address our operating performance.
As a result we're providing directional outlook on operating profit by segment for non-operational costs and overall adjusted earnings.
Our European third quarter profit should be in line with the prior year.
We expect earnings will benefit from higher volumes and energy surcharges yet cost inflation will remain elevated during the third quarter.
As noted on the right global cost inflation in excess of price will likely impact O-I's 2011 margins by more than $130 million which we expect to recapture through the higher pricing mostly in 2012.
In North America we expect segment operating profit will lag the prior year.
However the manufacturing cost penalties we incurred in the second quarter should moderate as we increase capacity run full and improve operational and supply chain efficiencies over the course of the quarter.
Our segment for Asia-Pacific operating performance will remain below prior-year earnings given continued temporary production curtailment in Australia and New Zealand.
However earnings should benefit on a sequential basis from seasonally stronger demand.
In South America segment operating profit should improve from the prior year.
We anticipate shipments will remain very strong and we also expect higher selling prices as we pass through the inflation incurred in the first half of 2011.
Turning to non-operational items.
We expect higher year-over-year corporate costs due continued sales and marketing initiatives and the higher pension expense we've seen all year.
Further details are provided on the chart.
Overall we expect the operating performance to improve over the close of the third quarter but we will still incur high manufacturing costs during the transition.
Therefore we expect third quarter adjusted earnings to have improved on the second quarter but will likely lag the prior year third quarter results.
Now I will turn the call back to Al for closing remarks on Chart 11.
Thanks Ed.
While this has been a sobering quarter for O-I we should not lose sight that our business fundamentals remain strong.
Many glass markets are strengthening and we have the tools and capabilities that we need to refocus our operation.
We have a very good understanding of what went wrong over the last few months and we have taken this situation very seriously and realize that we disappointed our investors as well as some customers.
We're implementing corrective action plans in North America and Asia-Pacific as described and we expect to bring the operating performance of both regions up to the high standard we have demonstrated in the past.
We now expect free cash flow for 2011 to be in the range of $200 million to $250 million and we're focusing our capital allocation on remediation plans expansion in South America and debt reduction.
Further we do not foresee any significant acquisitions at this time in the second half of 2011.
And as you can see our priorities are focused on operational excellence in the near term which ultimately is the foundation of our long-term strategy.
Thank you and now I will ask Angela to open the lines for your questions.
[Operator Instructions] And your first question is from Alex Ovshey with Goldman Sachs.
You mentioned that you're hoping to raise prices enough in Europe in 2012 to more than offset the inflation you saw in 2011 but also to think about getting ahead of inflation in 2012.
Can you just talk about the level of confidence in being able to achieve that and how that will actually work? Do you actually expect to restructure the contracts where beyond 2012 you have that ability or is it just the fact that things have tightened up in Europe? But at least for 2012 you feel reasonably good that you could be able to get in front of inflation in Europe.
I think Europe as you know is a market where about 70% to 80% of our volume is really tied to annual contracts so we have an opportunity to reset the price levels every year.
However what we have seen in the past as well Europe is also a market where normal pass-through provisions have an actual -- or have an additional dependency and that is the new supply-demand picture.
So if supply is long and demand is weak it's very difficult to pass through inflation.
But once supply and demand is balanced as we are seeing this year and in fact in the peak season we see supply is outstripped by demand you really then get pricing power.
And one of the indications that gives me the confidence for next year is the fact that we went into the market with an energy surcharge that we were able to negotiate with our customers in quite a few countries fairly successfully and that I believe gives me the confidence that we are seeing some good opportunity for price improvement.
Equally we have been negotiating certain longer-term contracts that were reset in the course of this year because they don't all come due at the end of the year.
And in some of those cases -- or in most of those cases that I'm aware of we have been able to raise our prices mid to high-single digits.
So I think that indicates that there is some pricing power that is being regained in the marketplace.
That's helpful.
Can you just talk about the demand trends that you're seeing across the key end markets in Europe and where you're seeing the most pockets of strength and perhaps anywhere that you may still be seeing sluggish underlying activity? Overall Europe has been growing in virtually all applications even in the beer sector.
A lot of the growth in the beer that we have seen in Europe has come from exports and we covered the export markets for the traditional export brands.
But the driver of the growth has been liquor has been wine and crude as the overall underlying consumption has started to improve.
And I believe it's also indicative of a longer-term trend that we are observing that those brands and those products that allow customers to be more individualistic in their choice of beverage which favor the wine the liquor as well as the microbrewery brands rather the mega brands.
And I think we will continue to see that trend for quite a while.
And your next version is from the line of Ghansham Panjabi with Robert W.
Baird.
It looks like you guys are seeing a dislocation in Australia based at least in part due to currency.
Brazil also has a very strong currency which some of your peers and your customers are saying is affecting local demand.
Why shouldn't we expect your Brazilian business to also face potentially lower volumes? And also what kind of demands in area are you baking in for the new capacity that you're adding? We're seeing quite some strong growth in the high-single digits in Brazil as far as organic growth is concerned of course in addition to the acquisitions that we made.
And we have been seeding the market with imported products at this point in time.
So whatever we're putting in place as far as additional capacity is not for future demands that has not yet materialized.
It's basically to serve already existing demand that we're serving from a higher cost basis.
With regard to the currency impact comparing it to Australia really the issue in Australia is one of having such a significant export component and a huge consumer of glass which the wine industry represents.
When I look at our demand profile in Brazil virtually -- almost all with very few exceptions less than 1% I would say is consumed domestically.
There is not a lot of export of Brazilian brands into the rest of the world.
So I would say that based on the information that we have at this point in time and also the growth that we saw continuing in the second quarter Brazil still continues to be on a very positive path for us going forward and we have to be ready to serve the demand.
Now I know you have heard and you have seen that a lot of new capacity is added in the aluminum industry as well looking forward to a  continued growth in Brazil.
And I think that there too there is a level of confidence that certainly in the long-term Brazil will continue to be a significant contributor to the growth profile of their business.
Got it.
And just one follow-up since you pre-announced in mid-June and switching to North America I think on the margin the consumer spending environment in North America is worse not better.
And here you are ramping up inventory because you obviously ran out of stock during the quarter itself or you couldn't produce fast enough.
How do we know -- what gives you comfort that you're not going to overproduce by the back end of the year and we're going to have the opposite problem in 2012? Because we can fairly rapidly see as we see weakening demand occurring in the second half of the year and our production is ramping up fast then we will have to eventually make a judgment and say okay we're not going to need that inventory if fundamental conditions of the market change.
And of course we're all are a little bit antsy at this point in time with regards to what the issues related to foreign sovereign debt have to -- or sovereign debt have to do with the overall economic impact.
I mean if we do not get to a resolution in the United States over the next week that may have considerable repercussions on a global scale.
So there is a level of uncertainty there.
But I think the instrument that we're using is an instrument that we can fairly quickly then adjust and correct.
So it's not something where we make a decision today and then we have to live with it for the next year.
Because the seasonality of our business always makes the fourth quarter especially the month of December the natural throttle for our inventory adjustments that we do year-over-year.
And your next question is from George Staphos from Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
A couple of questions.
First on operations Al Ed are there any facilities right now where you are producing from a sub-optimal level relative to the mix of products? i.e.
You're making wine bottles on beer machines.
You're making mayonnaise on triple pans is there any of that right now in your operations? And where to point how long do you think it will take the North America to get out of this operational issue? I think a lot of that was covered with the refootprinting that we did 1 year 1.5 year ago so we don't have a lot of that happening.
The issue is much more -- that because of the demand of individual SKUs we had to shift the volume from one facility to the other but still be a beer unit or would still be a beer facility but it might not be in proximity.
So it would be a couple of hundred miles away which of course added significantly to the logistics cost.
The other part that really contributed to the cost as well is that due to the changeovers -- during the changeover periods we create quite a bit of material that we cannot really sell that we have to reuse in our operations and that of course contribute significantly to the product loss.
But fundamentally from an infrastructure perspective we are basically placed very well.
I believe one thing that we perhaps misinterpreted and misunderstood was that facilities that typically were used to run wine and beer runs for a particular brand and suddenly had to have a lot more changeovers had difficulty spiking with that additional complexity.
Okay.
So how long do you think it will take to get out from this? And then the second question I had was as I look back to what happened in the quarter it would seem that there was not necessarily the level of communication that you or Ed would have liked within your business groups how do you -- if you agree with that premise how do you incentivize that going forward and how do you feel about your information systems allowing you to get the information you need to manage the business going forward? Okay well with regards to information systems that of course was the intent of the implementation of SAPs to get better structure information flow and information system that also follows a process rather than is aligned to its functions that we've been working on.
Clearly we're not communicating well enough at the beginning of the quarter to understand the issues and the complexities.
I believe a decision was made to serve the customers at all cost which I think is a very laudable conclusion.
And that however lead them to complexities we've created for ourselves rather than perhaps also working with the customers to get greater accuracy in their forecasting.
But it's clearly our fault we have to fix it and we have to deal with that.
And I can assure you that information flow and communication has increased quite a bit over the last couple of weeks to make sure that we don't have the same occurrence in the future.
And your next question is from the line of Phil Gresh with JP Morgan.
So earlier this year we were talking about the opportunity for significant incremental margins in the developed markets.
It looks like you did achieve that in Europe this quarter.
Obviously there is the operational issues in North America but I guess what I'm wondering is specifically in North America where you're talking about more SKUs and shorter runs in craft beers wines spirits et cetera did that kind of take off the table the potential for these higher incremental margins on a recovery in the future or how are you thinking about that now? It doesn't.
It really is reinforcing the higher margins because typically of course if you have smaller SKUs you also tend to get higher pricing points and better margins.
It's really the operational flexibility that you have to have in place.
And we fortunately have examples.
In Latin America and in Europe where we have for many years had this flexibility because many of these plants serve quite a variety of uses and of applications and clearly also have a great number of customers.
Whereas in the United States the entire customer environment has been more monolithic and we have been focusing on large beer runs as our main focus areas in the past.
And we just felt at the time when we entered into a more proactive pursuit of these smaller SKUs and higher pricing points that because we have the capability in the company that we would have the capability in North America as well.
And I think that's really where we perhaps misunderstood the complexity it adds to the plant floor and to the shop floor and that's where we are taking corrective action at this point in time.
But that certainly doesn't stand in the way of higher margins.
Okay.
And then in North America you talked about the volume.
But do you have -- can you talk about what pricing was like in North America? I know the volume was down slightly and if I back into it it looks like maybe the pricing was down? I wasn't quite sure do you think you can expose the details there so do you have any color on that? Well I think pricing in the United States was slightly down.
But basically what -- that is also caused by the fact that we pass-through provisions for energy and energy in the United States have decreased from last year.
So the U.S.
is behaving a little bit atypical to the rest of the world with regard to energy inflation.
Okay.
And just one final question you talked about negative mix in Brazil but you didn't really elaborate on it.
It seemed to offset the price.
So what is the mix issue there and is that something that continues? No.
The mix in Latin America has predominantly to do with the fact that we are importing products and supply the markets in Brazil and Southern Brazil so we're importing from Colombia Peru and that of course adds quite a bit of shipping cost warehousing cost and importation cost attached to it and that's really compressing the margin.
That's also the justification of course to build capacity locally.
Because then you automatically get margin expansion because you're no longer incurring those costs and so the investment really pays for itself.
Your next question is from the line of Tim Thein with Citigroup.
Just to circle back on Europe.
Have you seen any change in terms of your customer ordering patterns that would corroborate your view that you mentioned earlier in terms of the market tightness i.e.
giving you orders further out than maybe they would have in the past if there is if in fact they concern about security of supply? Given the many thousand customers that we have in Europe it's very difficult to really speak of a pattern.
I mean what we did see is of course higher demand in the marketplace.
Now we have to see as we come out of the high season how much of that was anticipatory orders.
Because they knew the market was tight so it's better perhaps to place 2 orders rather than 1 order because I may need that additional volume and then if I have to order it on short notice I might not get it.
So we have to balance a little bit as we're coming out of the high season now whether all of the demands that we're seeing was really actual demand for actual shipments on the part of the customers.
But a good sign -- despite the fact that we were the first ones out with an energy surcharge in the marketplace we were reasonably successful and where we are the market leader in a country.
And I believe that indicates that demand is still performing at a fairly decent level even though we keep hearing from our customer base that a lot of that demand is not coming from Europe itself it's coming from increased exports.
And the corporate expense I think the last quarter Ed you had mentioned up call it $10 million year-on-year.
Can you just remind us what's flowing through that? If you look in the second half of the year that implies at a rate -- you have 2.5x that of the first half just kind of outline some of the key buckets in there that's driving that meaningful increase in expense in the back half of the year? Well you've got 2 things.
One in the first half we reversed some accruals from management incentives that I talked about in my prepared remarks that number is $10 million.
So you had a number in the second quarter that was $10 million lower because they don't repeat.
There's nothing left to reverse in the back half.
So that you go up 10 for that.
And then our Glass Smart program which is really showing dividend globally is being led from the center.
So you have the marketing initiatives that are coming through there and we also have some of the SAP deployment costs.
So although we slowed down the go live we're still doing some of the configurations.
Some of that work is still going on which is also -- a lot of it is embedded at the corporate center.
And your next question is from the line of Alton Stump with Longbow Research.
I guess first off in the Australian market you mentioned beer and wine shipments being down 20%.
Could you break out how much of that might be due to currency? And if it should come back if we see currency trends stabilize versus how much may actually be permanent long-term demand loss? Well Alton I believe that's of course the 64-million-dollar question for the customers as well.
But I believe they were hoping throughout the entire year last year that eventually currency would weaken and they would be able to reoccupy the shelf space for their wine.
And typically you go into the stores you find Australian or New Zealand wine at a particular price range generally it's around the $10 price level.
And with right now the Australian dollar at $1.10 to the U.S.
dollar versus $0.70 or so 1 year 1.5 year ago of course the entire margin has disappeared out of that business.
And to try to reprice the product would require rebranding because people are not going to buy the same brand they used to buy for $10 suddenly for $20.
So that's a very long-term proposition.
I believe that fundamentally the vintners have come to the conclusion that long-term given the continued demand for basic raw materials in Australia most probably the currency will continue to be at a high-level and therefore that situation is not likely to change.
So you see why the dramatic and significant changeover from packaged shipments packaged product shipments to bulk shipments.
They're not giving up on the market but they're approaching the market in a different model and that of course does not affect the overall consumption of glass on a global scale.
Because what we're losing in Australia and New Zealand we may be picking up in the U.K.
or may be picking up in North America and that's why we're seeing in North America for instance a fairly strong trend for wine bottles at this point in time.
So it's a fairly complex equation but I don't think that we can expect that the Australian dollar is going to weaken so significantly that we can reoccupy the price spot in the shelf.
That's helpful.
And just as a one follow-up with the $26 million production cost here in 2Q in North America any color as to how much if any of that will bleed into 3Q? Well those costs are basically reflected in the second quarter.
So as we go into 3Q we're coming out of this hole and so it's going to be a gradual improvement that we're going to be working on in Q3 and then Q4 to improve that.
I would say that most probably most significant improvement we will see initially is in the reduction of freight cost.
Because we are moving into a position where we've added additional capacity to our operations with those 2 furnaces and that would help us -- hopefully help us a little bit to avoid these cross shipments that had so significantly contributed to the cost overrun.
And your next question is from the line of Philip Ng with Jefferies.
Inc.</strong> Obviously a lot had happened and you guys have alluded to it.
So I don't think anyone's holding you to the top line expectation you guys laid out a few years back.
But overall I think globally the market is generally pretty tight.
Do you still feel like you could hit the low end of your 16% to 18% margin target going forward? Well again we have to keep in mind when we look at the numbers for this year we are in a year that's typical for the glass industry which is coming out of a period of no inflation moving into a period of inflation the glass industry's margins always are compressed.
We have tried to counteract some of that in the past by making sure that in our long-term agreements and contracts we have quarterly or monthly pass-through provisions for the most volatile cost component.
But if you have considerable increases in raw material if you have considerable increases in labor cost or if you have considerable increases in energy prices in those markets where you don't have long-term contracts with pass-through provisions you automatically get a contraction or compaction of your margin.
What we then also typically find is that when we go down in the following year where most of that inflation has run its course we typically see margin expansion.
Because that's when these inflationary forces will be passed through in the pricing and pricing arrangements we have with our customers.
So I would say what we're seeing today is not necessarily indicative of a weakness in our overall objectives and targets as far as margin contribution from the glass industry is concerned.
It is just that because of the way contracts are set up it really has quite a bit of variability from year-to-year depending on when inflation occurs and at what place inflation occurs.
Inc.</strong> That's very helpful.
I'm just switching gears a little bit and focusing on Europe.
Should we expect margins to get back to that 13% run rate just because that market's obviously very tight right now and it sounds like supply is pretty short? As taken from our comments that's where we have seen the greatest unrecovered inflation so far and so that's where we would expect to see the greatest margin expansion as we go into next year -- or margin correction I should say it's not really an expansion it's going back to what we had previously.
And it's only logical that we see that.
And what gives me confidence to say this is also that really from last year market conditions have changed.
The market is much more balanced in supply and demand than we've seen in the past 2 years so we see much less interference of non-traditional competitors coming into the market and disrupting.
And your next question is from the line of Tom Mullarkey with Morningstar.
When I look at South America now it's the second consecutive quarter of sub-20% operating margins.
And given that you just said Europe is going to see the biggest uptick in margin recovery next year how much longer do think it's going to take to bring on the new capacity in order to eliminate a lot of the higher transportation costs that are keeping South America's margins down? Well I didn't say that Europe was going to see the greatest margin recovery.
I said that Europe was going to get a recovery to the margins that we've seen before and that of course is related to the inflation pass-through.
The situation in Latin America is different.
As we have said we have been importing product from other regions.
We have been doing some bottlenecking.
We have been doing some footprint realignment in Southern Brazil to open up some of capacity that we still have available in our operations which is going to reduce that import component in the second half of the year.
And I would expect that our margins are going to be back over the 20% level in Latin America in the second half of this year.
From a seasonality standpoint the softest quarter for South America is always the second quarter so they're now coming into their seasonally strongest half the back half.
And my second question for your guys is I thought I understood the Vortex bottle in North America was under an exclusive contract that may have expired some time this year.
Are you going to open that product up to other customers with the internal embossing? Well we're working with internal embossing around the world with other customers.
In the United States we had exclusivity for Pierre [ph] for this particular design with Miller and that is still valid.
Angela we have time for one more question.
And your final question is from the line of Chip Dillon with Vertical Research.
It's James calling in for Chip.
My first question is you mentioned that the Australian wine industry is making changes to its business model that would impact O-I long term.
Can you walk us through what's changing? What's changing is that they used to basically bottle their wine in the Australian region.
Given the pricing points that they need to achieve on the shelves in the markets where they have positioned themselves they are trying to reduce the freight cost.
They're trying to reduce the labor cost in the country so what they're doing is they're basically putting the wine into large containers and shipping these bulk containers then overseas and then basically bottling in the market of destination.
If in the market of destination labor costs are high or comparable with Australia at least they have saved the freight.
If in the destination markets labor costs are low they have the added benefit of low labor cost as well as reduced freight.
And that is allowing them to at least occupy the shelf space at a margin that is better than the margin they're getting at this point in time.
So it's really an effort on their part to take costs out of the system and still be able to serve the markets that have led to such a significant expansion of the wine industry in Australia and in New Zealand.
And the bulk shipping is really more for the lower price wines.
Your higher wines your mid-price wines will always be estate bottled.
So they would be bottled now where they grow the grape.
But truly the bulk is on the low end.
Okay.
Would you expect to see volumes increase in other regions to make up for that then? Well we see stronger wine bottle demand in Europe particularly also in the U.K.
which is a core market for Australia and New Zealand wine.
And we also see fairly -- very strong growth for wine in North America.
So that's indicative of the fact that some of this is already occurring and is happening.
And in addition to that possibly European wines or domestic wines have taken the space the shelf space that was occupied by New Zealand or Australian wines.
Thank you everyone.
That concludes our second quarter earnings conference call.
Please note that our third quarter 2011 conference call is currently scheduled for Thursday October 27 at 8:30 a.m.
Eastern Time.
We appreciate your interest in O-I.
Have a good day.
This does conclude today's conference.
You may all now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Angela and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the O-I Third Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the call over to Mr.
John Haudrich Vice President of Finance.
Sir you may begin your conference.
Angela.
Good morning and welcome everyone to O-I's Third Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
I'm joined today by Al Stroucken our Chairman and CEO; Ed White our Chief Financial Officer; and several other members of our senior management team.
Today we will discuss key business developments review our financial results for the third quarter and discuss future trends affecting our business in 2011.
Following our prepared remarks we'll host a question-and-answer session.
Presentation materials for this earnings call are also being simulcast in the company's website at o-i.com.
Please review the Safe Harbor comments and the disclosure of our use of non-GAAP financial measures included in those materials.
Unless otherwise noted the financial results we are presenting today relate to adjusted net earnings which exclude certain items that management considers not representative of ongoing operations.
A reconciliation of GAAP to non-GAAP earnings can be found in our earnings press release and in the appendix to this presentation.
I'll now turn the call over to Al who will start on Chart 2.
Thank you John and good morning.
Overall we made good progress during the third quarter especially following a challenging second quarter as operating performance improved in North America and Asia Pacific.
Our third quarter 2011 adjusted earnings were $0.84 per share up considerably from $0.59 in the second quarter and in line with the $0.83 reported in the prior year.
On a year-over-year basis earnings benefited from higher glass volumes selling prices and production levels as well as lower effective tax rate.
Yet unrecovered inflation remained a significant headwind and essentially offsets these favorable trends.
Shipments in the third quarter were up 4% compared to the same quarter last year.
This increase was driven primarily by our 2010 acquisitions.
Our global organic growth was around 2% after excluding the impact of unfavorable volume trends in Australia.
Selling prices were up about 1.5 percent this quarter and included the additional energy surcharges that we've successfully implemented in Europe.
All regions reported higher production levels.
Importantly North America ran at high operating rates throughout the quarter and the region further benefited from the restart of 2 previously idle premises.
In Australia market conditions stabilized at lower levels.
To address the challenges in this country we closed a furnace at the end of the third quarter.
Additional restructuring actions will be required in Australia and one additional furnace closure is planned by mid-2012.
As I said before the benefits of favorable volume price and production trends a global basis were offset again this quarter by as yet unrecovered cost inflation.
Higher selling prices will be required in 2012 to recover inflation from this year as well as additional inflation expected next year.
We generated $130 million of free cash flow in the third quarter and allocated nearly all of it to pay down debt.
Our leverage ratio is now just within our target range but we will continue to focus on further debt reduction to enhance our financial flexibility.
Reflecting uncertain macroeconomic conditions we expect that our fourth global shipment levels will be flat to slightly up compared to the prior year.
At the same time high cost inflation will persist and exceed the benefit of higher prices.
Currency exchange rates have been volatile in recent months and this could negatively impact fourth quarter earnings.
Also as part of our normal fourth quarter review we will adjust production to ensure working capital levels are appropriate heading into 2012.
Overall fourth quarter earnings should approximate the prior year and we still expect full year free cash flow to range between $200 million and $250 million which is unchanged from our most recent guidance.
Now I will review each of our segments and I'll start with Europe our largest region on Chart 3.
Europe generated operating profit of $106 million in the third quarter compared to $114 million in the third quarter of 2010.
The benefits of higher shipments prices and favorable currency translation were again offset by continued high cost inflation.
Shipments were up slightly in Europe during the quarter with higher volumes across several key end-use segments such as beer and spirit.
Macroeconomic news out of Europe has been volatile in the past few months due to uncertainty related to sovereign debt and the banking sector and although our European shipment growth trends moderated compared to earlier this year we have not seen any major decline in the consumer trends in the end markets that we serve.
Market trends vary by country depending on their exposure to Europe's financial challenges and demand trends also varied throughout the quarter partially due to poor weather.
Selling prices in the third quarter were up about 2% from the prior year mostly reflecting the impact of the energy surcharges that we implemented.
Finally we have started to negotiate our 2012 annual customer agreements which cover a majority of our European business.
As I mentioned we expect to fully pass on the impact of unrecovered 2011 cost inflation as well as 2012 estimated inflation.
Our high operating rates and high inflation should enable us to be successful with our pricing strategy.
Overall we expect to increase our selling prices in Europe on average between high single or even double digits across our customer base in 2012.
When possible we intend to include a provision in future annual contracts permitting a timely pass-through of energy cost if actual prices vary significantly from agreed-upon rates.
We will provide an update on the outcome of our contract negotiations on our next earnings call.
Moving to Chart 4.
Our South American operations performed well and generated operating profit of $67 million in the third quarter up from $56 million last year.
Volumes increased about 24% from the prior year.
Organic growth accounted for about 15 percentage points of this improvement and was driven by strong sales in Brazil and Argentina.
The balance of our growth was due to our acquisition of CIV in September of last year.
As expected segment profit in South America increased to nearly 22% in the third quarter.
O-I's business in Brazil continues to lead the glass container industry and outperforms other packaging substance.
Projected Brazilian growth trends are impressive.
Euromonitor estimates 4% annual growth trends through the year 2015.
Our customers look to O-I to provide innovative high-quality glass containers for their products.
Glass Smart our go-to-market approach continues to boost our growth by approximately 5 to 7 percentage points above the average market estimate.
Now let me discuss our capacity-expansion plans in Brazil.
We continue to expect robust growth in this country.
In the short term we plan to increase our capacity by adding a furnace at an existing plant to meet current volumes but Brazil will remain dependent on sizable imports to continue to cover its existing and future demands.
As we bring additional capacity online later in 2012 we will be able to reduce some of the incremental costs we have been incurring to import glass into the country.
Finally like in Europe we expect high single-digit price improvement across South America in 2012 to offset inflation.
Moving to North America on Chart 5.
We made good progress this quarter improving operating performance in this region.
As a result we generated $73 million of operating profit in the third quarter slightly up from $72 million in the prior year.
Shipments in North America were up 2% from the third quarter of 2010.
Better operating performance allowed the region to meet our customers' shipment requirements and we continue to see fundamentals strength in the wine spirits and craft beer end markets that we serve.
While shipments for our mega beer customers declined from the prior year total beer shipments in the region were flat due to the double-digit growth in craft beer.
Year-over-year prices were slightly up due to the 2010 price adjustment formula.
However 2011 inflation for raw materials and other annual pass-through cost factors more than offset any pricing gains.
To begin to remedy this margin impact we implemented an average price increase of 6% earlier this month in our open market business in North America which accounts for about 10% to 15% of our business.
This price increase is less than in other regions due to the lower energy inflation in North America.
Next year the scheduled price adjustments in our existing multiyear agreements will recapture the 2011 cost inflation.
Let me now move to some of the key operational improvements we made in North America this quarter.
First our average operating rate across our manufacturing base was in the mid-90s which was a clear improvement from the second quarter.
Also our 2 restarted furnaces ran at full capacity since the beginning of the quarter.
To ensure that we mitigate the risk of future production issues we are conducting operational audits of all our plants in North America and we have identified and are beginning to implement a number of process improvements that will serve to increase our performance even more.
The graph at the bottom of Chart 5 depicts 2 of the trends that we are monitoring as part of our remediation plan.
The blue bars show our inventory levels and you can see inventory rapidly decreasing in the first quarter as unplanned production interruptions coincided with stronger demand levels.
We made good progress rebuilding inventory in the third quarter and we expect to continue this improvement in the fourth quarter as supply and demand trends dictate.
The red line on the graph shows average delivery distances for our customer shipment.
As inventory levels decreased early in the year we were required to reallocate production to other manufacturing networks in North America.
As a result we incurred higher freight costs as we shipped finished products much longer distances.
We have made some progress reducing out-of-freight pattern -- out-of-pattern freight in the third quarter and should continue to see these costs come down further in the fourth quarter.
Although I'm pleased with our initial progress we have more work in front of us to improve operating performance in North America.
Moving from North America to Asia-Pacific on Chart 6.
We generated segment operating profit of $23 million in the third quarter down from $37 million of the prior year.
However segment profit rebounded from the $9 million reported in the second quarter.
Shipments in the region were up slightly from the prior year.
As in the second quarter all growth was attributable to our 2010 acquisitions in China.
In Australia market conditions have stabilized yet remain challenging resulting in lower year-over-year sales and production levels.
Shipments of wine and beer bottles in the country were down nearly 15% from the prior year.
To address the challenges in this country we finalized a significant phase of our Australian restructuring plan in the quarter and we closed one furnace at the end of September.
One additional furnace closure is planned by mid-2012.
We recorded a $20 million charge primarily related to the furnace closures and these actions will reduce fixed cost and will improve our capabilities and system flexibility.
Additional restructuring activities will be determined after we assess supply and demand trends as well as the outcome of significant contract negotiations by the mid of 2012.
You may have heard about the landslide in New Zealand earlier this week that has interrupted the supply of natural gas to the upper North Island.
As a result our factory in Auckland as well as many other customers' facilities have temporarily ceased production until the pipeline is fixed.
This may take a week or so and we expect that this may have a modest impact on fourth quarter earnings.
Moving to China.
We continue to reorient our existing footprint within the dynamic business environment in the country.
We do not foresee any new acquisitions in the short term.
Our priorities are to optimize our existing assets and business performance which includes integrating our 2010 acquisitions.
During this quarter we made solid progress on raising our prices in China.
As we have mentioned in the past several of our legacy facilities in China are fast becoming encroached by urban growth.
This has put pressure on us to relocate some of our facilities but also provides the opportunity to move closer to our customers and improve our footprint.
As a result of the urban encroachment the land values of these properties have increased so significantly that they will allow us to fund the rebuild of these capacities at alternative sites.
I will now turn the call over to Ed.
Thanks Al.
Let's move to Chart 7 and begin our financial review with the third quarter reconciliation for sales operating profit and EPS.
Third quarter 2011 segment sales increased approximately 10% to more than $1.8 billion.
As Al mentioned our volumes increased 4%.
This boosted the top line by $64 million.
Higher prices also increased the top line by $25 million in the quarter.
Shifts in product mix offset approximately  $8 million of the higher selling prices.
You can also see that currency translation substantially increased the top line.
Moving over to segment operating profit.
The third quarter profit was $269 million $10 million below the $279 million reported last year.
Higher volumes added $16 million largely driven by strong growth in South America.
Higher pricing benefited segment operating profit by $25 million while the change in product mix that impacted the top line had a negligible profit impact.
Manufacturing and delivery costs increased by $37 million.
These higher costs were largely driven by $55 million of cost inflation.
But favorable year-over-year production levels in all regions except for Asia Pacific partially offset inflation this quarter.
This benefited a component of the positive operating leverage that we continue to see generated this year as we operate facilities at higher capacity utilization rates.
Operating expenses increased by $9 million from the prior year partially reflecting investments made to support sales and marketing initiatives.
Our Glass is Life marketing campaign has been running for several months now.
Our campaign features the premium image of O-I glass packaging by showcasing many of our customers' products.
Early results show that we're receiving new business leads in many food and beverage companies around the world several of whom do not currently package their products in glass containers.
Other costs decreased operating profit by about $12 million primarily due to lower equity earnings this quarter from our North American joint venture that underwent a furnace rebuild.
Other costs were also impacted by the absence of several onetime items that benefited the prior year third quarter.
And finally currency translation provided a $7 million benefit to segment profit this quarter.
Finishing with the EPS reconciliation our adjusted net income was $0.84 per share in the quarter compared to $0.83 in the prior year.
Operating profit components decreased earnings by $0.05 from the prior year while nonoperating items netted to a $0.06 benefit to the earnings in the quarter.
This was largely driven by lower year-over-year effective tax rate caused by a change in the annual forecasted earnings mix by country.
Finally our only Note 1 item this quarter was a $20 million after-tax charge related to restructuring activity.
Let's move to Chart 8 for more detail on our balance sheet cash flow and capital structure.
On September 30 2011 cash was $256 million and gross debt was approximately $4.1 billion.
So net debt was $3.8 billion an increase of approximately $144 million from the prior year third quarter reflecting financing for acquisitions made since the third quarter of last year.
Our net debt to EBITDA ratio was 3.0x at the end of the third quarter well below the bank covenant limit of 4 and improved from our second quarter ratio of 3.2x Free cash flow was $138 million in the quarter compared with $67 million in the third quarter of last year.
CapEx was more than $100 million lower in the quarter and this is consistent with our planned lower CapEx spending for the full year 2011.
At the same time the change in working capital was higher this year in the third quarter driven by increased inventory and receivable levels to support sales growth.
Now let me shift to our capital allocation priorities for the near term.
Debt reduction will continue to be our primary focus as we plan to further lower our leverage ratio to be comfortably within our target range of between 2 and 3x EBITDA.
Also we will fund our Australian restructuring as well as some limited capacity expansion in South America.
Finally let me highlight several year-end items that we will discuss on our next earnings call in January.
The annual review to update our asbestos liability will be conducted in the fourth quarter.
In addition we will conduct our annual evaluation of goodwill in the fourth quarter.
The outcome of our Australian restructuring plans and business assessment may lead to a goodwill impairment in the Asia-Pacific region which will then require a noncash charge to adjust that region's recorded goodwill.
As of September 30 2011 the Asia-Pacific segment had goodwill of approximately $640 million.
Finally we plan to go live with SAP in North America in the first quarter of next year.
On Chart 9 we present our business outlook for the fourth quarter including operating profit by segment nonoperational costs and overall adjusted earnings.
Of course foreign currency rates have a significant impact on our reported earnings and can create uncertainty.
To give additional clarity we have provided a chart in the appendix to show our earning sensitivity to the major currencies that impact our operations.
We expect our European fourth quarter segment profit will lag the prior year.
With the macroeconomic volatility in Europe it's a bit more difficult to gauge our sales volumes next quarter but our current expectation is that volume will be flat with the prior year while cost inflation will remain elevated.
In North America we expect operating profit to approximate prior year fourth quarter levels.
Operational and supply chain efficiency should continue to improve however sales volume will likely be flat to up slightly from prior year levels.
Meanwhile cost inflation will lay on margins in the fourth quarter.
Our Asia-Pacific segment operating profit will remain below prior year levels given continued challenging market condition especially in Australia.
In South America profit should improve from the prior year.
We have now lapped the one-year anniversary of our acquisition in this region so year-over-year volume growth will not be as high as the past few quarters.
Overall our segment margin percentage should be similar to third quarter level.
Turning to nonoperational items.
We expect corporate costs to be in the $25 million to $30 million range in the fourth quarter.
Further details are provided on the chart.
Overall we expect fourth quarter adjusted earnings should approximate prior year fourth quarter levels.
I will now turn the call back to Al for closing remarks on Chart 10.
Thanks Ed.
Overall we made good progress during the third quarter especially with the initial improvements in North America.
And to address our market challenges in Australia we closed capacity to reduce costs.
These decisions do not come lightly since we know permanent closures impact many of our long-standing employees and their families but we unfortunately have no other choice given the cost structure and changes in the Australian markets that we serve and of course also our responsibility to improve the financial condition of the Asia Pacific region.
Also we generated significant free cash flow in the quarter and allocated it towards debt reduction and further debt pay down remains top priority.
And although I am pleased with our initial progress we have more work to do to prove operating performance profitability and cash generation.
We must ensure that we keep up with inflation which we expect next year will reach levels similar to this year.
Several years ago we initiated our value of a volume strategy to restore margins.
Due to continued inflation we are in a similar position again and we must take decisive action to correct our margin decline.
As a result we will increase prices in 2012 as appropriate to repair our margins and improve shareholder value.
And if required we will make some capacity adjustments to align our operations to customer needs as we have done in the past.
Thank you and now I will ask Angela to open up the lines for your questions.
[Operator Instructions] And your first question is from the line of Tim Thein with Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> First -- 2 questions here.
First is just on the volume pull-through.
It looks Ed about 25% in the quarter but over 50% if you factor in the benefit from higher capacity utilization.
So as we think about 2012 how should we be framing that in terms of the volume leverage based on the projected operating rates and then just as a follow-up on the pricing opportunity is it fair to think about in terms of the negotiated piece that every 100 basis points in price that you achieve is worth order magnitude about $45 million? Well I think as far as the pull through is concerned we have talked in the past about this that we typically see a -- for increased volume we typically see about a 40% benefit of the margin flowing through because we not only then have the income swing from the sale but we also have the operational efficiency that work their way through.
With regard to the pricing and the flow-through of the pricing that really depends on what the increase in inflation is going to be next year.
And that's why we have to be fairly determined at this point in time as we go into next year because it looks like inflation is going to continue at about the same pace that we have seen and if we were only to recover the inflation that we have experienced in 2011 our margins would really remain flat.
So that's really clearly a requirement and an absolute demand for us to make sure that we can pass through not only the inflation that we have incurred this year but also what we expect to see next year.
Now fortunately our utilization is at a very high rate which gives us the confidence level that market demand seems to be supportive of that action and offset strategy but really we will have to see over the course of our negotiations which will take place most of them in this quarter what the outcome is going to be.
And in January we'll hopefully be able to give you more perspective on that.
And your next question is from the line of George Staphos with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> Al quick question on pricing then.
Can you discuss what you think your operating rate is in Europe and what you think the industry's operating rate is in Europe? And are you prepared to close capacity should pricing negotiations not go quite as favorably as you need to to offset inflation? Well let me answer first the last part of your question.
I mean whenever we embark on a strategy with regard to price increases we of course have to consider the potential impact that's going to have on demand for our products.
And so part of our strategy of course does include scenarios of looking at what we could do to either temporarily curtail productions or permanently curtail production and that is part and parcel of the process as we go forward.
Now with regard to capacity utilization I think that was very clear when we talked about our demand profile in the last quarter that we were oversold in the high-peak areas of the second quarter and we are now seeing the normal flow of the overall demand peak ebbing a little bit but that does not really mean that the overall demand is any lower because we have to use these off quarters to prepare again for the high season.
As far as the rest of the industry is concerned I think some of our competitors have reported that their own run rates and their own capacity utilization rates and I believe they're fairly much in line with what we have experienced.
And your next question is from the line of Alex Ovshey with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Al you mentioned that you expect inflation in '12 to be similar to '11 levels.
But when you look at some of the key commodities that you buy.
Energy specifically it's still elevated but the price increases there have leveled out.
Can you just elaborate why you anticipate inflation in '12 to approach '11 levels? Well I think first of all as you really look at what we are seeing is that soda ash continues to be fairly tight from demand increases in the automotive and the flat glass as well as in the container glass industry.
And I think you may have read that certainly the suppliers there are looking for some fairly significant double-digit increases for the coming year.
Also overall sand demand is fairly high and particularly in the higher grades of sands we're seeing some supply issues that depends of course from region to region.
And then of course energy is the big open question but we still see significant increases in electricity in particular coming from Europe at this point in time.
How natural gas and oil is going to behave that's more reactive to certain market and political conditions.
So we'll have to see how that's going to work out.
But clearly we've seen a dramatic increase in the course of 2011.
And then the other part that is going to play an important role in Australia is that we're going to see a carbon tax increase or a carbon tax becoming effective in Australia in the middle of next year.
And that too of course is something that we will have to pass on to our customer base.
And Alex virtually all of our workers in the factories are under collective bargaining agreements and we will typically see about a 4% annual increase that comes through that includes both wage rates and what's happening in the benefit side pension.
Okay.
But that 4% is of course on a global scale.
Because of the emerging region increases tends to be much higher.
Research Division</strong> In North America the third quarter.
Did you incur any incremental operational costs as you're optimizing your footprint? Or essentially all that was behind you and occurred in the second quarter and didn't really have any additional cost in the third quarter just some optimization? Yes.
There may have been some small increases in M&amp;E [ph] to get these 2 furnaces up and running but that was about it.
And your next question is from Phil Gresh with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> So just to be clear on the inflation front.
I think previously you had said this year you had expected $200 million to $220 million of inflation headwind.
Is that still the view for this year? Pretty much in line.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So when we talk next year -- you're basically saying similar $200 million to $220 million type of number? That's about the range that we would expect.
I mean we'll get further clarity of course over the next 2 months.
But at least at this point in time that's the way it looks.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then on the look-back agreements.
Just kind of running the math on that.
Is it fair to say that for the regions where you have look-backs that the price for next year would be somewhere in the $60 million to $80 million range if I kind of add up North America? Looking at the math that makes sense yes.
Research Division</strong> Yes okay.
And then just on Europe.
I think last quarter you were talking about some of these multiyear agreements where you were kind of going after mid- to high-single digit price increases for the ones that came due and now you're talking high-single to low-double for the annual contracts.
And I guess the macro environment like you talked about is a bit of softer now.
So I guess what gives you the confidence there that you can get these even higher types of levels now? Well as I said before it was quite obvious in the second quarter that we were oversold and so the somewhat reduced demand profile that we're seeing in the third quarter is really welcome.
Because otherwise if we had seen continued growth it would have been really difficult for us to achieve our customers' supply.
So I would say the high level demand -- so I think that the overall balance of supply and demand is still very favorable at this point in time to achieve what we need to achieve.
And you also know that clearly it's much more difficult to get your customers engaged in price discussions when inflation is very low or there's no inflation.
Really that's not the case inflation has been very high.
It's not only been high for us it's been high for many of our customers and many other basic raw materials in categories that they buy.
And that I think is too helpful in this overall environment.
Now certainly we will have to also understand that Europe is even though we always talk about it as one homogenous region we clearly have some differences in Europe.
And we've also seen in the past 2 years some different competitive activities.
So in some cases we have to correct margins where we lost some feathers 2 years ago when supply was long and we'll certainly going to try to recover that.
In other markets the increase will be more moderate to be more in line with what we see in inflation.
So I think it's going to be a mixed bag and it will require a very high amount of interaction with our customer base to get to the numbers that I have mentioned.
Research Division</strong> Okay very helpful.
And now are there any specific contracts you can point that's kind of already negotiated at this stage or are you still kind of in the early stages of this? I think in the second and the third quarter several larger contracts have come through and we were able to get increases in the high-single to double-digit regions for those contract negotiations.
Which I think of course is also indicative that apparently the market is supportive on a broad base at least for increases in that range.
Now still it's going to be a part of the discussions over the next 3 or 4 months.
What the market reaction is going to be and it's very difficult at this time to really be truly predictive with any specificity.
So I'd rather give you some further information and details in January after we've had our hard work behind us.
Research Division</strong> One last question just on free cash flow for this year.
Is your CapEx here the same as it was before? Your CapEx is lower than I thought in the quarter.
Well in the quarter it was low because last year of course we had restructuring in the third quarter.
That's why the comparison from last year third quarter to this year third quarter is a bit skewed.
But typically we also find that the fourth quarter is pretty heavy and capital expenditures will definitely affect our downtime and use that downtime to make the additions to our facilities or the corrections to or repairs to our facility.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So the CapEx is the same as it was before? I would say it's perhaps a bit wider than what we had predicted but it's certainly in the range.
And your next question is from Alton Stump with Longbow Research.
Just to press in a bit further on the pricing next year in Europe.
How tight is capacity do you know for competition? It sounds like it's pretty tight on your end.
Just want to get an idea if you know as to what your competitors are seeing.
And then also has there been any early commentary yet from your competition as to how much they plan to raise pricing next year in Europe? No.
I have not heard anything from our competitors or at least they have not been in the marketplace with any specific ideas or numbers.
As far as capacity utilization is concerned I can only go from the published information that's available to all of you as well from companies that are public and report.
And what I typically see there they're fairly well utilized.
So I think it would be surprising to me to see they were in any different position than we are with regard to utilization rates.
And your next question is from Mark Wilde with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Al I understand you don't really want to negotiate on a public conference call.
But can you give us some perspective of kind of what's in the that you're aware of from kind of the '08 '09 price over volume negotiations? Things that you might be doing differently at this time around.
While I think the starting position is different.
You know that when we embarked on this in 2010 and 2008.
I believe that it was clearly for many years if not for decades a significant amount of capacity that was not fully utilized around.
A lot of that has been taken out over the last couple of years.
And I believe the band [ph] between supply and demand to be long and/or supply being short insured has become much narrower over the last couple of years.
And so even if we are going into a situation where it's difficult to get the targeted increases that we have for our customers we still have the leverage and the ability then to adjust our cost structure by taking temporary shutdowns or taking capacity out but I don't think it's going to have to be of any category or size we saw in 2007 and 2008.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And will I recall a year or 2 ago.
You were talking about trying to get customers to pay for sort of incremental demand during peak periods because that imposes a lot of extra cost on you.
Did you get any real traction with that? No we really did not.
And as you from the second quarter conference call it certainly still is a problematic situation for us because demand out there tends to peak in those periods.
And then on top of that we also have a very low reliability on forecast that we get then the problem is even greater.
So one of our focus areas again is going to be going to try this again just like what I said 2 years is in contracts with our larger customers because that's really where a lot of this impact comes from.
To see whether we can either get to a greater predictability with regard to forecast accuracy on an SKU level or potentially come to some kind of understanding that if additional costs are being created by those changes in demand that some way then there has be a pass-through provision of that additional cost that's being generated by that imposition in their forecasting.
But as you can very well imagine that really has to be negotiated on a contract-by-contract basis and it's mostly guaranteed year out until we get to the point where we need to be.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And last question I had.
Some other packagers have noted kind of slowing in Brazil in recent months and I noticed that you did not say anything about having seen on any of that.
Can you just comment on kind of your read on the Brazilian economy and how it's affecting our business right now? Well I think a lot of the projections that are being made are based on aluminum cans and the aluminum situation which has really swung fairly widely.
And I believe one of our competitors in the aluminum business this morning they reported that certainly in the third quarter volumes picked up again.
So I think this was more of an issue of either currency rates in Brazil fluctuating significantly.
The market being underpowered as far as installed capacity is concerned so the market became dependent on imports.
And that of course that put a fairly high demand initially because customers try to cover their bets and then when suddenly demand was perhaps weakening a bit they immediately then went to taking the supply chain down with regard to what's in the pipeline and then you get these wide swings in demand.
We certainly in the glass industry didn't see that.
We saw continued strength in the Brazilian market as was reflected in our sales numbers.
Even though I must say that perhaps 1 or 2 percentage points of more billion growth rates were taking off or were shaved off but it's still attractive growth rate overall.
And your next question is from Ghansham Panjabi with Robert W.
Baird.
Research Division</strong> The magnitude of price increases Al you're guiding towards particularly in Europe.
These would certainly be record levels at least from our memory.
Assuming success with these initiatives why should we expect a pre-buy in the fourth quarter ahead of these price increases? Because from the guidance it doesn't sound like you're assuming seeing anything.
Well a pre-buy requires also a willing supplier or an able supplier that has the ability to do this.
And so we said typically in the fourth quarter we're taking down capacity to make sure that we can make these capital investments to keep the operations going and get them prepared for the following year.
And so there will be limited availability as to what we can do because otherwise then we'd miss out on the maintenance and on the repair or on the replacement of certain assets that we typically do in the fourth quarter.
So there's going to be limited impact as to what we can really ship early.
And then I do not know of course how tightly our customers are controlling their balance sheets either so they're going to have to look at that as well.
And in the past couple of years we've seen our customers to be very conservative with regards to inventories because of balance sheet and cash flow requirements that they have within their own companies.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
And also on the pricing parameters.
You’ve been -- obviously we've talked about Europe and North America also.
What about South America and Asia-Pac? I already said that as far as South America is concerned those increases are going to be in the high-single digits as well.
And in Asia-Pac of course China as I mentioned in my comments we have been very successful in the third quarter to raise our prices and we will continue to see increases in China.
Australia and New Zealand of course given the overall demand profile and what we have to do to make sure that we adjust our capacity and our cost structures to that demand is a more tenuous proposition at this point in time.
But I believe that you will recall also that in Australia and New Zealand the market is much more like North America.
So a very high percentage of long-term contracts where we have automatic pass-through provisions.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just one final clarification question.
On the North American inventory situation in your press release you commented on importing some products from South America.
Can you first of all quantify that? And does that mean that operating margin in South America were higher than they normally would have been in the quarter? I don't think it had a dramatic impact because what we have done is we had to take care of Brazil for the high season going into the high season.
And therefore there's inventory already either in Brazil or en route to Brazil.
And then we used that period until demand is picking up in some of the supplier countries out of Latin America.
And so they get into their absolute high season in November and December to use that spot availability then to supply volumes in North America.
And I think overall they may have added about 1% or 2% to our inventory volumes.
And your next question is from the line of Philip Ng with Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> First I like most of the opportunities coming from Europe on the pricing side.
But can you just help me quantify what percentage your business has got tied to contracts where there's an opportunity for this upside on the pricing side? Well our long-term contracts in Europe are about 15% of the total volume.
And then of the remaining 85% I would say about 10% are contracts -- or 10% to 15% maybe contracts with large multinational accounts and then you have many many smaller midsized customers that account for about 70% on the volume.
And all of these are basically annual negotiations or annual agreements.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And North America is about 10% to 15% and then Asia-Pac I guess outside of Australia is a copy.
Outside of Australia and New Zealand and Asia it's basically just like in Latin America because we typically then operate in fairly inflationary environments and so it's a much more proactive and reactive process throughout the year.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And that's very helpful.
I just want to get a sense from you Al just the environmental in general.
It seems like it's a little more disciplined especially in Europe.
And certainly you commented earlier operates a lot more  tighter.
And if I remember last time there's a lot of volume leakage because the issue was a little different you had a lead on pricing.
It sounds like everyone else certainly the big guys are looking to follow or actually lead as well.
I just want to get a sense basically on what you're seeing.
Do you expect the volume leakage to be more modest? Or how should we think about it? Like I said earlier certainly as we went into our strategy 2 years ago the supply demand picture was -- the difference I think overall supply was much greater than demand was in the market and that needed some basic correction anyway.
I think those corrections have taken place so I would say the margin out between a balanced supply demand and shortage or long has become a much shorter range of overall demand fluctuation.
Now with regard to the viewpoint that we have with what's the impact going to be if I look back at 2007 and 2008 we saw some pretty good profitability improvements in Europe despite the fact that we had volume leakage.
And so in this environment and especially with our focus on cash flow and cash generation I think it's a trade-off that we have to make.
And of course that is going to be part and partial of the negotiation process over the next 3 months.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay very helpful.
And then just switching gears a little bit on Asia-Pac and South America.
At least for Asia-Pac certainly Australia has gotten worse and you're doing a lot of restructuring efforts there.
Can you give me a sense of what kind of profitability we should be expecting for 2012 once those initiatives have been taken place? And for South America.
First half you guys got hit with kind of shipping cost and whatnot and certainly you guys are adding capacity.
Will the headwinds that we saw in the first half recur next year? Well as far as Asia-Pacific is concerned it's really -- a lot of that is driven by what's happening in Australia and you've seen what happened in the second quarter what dismal performance we had.
Fortunately we have corrected part of this already in the third quarter and saw an improvement.
I would say our first objective and target in Australia New Zealand or in Asia-Pacific to get back to double-digit margins.
And then we'll see and the course of next year as we go through our contract negotiations what additional steps we can take and what additional improvements over margins we can achieve.
With regards to the situation in Latin America.
I think that the overall situation there continues to have a strong demand profile that's the reason why we're building or contemplating on building the traditional furnace in Brazil.
So that we are not going to have that extremely high peak of imported products pushing down the margins that we saw in the first quarter of this year.
And I believe that a lot of the work has already been done to make sure that our supply chain is filled so that we can take care of the peak demand now over the next 3 to 4 months in Latin America.
And then typically we would see LA -- I'm sorry Latin America to drop off in its demand sometime in February March with the total peak of slower months.
And hopefully then we would be ready by the second half of the year with the additional capacity that was put in place.
So I think overall results probably will not see the same margin pressure in the first quarter or in the first half of next year that we saw in the first half of this year in Latin America.
Because I think we're better prepared for the supply chain issues that we have to manage because of the higher demand in the market place.
And your next question is from the line of Chip Dillon with Vertical Research Partners.
This is James for Chip.
The first question I have is is there any sign that the weaker Australian dollar could create a rebound in 2012 in the Australian wine business? Well what we're looking at is that it's really a combination of overall currency rates have increased in value as related to other currencies so dramatically.
As I recall 2 years ago we were about $0.65 or $0.70 to the Aussie dollar now it's about a $1.10.
So even if it were going to go back to $0.90 or so I don't think it's going to fundamentally change the way that the wineries are looking at this situation.
On top of that some of the larger wineries also have made significant investments in the receiving countries to be able to do the filling in those countries.
So they're not just going to walk away from that investment.
So I would say most probably broke through a significant decision barrier over the last year or so where people are on the fence but I think have jumped off the fence and I don't believe they're going to go back again.
So I would say what we're dealing in Australia in particular but I think it's actually also in New Zealand is a more fundamental issue of people having the decision they want and then basically living with that decision for a long time and not jumping back and forth.
Because the requirements for them to be able to have made that decision did also require investments in the receiving countries and I don't think they're rapidly going to walk away from those.
Okay.
That helps.
And switching gears a little bit.
Going to China in your opinion are aluminum cans taking enough share in China to stem the growth in glass in that region? I would say with the share -- I believe aluminum cans have a 5% share or so at this point in time of the beer market in China.
So I think given that proportionality it's going to be a long time before it really will have a noticeable impact on the overall opportunity for glass because the basic demand is growing so rapidly.
I talked to a mega beer brand owner 2 or 3 months ago and they said their growth this year was 20%.
So you can very well imagine that even if there is going to eventually be some shift of share based on the just the 5% share of the market that would be a long time before you would see any noticeable impact on the growth opportunity for glass.
And our final question is a follow-up from George Staphos with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
It's actually Benjamin Wong filling in for George who's on another call.
Two very quick ones.
Just going back to pricing in Europe for next year.
I think this year there's been some market share risk from cheap imports which have maybe handicapped pricing initiatives this year.
I guess what gives you confidence you'd be successful in 2012? And then I had a very quick question about CapEx in 2012 if there is any delayed CapEx in 2011 that gets pushed into next year.
And With regard to the European situation.
I think the cheap imports that you were referring to were predominantly an issue in the course of 2010.
That was still influenced influencing some of the negotiations and the discussion as we go into 2011.
We have seen much less of that in the course of the last 8 months or 9 months.
And so I don't really think that's a significant factor at this point in time.
With regard to the 2012 CapEx as you can imagine we're constantly going through our budgeting process and with all the moving parts and the uncertainty around the world with regard to economic outlooks and financial stability it's very difficult at this point in time to really already have a conclusive view of what 2012 is going to be like.
And that will determine of course also what we're going to do with regard to CapEx.
So we'll come back to that during our call in January where we have most probably much greater clarity around those issues for 2012.
Well thank you everyone.
That concludes our third quarter earnings conference call.
Please note that our fourth quarter 2011 conference call is currently scheduled for Thursday January 26 2012 at 8:30 a.m.
Eastern Time.
We appreciate your interest in O-I.
We appreciate your interest in O-I and again thank you [indiscernible].
This does conclude today's conference.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Angela and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the O-I Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] I would like to turn the call over to Mr.
Jason Bissell Director of Investor Relations.
You may begin your conference.
I am joined today by Al Stroucken our Chairman and CEO; Ed White our Chief Financial Officer; and several other members of our senior management team.
Today we will discuss key business developments review our financial results for the fourth quarter the full year 2011 and discuss future trends affecting our business in 2012.
Following our prepared remarks we will host a question-and-answer period.
The presentation materials for this earnings call are also being simulcast from the company's website at o-i.com.
Please review the Safe Harbor comments and disclosure of our use of non-GAAP financial measures included in those materials.
Unless otherwise noted the financial results we are presenting today relate to adjusted net earnings which exclude certain items that management considers not representative of ongoing operations.
A reconciliation of GAAP to non-GAAP earnings can be found in our earnings press release and in the appendix to this presentation.
I'll now turn the call over to Al who will start on Chart 2.
Thank you Jason and good morning.
Our fourth quarter adjusted earnings were $0.48 per share in line with our expectations.
Shipments in the quarter were up more than 4% compared to the same period of last year.
And importantly free cash flow was strong in the fourth quarter.
For full year 2011 adjusted earnings per share were $2.37 down from $2.60 in 2010.
We were disappointed by the performance of our Asia Pacific and North American regions especially in the second quarter.
On the other hand our largest region Europe largely offset the impact of accelerating cost inflation through higher shipments and good operating performance.
And South America had another strong year driven by organic growth and new business stemming from our 2010 acquisitions.
Global volumes improved by more than 5% in 2011.
Prior year acquisitions provided approximately 4 percentage points of this change while organic growth provided more than 1 percentage point.
Shipments increased across all key end-use categories including beer wine spirits and fruit.
As a result of low-cost inflation in 2010 our selling prices increased only slightly going into 2011.
However cost inflation increased significantly throughout the year and exceeded price recovery by approximately $150 million.
This impacted our margins of course and we have been aggressively addressing this issue in recent months and I will comment later on our progress.
Despite high cost inflation and the performance issues we discussed earlier in the year we generated $220 million of free cash flow in 2011.
We used the cash to lower our net debt in the second half of the year.
Looking to 2012 we expect improved operating results across the board.
Higher pricing should offset the impact of prior year unrecovered cost inflation as well as some of the inflation anticipated in 2012.
We assume global shipment levels will be flat year-over-year in 2012 which allows for an impact to volumes in Europe as a result of our pricing strategy.
Macroeconomic developments in Europe may also impact volumes which creates of course some uncertainty in our forward-looking assumptions.
We plan to complete most of our remaining price negotiations with European customers in February and this will allow us then to have a better understanding of our volumes and any potential additional restructuring required in this region.
Based on our present assumptions we expect underlying free cash flow in 2012 to approximate $250 million.
Underlying free cash flow is an expanded metric that we're introducing this year to segregate capital spending for replacement capacity in China that is being supported by the proceeds from our land sales in that country.
And Ed will discuss this further in a few minutes.
Now let's review the operating performance of our regional businesses starting with Europe on Chart 3.
Europe generated operating profit of $41 million in the fourth quarter compared with $50 million in the fourth quarter of 2010.
Shipments were solid this quarter up more than 5% with good performance in the beer and spirit end-use segments.
We believe the small portion of this volume strength was likely related to customer purchases in advance of price increases and in France ahead of tax increases scheduled to go into effect in 2012.
Despite positive volume trends we reduced our production levels in the fourth quarter to manage our inventories heading into 2012.
As a result the benefits of higher shipments and prices were offset by lower production levels continued high cost inflation and unfavorable currency translation.
Full year 2011 segment operating profit in Europe approximated prior year results.
Shipment and production levels were each up about 4% this year.
However the benefit of stronger shipments and favorable currency translation were mostly offset by accelerating energy inflation which cost margin compression in Europe.
In response we implemented an energy surcharge in Europe in the second half of the year.
We also sought higher price levels in our 2012 contract negotiations to offset the balance of higher 2011 inflation and capture a portion of expected 2012 cost inflation.
To date we have concluded approximately 3/4 of our customer negotiations in Europe and have attained the targeted price increases that we were seeking.
We expect to conclude most of the remaining annual customer agreements in February.
And there will likely be some impact to volume in Europe this year as a result of our pricing strategy but this is still in flux as negotiations are ongoing.
At the end of 2011 we closed one furnace in southern Spain due to a low margin beer market and our inability to increase prices to meet our targeted profitability levels.
This action will make the remaining cost structure in Spain more competitive.
As you will note from my earlier comments uncertainty regarding financial markets in Europe persists.
Although we have not seen any major declines in consumer trends over the past couple of quarters we will continue to cautiously view conditions in Europe throughout the year.
This is consistent with our customers' approach as their visibility into the future demand is also clouded.
And as a result further capacity adjustments may be required in this region but we need more clarity on the European market before we can make this assessment.
Moving to Chart 4.
Our North American region generated operating profit of $48 million in the fourth quarter down from $53 million last year.
Volumes were up about 5% this quarter with strong performance in the wine end-use category.
Beer volumes were also up slightly in the fourth quarter the first positive year-over-year trend we saw in 2011.
As in Europe higher shipment and price levels were more than offset by elevated cost inflation in the quarter.
For the full year 2011 North American segment profit was $236 million down from $39 million (sic) [$275 million] from 2010.
Shipments were up slightly in North America as improved volumes in our wine spirit and craft beer markets offset continued sluggish mega beer shipments.
Cost inflation significantly offset the benefit from higher shipments and incremental price pass-throughs from low 2010 inflation.
In addition our results were impacted by poor operating performance in the second quarter which resulted from manufacturing and supply chain inefficiencies.
We have made several improvements in North America in the second half of 2011 that gives us confidence for a better performance in 2012.
First we stabilized operations and restarted 2 furnaces and we have been running them at full capacity since the beginning of the third quarter.
We ended the year with North American inventories up nearly 6% from 2010 levels bringing them in line with a higher level of demand.
Next process and organizational improvements are underway at all facilities to enhance operations.
And finally we have centralized the manufacturing and supply chain functions in North America under one integrated operations leader.
This structure which was previously implemented in the other regions will help maximize operational efficiency and provide better visibility and control over production cost.
Overall I'm pleased with the progress we have made with regard to all of these improvements.
For 2012 we expect our North American shipments to be consistent with 2011 levels largely due to continued projected challenges with mega beer brands.
Prices will be higher in 2012 as we pass through the high cost inflation experienced in 2011.
Importantly we expect to see much improved supply chain efficiencies in North America this year.
And to help drive further progress we will implement our SAP system in this region next month.
Moving to South America on Chart 5.
Our operations in this region generated segment operating profit of $85 million in the fourth quarter up from $82 million in the same quarter last year.
On a year-over-year basis our shipments in the fourth quarter of 2011 were flat compared to a very strong prior year fourth quarter.
This can be attributed to the introduction in 2010 of a new returnable product in the beer market in Peru.
This year also shipments were lower in Peru in the fourth quarter of 2011 due to work stoppages at 2 of our major customers.
Other countries in the region had higher year-over-year organic volumes in the quarter and offset the volume decline in Peru.
We generated our strongest segment operating profit margin nearly 25% for the year in the fourth quarter.
Overall 2011 was a good year for our South American business with segment profit of $250 million up $26 million from the prior year.
Organic growth and incremental acquisition volumes resulted in a strong year for this region.
Looking to 2012 prices should cover inflation in the region.
We expect continued growth in South America with volumes up low- to mid-single digits on top of a strong 2011 performance.
This growth is lighter than 2011 levels as our go-to-market strategy last March was driving above-market increases for our business in the region.
glass smart is still an important fuel to drive sales but future incremental volumes will likely be more consistent with the region's overall growth levels.
Keep in mind unfavorable macroeconomic developments in Europe could impact many global markets including South America's.
In the past we have seen macro issues lead to capital constraints for our customers in this region as they extend the timeline of their purchases of refillable bottles.
We will continue to monitor volume trends throughout 2012 and balance our production levels with changes in demand patterns.
As has been the case in 2011 expected future volume growth in South America will be driven by Brazil.
Because we are at maximum capacity in Brazil this growth will need to be partially supplied by imports which will increase logistics costs.
We are constructing a new furnace at an existing facility in Southern Brazil to meet this demand and reduce some of these incremental costs.
This furnace should be operational in the fourth quarter of 2012.
Moving from South America to Asia Pacific on Chart 6.
We generated $27 million of segment operating profit in the quarter down from $36 million in the fourth quarter of 2010.
Shipments in the region were up about 2% in the quarter.
A slight volume decline in Australia and New Zealand was more than offset by growth in the rest of the region.
However the regional margin generated outside of Australia and New Zealand is lower than in those countries.
And this change in country profit mix contributed to lower overall earnings in the quarter.
For full year 2011 segment operating profit for the region was $83 million.
We are of course disappointed with the substantial decline in this region's profitability.
In China we have been building up our operational infrastructure with local and expatriate employees particularly in our Shanghai central office.
Costs for this new group should diminish over time as work is transferred to local employees.
This year our team in China has been integrating 3 new businesses that were acquired in 2010.
Two of these businesses are on plan and progressing well but the third operation has proven to be more of a challenge.
And this integration issue along with costs associated with the closure of our Guangzhou facility earlier in 2011 contributed to lower year-over-year results in China.
But the more significant factor for this region's year-over-year decline was due to significant challenges from our 2 largest end-use markets in Australia: wine and beer.
Beer bottle sales decreased as higher interest and savings rates led to lower consumer disposable income.
Wine bottle sales were down principally due to Australian wine producers reducing in-country bottling given the dramatic increase in the value of the Australian dollar.
And we view this to be a structural change in the wine market and has led to our goodwill impairment which Ed will discuss in a moment.
To address these issues we will be implementing significant change in the Asia Pacific region in 2012.
We will continue to carry out our Australian restructuring plan and we shut down one furnace in late 2011.
A second furnace will be shut down by the end of the first quarter of 2012 to further lower our costs.
And we will continue to consider capacity requirements over the course of 2012 subject to market conditions and customer and labor negotiations.
In China we will complete the integration of our recently acquired facilities.
Our primary focus will be on our business in northern China.
We will also there continue to adjust our existing footprint.
As we discussed last quarter several of our older facilities in China are becoming encroached by urban growth and must be relocated.
As a result the land values of these properties have significantly increased and we expect the proceeds from the sale of these facilities will allow us to fund the rebuild of these plants at alternative sites.
We have now completed the sale of our former Guangzhou facility and will expand a nearby plant.
Also we will begin construction of a new greenfield factory outside of Shanghai later in the year in anticipation of the sale of the old facility.
I will now turn the call over to Ed.
Thanks Al.
Let's begin our financial review with the fourth quarter reconciliations for sales operating profit and EPS on Chart 7.
Please see the appendix for our full year 2011 reconciliations.
Fourth quarter 2011 segment sales increased to nearly $1.8 billion.
Volumes increased by more than 4% and this improved the top line by $74 million.
Higher prices also raised the top line by $15 million in the quarter slightly offset by approximately $7 million from shifts in product mix.
Finally currency translation reduced our top line by $15 million.
This impact was largely due to a weaker Brazilian real.
Moving over to segment operating profit.
The fourth quarter was $201 million compared to $221 million last year.
Higher volumes added $16 million mostly led by strong shipment in Europe in the quarter.
Also higher pricing benefited segment operating profit by $15 million.
However the benefits of higher volume and prices were more than offset by $55 million of increased manufacturing and delivery costs.
This was driven by cost inflation.
Operating and other expenses were $5 million lower than the prior year aided by global cost-cutting initiatives that will also benefit 2012 results.
And finally currency translation reduced earnings by only $1 million in the quarter.
However we saw a considerable exchange rate volatility during the quarter.
Finishing with the EPS reconciliation adjusted net income was $0.48 per share in the fourth quarter compared to $0.45 in the prior year quarter.
Operating profit components decreased earnings by $0.07 from the prior year for all the reasons I just mentioned.
However non-operating items netted to a $0.10 benefit to these earnings.
Lower corporate cost added $0.04 due in part to better results from sales in our global equipment sales business.
In addition a lower year-over-year annual effective tax rate the ETR resulted in a lower fourth quarter rate which improved earnings by $0.02.
Lower interest expense and noncontrolling interest also added $0.02 each.
Let me conclude with several comments on GAAP EPS.
As we have been discussing throughout the year and as Al just mentioned in his comments the emerging structural change in the Australian wine industry has significantly reduced our outlook for this important market.
This led to a detailed assessment of Asia Pacific's goodwill.
Based on that evaluation we wrote off the carrying value of this segment's goodwill by recording a non-cash charge of $640 million.
Restructuring and asset impairment charges of approximately $63 million were recorded in the fourth quarter.
This was primarily related to our furnace closure in Spain further cost as part of our restructuring in Australian capacity and some adjustments to asset values in China.
We also performed the annual evaluation of our asbestos-related liability and recorded a $165 million charge.
I will review asbestos further in a minute.
The after-tax impacts of these items are listed in the appendix to our presentation as well as in our earnings release.
So let's move to Chart 8 for more detail on our balance sheet cash flow and capital structure.
On December 31 2011 cash was $400 million and gross debt was approximately $4 billion.
So net debt was $3.6 billion slightly down from the prior year.
Our net debt-to-EBITDA leverage ratio was 2.9x at the end of the fourth quarter which was lower than our third quarter flat with year-end 2010 and well below the bank covenant limit of 4x.
Free cash flow was $220 million for full year 2011 compared with $100 million for 2010.
Capital spending was more than $200 million lower than prior year as we had less spending for expansion and restructuring than in 2010.
At the same time working capital was a use of cash in 2011 impacted by increased inventory and receivable levels to support higher sales.
Now let me shift to several 2012 outlook topics starting with our capital allocation priority.
Debt reduction will continue to be our primary focus and we plan to further lower our leverage ratio.
You will see this impact from our second half free cash flow in 2012.
Also we will continue to fund our Australian and Spanish restructuring activities with the potential for further capacity adjustments in Europe.
And from the growth side we have a planned capacity expansion in Brazil.
Next let me review the year-end valuation of our pension plans.
Marginal asset returns and historical interest rates have combined in 2011 to increase our underfunded pension liability by more than $200 million.
Accordingly our 2012 cash funding requirements for pensions are expected to increase by approximately $35 million.
With that said our pension obligations are manageable.
They're very long term in nature.
On the other hand the accounting treatment for non-cash pension expense is very complex.
For example in 2012 our pension expense will remain basically flat with 2011 levels even though contributions will increase.
Therefore in order to provide more clarity we will be introducing 2 changes to our pension reporting starting in the first quarter of 2012.
First we will be changing the allocation of our pension cost but this will not change our total company earnings.
Our regional businesses going forward will only reflect the service costs related to their current employees.
All non-service pension costs will be retained at the corporate level.
This change will increase consistency between all regions and ensure each segment reflects only the costs associated with employee benefits earned during the current year.
It will also ensure that non-service costs which are primarily related to amortization of actuarial losses and tend to be volatile are segregated from our regional results and do not impact strategic decisions at the business level.
In the appendix of this presentation we have revised prior period segment earnings to conform to this new reporting convention.
The other change we are making involves an expansion to our cash flow statement since pension expense and funding are calculated using different methods.
This expanded presentation is already included in the cash flow statement in our year end 2011 earnings release and show separate lines to identify both the non-cash pension expense and the cash funding impact to our free cash flow.
Turning to asbestos on Chart 9.
Nothing has changed in the basic fact pattern.
As illustrated our full year 2011 asbestos payments declined to $170 million.
This continues a 4-year trend of declining payments.
As part of our normal practice during the fourth quarter of 2011 we conducted the annual review of our asbestos-related liabilities and recorded a charge of $165 million.
We also expect our 2012 asbestos-related payments to be approximately $165 million.
Overall our outlook remains consistent.
Asbestos is a limited and declining liability for O-I.
On Chart 10 we present our business outlook for both first quarter and full year 2012.
Overall we're looking forward to a solid year but we will also have challenges.
My comments will start with the full year and then close with our view on first quarter trends.
2012 price/inflation spread.
We expect higher selling prices this year which will positively impact global sales by up to 5%.
Prices should improve across all regions and be led by South America and Europe.
We anticipate that 2012 inflation will approximate 2011 levels and range between $200 million and $230 million.
Similar to 2011 the increase will come from higher soda ash prices and labor costs as well as generally higher energy prices at our international operation.
Sales volume.
We expect that shipment levels will vary by region in 2012 and be flat overall.
South American volumes should be up- to low-mid-single digit while flat volumes are expected in North America and Asia Pacific.
We expect Europe volumes to be down but they have the most uncertainty that this region will be entering into a recession maybe entering into a recession.
Also we do not know the full extent of the impact on our volume from the European pricing strategy.
Other manufacturing and delivery costs.
As mentioned we will implement temporary production downtime to offset lower expected shipments in Europe and Australia to maintain tight working capital levels.
This downtime is expected to lead to approximately $40 million of additional unabsorbed fixed costs in 2012.
Other costs.
Operating expenses across the regions this is our global term for SG&amp;A and engineering should be approximately $15 million lower in 2012 due to cost-cutting initiatives.
At the corporate level we also have SG&amp;A and R&amp;D.
We anticipate approximately $25 million of higher costs in 2012 to support increases in research and development and sales and marketing.
The increase also reflects accruals for incentive compensation that were smaller in 2011.
For 2012 pension costs are expected to be similar to 2011 as I mentioned earlier.
Interest expense is expected to decrease approximately $20 million in 2012 as a result of the refinancing activities that we completed in 2011 and there's no expectation for interest rate movement.
Our 2011 effective tax rate should increase to more normal levels and be approximately 25%.
Regarding the impact of foreign currency translation given the unfavorable exchange rate movement over the past few months we expect that currencies will be a moderate headwind to U.S.
dollar earnings in 2012.
For example if average 2012 exchange rates for the euro the Brazilian real and the Australian dollar remain consistent with the year end levels we would expect an approximate $45 million unfavorable year-over-year impact on segment operating profit in 2012 but our foreign debt will probably give us a $5 million tailwind on the interest line.
Underlying free cash flow.
As Al said we will begin to report an expanded free cash flow metric in 2012.
Underlying free cash flow.
We define this metric as a traditional free cash flow which is cash flow provided by operating activities less capital spending.
Then we add back to this number the capital spending in China for a replacement of capacity lost due to land sales.
As Al said in his comments we are selling the land use rights for several of our older facilities in China which are in urban areas.
The proceeds from these sales should allow these replacement projects to have little or no impact on our net debt levels.
Therefore excluding approximately $50 million of China replacement CapEx our capital spending outlook is $350 million for 2012.
Next is working capital.
Despite a likely increase in accounts receivable this year due to higher pricing we plan to hold overall working capital flat with 2011 levels by using temporary downtime for inventory control.
Of course if we see improved shipment levels as the year progresses we may need to build working capital levels to service this incremental business.
Restructuring payments are expected to be at least $50 million in 2012.
But our final plans around restructuring could change based on business conditions in Europe.
Expected pension contributions and asbestos payments are also provided on Chart 10.
Overall based on our current expectation underlying free cash flow should be approximately $250 million in 2012.
Now looking at the first quarter arrows you see that they are directionally the same as the full year.
However first quarter price increases will likely to be more moderate than in the later quarters as contracts get reset gradually as the year progresses.
Globally sales volumes are expected to be flat in the first quarter.
We expect currency to be a moderate headwind in the quarter.
Other manufacturing and delivery costs will be higher and we expect lower production levels in Europe as they manage supply and demand with temporary downtime.
And in South America we expect lower year-over-year segment operating profit in the first quarter due to furnace rebuilds and project activity during this seasonally slower period.
And similar to 2011 we expect our South American results to improve as the year progresses.
In conclusion as we announced yesterday this will be my last year of earnings call with O-I.
I will be turning 65 in June and will be retiring in mid-2012 after 38 years of service to the company and most recently 7 years as CFO.
I've been anticipating and preparing for this event for some time.
With my successor Steve Bramlage we will ensure a smooth transition in the upcoming quarters.
I have worked closely with Steve since he joined the company 7 years ago as Vice President and Treasurer.
He has had a number of significant financial and operational positions within O-I most recently our President of the Asia Pacific region.
This experience base will serve him very well as our next CFO.
I would like to thank all of my friends and colleagues at the company and in the investor community for making my years at O-I both enjoyable and fulfilling.
And now I'll turn the call back to Al.
Thanks Ed.
Although our 2011 results were not up to our expectations or even our capabilities I am pleased with the progress we made in the second half of the year.
We refocused on our operations and expect better performance in 2012.
We are also optimistic that we will improve profitability in 2012 because higher pricing should exceed cost inflation this year and allow for some margin repair.
Overall our business fundamentals were good but continued uncertainty in the European financial markets requires a cautious outlook on this important region.
As we have demonstrated in uncertain times in the past we are prepared to be flexible and manage our capacity to preserve cash generation.
Our continued focus on operational excellence should also yield higher free cash flow this year.
Our priorities for this cash will continue to be to lower our leverage ratio fund our Australian and European restructuring and proceed with an expansion in our growing business in Brazil.
Well before I open up the line for your questions I'd like to take a minute to thank Ed for his contributions to O-I and to my global leadership team.
He has been instrumental in strengthening the financial flexibility of our company in his 7 years as CFO.
And beyond that he has made enormous contributions to O-I in the 38 years he has worked here.
Ed has been a great leader and has done an excellent job of preparing Steve for his new role.
His profound knowledge and deep experience with the company has been invaluable throughout our transformation in recent years.
Thank you Ed for your contribution and for all you've done for O-I and all that you're still going to do.
We have known for quite some time now that Steve will take this role.
He has obtained valuable operations experience in Asia Pacific over the last 2 years and we look forward to welcoming him back to Perrysburg.
And we're confident that he will help us continue on the path to strong financial flexibility.
Thank you and now I will ask Angela to open up the lines for your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question is from the line of Phil Gresh with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Ed best of luck on the retirement.
I certainly wish I was retiring after one more earnings season as well.
So just a couple of questions on the guidance.
The first one is with the first quarter.
Do you expect -- with the pricing being more moderate does that mean price cost is actually negative in the first quarter? And so I guess given the other moving pieces it sounds like maybe earnings will be kind of more flat to down is that fair? I think what you have to keep in mind is that as we go into the first quarter we still have cost structures in our inventory from last year so you will not immediately see the inflation.
And inflation typically works its way gradually throughout the course of the year.
Research Division</strong> Okay so I mean is there any -- can you give any more color as to whether it will be up or down in terms of earnings? We would expect our margins to improve.
The question really is going to be what is the volume impact going to be.
As we said we're still negotiating about 25% of our pricing volumes with customers in Europe which I hope will conclude within the next 2 weeks and then we'll have a much clearer picture.
So it's really a trade-off between volume and thereby production utilization as well as actual price increases that will determine the margin.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just on the operating expense or I guess maybe it's the manufacturing and delivery cost I should say.
For the full year I understand the underproduction you're going to do.
But there were some other items last year.
Obviously the North American issues the floods you had the facility closures so there should be some benefits there.
So I guess I was expecting to see a little bit more benefit from those things in the guidance for this year.
So is that factored in there somewhere or can you give a little color around that? Yes let me try to answer that.
We're not expecting the returns of the $20 million penalty that impacted North America in the second quarter.
With regard to Australia I think we should see some fixed cost savings after the furnace closings.
But there will be offsetting costs to reorient the existing business.
And business conditions as we mentioned in our comments remain fluid in Australia at this point in time.
We do not yet know exactly on how the decrease and bottled wine production in Australia will continue to develop.
So you will not necessarily see a full compensation for the unusual events that we had in the first quarter of last year.
With regard to operating expenses our operating expenses in the line where you see that primarily comprise of salaries and other SG&amp;A costs within the regions.
They do not really contain manufacturing or operation costs in the plants.
And our recent cost-cutting measures will drive some of our savings in 2012 I think to the extent of about $10 million $50 million or so.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just before I turn over can you give me what the D&amp;A is expected to be in 2012 is that lower? It's $425 million.
And your next question is from Mark Wilde with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Al or Ed I wondered if you could put a little more kind of color on what you're expecting in price just going from region to region.
I'm particularly wondering here in North America.
Will price actually go down as it kind of reflects lower natural gas costs? No we would see that the natural gas prices already in the course of last year were trending downward so I don't see a big drop off in natural price going into next year.
And as you know in North America it was really one of the first regions where we had almost complete pass-through provision so it's really not going to impact our margins.
And with regard to the other components though that we were not recovering last year which were related to labor costs which were related to asbestos costs -- I'm sorry to soda ash costs they are now being passed through to the contract.
So I would expect a price movement in North America around 3.5% to 4%.
In Latin America inflation especially projected inflation for this coming year tends to be a bit higher than last year because many of the countries in Latin America have really increased their energy cost contracts significantly.
So our price increase movement in Latin America was from -- in between I would say about 6% to 8%.
In Europe I would expect to come in around between 5% and 6% in actuality.
But there have been some significant differences in Europe based on a regional basis because inflation rates tend to vary significantly within the European countries and so our range of increases from our customers and that's really what matters to our customers because it's really an individual negotiation have been in the double digits to mid-single digits range.
So there have been significant variations in the increases that we needed and we've been very successful.
And then in Asia Pacific our pricing is mainly going to come from China.
And since China is fairly small in volume in the region it's not yet really going to move the needle significantly.
I would say Asia Pacific maybe 2% or 3%.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then if I could this is to follow on Al.
Just when we think about the negotiations that are still taking place over in Europe can you just help us understand how that volume could change for you as you move through the year depending on whether you hold on to business or you don't hold on to business? And also is there a lot of slack because I talked with one of your other competitors and it didn't sound like they really had much incremental capacity.
So I'm just curious about how much ability there is for volume to move around in Europe right now from a capacity standpoint.
Okay.
Well I mean as we said in our statement about 75% of our contracts have been negotiated and we have achieved our targeted level.
So that would reflect that level of confidence.
So the issue in the remaining part of the market in the 25% that's not yet settled you're really talking about very small customers.
Those are the customers that have the greatest opportunity to place their 200 000 bottles or 500 000 bottles easily with another competitor and even many of the small competitors that we have in Europe.
And that's where we still have the greatest uncertainty because there the customer base is still looking around for some slots that they can find where they can place their volumes and not willing yet to make a commitment with us.
Now depending on how successful some of those customers are going to be and as that may impact our overall volume expectations.
That's really what we're talking about at this point in time.
And we already have made an adjustment in our capacity as we said in our statement by shutting down a furnace in Spain which will really help us to absorb some of the fixed cost that basically we might not see as volume in this coming year.
And then of course the big issue surrounding all of this is the macro uncertainty.
That's a big driver at this point as well.
I would say in all the European papers that I read on a regular basis I don't see any positive comments at this point in time.
And so we've got to make sure that we keep in mind this uncertainty.
And if the year progresses better then we expect at this point in time we'll be happy to adjust our outlook.
Research Division</strong> All right.
Would you say Al at this point that volume in Europe has held up better or worse than you would have expected given those newspapers? Yes that's clearly the reflection of our sales volume.
It is not a reflection of the headline.
And your next question is from Al Kabili with Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> All right.
I guess Al a question on strategy around hedging on energy in Europe.
Could you talk about what you're hedged right now in the energy this year? And if I remember right it's about 50% you typically do.
And have you thought about changing that? Yes and as you know hedging requires some intense thought processes.
And we are at this point in time approximately 60% hedged.
Our long-term contracts secured.
We will most probably increase that number because we now have clarity about our price structures that we have.
So it only makes sense to secure that position as we go forward.
Overall on a global scale I would say we're -- about 70% of our energy costs are either covered by fixed price contracts with very often government controlled entities either -- or are hedged or are covered by pass-through provisions.
So 70% of the volatility of the energy is really at this point in time secured by offsetting contracts or provisions.
Research Division</strong> Okay and in terms of taking up the 50% here is that up meaningfully like 75% 80%? Can you kind of bracket what we should be thinking about as you conclude these negotiations? What 50% are you referring to? Research Division</strong> The energy hedges I'm sorry.
In terms of you mentioned that you're looking -- look to take that up as you've got clarity is there something you can help us bracket that in terms of how high you're looking to take that? So what the price level is going to be.
I would say underlying all of this is clearly the uncertainty with regard to the closure of the Strait of Hormuz which may have a dramatic impact especially on European prices.
Also costs for liquid natural gas is having a significant impact on Europe.
So I would say given the significant uncertainty that we're facing and the success that we're seeing in our pricing strategy we most probably would go up to cover about 1/2 of the stuff that's not covered at this point in time.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
I guess with what's going on in Australia is there -- help us with the -- if you have a view of what your long-term margin target would be in the Asia Pacific region.
I think it's too early to really look at this and come to a conclusive statement that we can take to the bank.
It's quite obvious that with the dramatic increase in the Australian currency we see a huge impact on a lot of manufacturing areas in Australia.
For instance you can at this point in time buy premium beer imported beer from Europe or from Mexico cheaper than you can buy standard local beer in Australia.
And the channels to market are clearly using that and putting a lot of pressure on the brewers which may have an impact on volume and continue to impact on volume as we go forward.
On top of that we are going to see some negotiations for contracts which are expiring I believe in 2013 and 2015 over the next year or so.
And that will also give us greater visibility of what we are going to see with regard to volume requirements as we go forward.
We are clearly seeing a much greater activity with regard to growth in Southeast Asia as well as in China than in Australia and New Zealand.
So I would say overall our margins as the volumes in those other countries where margins tend to be lower will increase the overall margins for Asia Pacific will most probably compact further than what we are seeing so far.
Okay we have some time constraints so we'll need to move on to Phil Ng from Jefferies.
[Operator Instructions] Thanks.
Phil? And your next question is from the line of Philip Ng.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Congrats on the retirement.
Ed it's been a pleasure working with you.
Just had a quick question it sounds like you're cautious about the demand picture but I just want to get a sense of how this industry is set up.
I know the last time when you guys raised price pretty aggressively the inventory might not have been as lean and supply wasn't as tight.
I just want to get some color around that.
Yes I think the main difference is that when we went into this last time there was considerable and long-term overcapacity still in the marketplace.
From our own activities during that phase I think we closed about 20 to 25 furnaces.
Many of our competitors also reduced capacity.
And certainly as we are coming out of this economic recession we're reaching the balance point between supply and demand much faster.
So I think the base underlying conditions of supply and demand are quite different from what we saw in 2007 and that gives us confidence and as we are also seeing in the success of some of our pricing actions that the market is much more balanced than it was at that point in time.
We will certainly expect to see that continued productivity improvements not only with us but also with our competitors.
We'll continue to add output capabilities but that should be more in line with the overall market growth that we expect to see in a more traditional market.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And correct me if I'm wrong historically smaller customers you've been able to get a little more pricing in the past.
Is that fair or this is more of a commodity customer you're still trying to lock up? No but the point is the competitive level.
If the market is not in balance it's just much greater at that smaller customer because the ability of suppliers to cover large mega beer customers or large volume buyers is much more restricted.
So we tend to typically have much more flexibility and variability in that part of the customer base but that's ultimately -- the results ultimately are going to be driven by overall supply and demand.
And that's -- at this point in time we're going to have to see and we will have the answer most probably in the next couple of weeks whether we really are going to see an impact there or whether there's just still a lot of stuff in flux and people just are not willing to make any commitments yet.
And your next question is from the line of George Staphos with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> My call -- and Steve congratulations.
And Ed looking forward to working with you next couple of quarters.
Anyway thanks for all your help over the years.
My question is around cash flow and capital allocation.
On the one hand you're in some regions where there's still some growth clearly South America clearly Southeast Asia.
But you have some other regions like Europe like North American that are mature or declining to some degree.
You outlined for this coming year roughly about $50 million of restructuring cash that you'll lay out perhaps a bit more.
Without being able to identify specifically which plants or regions for the future Al what do you think the cumulative amount of restructuring cash might look like if we look at say 3 years as we think about what your normalized free cash flow should be? Once again it's very difficult to say because we need to know what ultimately the demand picture is going to look like and particularly with regard to Australia and Europe.
But if you look back over what we have done over the last couple of years it may perhaps lead to an average of around $70 million or so in the foreseeable future.
But the way we approach this George is we're also looking then at facilities that would otherwise require cash for rebuild or refurbishing so there is going to be a trade-off most probably as well in the capital requirement that we would normally have for maintenance.
So it's not really just one level that you have to look at.
There are a variety of factors that may impact in the cash flow.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And Al these weren't necessarily on your watch they weren't.
But when you look at where the big charges were even in this quarter in Australia and Spain these are areas where O-I a decade ago made some large acquisitions BTR AVIR.
Does that suggest that for the future O-I will probably less likely to do acquisitions and rather where it does apply capital for growth do it more organically.
Well George I think it's very difficult to reconstruct what people were thinking and what the decision levers were 15 years and 20 years ago.
But clearly Australia has done very well for us over many years with an expanding wine market with an expanding beer market expanding economies.
We also at the time we're still buying plastic businesses which were part of the acquisitions so certainly things have changed dramatically.
And I would say given the increase in the value of the currency in Australia as well as the specific reaction of markets our customers' markets to this that of course is very difficult to foresee and we'll just have to make sure that we adjust appropriately and quickly enough to those changing conditions.
And I would look at our Spain activity much more as a point issue given the location of that facility.
I think overall the acquisitions that we made with regard to BSN and AVIR in a holistic picture were very successful for us.
And your next question is from Chris Manuel with Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just a quick question for Ed.
Really what I want to try to turn around and I know this is very much a moving target is when we look at Europe if I go back and sort of imply given the ranges for volume that you gave us in other regions of the world suggesting that you're kind of thinking Europe might be down low single digits over the whole year.
And what I'm trying to balance is during the last recession European volumes declined double-digit levels.
I think they were down about 9% 10% 2008; 12% 13% 2009.
Does it feel like that in some ways that potential -- we have a potential for a pretty big downdraft from a recession-oriented component there? I do appreciate the markets are much tighter.
But I just wanted to get a feel between that and the pre-buy what you think the potential for downside could be in Europe on a volume perspective.
Okay.
Well let me first address the issue of pre-buy.
When I look at Europe of the 5% growth that we saw in the quarter we may perhaps have seen 1 percentage point of that has really been pre-buy so it's really not that dramatic a component of what we saw.
Supply demand is clearly in a different place than it was 3 or 4 years ago.
And also I would say one of the effects that you saw in that time period that you referred to was that the pipelines from European products that were identified with a location like scotch or champagne or Bordeaux are very long into the rest of the world and we were pretty full.
We certainly have not seen that pipeline filled up that much over the last couple of years.
So I would expect a volume impact to be relatively mild with regards to -- or in comparison to what we saw a couple of years ago.
And your next question is from Alton Stump with Longbow Research.
I guess just quickly on the pricing front in Europe I think you mentioned Al that there's a pretty wide range.
And if you confer that there may be potentially be some upside when all is said and done to the 5% to 6% range? Or did I not read those comments correctly? No I said the price is likely to be in that 5% to 6% range and its overall impact.
As I said earlier we have had significant variation customer from customer what the price correction needed to be.
And even in those cases where we had double-digit negotiations we have been successful which gives me some confidence that really we're on  good path and that we will be able to drive those increases throughout the year.
I would expect though that I will certainly be able to talk with an even greater level of conviction at the end of the first quarter after we have everything wrapped up.
Okay great.
And then just one quick follow-up on Europe.
On the demand front I think you also mentioned that you're not necessarily actually seeing any at this point underlying demand softness but it's just more speculation with the economy being weak.
Is that true that you haven't actually seen this demand? Yes let me talk about where the uncertainty comes from.
I mean we all are basically influenced by what we read in the newspaper what we hear in the news.
And so what is happening is with all the negative news it's very difficult for leaders of companies and it doesn't matter whether it's beverage or food companies or basically construction companies to really sound very confident and optimistic going forward.
So there is a general feeling of tentativeness and people are just not willing to make commitments to launch big programs or new product introductions with the same level of speed and conviction that they have in the past.
And then of course eventually that trades down into the organization.
However that is quite independent from what actually the pull of the market is for consumables.
And what we're seeing at this point in time the pull for consumables in the market is pretty solid.
Angela we're running close to the end of the hour so we have time for only one more question.
And I'll apologize that we couldn't get everyone on the call today.
And your last question for today is Alex Ovshey with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Guys Ed congrats on the retirement and best wishes.
Question on Europe what is the level of conviction that you have that you can in fact maintain the pricing even the pricing that's been already contractually negotiated in Europe if you see a material weakness in the volume trend into the year if the economy were to weaken there significantly? As we have experienced in the past typically the commitment in Europe is more strongly from the supplier side than from the customer side to any contractual obligation and that's very often also supported by the courts.
So I would say we're going to see a significant imbalance in supply and demand sometime in the course of this year.
That's clearly going to put pressure on pricing.
Now how quickly that is then going to manifest itself in volume loss is a little bit dependent because again I would expect that most probably we would see the first impacts in the smaller accounts that have the ability to quickly fill their needs from another supplier and then we would have still time to react as we go into next year to position ourselves and to react to those changing market conditions.
Thank you everyone.
That concludes our full year and fourth quarter earnings conference call.
Please note that our first quarter 2012 conference call is currently scheduled for Thursday April 25 2012 at 8:30 am Eastern Time.
We appreciate your interest in O-I.
Again thank you and don't forget to choose glass.
This does conclude today's fourth quarter and full year 2011 earnings call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Angela and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the O-I First Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the call over to Mr.
Jason Bissell Director of Investor Relations.
You may begin now.
Thank you Angela.
Good morning and welcome everyone to O-I's First Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
I am joined today by Al Stroucken our Chairman and CEO; Ed White our Chief Financial Officer; and several other members of our senior management team.
Today we will discuss key business development review our financial results for the first quarter and discuss future trends affecting our business in 2012.
Following our prepared remarks we'll host a question-and-answer session.
Presentation materials for this earnings call are also being simulcast from the company's new website at o-i.com.
Please review the Safe Harbor comments and disclosure of our use of non-GAAP financial measures included in those materials.
Unless otherwise noted the financial results we are presenting today relate to adjusted net earnings which exclude certain items that management considers not representative of ongoing operations.
And reconciliation of GAAP to non-GAAP earnings can be found in our earnings press release and in the appendix to this presentation.
I'll now turn the call over to Al who will start on Chart 2.
Thank you Jason and good morning.
Our adjusted net earnings were $0.73 per share in the first quarter of 2012 compared to $0.53 last year.
As we announced in the first quarter update 2 weeks ago our manufacturing operations performed very well this quarter.
Cost control measures implemented last year and high operating rates in most regions resulted in very good performance as we enter the stronger upcoming shipping season.
We also benefited in the first quarter this year from the nonrecurrence of significant flooding in Australia that impacted prior year results.
Global sales volumes vary by region.
Shipments were flat in Europe up slightly in South America and up a little bit more in North America however Asia Pacific sales volumes were down compared to the prior year quarter.
This was largely driven by lower shipment levels in China as a result of several furnace rebuilds and the residual impact from the 2010 closure of our Guangzhou facility.
Overall global volumes were down almost 2% but excluding the impact of China our volumes would have been flat in the first quarter.
While our selling prices were up and covered this year's inflation their average impact was somewhat muted in the first quarter because increases went into effect at different times over the course of the first 3 months.
Looking to the second quarter we expect that stronger year-over-year financial results will be led by improved operating performance in North America.
We expect global shipments will again be slightly down on a year-over-year basis primarily from lower volumes in Europe and Asia Pacific.
Our price negotiations are now largely complete for 2012 so we should see a stronger price inflation spread.
Moving to the remainder of the year our visibility of demand trends in the second half remains limited especially in Europe.
As a result at this time we expect the financial results of the second half of 2012 to track in line with the second half of 2011 which includes the improvements achieved in the back half of last year.
Let me review our operating performance beginning with Chart 3.
Here we show the first quarter segment operating profit for each of our 4 regions.
Total operating profit was $260 million in the first quarter up from $208 million last year.
As you can see on the chart 3 regions were well ahead of the prior year.
Our European operating profit was $108 million up $32 million from the first quarter of 2011.
The primary driver of improved results in Europe was good manufacturing performance of the plants which operated at higher production rates in prior year and this helped us build inventory to support the seasonality for the wine beer and food markets.
In addition to strong operations profit in the region benefited from higher prices that covered inflation in the quarter and also allowed for the recovery of some of the margin erosion that we experienced last year.
Overall price and manufacturing performance were the key factors that drove improvement while shipment levels for the quarter were flat compared to the first quarter 2011.
Year-over-year sales volumes varied considerably by country end market and by month through the quarter.
The quarter started out strong likely due to customer purchases in advance of price increases but volumes weakened as the quarter progressed and then ended again on a somewhat stronger note.
Northern Europe showed higher volumes while southern Europe was down.
The beer market was ahead of prior year while the wine and champagne markets were not.
Most of our annual customer negotiations in Europe are now complete and we saw a decline in wine volumes in the first quarter partially due to our pricing strategy and partially to challenging economic conditions in some countries.
For example  volumes were down overall in Spain as we exited some low-margin beer business and closed a furnace at the end of 2011.
In addition the weak local economy in Spain created higher competitive pressures in the wine sector.
Although generally lower wine volumes are expected in Europe for the year it is difficult at this time to determine the amount of the decline since many of our customers are small producers who typically vary their order patterns during the off-season but become more dependent on availability of supply as the season progresses.
Overall clarity for our sales projections across all end uses remains limited and there's a challenge for our demand and capacity plan.
Nevertheless we remain fully committed to our pricing strategy to repair our margins and we are prepared to adjust our capacity to align our operations to the customer needs.
We recently idled a furnace in Europe temporarily to better match our production levels with demand and we will continue to monitor volume trends in the region to determine if additional capacity actions are necessary.
In North America operating profit was $78 million up from $63 million in the prior year.
Year-over-year shipments in this region were up 1.5% in the first quarter of 2012 with most end-use categories higher.
We believe this is partially attributable to a mild winter season.
Based on the actions we have taken to improve operating performance in this region inventory levels are up about 25% over the first quarter 2011.
This will help meet expected higher shipment levels in the second quarter due to the approaching summer.
And finally we successfully deployed SAP in this region in early February and we were very pleased with the way the business and the implementation team worked so well together.
Moving to the Asia Pacific region operating profit was $36 million up from $24 million in the first quarter of 2011.
This is largely due to the nonrecurrence of a flood that impacted our facility in Brisbane Australia last year.
Now let me give you some color on the 2 largest markets in this region.
Australian volumes were down by a mid-single-digit percentage from the prior year due to reductions of in-country bottling by wine producers.
Beer volumes were also down in the quarter as high interest and savings rates continued to negatively impact consumer spending.
At the end of March we closed a second furnace in Australia to further lower our cost and better match capacity with demand.
In China year-over-year shipments were down more than 25% in the first quarter largely due to 2 factors.
First in southern China last year we were still selling product out of inventory from our Guangzhou facility after we ceased operations there and we did not have the benefit of those sales this year.
As I mentioned on our last earnings call we have started to replace some of the lost capacity from the Guangzhou closure by building a new furnace at a nearby facility.
This new furnace should start up by the end of the third quarter.
The second factor that impacted sales this quarter was operational in nature.
We had several furnace rebuilds in the seasonally slower first quarter which limited our ability to supply the spot market in China.
And finally to our South American region.
Operating profit was $38 million down from $45 million in the prior year's first quarter.
This was a result of scheduled furnace rebuilds higher repairs and maintenance activity and a onetime adjustment to employee benefit costs in the region.
Total shipments were up slightly but keep in mind that we are currently supporting growth in Brazil through imports.
To reduce the high freight costs associated with these imports we are in the process of constructing a new furnace in southern Brazil and we expect it to be operational in the fourth quarter.
Overall we are encouraged by our first quarter performance and the benefits that we're seeing from our improved execution and cost control program.
Looking to the second quarter we expect similar benefits particularly due to the significant improvement in our North American operations year-over-year.
And I will now turn the call over to Ed.
Thanks Al.
Let's begin our financial review with the first quarter reconciliations for sales operating profit and EPS on Chart 4.
First quarter 2012 segment sales were $1.7 billion.
Price and mix in the quarter was up $63 million from the prior year.
Because pricing actions progressed through the first 3 months we exit the first quarter with price mix up more than 4%.
As in prior quarters cost pass-through provisions had a small impact on sales.
These provisions are in certain customer contracts and are principally for energy cost movement.
Lower sales volume decreased the top line by $4 million.
Finally currency translation decreased our top line by $22 million in the quarter primarily due to a weaker euro and also some effect from a weaker Brazilian real.
Moving over to segment operating profit.
The first quarter was $260 million up $52 million from the same period last year.
Globally price mix improvement stayed ahead of inflation by $13 million this quarter.
Although lower volumes slightly impacted the top line this had little to no impact on segment profit as a result of favorable regional mix.
Manufacturing delivery costs were $31 million lower and were the main drivers of higher segment profit this quarter.
The primary factors for this improvement were first increased production levels which resulted in higher fixed cost absorption cost savings from productivity and footprint initiatives.
This also contributed to better manufacturing results.
And as Al mentioned the nonrecurrence of approximately $9 million of cost penalties associated with flooding in Australia last year.
Finally we had a $6 million year-over-year benefit in the first quarter as a result of higher inventory values due to standard cost inventory changes.
These standard cost provisions occur in the first quarter every year but were somewhat larger this year primarily due to changes in normal capacity levels in Europe.
Moving to operating and other costs.
They were $13 million lower than prior year as a result of global cost reductions and the timing of SAP-related project costs.
The major category on this line is SG&amp;A cost at the regional level.
Finishing with the EPS reconciliation.
Our adjusted net income was $0.73 per share in the quarter compared to $0.53 in the prior year quarter.
Operating profit was up $0.24 from the prior year while nonoperational items were unfavorable by $0.04.
The key elements were corporate and retained costs which were higher because of reduced earnings from lower machine and equipment sales as well as higher incentive compensation costs.
The tax rate for the first quarter was higher than prior year based on our current expectations of our regional earnings mix.
We continue to believe our full year effective tax rate will range between 24% and 26%.
Offsetting some of this we had net interest expense which was lower due to redemptions of higher cost debt in mid 2011.
Finally there were no items in this quarter that management considers not representative of ongoing operations.
Therefore Note 1 on the earnings release only shows a prior year item.
Let's move to Chart 5 for more detail on our balance sheet and free cash flow.
On March 31 2012 cash was $299 million and total debt was $4.1 billion.
So net debt was $3.8 billion a decrease of more than $100 million from the first quarter of last year.
Our net debt-to-EBITDA ratio was about 3x at the end of the first quarter consistent with the prior year quarter.
Shifting to cash flow.
As we've discussed in the past seasonality in our business usually results in the use of cash in the first half of the calendar year followed by a strong source of cash in the back half.
The first quarter was a $164 million use of underlying free cash flow similar to the prior year use of cash.
Higher earnings in the first quarter this year were offset by larger working capital use.
Finally on the right-hand side of the chart you see our capital allocation priorities for 2012.
On Chart 6 we present our business outlook for the second quarter including operating profit by segment non-operational costs and overall adjusted earnings.
Starting with Europe.
Our second quarter segment profit should closely approximate the prior year.
With the variability and shipment patterns that we have seen to date it's difficult to project our overall sales volume in the next quarter.
However our current expectation is that volumes will be down low single digits from the prior year.
We expect the benefit of price increases to cover inflation by a greater amount than in the first quarter of 2012.
This should offset most if not all of the impact from lower sales and lower production volumes.
Lastly at current exchange rates foreign currency looks to be a year-over-year headwind in the second quarter for Europe.
In North America we expect operating profit to be up considerably versus the prior year which reflects the step we have taken to avoid supply chain inefficiencies experienced in the second quarter last year.
We have replenished our inventory levels and are well positioned to meet stronger seasonal demand in the second quarter.
We also expect year-over-year volumes to be up to low single digits.
Since the second quarter of last year we've reduced cost at both the factory and SG&amp;A level and this should also improve our improvement in the upcoming quarter.
In Asia Pacific we also expect operating profit to be up over the prior year second quarter but only modestly.
In Australia we do not yet see a pickup in the beer end-use and we expect some additional shift from bottled wines to bulk shipments.
However we're seeing the benefits of our Australian footprint initiative and cost savings measures.
Further later in the second quarter the second quarter we plan to permanently close a machine line at one of our facilities to better match demand expectations.
In South America second quarter segment profit should approximate the strong prior year level.
Sales volumes in the second quarter are expected to be up by low single-digits but higher cost to import inventory to support Brazilian growth will continue to temper margin.
We also have expenses associated with capital spending for the new furnace we are constructing in Brazil.
Currency also appears to be a headwind for the entire region in the second quarter.
Overall we're pleased with our progress in South America and see the investments we are making today positioning us for a significant year-over-year improvement in the back half of this year.
Turning to non-operational items.
We expect our second quarter corporate costs and effective tax rate to both be higher than prior year's second quarter levels but should approximate first quarter 2012.
So overall we expect the second quarter adjusted earnings to exceed the prior year.
Before concluding let me also provide some commentary on our expected results with the back half of 2012.
As Al mentioned at this time we expect our second half results to be in line with prior year second half results.
This may appear puzzling to some but let me share some of the important factors that lead to this early outlook.
First as you may recall to improve our operating performance in the second half of last year we took several key actions which included boosting production and inventory levels in North America.
In fact we produced almost 150 000 tons more than normal to restore our North American supply chain last year.
Next implementing price surcharges in Europe in the second half of last year and instituting broad-based cost-cutting initiatives.
So these activities improved our performance in the second half of 2011 and we are enjoying these in the first half of this year.
They are now built into our base when we enter the second half of 2012.
So we will face higher comps while at the same time we have limited clarity into European volumes.
Now I will turn it back to Al for closing remarks on Chart 7.
Thanks Ed.
Overall we are encouraged by our start to the year.
Our progress has been driven by improved operational performance and initiatives and our pricing strategy is creating value and providing margin repair.
Looking to the balance of 2012 we are optimistic that we will continue to see strong performance from operational excellence initiatives that are well within our control.
From a commercial standpoint sales demand trends look good in the Americas yet challenges still exist in certain areas of Europe and Asia Pacific.
Importantly we are prepared to manage our global manufacturing footprint to ensure it's aligned with varying demand levels.
We remain committed to generating higher levels of cash and we now expect our underlying free cash flow not to be below $250 million for this year.
Our priorities for capital allocation this year are the same as we shared with you on our last earnings call continued progress to lower our debt to leverage ratio restructuring and capacity adjustments in some regions and construction of new furnaces in faster growing areas.
Thank you and now I will ask Angela to open up the lines for your questions.
[Operator Instructions] And your first question is from George Staphos with Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> I guess the first question I had was on volume in the outlook.
Al Ed as you look at the outlook for the second half we appreciate the details you gave us I realize it's a pretty uncertain environment right now.
If you took the current volume run rate realizing that there are a number of months yet to go and that you have uncertainty would you still be at a flat year-on-year comparison in the second half or would you be higher and it's just the uncertainty that we all know about in the market that's making you have your guidance flat year-on-year versus second half? I mean that's pretty simple to answer.
It would certainly be higher because we have gotten a significant contribution from a high run rate in our operations.
But as you know to achieve the cash flow numbers that we have set as a target we need to make adjustments in our operations if the sales are not coming up to the levels that we hope for and that is really the balance that we are trying to strike in our projection at this point in time.
Research Division</strong> Okay I appreciate that.
The other question on volume.
In North America you've had a good start to the year.
You mentioned over the course of the quarter that we just experienced your regions had at different time different paces to their volume trend.
How did North America exit the quarter? How has it performed thus far early in 2Q? North America has basically been solid throughout the quarter.
I mean there are some slight variations from month to month just because of the pace that you have in the months.
But in comparison to the previous year it's been pretty solid and performing at a similar ratio throughout the entire 3 months period.
So there is no discernible variation in trend.
And your next question is from Scott Gaffner with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to dig a little bit deeper on your cautious tone on Europe.
Can you just go in a little bit more depth on why you're a little bit cautious maybe on the end markets and then also by region? Yes if you look at Europe there is a separation of course in economic strength in the region at this point in time between north and south but there's also a difference in the product main product lines.
If you'd go further south you have more wine in your portfolio; if you go further north you have more beer in your portfolio.
Beer is doing generally pretty well at this point in time and of course there are 2 significant events this summer in Europe as well.
One has to do with soccer the other one are the Olympics and that clearly I think gives us a little bit more confidence.
With regard to wine the 2 or 3 main countries in Europe France Italy and Spain 2 of those countries of course are in the limelight with regard to their economic situation and that is impacting domestic consumption.
And that is putting quite a bit of pressure on the marketplace with regard to where are the volumes going to go from that market and that's creating a different dynamic and that makes it a little bit more difficult for us to really become predictive.
Now we know that the wine business typically is a business that has a somewhat higher margin than the beer business and that is an additional component you have to take into consideration when you look at our outlook.
Research Division</strong> And then just as a follow-up on your pricing strategy in Europe how much do you think that would impact your volumes versus the industry? It's very difficult to say at this point in time.
As you saw in Europe our volumes were flat with the previous year in the first quarter so we really haven't seen an impact yet overall.
Now the question is really going to be how is this going to work out in the second quarter? And as I mentioned in my comments especially our small wine customers typically have the greatest flexibility in the off-season to move their volume around because their volume can easily be placed somewhere else in the off-season.
But when you go to the more demand-driven season then suddenly that volume dries up and then we'll see some of those customers coming back and that's really the uncertainty we see at this time.
And your next question is from Ghansham Panjabi with Baird.
Research Division</strong> The -- going back to the inventory build in the first quarter was any of that sort of planned for the European capacity footprint adjustments? Yes of course.
It also gives us greater ability then if we have to make decisions -- to make those decisions rapidly as we go forward because we basically have sufficient capabilities built in to deal with some shifts -- some regional shifts in supply.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And can you just Al just sort of talk about what an appropriate margin target might be for Europe once you're done with the restructuring just given -- assuming that the current operating environment is sort of the status quo for the next couple of years? On a longer-term basis we have always talked of a margin between 16% and 18% EBITDA.
We're trying to achieve Europe at its best rate was I think at 14% or so 2 or 3 years ago.
We would hope that under normalized European conditions eventually we'll get closer to the 15% range because the 16% to 18% of course is an average for our global business.
And your next question is from Chris Manuel with Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> A couple of questions I had.
When you're -- could you talk maybe a little bit about what's happening in Brazil? Where are you shipping the volume in from maybe the amount that you're taking in there and what you feel underlying markets are like? I know you said that you were kind of flat there or up just a little bit but I guess I'm trying to get a sense as to how much you're bringing in how much that impact might be and what the underlying market is doing.
All right.
Let me start with the last point first.
Overall Brazil has gone through a little bit of a coaster ride over the last couple of months.
The government is clearly opening the faucet at this point in time to drive economic activity again and certainly in the projections that we're getting from our customer base that's clearly reflected for the latter part of the year.
Even in the first quarter Brazil was up in volume.
I know that in some other product lines volume was down.
And we were very confident with where we are at this point in time.
And we're also getting more and more comments from our customer base that their preference going forward for new product lines new product introductions is going to be in glass rather than in alternative packaging materials.
Reflection of this growth is also in the impact that we saw in the first quarter because we are continuing to import well over 100 000 tons on an annualized basis from other countries in the region to supply the Brazilian market and that's one of the main reasons that we're building this additional furnace in Rio which should be onstream and producing in the fourth quarter of this year because that really then takes the volume that we've been building up and makes it domestic and therefore of course would give us some decent margin expansion and we will then continue to have additional buffer capacity available for continued growth as we go forward.
So it's really reducing the risk of our investments significantly as we go forward.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And Last question I had was is there a way maybe Ed for you to quantify heading into 2Q what the -- I think last year if memory serves when you talked about profit being up significantly in North America I have a footnote here that it was something in the neighborhood of $25 million range that you had estimated that the manufacturing input or the manufacturing issues were in North America.
Is that about what we would anticipate to reverse? And then the second question along those lines of unusual items last year was is there any lingering flooding impact that -- or things of that nature to help us in Australia? If I can try to take a stab at it and then I'm going to let Ed correct me.
What I recall is that last year we had talked about a $25 million or so impact of the operational inefficiencies and we certainly would not see those this year.
We also do not believe that in the Australian market there was a lasting impact of the flooding in Brisbane that we would be lapping in the second quarter.
We had the full impact of the Brisbane floods last year in the first quarter so there was no additional effect.
What we would see as improvement in the second quarter in Australia is most probably because we hit the brakes last year in the second quarter in our manufacturing output significantly and we're in a much more controlled environment at this point in time.
Ed? In the U.S.
we're also operating at higher efficiencies right now.
Sales are up over prior year so those will all be additive to the $25 million we just talked about.
And your next question is from Adam Josephson with KeyBanc.
Research Division</strong> To what extent was the inventory build-up in the quarter planned and to what extent that it results from demand weakening as the quarter progressed as I think Al spoke of earlier? When I was talking about some weakening we were talking specifically about Europe because it was up and down throughout the quarter.
Overall we clearly went into the year with the intent of using our manufacturing capabilities early because we would typically have a very very strong second quarter because we would have a combination of operational efficiencies and higher sales.
Yet it also sometimes then led to logistics costs that were quite considerable and unforeseen because sometimes our customer base does not have a very good picture about their demand profile either.
So we felt that it's perhaps leading to a more steady process and steady stream of income if we ship some of that production earlier into the year.
We will not keep it for very long so it's not a very huge cash strain for us but it at least allows us to serve the variability that our customers may have in their projections much easier and with much less strain on the system.
To give you a data point our second quarter sales typically are 15% higher than the first quarter as we move into the season.
So building in the first is certainly the support of much higher sales pace in the second.
Research Division</strong> And then one follow-up how did the recent accounting change going from LIFO to average cost in the U.S.
affect results in the quarter? It actually took us down year-over-year about I think was it $0.04 Jason? Yes about $0.04 in North America.
$0.04 to $0.05 I believe.
Research Division</strong> COGS were higher...
And part of that -- also a part of that let me jump in as natural gas goes down that takes your standard costs down.
And I think some people have questioned well gee if natural gas is so low why isn't North America making more? But that's all on the pass-through which is that big line that shows up in our sales reconciliation.
And that also has an impact on the price comparison because of course if we look at our overall global pricing the pass-through in North America of lower natural gas prices reduces the overall price differential between last year and this year.
And your next question is from Phil Gresh with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Just looking at the guidance for 2Q and kind of trying to think about it relative to 1Q if I kind of plug in what you said it sounds like it's kind of flattish quarter-over-quarter.
And so I guess as I think about it you said pricing cost is going to be more positive.
Volume is typically higher second quarter versus first quarter.
Currency it sounds like it's more negative.
Could you just give a little bit more color on that? Is that fair -- that you're saying flattish because it seemed like there's some moving pieces that could imply higher? Well in South America we have the continued project work going on and in Asia Pac they enter their weakest quarter in terms of their own seasonality.
And then in Europe we built the inventory so now you're not going to have quite -- you're not going to be building inventory ahead of sales and we've actually taken a furnace down which is going to carry some unabsorbed fixed cost and then we've already talked about North America in earlier questions.
So there's kind of puts and takes to it which is why we wanted to kind of give this kind of clarity for the second quarter.
And I think I also have to be very clear with the uncertainty that we get from our marketplace.
I would say it would be misplaced to push all these concerns aside and be optimistic.
Research Division</strong> Understood.
Okay and then in terms of the production impact I think you've previously said it'd be about a $40 million negative for the year.
Is that mostly loaded in the third and fourth quarter or do we start seeing that here in the second quarter? Yes it's mostly loaded in the third and fourth.
And your next question is from Debbie Jones with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> I was hoping you guys could talk about the comments you made in Brazil about new product announcements and how your customers are looking at glass versus alternatives.
And I was wondering if you could just talk about other regions and what you're seeing on glass packaging versus alternatives.
Well I would say overall we're encouraged by signs that we're seeing on a broad base throughout the world and even in North America even though it's very early in the stages we see glass strengthening a bit after it has gone through a period of about 3 years where we saw some weakening of glass and that's of course particularly driven by beer in North America because that's the single largest product line.
And typically what we are seeing in the emerging markets which are really the growth driving markets there is a preference for glass packaging because particularly returnable glass packaging allows our customers to hit pricing points earlier in the consumer evolution because a returnable bottle is the lowest-cost packaging alternative available by far compared to any other alternative.
And that's driving quite a bit of the decision points as well because our customers really want to get brand loyalty early in the evolution of the consumer groups that are coming into the middle class and that is a core driver for their considerations.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Are there any markets where you're seeing a shift- away from glass? I think we've seen most of that over the last 20 years.
And even in the last couple of years I think I would say comparing glass aluminum and plastics it's clear that aluminum is outpacing plastic and glass -- plastic is outpacing aluminum and glass.
But between metal and glass I would say glass is certainly performing better over the last 10 years from the statistics that I've seen.
And what we've often said before Debbie is that if an emerging market -- if metal and plastics have a low percent of the mix they will be seeing maybe larger percent growth on a small base where if glass has been the dominant package we're getting good growth in terms of units but the percent will maybe not sound quite as high but it's still there and that's where the intent is.
Yes perhaps for clarification as well because it's an interesting phenomenon that I saw.
We did an analysis for instance of the Brazilian market and we looked at the packaging per transaction and the share of glass per transaction is very high.
So I think over 50% close to 60% of the total packaging per transaction because you have a lot of returnable float in that packaging demand.
So even if you look on the overall consumption rates that we've seen at best glass still occupies on a per consumption base a very important space in the marketplace.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
I was curious Asia Pac where did that come in the quarter versus what you were expecting? And then can you just give us some color or guidance on what type of margin we could see for the remainder of the year? Well Asia Pac as we have said is mainly driven of course by what's happening in Australia and New Zealand.
And I think the trends there are going to continue to show us a weakness because of the conversion of packaged wine and to bulk wine and also the economic situation in Australia is forcing people to go to a higher savings rate so there is less consumption and I think that's going to continue.
China clearly is going to be a continuing growth market as well as Southeast Asia.
So overall I think it's quite obvious to us that Asia Pacific will remain a very strong growth driver for us but it will not come from the markets that we have traditionally been strong in.
Your next question is from Al Kabili with Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Just I; guess question on cost inflation outlook if you could maybe provide us an update of what you see for the full year there based on current input costs.
And then also if you could give us an update on hedging in your energy situation in Europe where you stand there.
Well I think we probably surprised some people at the beginning of the year when we said inflation this year would be north of $200 million.
But you started to watch Brent crude while it's off its highs its average this year is higher than the average for last year.
Natural gas has been coming down and so that looks like deflation but we're coming down the most of the U.S.
and that's on a cost pass-through.
We always have the unionized environment we operate globally and especially in some markets are experiencing much higher inflation than you see in the U.S.
you always get the labor inflation coming through.
So that $200 million range is still there but it's not as strong as we thought it could have been 3 months ago so that's backed off a little bit.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And the hedging in Europe sort of how much have you locked in place on the energy in Europe? I would say at this point in time we're around 60% 65% is hedged.
But there is another component in there which is pass-through that we have contractually committed.
So I would say we're somewhere around 75% or so or higher.
That's in the ballpark there.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then follow-on is just pricing.
I know you didn't get the full benefit of some of the pricing actions in the first quarter.
Can you kind of talk about as we look into 2Q as we think about getting all the benefits of the recent pricing actions what pricing year-on-year could look like 2Q and...
Let me say as Ed mentioned as were exiting the quarter we were on 4% or so.
I think our projection for the year was 5%.
I think that projection on a like-for-like basis is still valid.
Now you may have an impact in North America if natural gas stays below $2.
That may impact the top line but it really doesn't have an impact then on the contribution that we get from.
And with South America becoming a larger part of our regional mix over time being south of the equator you have Asia Pac and South America that has considerable pricing actions that are really in the back half because their seasonal year has kind of started in the July time period.
And your next question is from Tim Thein with Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> Just to actually continue on that last thought on the -- as we look towards the -- as the year progresses in terms of that price cost and just tying that into the comments and the guidance you gave for the second half of the year.
If you -- so call it the $200 million of inflation and use that and as you work towards that 5% kind of number.
Obviously the benefit from pricing increases as the year goes on.
And at the same time you had I think in the third and the fourth quarter of last year you were negative by a $30 million $40 million pace in each of the last 2 quarters.
So presumably that swings pretty nicely in your favor.
And I hear that the concerns about the outlook or just the volume picture in Europe.
But are there any other -- or am I missing something and just in terms of other key elements? I would say Tim that I think we'd talked about a spread improvement of about $150 million or so as we went into the year between inflation and pricing and I think that's still valid at this point in time.
And I think your consideration with regard to the benefit in the second quarter -- in the second half of the year is also logical.
Against that however you have to set the volume reductions that we're seeing in overall production in the second half because we're not having the build-up of the inventory.
And when we look at those numbers they basically wash.
While you get -- while you get such a broad range in our outlook because we feel comfortable on the price cost because we kind of see how that's going but the absorption or unabsorption of fixed cost depending on the volume where the greatest uncertainty sits.
Research Division</strong> Right okay.
But that would imply I mean to offset a call it a $50 million $60 million benefit in price costs compared to where -- an even higher net where you were a year ago that would imply a pretty significant worsening in the volume picture from where we sit today.
Is that fair? It's not in the sales volume that's in the production volume.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just switching gears on the South America.
As you -- can you quantify -- and I don't know if the benefit will be felt in the fourth quarter but just on a quarterly basis as you're not incurring the freight cost related to the...
I think if you look at the last year you'll see a similar version progression and I think you would see something similar this year.
Research Division</strong> In South America in Brazil rather.
Well no overall South America.
I mean if you look at it last year we had some of -- wee feel that some of the same questions in the first quarter of last year and we stuck to our -- what was it 20% or so EBITDA we were projecting for the remainder -- for the full year.
And I think as that played out last year through the quarters you will see something similar in the course of this year.
When the new furnace is starting up we're taking Rio from 2 furnaces to 3.
When that third furnace starts up in Rio in the fourth quarter I think you'll see a very strong prior year for the South American team.
And your next question is from Philip Ng with Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> You guys flagged out Europe where you guys kind of overbuilt on the inventory into the quarter and for Q1.
How much of a lift was it? With regard to? Inc.
Research Division</strong> The inventory build for Europe because it sounds like it's going to reverse itself.
I don't know off the top of my head what it was for Europe but I think clearly in the overall results that we have we got a significant benefit.
And Ed perhaps you know what the number was specifically but I don't recall offhand.
Well Europe picked up about $20 million of EBIT from an inventory build.
But still I guess we don't use the word that we overbuilt.
What we're trying to do is we're trying to prepare for a strong second quarter.
And if it doesn't all get depleted we've got the third quarter to let it go through.
So what we -- we always feel building in the first quarter we learned a little bit from last year right? Inc.
Research Division</strong> Sure.
We worked -- we wanted to be in a good position this year.
Yes.
And then coming back to a question that was asked earlier it doesn't make any sense to run your inventories very lean if you're contemplating potentially making adjustments in your footprint because where you're going to get the volume to cover your customers during that transition during that change.
So that also requires some adding of capabilities.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Got you that makes sense.
And just switching gears a little bit in North America.
It didn't sound like inventory was higher than normal.
One is that fair and should we still assume that the margins in North America should pick up sequentially because it sounds like you're pretty constructive on demand in North America? I believe I mentioned in my comments that our inventory in North America was 25% higher than last year so it's a considerable shift we had from last year.
Well the sequential margin improvement you certainly are going to see it in the second quarter and you're going to see it for the full year.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay and then just lastly if I remember correctly coming out of the recession and you guys have obviously done a lot of rightsizing the footprint in North America.
Your incrementals were quite high.
Can you remind me how high are they if volumes continue to improve? Incremental margins? Inc.
Research Division</strong> Yes North America I thought it was in the 40% 50% range.
Typically I've said depending on the plant and the location and where they were operating it would be 40% to 60%.
And we like to guide to the 40% because I think there's a lot of things that can happen.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And is it fair to say that you guys are -- you guys have probably the most spare capacity because you lost some business to the AB contract a few years back? So if beer does come back you guys are probably going to see a big lift...
Philip we can't have it both ways.
We can't -- when we walked away from some AB business take out capacity and say we have a lot of excess capacity we're trying to really be balanced there.
I would say Phil if the beer demand of the mega brands were to increase by 1% or 2% the market would be extremely tight overall and in some cases we're already seeing some signals of that.
And the other part that I want to come back to with regard to the incremental margin that creates of course some of the uncertainty that we have in our forecasting because at the edge that 1% goes either way with this significant contribution and that makes it much more difficult for us to be predictive on our EBIT than perhaps our competitors in the metal and in the plastic end that are really converters where most of the cost is not a fixed cost and it's basically fairly easily adjustable either in labor by reducing shifts or by using less raw materials which is a significant component of the cost structure.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And then on the decrementals in Europe as things do soften? Well that's really why we're looking then at taking capacity out.
That's really the way...
And your next question is from Alex Ovshey with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Can you aggregate for us some of the furnace closures that you've done over the last 12 months and expect to do for the balance of 2012 and how we should think that will impact the productivity this year? I would say we've had 2 closures last year.
We did a closure in Australia and we had a closure in Spain in Seville.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And in North America I think you said volumes were up 1.5% in the quarter and you mentioned that there was an impact from the favorable weather.
So as you look forward with unemployment still high some of the end market data we see for your key end markets still soft what really gives you confidence that you in fact will see a real recovery in North American volumes in 2012? Well when we look at the demand pattern you know that we haven't seen any growth in North America over a period of 3 years so 1.5% is significant even though it may look like a small percentage that's #1.
And that's really not projecting that's underlying demand at this point in time.
We also know that many of our customers and especially in the beer sector are looking to stronger promotional activities because they have seen volume declining.
And what we're also seeing is that employment is improving and that coincides with the comment that I made earlier that we have early signals that there is a stronger preference for glass than for cans which is a reversal of the trend and that would also typically be an indicator that the economy is strengthening.
Research Division</strong> And just last question.
Asia Pac how does the profit break out between Australia and New Zealand and China given the volume difficulty in China in the quarter did you guys lose money in China this quarter? Well in China we're building up also an infrastructure that's quite significant.
As you know China have been managed in the past strictly out of Australia.
We're building infrastructure because we now have about 4 000 employees in China and that clearly is having an impact.
If I look at individual facilities in China there are facilities in China that are providing pretty decent margins.
There are others that are losing money and that's what we're working on to correct that situation.
And your next question is from Chip Dillon with Vertical Research.
Research Division</strong> On one of the slides I think you mentioned if you sort of divide the volume impact I think it was a very small number into the revenue.
It looks like it was only about 0.2% and I believe Al you mentioned that the volume decline was more like 20% -- or was more like 2%.
And maybe I just misheard you or maybe there was some M&amp;A shifts that might have affected that number.
Could you shed some light on that? Chip is this the sales volume number on Chart 4 that was our segment reconciliation? Research Division</strong> Yes.
You got it.
That was kind of in my comments as I walked through that.
So sales volumes were down $4 million and you don't see an operating profit swing.
It means that it was the regional mix so you are down in some countries where you would say we lost because we had less sales.
In other areas we were up and it had a better contribution.
So what you're doing is the contributions of all the ups and downs kind of had it flattened out on the sales volume line.
And that comes back to the comment I made earlier about -- in China that we are basically improving the facilities.
And so if that facility that we're trying to improve is not producing during the time that we're putting some infrastructure in there that's not having a huge impact on your profitability.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
And then secondly could you just remind us when you look at Europe I would imagine that the wine business in particular is much more seasonal than the beer business.
And just sort of tell us how and when during the year you have a better feel for how the wine business is going to shape up.
I don't see a huge difference in the seasonality because it's really in the consumption where the seasonality is.
If you look at the packaging basically you have your harvest of course during the September -- August September October time period but the filling of the bottles basically occurs throughout the year.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
And then the last question this might have been asked but -- and obviously the China volumes were down largely because of the closure of the furnace there.
But what's happening in the broader market in China especially I mean you hear a lot of people that make other containers talking about their opportunities because glass is so big.
But that being said are you still seeing the market growing over time or do you think it's stagnated? No the market is still growing very strongly.
And I smile sometimes when I see these comments about China everybody is worried that growth in China goes from 9% to 8.5%.
Look at our own growth numbers in North America and in Europe it's a huge opportunity market.
It will continue to be a market that absolutely is key for us in our strategic positioning.
It's a challenging market there's no question about it but growth is not one of the challenges.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
And just lastly and this might have been asked on North America.
Are you seeing a disproportionate amount of the growth in your business? And I guess this would be kind of a surprise looking back a year or so from the craft side versus the more broad-based brands.
Well I think in North America we're seeing certainly with some new product introductions that are happening in the market a greater level of activity that we have seen in the past.
That's not universal across the board.
That really depends from brewer to brewer at this point in time.
But certainly the expansion and continued growth of the micro brewers is going to continue.
And we've had announcement I think from 2 microbreweries that they're going to build new breweries out here in the east which I think is a clear significant signal that they expect as well that they will continue with double-digit growth as we are seeing in the first quarter as well.
And your next question is from Alton Stump with Longbow Research.
I was just looking at the share situation in Europe.
I know you mentioned...
Alton you need to speak up we're not able to hear you in our conference room.
Okay sorry.
Just with your mentioning that there was some share shifting going on in Europe in wine just want to get any clarity of if there was any material share shifting in beer in Europe or if it was just contained to wine.
I don't think that I would at this point in time already talk about significant share shifting.
It's too early to make that call because I do not know at this point in time how much really is driven by economy and how much is driven by our pricing actions which of course as you go through a period of economic instability is very difficult to determine.
I don't really see dramatic share shifts in Europe on a broad base.
If they do occur they typically occur with a small manufacturing grabbing some volume but it does not really affect the overall picture of share in the marketplace.
Okay.
And then just one quick follow-up to that I think last call you mentioned that you thought you would get 5% to 6% higher pricing this year in Europe.
Are we still in that number now that you have finalized more contracts? We still expect price improvement of around 5% on a global basis.
And your final question is from Todd Wenning with MorningStar.
Research Division</strong> Research and development spending was down slightly year-over-year.
And should we expect the R&amp;D expense in the second half to approximate the prior year second half spending? It's about $18 million or $19 million per quarter.
We'll see some strengthening in the second half of the year because some of the projects are just timed differently than they were last year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And have there been any changes so far this year regarding the asbestos liability? No.
As you saw we were still in the same range as far as payments are concerned and these liabilities of course are more longer term in nature as we look at them and they don't change from quarter-to-quarter.
Todd what we try to do is if you look at our current -- the current portion of it that tends to align with what we think our cash spend will be this year which is lower than last year.
Research Division</strong> Higher pricing this year in Europe.
Are you still in that number now that you have finalized more contracts? As I said earlier we still expect price improvement of around 5% on a global basis.
All right before I end -- before we end and before I hand it over to Jason I'd like to use this opportunity to thank Ed for his almost -- career that almost spanned 5 decades.
He has not been here 50 years but he's been here during 5 decades of the company and the many contributions he has made and the wise counsel he has given me and the wise counsel he has given the company.
It's really been highly appreciated Ed and thank you very much and wish you all the best in your retirement.
And now I'll hand it over to Jason.
Thank you everyone.
That concludes our first quarter earnings conference call.
Please note our second quarter conference call is scheduled for Thursday July 24 at 8:30 a.m.
Eastern.
Again thank you and have a good day.
This concludes today's O-I First Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Angela and I will be your conference operator.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the O-I Second Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the call over to Mr.
Jason Bissell Director of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Angela.
Good morning and welcome everyone to O-I's Second Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
I'm joined today by Al Stroucken our Chairman and CEO; Steve Bramlage our Chief Financial Officer; and several other members of our senior management team.
Today we will discuss key business development review our financial results for the second quarter and discuss future trends affecting our business in 2012.
Following our prepared remarks we will host a question-and-answer session.
Presentation materials for this earnings call can be obtained from the company's website at o-i.com.
Please review the Safe Harbor comments and disclosure of our use of non-GAAP financial measures included in those materials.
Unless otherwise noted the financial results we are presenting today relate to adjusted net earnings which exclude certain items that management considers not representative of ongoing operation.
A reconciliation of GAAP to non-GAAP earnings can be found in our earnings press release and in the appendix to this presentation.
I will now turn the call over to Al.
Thank you Jason and good morning.
O-I posted strong results for the second quarter with earnings of $0.81 per share compared to adjusted earnings of $0.59 in the second quarter last year.
We have made good progress regaining manufacturing and supply-chain efficiencies.
This has been most evident in our North American region which had the largest year-over-year improvement in the second quarter of any of our segments.
On the other hand macroeconomic conditions in Europe continue to generate uncertainties and our business in that region has been impacted by slower sales this quarter.
As a result we have implemented production curtailments in Europe to balance capacity with customer demands and to ensure that we meet our cash flow targets.
I am pleased to introduce our new Chief Financial Officer Steve Bramlage.
We welcome Steve back to Perrysburg after serving 2 years in leadership roles in our Asia-Pacific region.
And for those who do not know Steve he joined O-I in 2006 as our Corporate Treasurer and then became our Finance Lead in Europe followed by a term as our Corporate Controller.
He moved to New Zealand in 2010 to lead our operations there and subsequently became President of our Asia-Pacific region.
Steve will now review our financial results after which I will provide an overview of our region's performance in the quarter.
Steve? Thanks Al.
It's nice to be on the call this morning and I look forward to working with all of O-I's stakeholders in my new role.
I would also like to take this opportunity to thank Ed White for his first many years of dedicated service and leadership to O-I as well as for assisting me in the CFO transition over the past month.
Now let's move to Chart 2 and review the second quarter reconciliations for sales operating profit and earnings per share.
Second quarter 2012 segment sales were nearly $1.8 billion.
Price and mix in the quarter were up $82 million or more than 4% from the prior year.
As in prior quarters cost pass-through provision had a small impact on sales.
These provisions are in certain customer contracts and are principally for fluctuations in energy costs.
Lower sales volumes decreased the top line by $95 million this quarter.
This impact was primarily due to lower sales in Europe which were partially offset by higher sales in the North and South American regions.
Finally currency translation had the most significant impact on the top line reducing it by $159 million in the quarter primarily due to a 12% decline in the euro and a 25% decline in the Brazilian real from the prior year quarter.
Moving over one column to segment operating profit.
The second quarter was $266 million up $42 million from the same period last year.
Globally price/mix improvements stayed ahead of inflation by $30 million this quarter and this has helped recapture some of last year's unrecovered inflation.
Lower sales volumes impacted segment profit by $26 million in the quarter.
Manufacturing and delivery costs were $49 million lower than the second quarter of last year and were the main drivers of higher segment profit.
The primary reason for this year-over-year improvement relates to our actions to regain manufacturing and supply-chain efficiencies especially in our North American region.
In addition the permanent footprint adjustments that we have taken in Australia over the past year have reduced fixed costs increased asset utilization and improved the competitive position of this business versus the prior year.
Moving to operating and other costs they were $12 million lower than the prior year as a result of global cost reductions.
Lastly lower foreign currency exchange rates reduced the translation of our operating profit by $23 million as compared to the second quarter of last year.
Finishing with the EPS reconciliation our net income was $0.81 per share in the quarter compared to adjusted earnings of $0.59 in the prior year.
Operating profit driven by the items we just discussed was up $0.18 from the prior year.
Nonoperational items were also favorable by $0.04 a share.
Within this category there were 2 significant items that offset each other.
First similar to the first quarter corporate and retained costs were higher than the prior year quarter as a result of reduced earnings from lower machine and equipment sales as well as higher incentive compensation costs.
Offsetting this was lower year-over-year net interest expense due to redemptions of higher cost debt in the second quarter of 2011.
Finally there were no items in this quarter that management considers not representative of ongoing operations.
Therefore the Note 1 table of the earnings release only shows prior year items.
Let's move to Chart 3 for more detail on our balance sheet and free cash flow.
On June 30 2012 cash was $336 million and total debt was approximately $4 billion.
Therefore net debt was $3.7 billion a decrease of nearly $400 million from the second quarter of last year.
This was due to the impact of currency translation and debt pay down.
Our net-debt-to-EBITDA ratio was about 2.8x at the end of the second quarter well below the prior year quarter and within our target range of 2x to 3x EBITDA.
Shifting to cash flow.
As you recall at the beginning of the year we introduced an expanded cash flow metric called underlying free cash flow.
This was defined as our traditional free cash flow measure plus the add back of certain capital spending in China.
This capital spending was added back since it will ultimately be funded by government agencies purchasing 2 legacy plant sites for redevelopment.
This will allow us to relocate these facilities without impacting overall cash flow.
At the beginning of the year we anticipated a $50 million capital spend in 2012 in China to begin the relocation.
But we have now slowed the spending to approximately $20 million for this year.
Given this scaling back of capital spending in China we have decided to simplify our reporting and eliminate the underlying free cash flow metric and just report on free cash flow.
In addition to deferring capital spending in China we have also pruned our capital spending in other regions for the remainder of the year.
These actions will maximize our financial flexibility during this period of macroeconomic uncertainty and ensure we have the ability to meet our cash flow targets for the year.
At this time and at the current exchange rates we estimate that our total capital spending will not exceed $350 million in 2012.
Moving back to the second quarter we generated $49 million of free cash flow which was about $50 million less than the prior year quarter.
Higher working capital levels this quarter more than offset stronger earnings and lower capital spending.
You will recall that we had insufficient inventory levels in North America last year during the second quarter so we rebuilt inventories to ensure that we could effectively service our customers.
In Europe we also increased inventory levels in the first half of this year to ensure appropriate supply.
This inventory allowed us to subsequently take several furnaces cold and is both a cost and a cash effective way to manage production downtime and balance supply with the lower demand.
Cash flow will be positively impacted as inventories are reduced in the second half of the year.
Finally on the right-hand side of the chart you can see that we are managing our leverage ratio down and we continue to move towards the lower end of our target range.
We will continue to focus on debt reduction over the next year.
Let's now move to Chart 4 to review second quarter operating profit.
As previously mentioned total operating profit was $266 million in the second quarter up from $224 million last year.
As you can see on the chart the increase in profit this year was led by North America's much improved performance.
We have also included second quarter 2012 segment profit on a currency-neutral basis for easier year-over-year comparison and to highlight underlying operating performance more clearly.
On a currency-neutral basis total segment operating profit in the second quarter was $289 million a significant increase over the prior year quarter.
I will now turn the call back to Al who will give some additional perspective on our regional business performance.
Thanks Steve.
As you can see on Chart 4 our European operating profit was $107 million in the second quarter of this year down $5 million from the prior year second quarter.
As shown profit adjusted for currency was up slightly.
Higher prices this quarter more than covered inflation and allowed for the recovery of some of the margin erosion that we experienced last year.
Offsetting these gains were lower shipment levels which were down approximately 11% from the prior year quarter.
The weakness in shipments was most pronounced during the month of May.
As we saw in the first quarter year-over-year sales volumes continue to vary considerably by country and end market.
Wine bottle shipments especially in southern Europe accounted for the majority of our lower volumes in the quarter.
This was caused by weaker macroeconomic conditions generally poor weather as well as some share shift to smaller competitors due to our margin repair pricing strategy.
Beer glass container volumes were down to a lesser extent in the quarter likely aided by the Euro Cup Football Tournament and preparations for the upcoming Olympics.
Given the lower wine volumes expected in Europe for the remainder of the year we began to adjust capacity to align our operations to customer demand.
At the end of the second quarter we idled 5 furnaces in Europe and we permanently closed a small older furnace in the region.
Further potential permanent footprint activity is under active consideration and is likely to be ready for a decision later in the second half following the completion of the summer shipping season.
In North America operating profit was $96 million up from $50 million in the prior year.
Year-over-year shipments were up slightly this quarter led by good wine and spirit volumes.
We are pleased with the significantly improved manufacturing and supply chain performance in this region especially compared to our sobering second quarter last year.
These operational improvements as well as cost-cutting initiatives have led to North America nearly doubling their profit level from the same quarter last year.
We would like to thank Miguel Escobar and his team for their hard work in achieving this turnaround and we share our employees' pride in this accomplishment.
After 20 years with O-I Miguel has decided to return to his native Colombia to pursue another opportunity.
We thank him for his many contributions to O-I and wish him well.
Effective August 1 [indiscernible] who comes to us from Constellium formerly known as Alcan Engineered Products will succeed Miguel as our President of O-I North America.
Moving to Asia-Pacific.
Operating profit was $16 million up from $9 million in the second quarter of 2011 despite $3 million of currency headwind this quarter versus the prior year.
Although the shipment levels in Asia-Pacific were down nearly 6% in the second quarter we continue to see improved profitability and competitiveness from our Australian footprint initiative and other cost-savings measures.
Nevertheless given the continued sluggishness of the Australian wine and beer markets as well as the fact that we are still negotiating major customer and union contracts further capacity actions may be necessary.
To date we have spent $25 million of the anticipated $50 million restructuring program in Australia.
Additional activity to complete this program will be managed to ensure that further spending is offset by cost savings so that our cash flow goals are achieved.
And finally to our South American region operating profit was $47 million down from $53 million in the prior year second quarter.
However adjusted for currency profit was actually higher compared to the same quarter last year.
Total shipments in the region were up slightly and we saw growth in Brazil largely offset by lower year-over-year beer shipments in Peru.
This volume change improve was due to the introduction in 2011 of a new returnable product in the beer market which created a spike in shipments in the second quarter last year.
Overall our second quarter performance was pretty solid in a very turbulent macro environment.
Moving to the third quarter outlook on Chart 5.
We expect that 3 of our 4 regions will generate operating profit in line with or slightly higher than prior year.
European profit levels will be down from the prior year.
And let's briefly review each region.
Starting with Europe.
As you know the euro has devalued substantially during this year and at current exchange rate will result in an approximate 14% translation headwind to operating profit in the third quarter.
Given this impact as well as higher production downtime our European third quarter segment profit will lag the prior year by  a significant amount.
Our current expectation is that sales volumes will be down mid- to high-single digits from the prior year and production volumes will be down double digits as we manage inventory down.
As you recall European operating profit in the first quarter benefited from our planned inventory build and the associated favorable cost absorption.
We build inventory levels in the first quarter to support anticipated seasonal demand and because macroeconomic indicators looked stronger at that time.
Now that market demand levels have declined we have curtailed production in Europe to balance supply and demand as well as adjust inventory levels.
Therefore increased unabsorbed fixed costs in the third quarter are expected to offset the higher profit realized in Europe during the first quarter this year.
However partially offsetting these lower volumes we expect that the price increases we have already achieved will more than cover inflation in the third quarter.
And this will aid in recapturing some of last year's unrecovered inflation.
In summary for Europe unfavorable exchange rates are likely to continue to pressure our second half profit there.
But however on a currency-neutral basis our full year profit level in Europe is expected to be flat compared to the prior year despite the economic headwinds.
In North America we expect operating profit to be up slightly versus the prior year third quarter.
Keep in mind that we operated our North American region at a high-production rate in the third quarter of last year to replenish inventories.
And this led to a very favorable fixed cost recovery.
For the third quarter this year we're planning to run this region at normal operating rates so the benefits from the fixed cost absorption are not expected to repeat.
Regarding sales volumes.
We expect third quarter shipments to be flat with the prior year quarter and price should also more than cover inflation.
Moving to Asia-Pacific.
We expect lower consumer confidence or low consumer confidence and high personnel savings rates will continue to weigh down the wine and beer markets in Australia and New Zealand.
But we should see improved earnings from our fixed cost savings measures.
Overall we expect Asia-Pacific's operating profit in the third quarter to be up slightly from the prior year quarter.
And finally our South American region's operating profit will likely be flat in the third quarter compared to the prior year period.
The impact of weaker currencies especially the Brazilian real which at current exchange rates would be more than 20% below the prior year third quarter will offset expected benefits from higher sales volume.
Also we plan to complete construction on our new furnace in southern Brazil in the third quarter and be ready to start production later this year.
In summary currency translation headwinds in most regions as well as lower sales and production downtime in Europe will likely result in lower overall third quarter adjusted earnings compared to the prior year.
Regarding overall sales volumes despite challenging European market trends we expect that stronger business conditions in other regions should lead to our global shipment levels being down by low- to mid-single digits in the back half of the year.
We are seeing robust business trends in Brazil which we expect will lead to improved volumes in South America and we also expect steady year-over-year volume trends in our North American business.
Concluding looking to the balance of 2012 we are confident that we will continue to see good performance from most of our regions.
However our business in Europe like in many other countries continues to face challenge.
As we stated we're managing supply and demand by idling capacity in Europe and as a result the unabsorbed fixed cost associated with production downtime will pressure earnings in the second half of the year.
However we are prudently managing our business and we have greater confidence in our ability to achieve our cash generation goals.
Given our year-to-date performance and our outlook for the remainder of the year at today's exchange rates we now expect our free cash flow to be at least $250 million for the full year an improvement over our initial forecast.
Thank you and I now will ask Angela to open up the lines for your questions.
[Operator Instructions] And your first question is from Phil Gresh with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> So I just want to address the unabsorbed fixed cost.
I think at the beginning of this year with your fourth quarter slide you talked about a $40 million impact from underproduction.
So I just kind of wanted to come back to that.
You talked about $20 million unabsorbed cost in Europe in this quarter but that's kind of making up for what happened in the first quarter.
So where do you stand on a full year basis? And does that mean fourth quarter could have a more meaningful impact for underproduction.
I would say Phil over a total year period because of the weaker season that we saw in the second quarter the actions to reduce inventory are a bit stronger than we had initially anticipated.
So I would say it's in the $40 million to $50 million dollar range at this point in time with regard to unabsorbed fixed cost for the year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So then -- so what is the overall impact that we saw in the first half then if it was positive first quarter? Just roughly in the first half.
Phil it was approximately $20 million to $25 million in the first half.
Research Division</strong> On the positive? On the positive correct.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just an update on the price cost situation.
I know you had initially kind of thought price would be around 5% for the full year for this quarter is around 4%.
Do you expect an improvement in price at the back half or is it a little bit lower than what you're thinking? And also just on the input cost side and what are you thinking? I think it will most probably stay in that range.
We might see some slight improvement because of some pricing activity that typically occurs in Latin America in the second half of the year rather than in the first half of the year.
Research Division</strong> And your next question is from George Staphos with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> Two questions.
First Al can you comment on how early third quarter shipments are trending relative to the expectation that you laid out for the year.
And the second question we're pleased to see the reduction in capital spending.
And perhaps what seems to be some retrenching in your strategy in China I don't know if you would agree with that or not but is this a change in philosophy on capital spending or more just an adjustment given the macro environment? All right.
With regard to early trends.
Well early trends for the quarter would only be one month.
And as we have said in the past one month is really not necessarily indicative of what you can project going forward.
It looks like a pretty solid month compared to what we've seen so far in the year.
I would say if I look at the trends over the last 3 months it's certainly influenced by the significant volume drop that we saw in May in Europe compared to last year.
So the percentage of 11% that we saw in the third quarter clearly is not indicative of what the run rates are at this point in time.
And I would say based on looking at shipping days and also potentially some weather influences I'd say the third quarter is starting out at the same level as we have in our overall outlook for the year.
Now with regard to the capital spend.
Really the issues in China are that we are integrating the acquisitions that we've made over the last 2 years.
We certainly have pulled back from our M&amp;A activity somewhat until we see greater clarity in how China is going to evolve and develop.
And that also has its impact a little bit on spreading out the timing of some of the investments that we had originally planned for China.
So I think it is an adjustment to what we're seeing happening overall in the economy just like other companies are doing.
But we certainly keep an eye on what the evolution is going to be so that we can adjust if that would be required as we go forward.
And your next question is from Ghansham Panjabi with Robert W.
Baird.
Research Division</strong> Al just given your comments on market shifts in Europe what do you think the overall market was down in Europe as a whole for the quarter? I would say if you look at our volume drop in the third quarter -- in the second quarter we think about 40% of that was due to overall economic trends.
So I would say most of the volume was down about 4% in Europe.
The rest of it is really pricing action.
And you'll also recall that we already closed a furnace in Spain in November or December of last year which of course is volume that's taken out of the equation but we knew that that was going to happen.
So I would say about 40% of our drop is related to the marketplace I would say perhaps another 40% is related to competitive pressure and 20% maybe because of we'd taken capacity out.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then also I mean I know it's early but just looking out to 2013 right so when you came into '12 the strategy was to recover pricing.
You're obviously very successful at doing that the market conditions maybe have changed a little bit.
But what should we look forward to for 2013? Should we expect some element of price to still flow through I mean you referenced some productivity initiatives what are the major drivers to sort of look out for there? I would say we still are seeing inflation.
And the next year it may be a little bit less than what we saw this year but not really significantly so based at least on the indicators we have today.
Now I grant you a lot of that is going to be influenced by the evolution of the European situation over the next couple of months which may create some distortions in overall supply-demand and the basic materials as well as in energy.
But I would certainly expect us to continue with our pricing activities and pricing strategies to recover inflation as we go forward and we have -- in the whole basically seen also that our competitors are in a very similar position.
Now we do have and particularly in South America and South Europe we saw that.
We have a few small competitors who are basically taking advantage of some volume opportunities that presents to them.
But we'll have to work our way through that as we go forward.
And your next question is from Alton Stump with Longbow Research.
I apologize if I missed this.
But I think per cost run I think as of last quarter you were still guiding to $200 million plus in the cost for the full year.
Has that changed at all given the recent slide namely in oil? Alton we still think we're going to comment for the full year at the lower end of that range.
I think our initial guidance on global input inflation was somewhere in the $200 million to $230 million range and so we will still guide towards that $200 million number even with the lower rent costs that we're seeing.
A lot of our cost in Europe are largely fixed for the remainder of the year.
And I guess just as a quick follow-up to that I was going to ask on the hedging front in Europe is there any percentage that you can give us as to how much is locked in for the back half of the year i.e.
if we will benefit at all from the recent decline in oil there in the back half? The vast majority is already locked in well over 85% 90% is locked in.
And your next question is from Alex Ovshey with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Just on the operational improvement in North America.
I think last year you talked to the negative impact being $20 million to $25 million and the year-over-year improvement in profit in North America is much better than that.
And so was that just conservatism there on your part around what the headwind was and that's what really drove the much better results for North America or is there something else going on there? What we saw last year was about a $20 million to $25 million headwind but we basically also had price improvement this year in North America recovering some of the inflation we saw last year which we were not recovering last year.
And that was particularly true for soda ash if you will recall because those increases gained fairly late in the game.
And then also because of cost efficiencies and operational savings and operational OpEx we've really been able to get a greater productivity out of our operation that we were able to achieve even in a normalized setting last year.
I think those 2 factors really contributed.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And it looks like the free cash flow profile is pretty strong you should be within your leverage range towards the end of '12.
As we you look out to '13 can you talk about what your capital allocation priorities will be in 2013? Alex I think it's a little bit early for us to get specific exactly on how we will allocate the capital but there's no doubt we do want to continue to progress lower in that net-debt-to-EBITDA range.
And I would like to see us eventually evolve to a position around capital allocation where we can be a little more balanced in terms of application of the capital than we have been in the past.
But while we're at the higher end of this range we are of the opinion that the best thing we can do with the capital is apply the majority of it to deleveraging.
That's the best way to add value to all capital providers at this point in time.
But as we get lower I would hope that we can evolve to something a little more balanced than we've been historically.
And your next question is from Debbie Jones with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> I'm just wondering if you guys could talk about the supply-demand balance in Brazil.
And whether or not you're -- I'm assuming you're still planning your 4Q furnace add in Rio and then just what you think that might do to margins in 2013? Okay.
Well we -- as you know from past discussions we have basically been priming the market by supplying volume for the Brazilian growth on an imported basis.
So whatever we're putting in place today as capacity in Brazil is not going to change or offset the balance of supply and demand in Brazil.
It allows us to then potentially allocate capacity that we have in other countries that used to supply to Brazil to our other regions where we may have a need as we go forward.
But the big advantage of manufacturing now locally once we have established the demand profile is of course that a lot of the logistic costs will disappear.
So we're still moving along.
And also what we've seen from a growth rate perspective Brazil has been very encouraging for us in the second quarter with growth rates in the high-single digits and we certainly expect that to continue going forward.
Some of the comments that we're hearing from the marketplace and from some of the brewers in Brazil as well despite the fact there's going to be an excise tax increase is very positive for the second half of the year.
So I think Brazil is marching in a good direction.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And also Steve I was just wondering if you could talk a recap of some of the things that you guys have done in Asia-Pac especially in Australia and New Zealand in the last year? And kind of what you would like to see done in the next year where you think -- or you think that margins can return to the levels that we saw back in 2010? Okay.
Well let me answer the second one first.
I think it's a little bit early for us to get specific as to where we think the ultimate margin levels should be.
And that's mainly because the profile of the volume continues to evolve as the wine business structurally continues to move offshore in bulk shipping and beer grinds down for the region -- the reasons that Al mentioned a little bit earlier.
So it's a little bit premature for us to set a target margin there.
I think for the actions that we've already taken we've taken out 2 furnaces in Australia specifically over the last year.
We have a little bit more work to do on that front.
We are getting close to where that footprint is balanced with the current level of market demand but there will be additional opportunities for us not only to take out a little bit of additional fixed cost but also to drive the operating costs lower.
So we are middle ending in the footprint program for Australia.
But the early returns are certainly delivering what we expected to see.
And your next question is from Al Kabili with Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Just a question on Europe on where you see your competitor capacity situation right now.
Given the amount of volume that you've walked away from on the pricing initiatives how much capacity do you think your competitors have in terms of its lack of capacity at this point? Well it's of course always very difficult to predict because I don't have full insight as to what they have in their operations.
But I would say what we have observed is that the large competitors have basically stayed on course and are running their operations to optimize their profitability and cash flow in a certainly very difficult environment.
Where we have seen some graft for volume has really been in the smaller competitors and they tend to be more the ones in the southern region of Europe.
And I would expect that with what we did in Spain closing down a furnace last year as well as the volume shift that we've seen that they're pretty full at this point in time.
And I think that we are already seeing some of that also in the volume evolution over the last 3 months running average.
We certainly see not the significant decline that we saw earlier.
It's being tampered somewhat which indicates to me that they're pretty full.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Good.
All right.
And then I just wanted to clarify an earlier comment on the underproduction headwind in the second half.
Is it $40 million to $50 million headwind in the second half or is that for the full year? That's a full year number.
So if we were $20 million positive in the first you've got to do the math to get it to down $40 million for the year.
And your next question is from Chris Manuel with Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> Let me start with a question regarding Europe.
So I know over the last couple of years you guys have exerted a lot of energy on cost putting in global ERP systems and improving the forecasting and that type of stuff.
But as we go through the first quarter and even partly in the second quarter you were still overproducing.
So you end up kind of ahead of yourselves and you're working through the inventory I understand the back half of the year and have idled a bunch of these furnaces.
But are you in a situation where you talked about potential for restructuring but 5 furnaces is a pretty significant number.
I mean does that -- that's like 13% 14% of your capacity.
Is that potentially along the lines of what you might -- let me ask the question this way what would you -- how would you think about the restructuring opportunity? Is something like what you've got taken down right now seem reasonable to you? What would make it bigger? What would make it smaller? Well I would say at this point in time what you're seeing in the temporary shutdowns is of course a reaction to the second quarter.
That's not a permanent size of the impact.
So you cannot necessarily say if you shutdown 5 furnace temporarily for let's say half a year or for 3 months or 4 months depending on what each furnace is scheduled for you cannot say that's taken out for the entire year.
So I think that's where you have to watch out a bit in the equation.
We have taken out a furnace already completely in December of last year.
In Spain we just shutdown the smaller furnace permanently.
In central Europe we are contemplating some other steps as we go forward.
I would say most probably there is an opportunity for us over a period of time.
It's not going to happen from today to tomorrow to look at 5% to 7% or so of capacity that we could take out.
LLC Research Division</strong> And then my follow-up question is with regards to cash flow and the $250 million number this year a is the $50 million that's anticipated coming in from the sale of property in China still coming in? I realized that's below that line.
And then b is there anything baked into that $250 million of op cash less CapEx that you have kind of tabbed as you said here today for restructuring? Or could that potential be a use spend as we get into 4Q? I'll answer the first one for you on the Chinese one.
We have received already about $14 million $15 million in proceeds from the Chinese government thus far in this process.
We don't have any reason to believe we will not ultimately receive what we are expecting for all of the properties.
Though it's as you can imagine it's a relatively extended and elongated conversation and process to get there.
We've actually received more than the we've spent in China thus far.
As it relates to the restructuring we had given -- I would separate the restructuring from the capital.
I'm not sure those things are one and the same.
We had given some guidance earlier this year that the anticipated restructuring spend for the course of the year was going to be a little bit over $50 million.
We're at about $40 million or so this year.
We may end up a little bit higher than the $50 million but that will be obviously incorporated into the $250 million of cash flow guidance that we've given.
And your next question is from Adam Josephson with KeyBanc.
Research Division</strong> Just a clarification on the production downtime impacts.
You mentioned there's a benefit of $20 million in the first half a drain of $45 million-ish for the full year or so you have a drain of $65-ish million in the second half.
How would that be spread in 3 and 4Q? And how much could that number increase if you decide to idle or close more furnaces? Most of the spread is going to be in the third quarter as opposed to the fourth when we're looking at year-over-year.
Because fourth quarter normally for us is a lower period of production anyway.
So the way year-over-year works you'll see most of that.
Probably 2/3 of that difference in the third quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And that's again exclusive of price cost and FX translation.
Just one clarification on the free cash flow guidance to what extent did it increase? I know you changed the language I'm just trying to better understand it.
Yes I know.
It's a fair question.
It's one I had to ask myself when I got here honestly.
So at the beginning of the year we had gone out with a underlying free cash flow number of $250 million and that included a $400 million global capital spending number.
The way that definition of underlying free cash flow worked is really it was $200 million of free cash flow and then we were adding back $50 million of anticipated spending in China.
And that got you to $250 million.
So sitting here today the free cash flow number has come up from the $200 million at the beginning of the year to the $250 million that we're guiding to right now.
And we've eliminated that definition because of the capital spending number in China that we would otherwise be adding back has come down.
The difference is not that significant and it's too confusing to try to keep track of both of them so we'll go back to free cash flow.
Research Division</strong> And how much of that is because you're reducing CapEx? At the moment the capital spending number has gone down by $50 million so the $400 million is down to $350 million.
Research Division</strong> So it's all the CapEx reduction? Yes.
And your next question is from Scott Gaffner with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to reconcile the guidance for 3Q for North America.
I guess I'm a little unsure how you get to higher year-over-year earnings for North America since you got sales volumes flat.
And then you're sort of running at -- you said operation's running at a steady rate and you don't get the benefit of the fixed cost absorption year-over-year that you had from running all out in the third quarter of last year.
Can you sort of reconcile that to how we get to improved earnings in North America in the third quarter? Yes.
Scott this is Al.
It goes back to what I said earlier that aside from just the operational improvements we also have cost takeouts and cost savings that have been put in place that are adding to the efficiencies we're getting.
And then also it's the recovery of inflation that we were not recovering last year.
And due to the contracts that we have we are getting that additional benefit this year that we didn't have last year.
That's where the difference comes from.
Research Division</strong> And no impact from the recent increase in natural gas prices? I mean I realized you've got relatively short pass-throughs on energy cost in the U.S.
But is there going to be any potential issues from that? Or maybe a month or even for the quarter? No.
We don't really see that.
Because what has happened since we put these contracts in place over the last couple of years most of our large customers have decided to let us hedge for them.
So it's a real immediate pass-through it's not just a delayed pass-through.
And I would say today less than 10% of the natural gas is governed by still pass-through provisions that may have a time delay.
And your next question is from Todd Wenning with MorningStar.
Research Division</strong> Was there any weakness in demand for Europe's export bottles for Scotch and Italian wine for example.
Or was the weakness mostly in the domestic European demand? What we saw overall is in the discussions that we've had with our customer base was that their exports were still doing pretty well.
But really domestic demand was a bit weaker because overall we didn't see a significant increase in volume and demand.
So I would say export is still doing reasonably well but Europe clearly was a bit of a weaker side as well as cost.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Great.
And have you seen any change in glass demand for North American craft beers given the rollout of some canning lines for some of the larger craft bands? Not really.
I'd say in the second quarter of this year growth in the microbreweries was still above 10%.
And we do not really see a change in that trend.
I would say there is some effort because of the customer taste that the craft brewers are trying to go after sometimes wants variation and wants differentiation and that's what's leading some of them to also include some cans in their portfolio.
But I really would not say that that's a significant underlying trend.
And your next question is from Chip Dillon with Vertical Research.
This is James for Chip.
First question is is there any risk that capacity constraint in the U.S.
glass container market -- are there any regional mismatches where some regions have too much capacity and others have too little? I would say within the U.S.
we have typically been able to handle that reasonably well by shipping products from facilities that we have.
We have a total of I believe 18 or 19 facilities in North America.
So we're pretty well covered as far as that is concerned.
We are seeing a stronger demand profile in general.
As you could see our volumes is pretty stable at this point in time.
And you are seeing some more positive comments coming from the mega beer brands at this point in time.
So I would say the market is likely going to continue to be tied and we are looking at alternatives to supply some product from other locations that we have in either Latin America or in Europe to support the growth profile that we see in North America potentially evolving in the future rather than having to touch capital right away ourselves in the country.
Okay.
That's helpful.
Switching gears a bit O-I has not made a major acquisition in some time are we likely to see O-I remain out of the market or is there potential that you would be looking to make a significant acquisition? Well I would say for the next 2 or 3 years we will clearly want to see how the overall economy is evolving.
We've now been in a rut from the global economy for the last 3 or 4 years.
And I think our focus should be on driving operational excellence and capabilities to our organization.
Now should the one or the other absolute strategic opportunity come along we will certainly take a look at it.
But I'd say at this point in time I don't see that happening in the near future.
And your last question is from Phil Ng with Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Free cash flow has been somewhat depressed the last few years with a bigger reinvestment cycle and restructuring.
So when I look out going forward you guys kind of alluded to restructuring.
Will that be a big headwind again on cash flow going forward? The way we will try to manage restructuring Phil will be something similar to what we've done in the Australian or the Asia-Pacific footprint here recently where we've really tried to incorporate as much of a pay-as-you-go type of a concept as we can.
So that we approach projects in such a way that they de-risk supply-chain potential problems for us.
We want to avoid obviously what we dealt with in North America last year and pick the projects that are quick payback relatively low risk early and use the funding that we get from those projects and then take bigger bites of further restructuring steps.
So we will continue to plan for restructuring dollars as part of our free cash flow guidance.
We have opportunities that make sense for us to do that.
We've alluded to the study that we're going in Europe and the ongoing activity in Australia.
But we will certainly try to avoid what we did in 2010 where we took a significant haircut in the global free cash flow number and kind of took a big bath approach on the restructuring all at once.
It will be much more of a moderated consistent approach.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
And I guess switching gears a little bit on North America.
As you alluded the market is obviously pretty tight now.
Can you remind me of when the next round of contracts are up for renewal in North America just for the initiative as a whole.
And do you have the sense of this recent acquisition of Anchor by Ardagh would be constructive for pricing for the long term.
I assume you're talking about customer contracts and...
Inc.
Research Division</strong> That's correct.
That's correct Okay.
I'd say that a significant amount of contracts needs to be renewed by 2014 and 2015.
So '13 and '14 are the years when those discussions will heat up and take place.
It's very difficult of course to predict on how that is going to evolve over the next couple of years a lot of that will also depend on how demand is going to recover for the mega brands because those are clearly the volume drivers and they have the biggest impact on supply and demand.
So it's evolving at this point in time.
It will be a folly for me to try to be predictive at this point in time what the likely outcome is going to be and what's going to happen in the marketplace.
I'd say looking back over the last 3 or 4 years overall supply and demand in the United States has remained relatively balanced despite a fairly weak economy.
And I would assume that that clearly is going to help during the negotiations as we go forward.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> But there wouldn't be any opportunity near term to pick up any incremental pricing like surcharges if things do get too tight right? Well of course.
I mean again it's all a play of supply and demand.
But wherever we have contractual obligations we cannot of course renegotiate.
So that will just run its course.
And then the question is going to be whether at the time of the contract renewal can that supply-demand balance that's sufficiently tied to see whether there would be an opportunity to get additional pricing.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just one last final question.
You guys kind of alluded to Brazil being pretty strong.
I know another can maker kind of alluded to how the big beer guys in Brazil and China are slowing the conversion into cans.
Is that one of the drivers that you're a little more upbeat about beer demand in Brazil? Well what we have seen the first half of the year is that several of the large brands in Brazil have gone to returnable glass containers for their initiatives for their marketing initiatives.
And that of course is logical because a returnable container is the lowest cost container per transaction so it allows the customer -- or it allows the brewers to either access a customer base more efficiently and more economically or it allows the brewers to get higher margin and compensate perhaps for some of the tax impacts that they may see from the excise tax.
So we clearly see a greater willingness and a greater enthusiasm of the brewers to go to returnable refillable containers and the only option they really have is left.
All right.
Thank you everyone.
That concludes our second quarter earnings conference call.
Please note that our third quarter 2012 conference call is currently scheduled for Thursday October 25 at 8:30 a.m.
Eastern time.
We appreciate your interest in O-I.
Again thank you and don't forget to choose glass.
This does conclude today's conference.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Angela and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the O-I Third Quarter 2012 Earnings Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder if you're having trouble viewing the slides and the webcast browser please refresh your screen.
I would now like to turn the call over to Mr.
Dave Johnson Vice President of Investor Relations.
You may begin your conference.
Thank you Angela.
Good morning and welcome everyone to O-I's Third Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
I am joined today by Al Stroucken our Chairman and CEO; and Steve Bramlage our Chief Financial Officer; and several other members of our senior management team.
Today we will discuss key business developments review our financial results for the third quarter and discuss trends affecting our business in 2012.
Following our prepared remarks we'll host a question-and-answer session.
Presentation materials for this earnings call are available on the company's website at o-i.com.
Please review the Safe Harbor comments and disclosure of our use of non-GAAP financial measures included in those materials.
Unless otherwise noted the financial results we are presenting today relate to adjusted net earnings which exclude certain items that management considers not representative of ongoing operations.
A reconciliation of GAAP to non-GAAP earnings can be found in our earnings press release and in the appendix to this presentation.
I'll now turn the call over to Steve.
Thank you Dave and good morning.
Let me begin by welcoming Dave to the O-I team.
He brings a wealth of experience to O-I and we look forward to his contributions and counsel in the future.
Now let's turn our attention to O-I's results for the third quarter which were in line with our expectations.
Adjusted earnings were $0.69 per share compared to $0.84 in the prior year.
Our year-over-year operating profit expanded in 3 of our 4 regions: North and South America as well as Asia Pacific.
However as expected persistent sluggish macroeconomic conditions in Europe continue to impact sales.
Our actions to balance production to slower demand there led to lower overall earnings for the company.
Yet our strong focus on cash allowed us to generate higher free cash flow in the quarter compared to the same quarter in the prior year.
Let's now review these third quarter reconciliations for sales operating profit and earnings per share on Chart 2.
In the first column third quarter 2012 segment sales were nearly $1.75 billion.
Price and mix in the quarter were up by $82 million or nearly 4.5% from the prior year.
Lower sales volumes decreased the top line by $80 million this quarter primarily due to lower shipments in Europe which were partially offset by volume growth in North and South America.
Finally currency translation had the most significant impact on the top line in the quarter reducing it by $110 million primarily due to a 10% decline in the euro and a 22% decline in the Brazilian real from the same quarter in the prior year.
Moving over to the second column.
Segment operating profit in the third quarter was $245 million down $23 million from the same period last year.
Globally price/mix improvement stayed ahead of inflation by $35 million this quarter.
This has helped us to continue to recapture some of last year's unrecovered inflation.
Lower sales volumes impacted segment profit by $23 million in the quarter.
Manufacturing and delivery costs rose $32 million compared with the third quarter of last year.
The increase was driven by higher unabsorbed fixed costs associated with production downtime taken in Europe.
Operating and other costs were $2 million lower than the prior year as a result of global cost reductions.
Finally a stronger U.S.
dollar reduced the operating profit by $5 million compared to the third quarter of the prior year.
Moving to the last column on the chart.
As I noted earlier we achieved adjusted earnings of $0.69 per share in the quarter compared with $0.84 last year.
Operating profit driven by the items we just discussed was down $0.12 from the prior year.
Non-operational items were unfavorable by $0.03 a share.
This was primarily due to a higher effective tax rate which offset the positive impact of declining interest expense.
Note as previously communicated there were several items during the quarter totaling $23 million that management considers not representative of ongoing operations and that were excluded from the adjusted earnings totals.
These items include a furnace closure and additional restructuring activities in Australia as well as a furnace closure in Europe.
Now let's move to Chart 3 for some more detail on our balance sheet and free cash flow.
At the end of the quarter our net debt was $3.6 billion which is down $275 million from a year ago.
We made progress on several fronts.
Our cash balance was higher and we repaid gross debt.
Exiting the quarter our net debt-to-EBITDA ratio was 2.8x an improvement over the third quarter of 2011 and within our target range of 2x to 3x EBITDA.
Shifting to cash flow.
We generated $171 million of free cash flow in the quarter.
That is nearly 25% better than the prior year quarter.
This improvement was driven by working capital which was a greater source of cash in the quarter largely due to production curtailments in Europe.
As we have previously communicated our capital allocation priorities are clear.
Until we approach the lower end of our target leverage ratio range we plan to allocate approximately 90% of our free cash flow towards debt reduction and the remainder towards share repurchases.
Accordingly we have already taken actions by repaying $189 million of debt and buying back $14 million of the company's shares during the third quarter.
Let's now move to Chart 4 to review the third quarter operating profit.
As previously mentioned total operating profit was $245 million in the third quarter down from $268 million last year.
Excluding changes in foreign currency our operating profit would have been $250 million.
As you can see on the chart the decrease in profit was driven by Europe while all other regions generated higher operating profits.
I will now turn the call over to Al who will provide some additional perspective on our regional businesses.
Thanks Steve.
Our European operating profit was $74 million in the third quarter which was down significantly from the prior-year quarter but in line with our expectations.
That said our focus on price and mix are yielding benefits.
Higher prices this quarter more than covered inflation and allowed for the recovery of some of the margin erosion that we experienced last year.
Offsetting these gains were lower shipment levels which were down 11% from the prior-year quarter with most end markets impacted.
As you recall we experienced some share shift to smaller competitors earlier in the year.
And since then our European market share has remained steady.
Steve already mentioned the fact that we temporarily curtailed production in Europe.
The nearly 20% decline in production in the third quarter led to a higher unabsorbed fixed cost which was the main driver for Europe's decline in operating profit.
We also permanently closed the furnace in Germany at the end of the quarter.
And in a moment I will talk about our framework for further investments to improve profitability in Europe.
In North America operating profit was up more than 10% to $75 million compared to $67 million in the prior year.
Shipments were up again slightly in the quarter led by growth in wine and food volumes.
Price also more than covered inflation.
Our operating rates in the third quarter were consistent with last year reflecting continued improvements in our manufacturing and supply chain performance.
In all the North America business is performing well with operating margins approaching 15%.
Moving to Asia Pacific.
Operating profit was $27 million up from $23 million last year.
As expected shipment levels in this region remain sluggish down about 7% year-over-year.
Nevertheless we improved our profitability by reducing our structural costs particularly in Australia.
In the third quarter we announced several restructuring actions in that country including the permanent closure of another furnace and additional productivity investments across the footprint.
We continue to make steady progress.
And by the end of 2012 we estimate that we will have spent all but $10 million of the funds allocated to the Australian restructuring program.
Supply and demand trends as well as the outcome of significant contract negotiations will influence future restructuring activity.
And finally let's look at our South American region.
Operating profit was $69 million up modestly from $67 million in the prior-year third quarter.
Shipments were up 9% for the region with increases reported in all countries.
To meet this growth recall that we have been importing product into our sold out Brazilian market.
Thus higher transportation costs were a headwind this quarter along with currency.
We also incurred typical costs as we started up our newly-constructed furnace in Southern Brazil in mid-September.
Production levels of this new furnace have been improving and we expect to be running at high operating rates by the end of the fourth quarter.
So once again our overall third quarter performance was in line with our expectations.
Let's move now to Chart #5 and our outlook for the fourth quarter.
Overall we expect to see mixed results from our segments.
Starting with Europe.
Business conditions will continue to be challenging.
Sales volumes will likely maintain their pace and run about 10% below the prior-year fourth quarter.
We will continue to tightly manage inventory which should cause production volumes to decline more than sales.
We expect that the price increases we have already achieved will more than cover inflation in the fourth quarter and will partially offset prior-year unrecovered inflation.
On balance then the expected year-over-year decline in Europe's operating profit in the fourth quarter should be moderately better than the $37 million contraction reported in the third quarter.
In North America we expect our underlying operations to continue to perform well.
But keep in mind that we operated our assets at an abnormally high production rate in the fourth quarter of 2011 to replenish inventories.
This led to a very favorable fixed cost recovery last year.
Now that inventory levels have been rebuilt we are planning to run this region at normal lower operating rates in the fourth quarter this year.
As a result we do not project a repeat of last year's benefit from the fixed cost recovery.
Also we are planning several significant furnace rebuilds in the fourth quarter timed to take place in this seasonally slower period.
This will lead to higher downtime and project expense in the fourth quarter.
Taken together we expect operating profit to be down moderately versus the prior year fourth quarter.
Moving to Asia Pacific.
We expect to see continued sluggish sales volumes particularly in Australia and New Zealand.
However we should also see continued benefits from the fixed cost savings measures mentioned earlier.
Overall we expect Asia Pacific's operating profit in the fourth quarter to be flat with the prior-year quarter.
And finally in South America operating profit will likely be stronger in the fourth quarter compared to the prior-year period.
Shipments should continue to be robust and are expected to be up by high single-digit percentage from the prior-year quarter.
Also as the newly constructed furnace in Southern Brazil continues to ramp up we should see startup costs moderate as the fourth quarter progresses.
This should allow for some margin expansion over the third quarter level.
Overall we see the percentage decline in  fourth quarter year-over-year adjusted earnings as somewhat larger than the company experienced in the third quarter.
Now let's move to Chart 6 and review our European asset optimization program.
Europe is our largest and most complex market and we are firmly committed to profitably serving our very important food and beverage customers there.
Clearly we need to better align our business and more specifically our assets with the needs of the marketplace.
Our actions will significantly enhance O-I's competitiveness in the region by improving our cost base quality sustainability and capabilities.
While we are addressing assets with higher cost structures in the region through asset rationalization we also continue to invest in our footprint to increase our asset efficiency.
Optimization work is already underway.
And during the past year we have closed 3 furnaces in Europe and have made investments to boost our productivity at several key sites to increase their furnace capacity and reduce cost per ton.
In addition to ongoing CapEx in this region we anticipate spending approximately $70 million on European asset optimization next year.
Globally we had significant spending in 2012 for several projects such as the restructuring in Australia new furnaces in Brazil and in China.
Now that these projects are mostly complete we are effectively reallocating our capital towards Europe in 2013.
We will implement our changes in Europe to avoid disruption in the first half of the year when seasonal production and shipments are higher.
As a result we will likely not see benefits from this program hit the bottom line until the back half of 2013 and they should gain momentum in 2014.
We envision executing in phases over the next several years that progressively build upon one another.
While the cash outlays for these activities are significant over that time period perhaps $200 million to $250 million above our normal CapEx levels in Europe we are absolutely committed to ensuring this program does not impede our ability to grow O-I's free cash flow.
Clearly this level of investment is significant and demonstrates our commitment to better position O-I in a market that requires its supply base to step up to ever-increasing demands for high-quality sustainable and innovative products.
That brings me to a few final remarks.
Our third quarter results were in line with our expectations.
Deliberate actions to balance supply with demand in Europe resulted in good free cash flow generation and we will continue these actions in the fourth quarter.
Despite challenging European market trends stronger business performance in our other regions should result in higher full-year adjusted earnings than the prior year.
We remain confident that we will generate at least $250 million of free cash flow for the full year and we will continue to prioritize our capital to repay debt.
Finally asset optimization in Europe will improve efficiencies and capabilities for the long-term in a region that is critical to O-I.
And we look forward to sharing more details with you regarding this program and the longer-term plans at our next Investor Day which we have now scheduled for February 14 2013 in New York City.
Thank you.
And now I will ask Angela open up the lines for your questions.
[Operator Instructions] And your first question is from Anthony Pettinari with Citi.
Research Division</strong> You indicated that you would reallocate some of the capital spending from 2012 global projects to the European restructuring in 2013.
Should we interpret that as total CapEx for 2013 should be kind of roughly flattish with 2012? Yes.
I think when we look at our overall capital spend I don't think we will see much variation.
Research Division</strong> Okay okay.
And then I think earlier you had indicated that total scope of European restructuring could be 5% to 7% of capacity and I was wondering if you could just kind of give us your latest thoughts on that? And then also does the restructuring potentially change your footprint within Europe in terms of exposure to southern Europe versus northern Europe? And any thoughts there? Yes I would say the overall percentage impact on capacity over that entire period of time over the next 3 years is about right.
What we are particularly focusing on is facilities that we acquired through our various acquisitions and that are no longer located in geographic locations that have a strong industry because the industry moved away are the ones that are predominantly going to be impacted.
And so that will require us to invest in other facilities that are closer to these markets to pick up that volume.
And so we get a significant benefit from logistic cost savings as well.
So it's not just manufacturing cost that we're looking at we're looking at total cost to serve the customer.
That's important for us in the future to position ourselves more competitively.
And your next question is from Philip Ng with Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> When you look at your North American business obviously you had some setbacks in the past.
Restructuring has obviously done -- you've done a pretty good job.
Overall margins are quite nice.
Assuming if volumes do stabilize a little bit here in raw materials not a real big drag going forward how should we be thinking about normalized operating margins going forward in both Europe and Asia Pac? Well Philip if you recall we have said earlier that our target long term is to be in the mid-teens or slightly above the mid-teens with regard to our overall margins that we expect to achieve in our businesses.
Now clearly there are some variations from region to region.
But I believe that for North America we're getting closer to that objective and to that target point.
The steps that we're taking in Europe with regard to improving our operations and efficiencies there are also geared to get to that point.
And I believe with the steps that we already have taken in Australia and the additional steps that we're still working on at this point in time also in that region I think we should come close to that range that we have indicated.
And Latin America of course stands out a little bit by itself given the fact that it still has a very high proportion of returnable bottles which typically tend to have a better competitive position compared to alternative packaging and therefore allow for a higher margin.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And you gave some highlight on the restructuring for Europe and Asia Pac.
When should we expect Asia Pac to be complete? And I guess for Europe should we be complete by end of 2014 mid-2014? So I'll try that.
On the Asia Pacific projects which are generally focused on Australia as Al mentioned in his prepared comments we've spent -- by the end of this year we will have spent all but about $10 million of that program.
I believe we had announced approximately a $50 million targeted cash spend associated with that.
So we are -- we would be about 80% of the way through that.
And the remainder of that will largely be contingent upon what happens with some significant contract renegotiations over the course of the next year.
We will be at the end of this year roughly balanced from a supply-demand standpoint with the market in Australia and New Zealand.
I'm not finished with that.
The European program that we referenced that's a 3-year program for us.
So the $70 million that we indicated is the beginning of that in the 2013 timeframe.
But as Al mentioned it's potentially $200 million to $250 million in total.
But that would be over a 3-year time frame so think through 2015.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I guess can you give us an early read on inflation for 2013? I mean I know your cost from an inflation standpoint certainly agrees on the stuff that you have in Europe is locked up at the beginning of the year.
Energy is obviously down quite a bit.
So how should we be thinking about inflation for 2013? And if inflation is less of a tailwind is there an opportunity for you guys to pick up some market share in Europe potentially exceeding some price for 2013? Well I would say overall with regard to inflation as you know we're coming in a little bit lighter than we had initially anticipated at the beginning of the year I think about $10 million or $20 million lighter.
I would expect based on what we're seeing at this point in time that inflation next year is going to be at a similar level on a global scale perhaps a little bit lighter than this.
That really depends a bit on what energy is going to do and that is of course notoriously unpredictable.
We have seen considerable increased demands at least based on what CMAI reports on soda ash and we'll have to see how that works out.
Our expectation continues to be that we will pass through inflation into the marketplace.
We clearly have lost some feathers in Europe in the first quarter of this year to smaller competitors who used the umbrella to grab some volume in a weak market that they were seeing in their own markets.
We will certainly take a look at that and see which one are the profitable ones that we may want to make sure we recover.
And you've heard me say in the past that Europe has this cadence of basically having 70% of our volume renegotiated every year so we can reset every year.
And your next question is from Adam Josephson with KeyBanc.
Research Division</strong> Sorry if I missed this.
Have your CapEx plans changed since last quarter? And for that matter any other component of your free cash flow guidance? No.
I'll do the second one first.
Free cash flow guidance is unchanged.
We anticipate being able to come in above $250 million for the calendar year of 2012.
And we had last guided in the third quarter to a CapEx number of approximately $350 million for the year.
We are still working very hard to be able to execute $350 million worth of projects over the course of the year.
Obviously it's back-end-loaded.
Some of that is because of the lower seasonal demand that we normally get at the end of the year.
Some of that is just because of the capacity reductions we're currently doing to control working capital and provide more of an opportunity to take advantage on the project side.
But we are working to execute towards that $350 million this year for CapEx.
Thanks Steve.
And just on Europe I know you expect volume to be down by 10% in the fourth quarter.
Can you break down northern versus southern? And in southern specifically what exactly the source of the volume weakness is? Is it domestic wine consumption? Is it exports? What exactly is it? Yes I would say and again you also have to look at different time periods.
So I would say in the first half of the year beer was particularly unaffected by the economy because in anticipation of the Olympic Games and the soccer championship in Europe there was a lot of beer manufactured and put into the channel.
That saw some reduction and some correction in the third quarter.
So I would say in the third quarter it was more balanced as far as overall reduction in demand is concerned.
But throughout the year wine in particular has been weak.
And that's mainly due to Italy Spain and Portugal as the main areas that really have been affected by consumption patterns that were quite different from what we've seen in the past.
And since those are areas where we have a heavy representation perhaps more than at least 1 or 2 of our other competitors we are more affected by this geographic impact that we have been seeing throughout the year.
I would expect clearly that given the overall macroeconomic conditions next year is not going to create a lot of buoyancy in demand either.
But also I would assume that we are at a fairly low level at this point in time so I don't see a real potential for further declines.
Research Division</strong> Just to clarify when you're talking about the wine weakness is it more domestic consumption or export? No it's basically domestic consumption.
And export is still holding up pretty well.
And in fact China is now I think the biggest export market for France.
And your next question is from the line of Ghansham Panjabi with Robert W.
Baird.
Research Division</strong> On your slide deck when you talk about $70 million in cash spending for Europe how is that split between the productivity projects and then just regular cash restructuring as you rationalize capacity there? Ghansham it will be a combination of the 2 as you would expect.
We don't have it broken out specifically right now to exactly how much would be what we would call restructuring versus traditional capital spending.
I would expect we will have that over the course of the next month and we will provide that level of detail to people.
But think of the $70 million which is how we've asked our European business to think of it as it's the budget in terms of the incremental investment that we feel comfortable we can make and manage to the cash flow targets that we have and they will bring forward the appropriate mix of projects within that $70 million to get us the best results.
But I would hope certainly before the end of the year we'll have a better idea on exactly what the split will be.
Research Division</strong> And second if I could on the $70 million and your aggregate cash spending how are you getting the organization to think about the payback period for all this capital that you're allocating towards -- it seems to make a lot of sense in terms of the structural changes that you're undergoing there.
But I'm curious on the payback.
And also Al if you could just comment on the last question on Southern Europe.
The grape harvest in the trade publications have been reported as very very poor.
And just I'm kind of curious on what your thoughts are there as it reflects -- as it relates to your business.
Yes I would say as far as the payback is concerned typically when we make these investments we really are looking for a fairly high return.
And you'll recall from the restructuring that we did in North America I think we're looking at a 2-year payback period.
And we're following the same guidelines here as we go into Europe.
So it's a fairly high-return investment that we're making and that we expect to generate with the money that we're spending there.
Now with regard to the overall reports on the wine harvest I would say Europe has traditionally had a very well developed supply chain.
So there are a lot of imports also in the wine industry that really at times augment the overall harvest.
So I really don't think that the report of the harvest per se is going to significantly affect the bottling of wine in the course of next year.
The wine may come from different providences but that really I think is not going to have a huge impact on the overall consumption of glass.
Typically also what you would find if the market is tight and if the harvest has been tight there is a tendency on the part of the vendors to go to higher-priced wines and that gives you higher price points and that typically also gives you a higher quality and also a higher priced bottle.
And your next question is from George Staphos with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> My 2 questions are these: First of all as we think about Europe and I realize that you can't comment too much on a broader form like this Al.
Historically O-I has had a great position in southern Europe than Eastern Europe for that matter through the AVIR acquisition way back when.
Certainly Southern Europe isn't doing terribly well right now for the macro reasons but it's historically it's been a very good market because of the end markets and glasses mix within these markets versus other packaging substrates.
Do you think if in fact you need to reduce production in places like Italy and Spain and Portugal that you might be able to serve those economically speaking from places like Eastern Europe? Or can you give us a little bit more color in terms of how that footprint might evolve? The second question is going into this year if I recall the view was that you wanted to produce more evenly over the course of the year to take out the fluctuations in your business perhaps smooth out the absorption certainly this year perhaps demand wasn't as much as you'd expected so you have this inventory reduction in the second half.
Do you expect to produce at a more even level again next year? Or do you think you'd be producing more in line with the seasonal demand swings? All right let me start out with question #2.
I think the curve next year will develop a little bit differently than we saw this year because we will approach it a bit differently.
So I think we'll most probably not see the strength in our earnings in the first half we've seen this year.
We will have a more balanced approach as we go into the year to even out some of these variations because I'm sure they create consternation on the part of investors.
And we can most probably manage that a bit better than we have done.
The other part with regard to shipping from other locations I think it really varies from segment to segment.
I would say we have seen a clear tendency over the past decade or so for food products to move more East because of the competitive nature of that business and that volume has then eventually disappeared from let's say France or from the Netherlands or from Germany.
And today those markets can well be served from the Eastern regions at a very economical basis.
When you talk about Italy when you talk about France or Spain it's really the wine industry that is affected there.
And as you know they're very small customers.
They very often do not have long lead times.
They do not have great visibility about their supply chain.
So it really requires a very interactive process with their suppliers and I would be reluctant to move that volume out of that region.
Now we still have within the countries opportunities to optimize our footprint like Italy as you can imagine has a very long geography.
And so clearly there are opportunities to get closer to the wine regions with some of the capacity we presently have in place.
And also in France there are opportunities to move closer to some of the wine regions.
So I think it's really a mix of making sure that we understand where the benefits are going to be from a cost structure and the second point is where the benefits are going to be from a logistics and service structure.
And your next question is from Scott Gaffner with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Just following up on that question on a more level production schedule going forward.
Do you see any structural impediments whether it's in Europe North America even in Asia Pacific or South America around moving to a more level production strategy in the longer-term? And do you think there's any way that you can more efficiently and expeditiously pull back on production or capacity when you do see lower demands that you don't have this under-absorption issue? Well Scott one of the big issues of course for us is we're a highly fixed-cost-based operation and we have to run our facilities basically 24 hours 365 days to really optimize the asset.
We already do have an issue in that there is in all regions a seasonality involved.
So we in fact do have at certain periods of time let's say in the fourth quarter towards the end of the quarter and in the beginning of the first quarter we do have overcapacity.
And so it's for us a trade-off between how are we going to utilize capacity and how much working capital can we load ourselves up with to anticipate demand going into the year.
And sometimes that can backfire as we saw this year.
We thought that we were going to have a more stable environment in Europe.
We were wrong and we had to make a correction then and it was a significant correction.
So unlike the aluminum industry or the plastic packaging industry that really is only a conversion industry and is really only at the front end of the entire supply chain we are the supply chain and that makes it a lot more difficult to adjust.
So we are of course spending quite a bit of effort than  time in having a better S&amp;OP process in our operations to get to the greatest efficiency we can achieve given the fundamentals of our business.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just looking at the share that you -- that some of your competitors took early on in the year maybe take advantage of price gain do you think that you'll actually be able to get some of that share back in 2013 or is that incorporated in your capacity reduction targets for 2012? Well we've seen similar situations.
When I go back to 2007 and we saw a gradual recovery of those things over the next 2 or 3 years.
So I'm sure there's going to be some give and take in the marketplace.
We'll see on what really is going to happen in Italy what's going to happen in Spain because the whole market demand is most probably going to influence significantly the behavior of our local competitors there.
And your next question is from Alex Ovshey with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> On total capital spend this year you said CapEx is $350 million and then the incremental cost for the footprint is $50 million.
Is that right? Alex can you say that again? The incremental cost for the footprint? Research Division</strong> For the footprint savings that you guys are doing in Australia and Europe is $50 million.
No no no.
The total size -- the total capital spending target for 2012 is $350 million and that encompasses all spending.
Research Division</strong> That encompasses all spending? Yes.
The $50 million that we had referred to when we announced the Australian program 15 18 months ago we anticipated over the life of that program that the total spending would be about $50 million in cash.
So the component of that spending that is reflected in 2012 is a part of the $350 million.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Got it.
That's helpful Stephen.
So I'm looking forward to '13.
The goal is to hold the line in that $350 million so the spend for footprint goes to $70 million then.
The core number the core CapEx number then has to go down by about $20 million.
The component -- conceptually we're still in the middle of the budgeting progress obviously.
So we will have to work through the mechanics of it but we would certainly anticipate managing total capital plus total restructuring spending in such a way obviously that we can meet the cash flow target for 2013.
But in general the sum of those 2 should be roughly comparable on a year-over-year basis again because we don't exactly know the split of the $70 million between restructuring and capital at this point.
But the sum of the 2 will be roughly comparable.
Research Division</strong> Got it helpful.
And just the last question.
What is the low end of your target leverage? It's 2x.
We use a 2x to 3x net debt-to-EBITDA range.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
So you'll continue to pay down debt until you get to about 2x? Yes something close to it.
Correct.
And your next question is from the line of Al Kabili with Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Just on South America you mentioned some of the headwinds on transportation and related to that the new furnace in Brazil.
I was wondering if you could help us quantify what those headwinds are.
We're in the third quarter.
How much of that spills into the fourth quarter? Well I think as we look at the fourth quarter we will of course see relief with regard to transportation costs because we've can now produce out of the facility in Southern Brazil.
But that is tampered with startup cost that we are still going to see and perhaps some production inefficiencies as we are in a startup phase.
So it's very difficult to quantify specifically to that location and to that country.
What we are seeing is that Brazil continues to have a fairly high demand at this point in time so it may very well be depending on what the programs are going to be that the brewers put in place for the market share and for the market preparation for next year.
We may also see some higher demand again which would force us to continue to do some imports during that period of time.
So that's at this point in time the uncertainty.
But as I said in my comments the fourth quarter EBIT margin for Latin America should exceed the third quarter level.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Okay.
And then hopefully go up next year as these sort of headwinds abate? Yes I mean Brazil as I said will continue to be a significant driver of growth in Latin America also next year.
And we have clearly defined our target that we should always have a lower capacity in Brazil than the market demand is because Brazil is a very high-cost country.
And if I have unutilized capacity in Brazil I cannot ship it anywhere else economically.
So I've got to make sure that we balance it correctly so I do not have underutilized asset in a fairly high-cost market.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
Okay.
And then a follow-up is just on under-production.
Can you just help us with sort of where you see the fourth quarter as far as the headwind on under-production.
And will your inventories -- I assume your inventories at that point will be where you want them so as we think to next year we wouldn't expect a headwind on under-production.
And is there a potential tailwind in that regard? Let me answer the second part of that first.
We certainly anticipate our year-end inventory levels will be at a level that matches market demand by that point in time.
That's absolutely what we're aiming for.
In terms of the negative impact of the production curtailment we would expect the fourth quarter to be roughly comparable to what we saw in the third quarter the regional mix will change a little bit.
Europe gets a little bit better North America gets a little bit worse us because we're taking some more seasonal downtime in North America.
But the total will be roughly the same.
And your next question is from Mark Wilde with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> This is actually Debbie Jones for Mark Wilde.
My question is if we could go back to China kind of excluding New Zealand and Australia what kind of trends you're seeing in that region? I think that a lot of your competitors reported some slowing in the region and I know a few years ago you had a few more robust expansion plans for that region which really haven't played out.
So I'm just kind of curious if you think about this region over the next 1 to 3 years what your strategy is what your goals might be and how this will support your mid-teens EBIT target.
Yes Debbie.
I mean clearly as you indicated China overall growth is slowing a bit so we're deferring some investments in China for the time being just like other companies are doing.
We still see China as an important market for O-I to have a presence in and we believe at this point in time it's prudent to slow further expansions for a while until we can get a better understanding of the underlying growth rates.
Now still at this point in time of course we remain focused on integrating recent acquisitions especially in the north of China.
But I also want to make sure we keep it in perspective keep China in perspective.
I mean whether we look at share of asset base share of company sales or share of company volumes China only represents 2% to 4% of the company in any of those categories.
So whatever the developments in China are going to be we will be able to adjust our operations we'll be able to adjust our approach and make sure it does not really impact the overall performance of the company.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And do you see any change in your customer mix in that region over the next 2 years? What we are seeing is a demand for higher quality and for lighter-weight containers which clearly require technology that's not yet readily available in the China market.
But China as you know is very competitive.
So even though there is the desire to get to a higher quality there is a much less level of willingness to pay for new technology in the marketplace.
And I think that will have to work its way through over the next couple of years.
And you're next question is from Chris Manuel with Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just 2 real quick questions and then one bigger picture question.
The 2 quick questions the first is Steve a couple of times you've alluded to a target for 2013 free cash flow.
Can you expand on that and tell us what it is? Partially we're -- again -- we're still in the budget process and so we don't have a specific number yet.
But we're certainly working with the expectation that we need to deliver a higher free cash flow number than what the 2012 ultimate deliverable will be.
So we can tell you the direction is higher the specifics we're probably a month or so away from getting through that process.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
The other -- well the bigger picture question I wanted to ask is Al as you think about -- I look back over the last let's call it 8 years since you bought BSN in 2004 and put the European business together and did some -- obviously some optimization as you put the business together at that time some reorganization as you put those together.
I think back to 2007 2008 as you went from the dozen-or-so operating entities into one O-I in Europe for further kind of refining restructuring reorganization if you will.
And then I think about further reorganization restructuring that you did through the downturn.
So this will represent what your -- the program you're undertaking or beginning here or have begun will kind of represent the forth and the last let's call it 8 9 10 years.
But yet over this timeframe margins have with a couple of exceptions pretty consistently been in that 11-ish percent range.
What gives you confidence or is there something structurally -- first of all there's something structurally different in the European market that makes this so difficult that you kind of consistently burn a lot of calories working on the business there number one.
And number 2 maybe what gives you comfort of confidence that the efficacy of this program will in fact improve our profitability or margins in that region or is this just kind of an ongoing every few years type of an event? Okay.
Let me try to address it.
That's a very wide question of course.
But let me try to touch on some of the key components.
I think Europe is fundamentally a different market than North America and that we have in North America a concentration of suppliers and a concentration of customers.
In Europe we have a very broad distribution of suppliers.
I think they're 50 competitors in Europe compared to what 3 or 4 or 5 here in the United States.
And also the customer base in Europe is a much broader dispersed customer base with a lot of customers with an agricultural background whether it's [indiscernible] or whether it's food customers and so on.
And so much more dispersed.
So that makes it a much more difficult market even though the 3 largest suppliers in Europe may account for 60 or close to 70% market share.
The dynamics are quite different.
Also many of these small manufacturers operate with a different scenario.
Basically their market is defined as to what they see around their church tower.
And if that market is not doing well then they place some volumes somewhere else and really don't worry too much about the impact that may have on overall market tendencies or market behavior.
And so we will constantly have incursions into existing positions in case some of the demand profile of these customers in their own home market so to speak varies and disappears.
And that creates competitive pressures that we do not necessarily see reflected in North America.
The other part and it ties into the same issue is that we did make significant acquisitions over the last couple of years and -- or the last decade.
And we basically said we're consolidating.
While we basically did agglomerate we did not necessarily consolidate.
The process that we're going through now is really the consolidation process.
And what we typically find is that only the large suppliers are really the consolidators.
Many of the small suppliers will not cannot consolidate because there is nothing to consolidate.
They're either in business or they're out of business.
So typically what we find is these manufacturing facilities stay around forever.
Companies may go bankrupt.
Companies may lose their license for success and give up but eventually the asset gets picked up by somebody else.
So the market is quite different.
I feel that what we're trying to do and what we're putting in place and have been put in place is get to a competitive position that allows us to deal with people that may have a different fundamental approach to the business and that gives me the confidence that we're going to be able to succeed with this.
Also I recall that when I joined in 2006 our margin in Europe was 8%.
And today as you said over the last couple of years it's been around 11% to 12% or so.
And I would say given the macroeconomic conditions around the world during that period of time I think it is a reasonable performance.
It's certainly not what I expected.
I expected it to be higher.
But I would hope that with the steps that we're taking we're certainly going to get closer to this mid-teen range that I had indicated.
And your next question is from the line of Alton Stump with Longbow Research.
Can you just talk a little bit about contract pricing for next year? Obviously it's still early so I'm sure negotiations have just gotten underway.
But is there any read on if we could see pricing go higher again in Europe? Or is there a concern on obviously that we see weak demand this year is there a concern on that you may not get more pricing next year? Alton when I look at what the companies that typically will report their results have been saying in Europe is that I would say most of our competitors perhaps with one exception or so have said they have not been able to recover inflation.
So given the ongoing inflation there most probably is some pent-up demand for additional pricing that they were not able to get this year.
We are still very early in the game at this point in time.
We have seen some action from smaller competitors that are out there in the mid-single digits as far as demand is concerned.
We really have to see over the next 2 months on how that is going to evolve.
I believe we're in a fairly good position as we go into those negotiations because we have really not wavered from our approach over the past couple of years.
So our customer base knows what the approach will be.
And I believe we will be at a very good position to make sure that we stay ahead or par with inflation as we go forward.
Okay.
And then one quick follow-up to that.
Is it safe to say that you plan to continue to put pricing ahead of volume in Europe next year? Clearly I think that what ultimately counts is the profitability of the business.
And that is the issue that we're going to look at as we do every year.
Now pricing is of course one component.
Cost is another component.
So it's really within the force field of those 2 components that we have to operate.
And your next question is from Todd Wenning with MorningStar.
Research Division</strong> Have you seen any initial effects in your North American business from the recent merger elsewhere in the U.S.
glass industry? No we really have not.
I believe when I read the report that was issued when the acquisition took place was that the company was running at a fairly high utilization rate.
And I think that's also reflective of what we're seeing overall in the market.
The market is pretty well balanced at this point in time with periods of tightness during the summer month.
But I have not seen any significant shifts in either demand or in supply in the region and I don't expect there will be.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then in Europe should we think about the drivers there sort of being 40% macro 40% pricing and 20% competition? Or is the ratio somewhat different? No.
What we saw this year that's about right.
And your last question is from the line of Chip Dillon with Vertical Research.
Research Division</strong> One thing I wanted to ask you is what is the rough breakout in Europe of your customer demand for beer  versus wine and spirits? And maybe other in food? I may ask somebody to help me.
But I believe beer is around 20% to 25% wine is around 35% to 40% then food is around 15% to 20% and then the rest is non-alcoholic beverages and water and spirits.
Got you.
And one thing I wanted to ask you as a follow-up is in September when I was over in Europe there's a company Smurfit Kappa that is adding capacity in Spain for a concept that they described as wine in a bag I guess where you have some kind of a plastic bag in a corrugated box.
And it sounds quite odd to us here in America but they claim that they're a major share like north of 20% of the wine sold in France which surprised me is sold in such a way in more than I guess a 1-liter configuration like you have -- or I'm sorry in bigger quantities than you have in bottles.
And is that a source of significant competition as you see -- as your customers might be substituting into this other concept? Well bag-in-box as it is called has been around for quite a number of years.
And in fact when we go back to Australia for instance a significant portion of the Australian wine business was bag-in-box for many decades and has gradually moved away more into glass.
Similarly in Argentina we have seen Tetra Pak as well as bag-in-box as a large volume of wine and it tends to now move back to glass.
I would say there is a spot for this business.
Very often big boxes are trying to promote bag-in-box because it requires less shelf space and it sells large volume because typically it's a gallon of wine or so that's in there.
But it's a very low-price product typically and so there may be a place for it.
And particularly I would say during economic hard times the consumer would typically buy 4 bottles or 5 bottles may try to say "Okay I will not give up on my wine but I want to buy it more inexpensively." And he would tend to go and possibly look for a bag-in-box alternative.
But we have not seen a really dramatic or significant shifts in market share around the world because it's not just in Europe.
The phenomenon is virtually present everywhere to some degree.
Thank you everyone.
That concludes our third quarter earnings conference call.
Please note that our next earnings call is currently scheduled for Thursday January 31 2013 at 8:30 a.m.
Eastern time.
We appreciate your interest in O-I.
Again thank you.
And don't forget that glass is the most sustainable packaging choice.
Thank you for participating in today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Angela and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the O-I Fourth Quarter and Fiscal Year 2012 Earnings Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder if you're having trouble viewing the slides in the webcast browser please refresh your screen.
Thank you.
I would now like to turn the call over to Mr.
Dave Johnson Vice President of Investor Relations.
You may begin your conference.
[Audio Gap] Thank you Dave.
And good morning.
Our results for the fourth quarter were in line with our expectations.
We achieved adjusted earnings of $0.40 per share and we generated significantly higher free cash flow than in the fourth quarter of 2011.
Sales and operating profit in the quarter were down primarily due to sluggish macroeconomic conditions in Europe.
For the year adjusted earnings were $2.64 per share up from $2.43 per share in 2011.
Global sales prices were up more than 4% while shipments declined by 5% again largely due to the market conditions in Europe.
We made very good progress in our efforts to repair profitability in our North American and Asia Pacific regions in 2012.
This drove our full year segment earnings up $35 million from 2011.
Free cash flow for the year was $290 million higher than the target of $250 million that we had communicated previously.
This 30% increase over prior year was driven by higher earnings and strong working capital management.
We also continued to use cash to pay down debt further increasing shareholder value.
Now let's review the operating performance of our regional businesses starting with Europe on Chart 3.
As we have said many times over the past 1.5 years Europe faced persistent macroeconomic challenges throughout the year which impacted our results in the region.
Currency alone for instance dampened our U.S.
dollar sales conversion by more than 7%.
On the upside our focus on price and mix throughout 2012 yielded benefits that allowed for the recovery of most of the margin erosion that we experienced in the previous year.
Shipment levels however were down 9% from 2011 driven by weakness in the wine and food end markets.
We experienced share shift to smaller competitors in the first half of the year as a result of our margin repair strategy but our market share has remained steady since the middle of last year.
In response to slowing sales we curtailed production in several locations in Europe in 2012.
This along with $22 million in currency headwinds resulted in lower year-over-year operating profit.
Turning to 2013.
Macroeconomic uncertainty in the eurozone is expected to continue.
While only partially through our customer negotiation process on balance we expect price increases to cover inflation and we expect stable shipment levels for the year.
And we may also have targeted opportunities to recover some of the business that was lost last year.
Finally we're making good headway in the execution of our asset optimization program in Europe.
We have largely completed discussions with local works councils regarding select footprint adjustments that we will undertake in 2013 and we have begun investing in plants in several countries to effectively reallocate our capacity to better serve customer needs.
As this program continues we expect to begin seeing improvements in our cost structure in Europe in the second half of 2013.
Turning to North America on Chart 4.
Business conditions stabilized considerably in North America in 2012 and shipment levels were on par with the levels in 2011.
We're now realizing the benefits from the major restructuring we conducted in North America in 2010.
Operating profits increased in 2012 buoyed by significant improvements in our manufacturing and supply chain performance.
We expect to see a stable economic environment in the region in 2013 with consistent sales volumes.
Price and inflation should continue to offset each other and we expect to maintain our productivity gains.
Moving to our South American region on Chart 5.
Sales were higher in 2012 despite substantial currency headwinds.
Price increases outpaced cost inflation.
And shipments were up nearly 6% for the full year reflecting favorable socioeconomic trends especially in Brazil.
To meet this growth we constructed the new furnace in Southern Brazil and began to ramp up production in the fourth quarter.
This illustrates our disciplined approach to capital in the region.
Our buffer strategy calls for supplying local Brazilian growth with regional production.
And once demand will completely fill a new capacity we will build a furnace locally.
Segment profit was down for the year despite the top line growth.
We faced currency headwinds of approximately $14 million.
And profit was also impacted by startup costs associated with the new furnace and the acceleration of a furnace rebuild in Brazil that otherwise would've taken place in the first quarter of 2013.
We expect continued volume growth of mid single digits in South America in 2013.
Price should continue to cover inflation and the bottom line will be helped by lower logistics cost as a result of the new furnace in Brazil.
Finishing now with the Asia Pacific region on Chart 6.
As expected sluggish market conditions in Australia and New Zealand and slower market growth in China resulted in lower shipment levels in the region in 2012.
However we made solid progress on our Australian restructuring program and successfully implemented numerous cost-savings initiatives.
Overall these actions boosted segment operating profit in Asia Pacific by more than 35% compared to 2011.
Looking forward in Australia and New Zealand we see continued challenging demand conditions.
The offshoring of Australian wine bottling appears to be in its latter stages but not yet complete.
Beer shipments will likely remain sluggish due to weak demand.
And the strong Australian dollar and high local production costs have led to increased imports of food and beverage products suppressing domestic production which of course impacts our customers.
On balance we believe 2013 market conditions will largely mimic conditions in 2012 but we do expect to see lower costs as a result of our Australian restructuring activity.
Our business in China has been affected by the slowing of economic growth in that country.
We recently completed a strategic review of our business there and while we continue to believe that O-I must have a presence in this large and important market we are challenged to consistently meet our expected returns in certain areas of the business.
That is not that much different from what other multinational companies are experiencing in that marketplace.
As a result we are focusing our efforts on the integration of our business in Northern China and deferring expansion plans unless we receive firm demand commitments particularly from our multinational customers.
During the quarter we closed 1 of our 3 plants in the northern part of China to consolidate our operations and to improve profitability.
And we will continue to assess our options in China on an ongoing basis and I -- and we will take additional action as warranted in the future.
I will now turn the call over to Steve who will provide additional perspective on our financial performance in the fourth quarter.
Thank you Al.
And good morning.
I'm making comments on Chart 7 where we have the financial review for the quarter.
In the first column fourth quarter 2012 segment sales were $1.7 billion.
Price and mix in the quarter were up $95 million or more than 5% from the prior year.
Lower sales volumes decreased the top line by $108 million in the fourth quarter.
This decline was largely driven by Europe where volumes came in a bit softer than expected as customers in that region aggressively managed their year-end working capital.
This decline was partially offset by continued volume gains in South America.
Finally currency translation reduced the top line by $29 million in the quarter primarily due to devaluation of the Brazilian real.
Moving over to the second column.
Segment operating profit in the fourth quarter was $164 million down $36 million from the same period last year.
Globally price and mix improvement stayed ahead of inflation by $50 million this quarter.
This helped us recapture some of last year's unrecovered inflation.
Lower sales volumes impacted segment profit by $28 million in the quarter.
Manufacturing and delivery costs rose $48 million compared with the fourth quarter of last year.
The increase was driven by higher unabsorbed fixed costs associated with production downtime in both Europe and North America.
Finally a modest rise in operating and other costs as well as the stronger U.S.
dollar also impacted operating profit in the fourth quarter.
Moving to the last column on the chart.
As Al noted earlier we achieved adjusted earnings of $0.40 per share in the quarter compared with $0.48 last year.
Operating profit driven by the items we just discussed was down $0.18 from the prior year.
Nonoperational items were favorable by $0.10 a share.
Efforts to reduce debt levels resulted in lower interest expense yielding benefits to EPS.
Our low fourth quarter effective tax rate was impacted by several discrete items.
In addition to a tax benefit that we received due to a tax settlement in Europe we also had to true-up our annual provision in the quarter to reflect our actual earnings mix for the year.
Let me shift for a moment my comment to GAAP EPS highlighting the items contained in the Note 1 table in our press release.
Our annual evaluation of our asbestos-related liability resulted in a $155 million charge in the fourth quarter.
As we previously had communicated we also recorded restructuring and asset impairment charges of approximately $121 million in the fourth quarter.
Most of these charges related to our European restructuring activities although there were also costs associated with the closing of the plant in Northern China which Al already mentioned.
We have now received all of the approximately $80 million in proceeds on the sale of our former Guangzhou property in China so we recorded an associated $33 million gain in the fourth quarter.
Please note that approximately $12 million of the $19 million in minority interest recorded in the quarter is related to this gain in China as that business is a joint venture.
Excluding this onetime benefit minority interest otherwise is $7 million in the quarter.
And finally we recorded a $14 million benefit for tax-related matters during the quarter.
We anticipate incurring an approximately $10 million additional charge in the first quarter of 2013 related to the previously announced restructuring activity in Europe.
This is simply due to the timing of recognition required by the accounting rules.
Let's move to Chart 8 for more detail on our balance sheet and our free cash flow.
I am very pleased to report that we are making continued progress in strengthening our financial flexibility via an improving balance sheet.
At the end of 2012 our net debt was $3.3 billion.
That's down nearly $300 million from 2011.
We made improvements on several fronts.
Our cash balance was higher and thanks largely to debt repayment our gross debt declined by approximately $260 million.
Exiting the fourth quarter our net debt-to-EBITDA leverage ratio was 2.67x.
This is an improvement over the fourth quarter of 2011 well within our target range of 2x to 3x EBITDA and consistent with our expectations.
Shifting to cash flow.
We generated $290 million of free cash flow in 2012.
That is up more than 30% from the prior year.
This improvement was driven by working capital which was a greater source of cash in the fourth quarter this year largely due to production curtailments taken in Europe.
In addition capital expenditures came in at $290 million for the year.
It is important to mention that we completed $330 million worth of engineering projects during 2012.
However a considerable share of vendor payments for those projects were not required until the first quarter of 2013.
This spending is fully reflected on our balance sheet as capital.
As you can see by the chart on the right free cash flow levels have nearly tripled over the past 3 years.
After investing heavily in growth in 2010 we have been focused on growing free cash flow back to the $300 million-plus levels that we generated in the 2007-to-2009 time frame.
We are pleased with the direction of our free cash flow performance in 2012 and are firmly committed to growing it further in 2013.
We will remain disciplined in our capital allocation continuing to primarily focus on deleveraging.
We anticipate that our share repurchases will primarily take place in the second half of 2013 when cash flow is seasonally higher.
Let me now turn to Chart 9 and review 2 significant legacy items that impact our free cash flow and balance sheet: asbestos and pension.
In line with the trend over the past 5 years annual payments and new filings related to asbestos continued to decline.
As part of our normal practice during the fourth quarter of 2012 we conducted our annual review of asbestos-related liability and as mentioned earlier recorded a charge of $155 million.
This was 6% below last year's charge.
We currently expect our 2013 asbestos-related payments to be approximately $155 million.
Overall our outlook remains consistent.
Asbestos is a limited and declining liability for O-I.
Next let's review pension which has been a significant burden on earnings since 2008.
I will remind you that pension expense in 2012 was a nearly $0.50 drag on our adjusted EPS of $2.64.
Turning to pension funding.
Like many other companies low discount rates have increased our underfunded pension liability over the past several years.
With this in mind and given our excellent cash flow generation in 2012 we elected to make approximately $125 million in discretionary pension contributions at the end of 2012 to reduce this underfunded liability.
This action will help reduce future required contributions.
In 2013 we currently expect pension payments of approximately $75 million.
Turning to our outlook on Chart 10.
Overall we expect to deliver higher adjusted earnings and to generate increased free cash flow in 2013.
With regard to price and inflation we expect broad-based price gains to keep pace with inflation of approximately $150 million to $175 million primarily driven by higher labor and energy costs.
In terms of sales volume shipment levels will vary by region in 2013 yet should be slightly up overall.
Continued organic growth in South American volumes will contrast to the stable volume environment we expect in North America and Europe.
With respect to other manufacturing and delivery costs our efforts to reduce these costs will continue to take hold and gain traction in 2013.
We expect approximately $35 million in restructuring-related benefits to operating earnings phased toward the second half of the year.
Furthermore our new furnace in Brazil should add approximately $15 million to South American operating profit in 2013.
For other costs at the corporate level we anticipate approximately $25 million of higher costs during 2013 primarily due to an increase in pension expense as well as increased research and development investments.
Due to our success in deleveraging interest expense is expected to decrease approximately $10 million in 2013 and our 2013 effective tax rate should be approximately 25%.
Moving to adjusted earnings.
In order to better align internal and external expectations we have decided to share our outlook for adjusted earnings and free cash flow assuming steady foreign exchange rates and consistent macroeconomic conditions with our current environment.
For the full year 2013 we currently expect our adjusted earnings to range between $2.60 and $3 per share.
Our base case scenario suggests that adjusted earnings per share in 2013 will modestly exceed the $2.64 that we generated in 2012.
However macroeconomic volatility may of course push our earnings to either end of the range.
And finally with regard to free cash flow we expect to generate at least $300 million of free cash flow in 2013.
Keep in mind that our seasonal business patterns generally mean that we will use cash in the first half of the year especially in the first quarter and then generate significant cash in the second half of the year.
Note that working capital is expected to become a modest use of cash in 2013 driven primarily by higher shipment and production levels.
In 2013 capital spending should be approximately $340 million which is $10 million more than the level of capital investments that we completed in 2012.
Our capital plans include all anticipated spending required by our settlement with the Environmental Protection Agency in North America last year.
Restructuring spending will be approximately $100 million largely driven by our European asset optimization program.
I will now turn the call back to Al in order to review our outlook for the first quarter of 2013 and to make some closing remarks.
Al? Yes thanks Steve.
Let's start with Europe.
As you may recall sales volumes in the first quarter of 2012 were strong due to higher demand from the anticipated Olympics and the soccer championships as well as customer prebuying in anticipation of higher prices.
In the first quarter of 2013 by contrast volumes are likely to be dampened by the carryover impact of share shift in the region which largely took place in the second quarter of last year as well as the lack of meaningful recovery and end-use demand.
Overall we expect European sales volumes to be down by a mid-single-digit percentage in the first quarter of 2013 compared to the prior year quarter.
For the rest of the year we expect shipments to be on par with the prior year.
Although we are early in the customer negotiation process we do expect that price increases will cover cost inflation.
We're also planning to smooth-out production when possible throughout the year.
As a result in the first quarter Europe will not benefit from the $15 million to $20 million of fixed cost absorption from higher production experienced in the same period last year.
In all continuing macroeconomic uncertainty and a very high-comparable period will likely push European segment operating profit significantly below the first quarter of 2012.
In fact we will likely see the first quarter of 2013 European operating profit come in in-line or somewhat below the quarter -- first quarter of '11 -- 2011 levels which was more representative of our typical seasonal earnings pattern.
In North America we expect our underlying operations to continue to perform well albeit against a challenging first quarter 2012 comparable.
Last year the first quarter benefited from unseasonably warm weather we had no furnace rebuilds and relatively high production.
In the first quarter of 2013 we expect sales volumes to decline slightly.
We will conduct several major furnace rebuilds and endeavor to smooth-out production throughout the year.
As a result we expect that operating earnings will be modestly lower compared with the same period in the prior year.
In Asia Pacific we expect similar sluggish sales volumes particularly in Australia and New Zealand.
However we do expect to see continued benefits from the fixed cost savings measures we instituted in 2012.
Overall we expect Asia Pacific's operating profit in the first quarter to be flat with the prior year quarter.
And finally in South America operating profit will likely be slightly higher in the first quarter compared to the prior year period.
Shipment levels should be fairly consistent with 2012 with some upside.
And lower logistics costs should result in higher year-over-year profit in this region.
Overall adjusted earnings are expected to be lower year-over-year in the first quarter.
However the company should perform at a modestly higher level than in the first quarter of 2011 which also reflected ongoing challenging macroeconomic conditions yet with a more normalized production path.
So to summarize.
In 2012 we delivered cash flow that exceeded expectations.
Our capital allocation remains disciplined.
Deleveraging continues to be our top priority followed by limited share repurchases.
And the outlook for next year -- for this year is solid.
We expect to generate more than $300 million in free cash flow and our baseline scenario calls for increasing earnings.
We all look forward to sharing more details with you regarding our longer-term outlook and strategic plans at the upcoming Investor Day which is scheduled to take place the morning of February 14 in New York City.
Thank you.
And now I will ask Angela to open up the lines for your questions.
Angela? [Operator Instructions] Your first question is from the line of Chris Manuel with Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> A couple of questions for you.
As we start with South America I recognize it was down a bit here and you talked about some furnace rebuilds and things of that nature.
But as we look into 2013 you talked about some improvement from the furnace but -- from the Brazil furnace being up and running but could you maybe give us a little more color as to how you would anticipate the full year shaking out? I mean I would think -- or how much the impact may have shifted maybe from the furnace from 4Q to 1Q the back and forth there to give us a sense.
With strong volumes I'd have anticipated a little bit better performance there.
I guess that's where I'm coming from.
We overall expect for this coming -- or for this year in Latin America continued growth in the mid single digits.
And to support that growth and to accommodate that pattern and potential upside surprises that may happen or may not but we need to be ready we decided to move the repair of the furnace that was scheduled for the first quarter of 2013 early -- earlier into the fourth quarter of 2012.
And that of course did have an impact on our cost structures for the quarter but we felt it was much better to be ready and prepared for a continuing strong demand.
As you know Brazil has been struggling overall as an economy over the last year to show any growth but our growth pattern in the market has continued to be extremely strong.
What we've seen is that many of our beer customers have really decided -- clearly decided to promote glass in particular returnable glass containers as the main driver for their marketing efforts.
And that's clearly reflected in the pattern that we see going forward.
So I would look forward to a very solid 2013 in Latin America with -- benefiting from the fact that they now have the additional furnace that we have avoided the furnace rebuild in the first quarter and clearly we'll see the continued growth of the marketplace.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
So I guess my follow-up with that is as we look at the -- kind of the margin trajectory down there is it reasonable to think that with some of the timing of things that we could get back to something that's in the more traditional low 20s as a margin percentage there? Yes that's correct.
And your next question is from the line of George Staphos with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to take my 2 questions really more on a couple of bigger picture questions.
And first of all I also want to say thank you very much not only for the details in the slide deck but for also making the call a half-hour earlier.
It makes everyone's lives a little bit earlier today -- easier today.
Al strategy adapts over time.
When you came in the strategy was built around fixing pricing for Owens-Illinois.
As time went on the strategy moved to investing for growth in areas where you thought it was important to grow.
I know maybe we'll cover a little bit of this on the 14th but 2 to 3 years from now what do you hope O-I will have achieved strategically? What do you expect the company to look like then from an operating standpoint really? I'm not talking about earnings per share or margins right now necessarily.
What is it you hope to achieve in terms of a strategy and an operating approach? And then I had a follow-on.
Okay well we will of course give more detail and talk specifically at our Investor Day about the longer-term outlook.
But ultimately despite all the changing framework under which we operate the objective has always been for this business to get to a position where our glass business our glass containers can compete effectively with other alternative packaging products.
And that means not always just a cost issue but that also means an appeal issue.
That means an innovative approach is required and sometimes to create new opportunities for our customers.
But I believe the changes that you've seen over the last couple of years is we clearly had to repair margins as we started out on this journey in 2007.
Now our strategy did have to change somewhat because of course we went through a major economic challenge over the period between 2008 and 2012 with regard to underlying demand with regard to financial markets and so on.
And that clearly took out let's say 1 or 2 percentage of underlying growth out of the marketplace which in other cases may not be that relevant but in a market and in a business that's so dependent on volume and load that is a significant burden.
And you heard from Steve earlier that if you compare our $2.64 we achieved and you put into perspective then the additional $0.50 of pension expense and compare that number with the top of our performance at 2008 I believe our strategy has been adjusting very well to these changing market conditions and allowed the company to really drive towards a positioning and towards a placement in the market that is very beneficial for us.
And we will continue to base our projections and to base our expectations for the future on that experience and on those insights that we have gained.
Take just as an example North America: We did the restructuring in 2010.
And right now 2 years later which of course is for many a very long time frame but in this business that's the normal time frame in which you see cause and effect you see how effective this action has been.
And that's what we will continue to pursue as we go forward.
Research Division</strong> Sure.
And that's behind the change in the manufacturing model and changes in Europe in terms of getting to the next couple of years.
Absolutely.
Research Division</strong> The other question I had for you: Over the last several years the management team at Owens-Illinois has changed a fair amount.
How do you feel about the team in place and the depth? Are there any areas where you still need to add talent? Or do you feel pretty set with the team and good about the team looking forward? Well what we've tried to put in place is a learning organization.
And a learning organization will constantly need new impetus and new ideas and new concepts as well as new skills.
And so we've been putting quite a bit of effort in making sure that we are training our people we're giving our people opportunities to grow and get that experience base.
But it also was clear that there were certain capabilities which we called step-out capabilities because we really didn't have a very strong base for those in our business and in our company to bring those step-out capabilities into the organization.
And I'm very pleased with the changes that we've made over the past 2 years and the caliber of people that we've been able to attract which I believe is going to bode extremely well for our performance as we go forward.
And your next question is from the line of Alex Ovshey with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Can you talk about the share loss that you think you experienced in Europe in 2012 and whether or not you see an opportunity to get some of that back in 2013 and beyond? Well as we have said in the past couple of sessions the share loss has been predominantly in the southern part of Europe where first of all there were very weak market conditions.
So local manufacturers that do not have a position outside of their specific country of course have not a lot of alternatives to place volume somewhere else if demand is down.
And we most probably saw a much stronger reaction by the smaller manufacturers to try to load their plants and to fill their plants.
What we have seen from the few that do publicly report is dramatic compaction of margins during that same period of time.
And what we are hearing clearly and some of you have reported on this already is that there is really a need of those smaller manufacturers now also to increase prices again.
So I would say typically in Europe we negotiate always for one year.
And if we are off in the one or other year we have an opportunity to correct.
And as I mentioned in my prepared remarks we see some opportunities in the one or other case to get some of that volume back but we also have to keep in mind that we have to make sure that our margins do not suffer.
So it's going to be a balancing act as we go forward.
So far we have negotiated about I would say more than 1/2 of our contracts in Europe.
By the end of February we should have about 2/3 done and then the remaining typically gets cleaned up in March.
I'm very encouraged by what I'm seeing at this point in time with regard to price and with regard to recovery of inflation at this point.
Research Division</strong> That's very helpful.
And just a question on South America.
That'll be the region where you expect to see growth.
Can you just talk to us about how we should think about the incremental margin on the mid-single-digit volume growth that you expect to see in South America? Well as you know Brazil typically has a fairly high gross margin.
So what we saw for instance in the fourth quarter is of course the negative impact of that if you cannot deliver on that volume because you're rebuilding a furnace or because you're starting up a new furnace.
But I would expect that -- as I said earlier in a comment that we would expect our margins in Latin America to go back into the low 20s in the course of next year.
And your next question is from the line of Phil Gresh with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Yes my 2 questions are around what levers you guys feel you have to pull that are kind of non-macro-related.
The first one is on the earnings front.
The wide range on earnings obviously understandable.
I guess I'm wondering how much of that range is macro-dependent versus any degree of conservatism that might be there around the cost improvement opportunities you've laid out for this year.
I believe generally we have a pretty good handle on our cost capabilities because that's typically within our own hands and basically something that we can manage and make resources available for it to achieve those objectives and achieve those targets.
But the range is wide because I believe we have mentioned in earlier reports a 1% swing in volume is about a $40 million or so impact to our profitability.
Now that's not necessarily then automatically reflected in our cash flow because we can take steps to mitigate that impact from the cash flow.
So we need to balance those needs.
But that's also why the range that we've given you is a bit wider because at this point in time it's not really clear to predict with exactness what is going to happen in the European market with regard to volume evolution.
And a small change in overall percentage of sales as I said earlier can have a major impact.
So I would say it's most probably going to be driven by market factors if there is any variation than by internal factors or cost objectives.
We are very focused on enhancing our competitiveness in this business.
We have made considerable progress over the last couple of years but there still is sufficient runway for us as we go forward.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's fair.
That makes a lot of sense.
And then on -- the second question is the lever around free cash flow targeting at least $300 million this year.
The CapEx Steve you've mentioned that there's $40 million of spend to carry over related to 2012 CapEx.
So I'm just kind of wondering as we think out 2013 and beyond how do you think about long-term CapEx? Also I'm thinking of this restructuring element that I believe was going to be more like $70 million maybe that was just the European piece but you got a total of $100 million here.
So what levers you feel you have to pull around free cash flow that would be less dependent on the earnings front.
And whether this $300 million is something that continues to grow over time absent earnings growth? Okay this is Steve Bramlage.
I'll try to answer that.
So as it relates to -- let me start with the restructuring one an easy one.
We had initially indicated that the -- we would spend approximately $70 million or so specifically on the European asset optimization program in 2013.
That is still largely a good number.
The last time we had commented on it we had thought it would be about a 50-50 split in terms of capital spending and restructuring so that would imply $35 million-$35 million.
It's probably a little more shaded towards restructuring as we get a little bit further into it so maybe a $45 million-$25 million split on restructuring.
That extra restructuring money pushes up our total number.
And remember that we are still spending some restructuring dollars out of the Australia program.
We've spent about $40 million of the $50 million that we had countenanced for that entire program.
So there'll be another $10 million or so that will physically flow out of the organization in 2013.
And then in Europe we also closed 3 furnaces in 2012 that are not formally part of the European asset optimization program.
And due to the timing of the outflows for those particular negotiations with works councils some of that also flows into 2013.
So there's a mix of items in the cash flow side.
If you look at just the $300 million what are the large changes kind of on a year-over-year basis: The drags on free cash flow we do not anticipate the working capital positive that we had in 2012.
And just taking that to a modest use of cash in 2013 is about a $100 million change.
We also are guiding to a little bit higher in total CapEx restructuring number than we had spent in 2012 so that will provide another bit of a headwind.
On the tailwind side for us in almost equal amounts: We will have lower interest; we will have lower asbestos spending; and we will have significantly lower pension contributions.
We -- with our discretionary contributions at the end of the year that was over $200 million in total pension contributions in 2012 and we're currently expecting something closer to $75 million or so.
So the pension interest asbestos benefit will largely offset the change in working capital and CapEx/restructuring.
And your next question is from the line of Ghansham Panjabi with RW Baird.
Research Division</strong> It's Matt Wooten sitting in for Ghansham today.
I was hoping in Europe in terms of demand could you parse out the countries where you're experiencing the most significant pressure? And have you seen any pockets of strength at all? I would say that Europe in the first half of the year showed some strength and particularly in the first quarter in beer which really then became negative in quarters 2 3 and 4 because of overall economic concerns and the weather patterns did not shape up as well as they thought.
But throughout the year we've seen weakness in wine and particularly of course that affects then France Italy and Spain with a clearly more severe impact on Italy and Spain because also of the economic conditions and the high unemployment level.
What we are most probably going to see a little bit this year is that to replace some of this internal demand that has gone away because of economic concerns of the populations in Italy and in Spain we will see most probably some increased export activity of certain wine brands and certain wine price levels which is going to mitigate some of what we saw last year a little bit.
But consistently throughout the year we have seen an extremely strong focus on our customer base on inventory control and on working capital management.
And ultimately what we saw in the fourth quarter a significant portion of the weakness that we saw in the fourth quarter -- or stronger weakness that we saw in the fourth quarter really happened in the last week of the year because basically it stopped entirely.
I think then coming into this year we clearly see a more normalized pattern evolving again as far as overall shipments is concerned.
But I'd say it started out with Italy France and Spain initially and because they have a heavy concentration of wine it was reflected in our wine business.
But then in the course of the year the weakness also became evident in the northern regions of Europe with its beer consumption.
Research Division</strong> And then if I could twitch it to your cost inflation.
You've given guidance of $150 million to $175 million and citing increased labor costs.
Could you provide some parameters about the increase of labor costs the magnitude of that and whether it's widespread globally or if it's...
It of course varies significantly from region to region with high-inflationary regions having significantly higher adjustments on a regular basis.
I would say overall if I look at the company we're between 2.5% and 3% typically.
And your next question is from the line of Alton Stump with Longbow Research.
I think you touched on this Al quite a bit but just as far as what you're seeing so far this year on the pricing front from the competition in Europe as you compare it to this time last year would you say that the market is as rational? Is it more rational? Maybe a bit less? Any color that you can provide there? I think what we're seeing a little bit is a need for pain relief on the part of some of our competitors because they got the advantage of the volume but of course they did not really see the advantage then in the profitability.
And clearly in the southern regions where we have a proliferation of small competitors and so on we see a clear determined effort there to try to change prices in the marketplace as well.
So I think it bodes reasonably well for what we are expecting.
Okay.
And then I guess one quick follow-up as I switch over to North America.
Is there any impact either short and/or long term from the recent consolidation that we've seen now down to basically 2 players in the U.S.? Well it's very early of course to say.
The question is okay is the transaction going to take place in the way it was contemplated which of course has many factors attached to it.
We have been a consolidator for many decades in this industry.
We think it's beneficial to cost structures.
It's beneficial ultimately to our customers to have strong players in the marketplace especially with the changes and the technology changes that are required in the industry as we go forward.
But it's too early to speculate at this point in time how the deal may impact O-I directly.
And with respect to customer positioning I think we'll have to see how that plays out in the course of the year.
And your next question is from the line of Philip Ng with Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Good job on the restructuring in Australia.
And I do know -- do remember you guys mentioning bonds [ph] will be a little bit light for 2013.
But can you give us an update on how that contract negotiation is taking place in the back half of 2013? Which contract negotiation are you referring to Phil? Inc.
Research Division</strong> On the last call I think you mentioned that you had a...
With customers.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> ...sizable contract that was up for renewal in 2013.
I just wanted to see if you had an update on how that process was moving forward.
We're done with one and that's been completed.
And the other one is in its process still at this point in time.
I think we are progressing very nicely.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And I guess switching gears a little bit.
You guys do have a pretty sizable pension.
And some of the other players in this industry have obviously switched the way pension accounting where they strip out the nonoperating pension expense like Honeywell.
Is that something that you guys are looking at? I'll take that Phil.
We are -- we constantly assess what's the appropriate accounting methodology for us to be using on pension as well as many other fronts.
We actively look at the pension question each year.
We did so in 2012 as well and arrived at the conclusion at this point in time there's clearly a need for us to provide better transparency as to the impact of the pension obligation on the earnings side to us as well as what our cash requirements are.
And we will be making increased efforts with our current method of accounting to provide clarity to people on what that accounting burden from an EPS standpoint is on those legacy liabilities.
But we will not be for 2013 at least changing how we formally account for the pension.
And your next question is from the line of Scott Gaffner with Barclays Capital.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to go back to your comments on China.
You mentioned you weren't generating appropriate returns in the region and yet you said it was -- or you felt it was necessary to have the footprint there.
Can you just address why you feel you need to have that footprint there? And is there anything you can do to deal with the customers and generate the returns that are appropriate? Okay if I look at the global positioning of O-I and of the glass industry today already Asia Pacific is the largest single glass market and China is single largest market within Asia Pacific with the greatest growth potential together with Southeast Asia.
As we have seen in other industries whether it's the flat glass industry whether it's the automotive industry you have to start early and be present to be able to make your determinations as to what is appropriate for your strategy and for your presence in the marketplace to become a participant in that market.
Because the issue is going to be that 10 years from now if you are not a strong player in that market it's very difficult to remain a strong player in the global market.
And the point is going to be you never know exactly when then it is the right time to start putting money into this and to really put a lot of effort into this.
But clearly what we have seen in many other companies and even if I look at some of our multinational customers that are active in China typically their margins are not very attractive but they clearly all see the need to be there.
And we want to also be supportive of our international customer base to develop those markets and to provide these customers with the quality and reliability of the glass supplier that they are seeking.
And so we cannot be blind to those needs and we cannot be blind to our opportunities for the future.
At this point in time our -- I believe I mentioned at the last call whether it's sales whether it's overall asset base whether it's total volume is in the 2% to 4% range for each of those components of our total portfolio.
And I think that's a positioning that gives us this view that gives us this presence and that gives us the opportunity to make the decisions at the right time.
And your next question is from the line of Mark Wilde with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Al away from the -- just the continued uncertainty about volume over in Europe what would you say kind of the biggest risks are to the outlook? I would say it really is underlying demand because Europe has been -- it's such a big glass market and it has such a conviction of -- in the population of glass being the preferred packaging material and of course a very strong support by many of the governments for a recycling and returnable container concept that I believe it really is not driven by any extraneous factors of shifts to other packaging material.
It's really underlying demand and disposable income that really is going to make a difference in Europe.
And of course political or financial uncertainty has a dampening effect on overall consumption.
But I believe that as far as positioning as far as stability of the marketplace of glass as an anchor product in the packaging industry is fairly well established.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then if I could just in Latin America we spend most of the time talking about Brazil which is easily your biggest market but can you just give us some sense about sort of the countries outside of Brazil and how heavily they weight in both sales and profitability in that region? You made the moves in Argentina 2 or 3 years ago.
We haven't really heard much more about that.
Okay.
Well the Andean countries are doing very well whether it's Colombia whether it's Peru whether it's Ecuador.
What we're seeing is a pretty good evolution strong economies at this point in time strong demand a good evolution of the middle class.
And our profit margins are still very very attractive.
They tend to be higher than what we typically would see in Brazil which tends to be a more higher-cost market than the other regions.
And the evolution and demand in those areas is -- have been doing very well.
As you know from past reports Argentina is clearly going through a much more difficult economic scenario at this point in time.
Many customers and suppliers to the marketplace have difficulty getting approval for imports of products.
They have to demonstrate to the government an equal amount of exports to generate the currencies that may be made available for importing raw materials.
So we find automotive companies selling soy and selling beets to basically get export offsets against imports.
It's a difficult environment but our positioning has been pretty solid in the marketplace.
We have clearly some issues to deal with but they're more macroeconomic in that marketplace.
But Argentina offers a low-cost potential entry point into Brazil as well so we always have the safety valve of being able to move into Brazil.
And your next question is from the line of Adam Josephson with KeyBanc.
Research Division</strong> Al you talked in the last call about how because you're a fixed -- high fixed-cost operation and you have to run your facilities 24/7 to optimize them you tend to end up with overcapacity late in the fourth quarter or early in the first quarter and you run the risk of ending up with too much capacity when there's weak demand.
So you talked earlier about smoothing out production throughout the year this year.
How do you manage that in light of the issues that you discussed before? All right well there is a natural flow of course in the year with regard to demand that we will not be able to change dramatically or rapidly.
But what we saw last year was a bit unusual because we entered into the beginning of the year still with an under-accrued level of inventory for North America to carry and to take care of the demand in the second quarter which we are not seeing this year because we basically took care of our inventory needs by the end of last year.
And then of course Europe: In Europe we -- our sales in the first quarter last year were equal to the sales of the previous year so we produced at a level equal to the previous year.
And as you then saw our volumes in Europe were about 9% lower for the entirety of the year.
So it clearly shows that we misread and overproduced in that first quarter.
And that's what we're trying to avoid this year and be much more aligned with what we are seeing as needs and demands from the marketplace.
Longer term we of course do see an opportunity to use some timed shipments from one region -- or from one hemisphere to the other to help us out in demand shifts that we may see from one hemisphere to the other as well is -- in the offset of seasonality that we see in those 2 regions of the world.
So that's what we're looking at.
Whether we're going to be successful with this we will see evolving over the next year or 2.
Research Division</strong> And just one other one on the European restructuring program.
What do you expect will be the easiest and most difficult aspects of that program in terms of logistics or otherwise? I would say typically the most difficult part is to get agreement get concurrence with the trade unions with the works councils because Europe just is not such a dynamic environment that it's easy for people to find new work and new jobs.
So that's always a very difficult part and certainly much more involved than we would typically see in other regions.
The other part ultimately is going to be to -- because to remind you we're not trying to reduce capacity completely for all the plants and for all the projects where we are exiting.
We are shifting those volumes to other locations to serve our customers better.
And it's training the organization and training our people in the absorbing plants to learn how to make those bottles and to be responsive to the customer needs that creates typically the greatest level of uncertainty.
Thank you everyone.
That concludes our Fourth Quarter Earnings Call.
Please note that our First Quarter 2013 Conference Call is currently scheduled for Wednesday April 24 2013 at 8:00 a.m.
Eastern Time.
We appreciate your interest in O-I.
And remember that glass is the most sustainable packaging choice.
Thank you.
Thank you for participating in today's call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Lashana and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the O-I First Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Thank you.
I would now like to turn the call over to Mr.
Dave Johnson Vice President of Investor Relations.
You may begin your conference.
Thank you Lashana.
Good morning and welcome everyone to O-I's First Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
I'm joined today by Al Stroucken our Chairman and CEO; and Steve Bramlage our Chief Financial Officer; and several other members of our senior management team.
Today we will discuss key business developments review our financial results for the first quarter and discuss trends affecting our business in 2013.
Following our prepared remarks we'll host a question-and-answer session.
Presentation materials for this earnings call are available on the company's website at o-i.com.
Please review the Safe Harbor comments and disclosure of our use of non-GAAP financial measures included in those materials.
Unless otherwise noted the financial results we are presenting today relate to adjusted earnings which exclude certain items that management considers not representative of ongoing operations.
A reconciliation of GAAP to non-GAAP earnings can be found in our earnings press release and in the appendix to this presentation.
Today Steve will begin with a review of the quarter and Al will follow with the regional overview and outlook.
Steve? Thank you Dave and good morning.
We're pleased with our financial results for the quarter and they're quite consistent with our expectations.
We reported adjusted EPS of $0.60 in the quarter.
As anticipated our pricing actions allowed us to stay ahead of cost inflation.
Now we did face some well-known headwinds early in 2013 that made for a challenging comparable period.
First volume in the first quarter of 2012 was boosted by high demand from significant sporting events in Europe and North America experienced relatively warm weather.
Neither of those items repeated in 2013.
Second we had 2 fewer shipping days than the prior year first quarter primarily due to the timing of the Easter holiday.
And third as you may recall we had overproduced in the first half of 2012.
This led to the temporary higher absorption of fixed costs which benefited the first quarter to the detriment of the second half of the year especially in Europe.
We have worked diligently to avoid this level of overproduction in 2013.
In the first quarter of 2013 overall shipments were down 5%.
As expected the decline was led by Europe.
Note however that South America continues to be a strong performer as evidenced by expanding margins.
The region is clearly benefiting from higher volumes as well as savings on logistics from the new furnace we brought online in Brazil in late 2012.
We also continued to enhance our financial flexibility.
For those who follow the company regularly you already know this is a key priority for us.
During the quarter we successfully completed a EUR 330 million bond transaction that extends our debt maturity schedule and lowers our interest rate for the next 8 years.
We'll begin our financial review with the first quarter reconciliations for sales operating profit and EPS on Slide 3.
In the first column first quarter 2013 segment sales were $1.6 billion.
Price and mix in the quarter were up $37 million a 2% increase from prior year.
Lower sales volume decreased the top line by $86 million in the first quarter or 5%.
As I mentioned previously this decline was largely driven by Europe where last year's volume was boosted by high demand from 2 major sporting events and from the carryover impact of the share shift we experienced beginning in the second quarter of 2012.
In addition all else being equal the 2 fewer shipping days I mentioned earlier resulted in a year-over-year volume contraction of approximately 3%.
Currency translation reduced the top line by $37 million in the quarter primarily due to a 14% devaluation of the Brazilian real.
Moving over to the second column.
Segment operating profit in the first quarter was $226 million down $34 million from the same period last year.
Cost inflation was fairly moderate and was fully covered by price for the quarter.
The drop-through from lower sales volumes that I already mentioned impacted segment profit by $19 million in the quarter.
Manufacturing and delivery costs were up $29 million.
As I said in Europe and North America we had relatively high production in the first half of 2012 and substantially lower production in the second half.
This caused significant swings in this line item throughout 2012.
We are striving to reduce the volatility by better phasing our production over the course of 2013.
So for the first quarter this effort resulted in higher unabsorbed fixed costs compared to the previous-year quarter.
We expect this to switch to a benefit for us in the back half of the year.
Finally operating and other costs improved by $12 million driven by progress in our ongoing global cost-reduction programs.
Moving to the last column on the chart.
We achieved adjusted earnings of $0.60 per share in the quarter compared with $0.73 last year.
Operating profit driven by the items we just discussed was down $0.16 from the prior year.
Nonoperational items were favorable by $0.03 a share.
This was primarily the result of lower interest expense a benefit of our continued focus on deleveraging.
Let me shift my comments to GAAP EPS for a moment highlighting the items contained in the Note 1 table located in the Appendix.
As we alluded to on our last earnings call we have taken additional charge of $9 million in the first quarter of 2013 primarily related to previously announced restructuring activity in Europe.
This is due to the timing of this recognition required by accounting rules.
And we have taken an $11 million charge in the quarter related to the euro bond refinancing that I already referenced.
So now let's move to Slide 4 for more detail on our balance sheet and our free cash flow.
To start with we continue to enhance our financial flexibility through a stronger balance sheet.
At the end of the first quarter our net debt was $3.5 billion.
That's down nearly $300 million from a year ago.
Our net debt-to-EBITDA leverage ratio was 2.9x compared with 3.0x in the first quarter of 2012.
Moving to cash flow.
As many of you are already aware the seasonality in our business results in a use of cash in the first half of the calendar year and a source of cash in the second half.
As anticipated this quarter's free cash flow was approximately $60 million lower than prior year.
We deliberately accelerated furnace rebuilds and capital spending earlier in 2013.
The rise in capital expenditures is also partially attributed to the payment of year-end 2012 payables for engineering projects that we discussed on our last earnings call.
As contemplated in our guidance on interest expense we took advantage of historically attractive financing conditions in the market in the first quarter by retiring our EUR 300 million 2017 notes and issuing EUR 330 million notes due in 2021.
Notably our coupon was 200 basis points lower and we significantly extended our debt maturity schedule.
I am pleased with this opportunistic transaction which is a great example of our ongoing efforts to enhance our financial flexibility and create shareholder value.
Of course nothing has changed in our capital allocation discipline.
As we generate substantial positive free cash flow in the back half of the year we plan to split our free cash flow 90-10 towards deleveraging and share repurchases respectively with the latter taking place largely in the second half of the year.
I would now like to turn the call over to Al to review our operating performance and business outlook.
Thanks Steve.
Let's begin with Europe on Slide 5 where as anticipated we realized substantially lower profit in the first quarter.
This was largely attributable to the combination of lower demand and lower production.
Volume declined 8%.
This is somewhat improved from the double-digit declines we reported in the back half of 2012 which were driven by low end-use demand in all categories and the share shift to smaller competitors.
In fact demand was still quite high in the comparable period driven by anticipation of onetime events like the Olympics and the European soccer championships both of which had temporarily boosted beer production.
As Steve mentioned we are deliberately managing production over the course of the year to reduce volatility in earnings.
For the first quarter then we significantly reduced production.
As such Europe did not realize the more than $20 million of benefit of fixed cost absorption that would have been generated at prior year's production levels.
On the upside our focus on price and mix is yielding benefits in Europe.
Higher prices this quarter fully covered cost inflation.
We have now also largely concluded our contract negotiations in the region and are happy to see customers returning to O-I.
We're confident that we will partially regain the share shift that we experienced last year particularly in the wine segment.
Our asset optimization program is underway and achieving the results that were intended.
In addition to completing the shutdown of several furnaces we are significantly upgrading machines and lines in Germany France and the Netherlands to provide more flexible capacity closer to our customers.
Clearly there's more to come.
In North America our margins remain in the 16% range and operating profit was $74 million.
This is a very strong result in light of the fact that the first quarter 2012 profitability was high due to unseasonably warm weather no furnace rebuilds and relatively high production.
As expected shipments were down slightly in the quarter primarily in beer.
In North America like in Europe we had lower year-over-year production.
We undertook several furnace rebuilds in the first quarter of this year which reduced overall production levels.
This adversely impacted North American operating profit by about $10 million relative to the prior year period yet we saw excellent progress on structural cost reductions doing more with less through increased automation for instance.
These cost benefits essentially offset the impact of lower production and furnace rebuilds.
In all we are satisfied with our performance in Europe and North America especially considering the challenging comparable period.
Let's continue with our regional performance review on Slide 6.
In South America sales volumes were up but more than offset by the adverse impact of currency translation.
The Brazilian real devalued as Steve has said approximately 14% year-on-year.
Shipments in tonnes were up about 4% with broad-based gains in most countries and end users.
The sharp rise in South America's operating profit up nearly 40 4-0 percent was driven by several key factors.
First our new furnace in Brazil is running at high utilization rates leading to transportation and other savings on product that was previously imported into the country all part of our buffer strategy to grow with our customers.
And second we incurred lower costs for furnace rebuilds than in the same period last year.
Although South America is seasonally stronger in the second half of the year the region has a great start on its goal to significantly expand margins in 2013.
Moving to Asia Pacific.
Sales were down in the quarter mainly due to a 5% reduction in shipments.
The majority of the decline stems from beer volumes particularly in China where we shut down a plant in the north of the country late last year.
Beer volumes in Australia and New Zealand together were flat which is an improvement over trends in recent quarters.
And we experienced double-digit volume increases in Southeast Asia.
Perhaps more importantly we are seeing the ongoing benefits of our restructuring efforts flow to the bottom line and operating profit increased 10% year-on-year to reach $40 million.
These are encouraging signs for our business in Asia Pacific.
Let me turn to the outlook for the second quarter of 2013 beginning with Europe on Slide 7.
Overall we expect European sales volumes to be comparable to the prior year quarter.
We are now beginning to lap the carryover impact of the share shift in the region.
We do envision gains in wine will be offset by lower overall end-use demand and we expect price and cost inflation to net to 0.
We will continue to even out production where possible throughout the year and this means that Europe will not benefit from the considerably higher fixed cost absorption from production levels that it still had in the second quarter of 2012.
Given all the various puts and takes in this economically volatile region we expect European operating profit to be more or less on par with the prior year.
In North America we expect our operations to continue to perform well.
On the sales side we expect volumes will be similar to last year perhaps with some downside pressure from beer.
Prices are expected to essentially pass through cost inflation.
We envision modest gains and structural cost reductions will offset potential downside.
In Asia Pacific volumes are likely to rise modestly.
Continued benefits from the fixed cost savings measures we instituted in 2012 should help Asia Pacific's operating profit increase moderately relatively to the prior year quarter.
And finally in South America we stand to benefit from lower logistics cost on sales from our new furnace in Brazil.
Additional volume growth will be supported by our buffer strategy.
And we will face a modest headwind from the significant furnace rebuilds we will be undertaking in Brazil and Colombia during the second quarter.
We expect South America's operating profit in the second quarter to match the level achieved in the second quarter of 2012.
Beyond segment earnings we anticipate that higher levels of pension expense will be only partially offset by our success in lowering interest rates on our debt.
On balance adjusted earnings in the second quarter are expected to be flat compared with the prior year period.
Please note that our full year guidance remains unchanged at $2.60 to $3 per share adjusted EPS and more than $300 million of free cash flow.
As we outlined for you at our Investor Day in February we have sharpened our focus on initiatives that will strengthen our core business and enhance our competitive advantage.
You heard us mention several of those in the call today: mitigating production-related volatility reducing structural costs strengthening our financial flexibility and executing on our European asset optimization program.
By focusing our resources on fewer initiatives we enhance our ability to execute to drive higher earnings and higher cash flow.
And as we've said before we will remain disciplined around capital allocation.
Thank you.
And now I will ask Lashana to open up the lines for your questions.
Lashana would you please open up the lines for the questions? [Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of George Staphos with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> My 2 questions are around volume trends maybe to start.
You mentioned Al in the press release that you expect flat year-on-year shipments within Europe despite the limited visibility and obviously despite a pretty weak first quarter trend.
So I was hoping you could provide more clarity on that.
Do you actually mean that for the year you will be flat so you will catch up in the second half given the easy comps from last year? And then I had a follow-on related to U.S.
Yes George first of all the first quarter of course still is comparing with the fairly high-volume first quarter of last year so it certainly is not indicative of the trends that we expect for the remainder of the year.
And I believe we had said at the beginning of the year we expect the European volumes to be approximately flat.
And so that answers I believe your second question.
Now if I look at the trends in the course of the quarter certainly we've had some significant variations because of the shipping days because of the religious calendar that influences holidays.
But if I look at it on a shipping day basis what we saw is a gradual improvement in the course of the quarter of the volume per shipping day.
So that at least gives me some level of confidence that we're not seeing another drop-off in demand from the levels that we already have experienced last year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
My second question actually is on the U.S.
You mentioned that beer remains a bit of a headwind.
Obviously some of the mega brands are not doing particularly well.
Could you provide a bit more color in terms of what you're seeing or hearing from your customers? And is there any sign that the consumer is perhaps coming out of their cave? We're seeing it in some of the other retail data and frankly some of the reports out of the other packaging and paperwork companies thus far.
Yes some of the comments that we're hearing is that with construction picking up a little bit in the United States we are seeing a general greater level of confidence on part of the beer brewers that the trends are likely to strengthen as we go forward.
Now many of the large mega brand owners are of course concerned about some of the trends that they have seen for their large-volume brands and are actively engaged in quite a bit of innovation and new product introductions to counter that trend which I would assume is going to help us in the remainder of the year and going forth into 2014 as well.
So I believe what we are likely to experience is that also in the beer consumption we have gone through the trough and the recovery is going to be there.
The question is going to be how rapid and how steep it's going to be.
And if any other industrial indicator that we have watched over the last 2 years is in a -- is a sign we'll most probably see a very gradual improvement of the overall trends.
Your next question comes from the line of Adam Josephson with KeyBanc.
Research Division</strong> Al you mentioned in the press release that volume growth in South America was driven by food packaging.
Were you expecting that? And how would you characterize beverage packaging growth in the quarter obviously particularly in Brazil? I would say the growth trends were varied from country to country with solid food growth in the Andean countries as well as in the non-alcoholic beverage area.
And also in Brazil we saw good growth in food and non-alcoholic beverage.
Beer was a little bit softer.
You will recall that a big event in Brazil of course is Carnival.
And Carnival went through a very rainy period.
So that had some impact on overall consumption but is not likely to sway the trends for the entire year.
Research Division</strong> And just one on the restructuring program in Europe.
How would you characterize your progress to date? I'm very pleased with what we have seen and the ability for us to work through sometimes as you can very well imagine very difficult negotiations with the unions to get to the outcomes that we had anticipated.
We have made some great progress.
And I believe also the investments that we're making to relocate that volume capability to facilities closer to our customers is working out very well.
So I'm very pleased with the timing and the adherence to the time schedule that we're -- I'm seeing from our European operations as well as staying within the overall financial limits that we had set for the restructuring.
Your next question comes from the line of Al Kabili with Macquarie.
I was wondering on Europe if you could just help us a little bit with the wine customers coming back what that means to -- what kind of a boost that is to your overall volumes in Europe.
Is that 1% to 2% order of magnitude? I would say that's approximately right if you look at it.
And then of course you have the overall trends now in the Nordic countries which are more beer-oriented which tend to be a bit weaker than we saw last year.
You will recall from the discussions we had last year that we saw particular weakness in wine in the southern regions.
That clearly is recovering a little bit.
And also fortunately some of the customers that we had temporarily lost last year are coming back to us.
So I would assume that's going to continue in the remainder of the year.
The big uncertainty at this point in time is really what's going to happen with beer consumption in the northern region.
And that of course is going to have quite a bit of dependency on how the weather is going to evolve.
Another factor that is important to us is that of -- a component of our businesses is also in Poland and Poland is going through some economic weakness which seems to be a little bit more pronounced than the rest of Europe at this point in time.
And then -- and maybe even this is better for Steve but just on South America can you just help us with quantifying what the headwind is on the furnace rebuilds to get you a kind of flat operating profit outlook in the second quarter? And I imagine you'll continue to see growth in the back half once you sort of get through that one.
Yes we -- I'll answer the second one first.
We do certainly expect to see a return to more of a first quarter trend in the -- here in the second half of the year the third and fourth quarter for South America.
You've got to layer on 2 things happening in South America.
So we will have a largely straight-line continuation of the benefits from the furnace that we'd started up in Brazil which is I think we said around $15 million on an annual basis.
So you'll get a full quarter of that which we saw in the first quarter as well.
But we do have 2 significant furnace rebuilds and so the net of those two is driving us to flat which will give you some sense of the magnitude of what those 2 furnaces will cost us in the second quarter.
Your next question comes from the line of Anthony Pettinari with Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> Just to follow up on the previous question.
The 1% to 2% gain in volume from wine share recapture was that realized in the first quarter? Or is that something you're expecting to realize in the second quarter or later this year? And then indeed if you did get 1% to 2% volume in 1Q from share recapture is there any way you can size the opportunity for further share gains in the remainder of the year? Well the first quarter of course as you very well know is not the strongest quarter with regard to filling of wine bottles.
That's the period when we negotiate prices.
So I would expect that what we have been seeing in the first quarter is that we were basically flattish when compared to last year in that period of time.
And so we expect a little bit of a pickup as we go forward with regards to the consumption and the order placement from the wine industry.
Now given the large and significant uncertainty about the economy in general I would say it would be very difficult to really make a prediction on how wine is going to evolve further beyond let's say the remainder of this year and I would like to refrain from speculating at this point in time.
You heard last year some comments that the harvest had been a little bit impacted by the weather.
We really haven't seen that impacting the overall filling rates so far yet at this point in time and I would expect it's not likely to influence the filling rate for the remainder of the year either.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then just a follow-up regarding European weakness.
You called out beer specifically.
When you look at the volume declines in wine spirits and food kind of order of magnitude were they down close to the 8%? Or was it sort of mid single digits low single digits? I think it was low single digits.
And again you have to keep in mind and particularly in Europe where then people take bridge days as well between the holidays.
The shift in the Easter holiday has a significant impact sometimes on the volume that is hitting the first quarter versus the second quarter.
So we've got to be very careful in trying to make projections based on the overall just monthly comparison.
You really have to look at shipping days underlying the trends.
And as I said what we are seeing in general was that in Europe as well the trends was gradually improving in the course of the quarter on a shipping day basis.
Your next question comes from the line of Alton Stump with Longbow Research.
I do apologize if I missed this but did you update your input cost guidance? I think last quarter you said that you fully expect to offset higher input costs for pricing.
I'm -- I think it was a 160 to 180 or so range.
Is there any update on that front? No.
We have not updated our inflation guidance.
I think we expected $150 million to $175 million for the entire year and we don't see any reasons or need to change that at this point in time.
Okay.
And then just one quick follow-up.
On the demand front in Europe is it possible that we actually may see volumes grow in the back half of the year given the cutbacks that you did on your production front in the first quarter here? Well I believe that maybe -- clearly if we are going to hit our objectives of 0 volume growth compared to last year the second half of this year will have to be stronger than the second half of last year.
Whether that would necessarily be indicative of the overall market trends in Europe is of course not necessarily a linear deduction that you can make.
So I believe that the steps that we have taken over the last 6 or 7 months to move into this year and to have a focus on those areas where we've lost significant volume last year is bringing fruit is helping us but that's not nearly indicative of what may be happening in the overall trends in the marketplace.
Your next question comes from the line of Phil Gresh with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> If I were to look at the first quarter EBIT results in Europe I believe on the last call you had said you expected to be similar to the first quarter of '11 maybe slightly lower.
And it is more than 20% lower.
So I guess my first question is is that a function of actually making more progress on the production cuts than you had expected? Or is that really just kind of more of a volume impact in the quarter relative to the mid single-digit declines that you had thought you were going to see? How would you parse that out? I would say that's most probably partially due to the somewhat lower volume than we had anticipated.
And also as we have been going through some of the restructuring and the footprint alignment we may have had the one or other additional ME&amp;S expense as well in that process.
Research Division</strong> Got it okay.
And I guess for the full year I mean you were down basically $50 million year-over-year in the first quarter.
You're talking about kind of flattish volume.
So should we anticipate then that for the full year in Europe you should be able to get to kind of a flattish EBIT year-over-year? And can you get all that back in the back half? Well I said -- as we said we expect that in the second quarter we're going to be flattish with last year.
And then we said we will certainly see a positive comparison in the second half of the year compared to last year because we will not have the huge impact that the lower production had last year on the overall profitability.
Your next question comes from the line of Ghansham Panjabi with Robert W.
Baird.
Research Division</strong> Just going back to the last question on production rates.
I'm understanding there's variability between last year and this year in terms of production as it progresses through the year.
But is this -- is 2013 what you would characterize as a more normal production sort of rate as you go -- progress through the year? I'm just trying to get an understanding as to how to think about '14.
I would say on a broad base yes.
What we are trying to do and Steve alluded to it I mentioned it as well is that we're trying to take out the variability that is production cost -- or production-related and have a smoother planning period of some of the furnace rebuilds and the downturns that we typically have in the course of the year to take care of some maintenance issues.
And I believe that is clearly taking hold this year.
And I would expect that 2014 will likely follow a similar pattern.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just in terms of South America the -- in the first quarter I think you said volume's up 4%; for the second quarter up low single digits.
Is that a moderation between the 2? Or am I reading too much into this? Oh no you're reading too much into this.
It's not a moderation between the 2.
In fact we would expect most probably if we go a little bit further into the year some more strength to be returning to the Latin American overall economies.
But that of course depends a little bit also on the impact that events in Europe and North America have because we still see from time to time that those events have an impact on overall economic evolution in Latin America as well.
But clearly from what we are seeing in the discussions with our customers there is a pretty solid confidence level over the overall development in the course of this year.
Your next question comes from the line of Chip Dillon with Vertical Research.
LLC</strong> Just I wanted to clarify basically the -- you mentioned a 0% volume change for the year.
I believe you -- were you referring to just Europe or for the overall company? And then as a -- if it -- and regarding Europe just wanted to be clear about -- you mentioned how your experience should differ from the industry's which certainly happened last year but should be more positive this year.
Are you having to make any changes in how you price your product to get back to where you want to be? I think first of all to your question number one the volume impact really was relating to Europe.
Secondly with regard to -- what we're seeing in the marketplace at this point in time is that -- clearly different from what we saw last year.
It looks like our competitors are also moving prices up in the marketplace at a similar level than we are raising prices whereas last year we were clearly higher than them.
And that is changing the dynamics a little bit of course where customers decide to place their orders.
But I don't see a significant different approach at this point in time that would lead me to believe that the focus on recovery of inflation is not foremost in the mind of most players in the marketplace.
LLC</strong> Got you.
And then just as a follow-up real quickly.
On capital spending can you update us on where you see that for this year? And I know it's early but thinking about your footprint and the state of the furnaces across the geographies do you sense that might stay flat next year move up or move down? I'll answer that Chip.
As it relates to 2013 we really don't have any change in expectations around total capital spending this year.
We had indicated something in the neighborhood of $340 million with an additional $100 million or so around restructuring.
Those are still good numbers from our perspective.
And going out into 2014 the split between capital spending and restructuring will be somewhat dependent on what we ultimately decide to pursue in the second round of the European asset optimization program.
And it's probably a little bit premature for us to do that split.
But you shouldn't expect a significant reduction in the total amount of investment in the business which for us is that $440 million or so.
It's just the split.
It will -- too early to handicap.
Your next question comes from the line of Chris Manuel with Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> Quick question for you regarding what we saw this quarter from a contribution margin or drop-through.
If we were to look at the rate that appeared that you showed here that $19 million on 86 it would suggest something in the low 20s as a degradation.
That's significantly better than what we've seen in the past.
I know traditionally we've talked about it being something in the 50% range.
My question is as we get into the back half for the year and you're anticipating higher volumes how should we think about the positive effect the contribution coming back? Should we think about it being something more like what we're seeing right here in 1Q? Or should we think about it being potentially more in the traditional range of the kind of 50% range? I'll try to give a little bit of color on that Chris.
I wouldn't read too much directly into the relationship.
In the first quarter you have a -- in terms of variation from the historical relationship you have a couple of things happening in the quarter.
Obviously you do have a drop-through of the lost margin from the volume but we also have mix changes.
And the mix on a quarter-over-quarter basis is quite different when you look at the 2 years in terms of beer and wine.
And there's different profitability in some of those margins and in some of those regions.
And you also have some of the cost improvements that we have been driving over the course of the year which impacts some of the profitability particularly in this year and it didn't in last year.
So we don't have any reason sitting here today to fundamentally change that relationship going forward but it's a tough analysis to do for the first quarter.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's actually helpful.
And now one question regarding -- I know several years back in Venezuela you had some assets that were taken away from you.
There've been a few changes down there.
Are there any thoughts as to what could happen down there? I mean I know you haven't gotten payment yet.
I know that's working through a process.
Could you maybe give us an update on where things stand down there? Well from what I can tell whatever was happening or has been happening in the last 2 months or 3 months in Venezuela is not going to impact the timelines that we discussed before.
This is going to be a several-year process that will wind its way through the various bodies that have a say on this.
And I don't think that anything that's happening at this point in time in Venezuela is going to very rapidly change that course.
Clearly we are observing what's happening in that country because it used to be a very significant portion of our business and a very profitable portion of our business.
And if events eventually evolve that allow us to take another look at this then of course we will do so but it's -- this is way too early.
I think Venezuela is going through some very difficult times at this point in time.
Your next question comes from the line of Philip Ng with Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> You reported a very strong quarter in Asia Pac and it looks like it's all restructuring.
I just want to get a sense how much more room do you have to go going forward? And should we expect that level of lift on the margin front going forward in the next few quarters? This is Steve.
So we -- you have to look at the timing of some of the actions that we've taken.
I mean we're clearly getting the benefit from the Australian restructuring.
We will continue to lap some of the restructuring decisions that we took in late 2012 as we go forward for the course of the year.
So I think we guided earlier in the year to total restructuring benefits that the company expected to realize in the calendar year of somewhere in the neighborhood of $35 million.
And we would expect $10 million to $12 million of that will probably come from the Asia Pacific region over the course of the year.
So we will continue to see benefits drop to the bottom line from those previous activities over the course of the year though the run rate will start to reduce in the second half.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then a question for you Steve.
If I look at my -- at least my forecast from a leverage standpoint and you guys should be able to hit your low end of that range by sometime later this year.
So from a cash flow deployment strategy in 2014 can you give us some color in how you're going to -- what are the priorities and maybe like a percentage mix between debt paydown and buybacks going forward? No I won't give you a split for the 2014 numbers.
I would agree that we will get closer to if -- when we are successful in delivering on the $300-plus million of cash flow this year and we apply 90% of that to debt reduction.
We will be closer to a 2.0x of the leverage ratio but we won't be there.
I would expect that actually to be closer to kind of 2.4x or so.
So we will clearly apply the majority of free cash flow in 2014 towards debt reduction until we get to closer to the bottom end of that range.
It's a little premature to give you the exact percentage split at this point.
Your next question comes from the line of Mark Wilde with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Steve can you just update us on sort of how we might think about the roll-through of that $80 million in restructuring benefits you've talked about over in Europe? Sure.
The $80 million was the run rate we expect to be at at the end of 2015 for starters.
So I would expect no substantive benefit in the first half of this year based on timing from the engineering associated with the projects.
And if you go back to the $35 million of total restructuring benefits we expect and you take $10 million or $12 million away from Asia Pacific you're probably looking at $20-ish million of restructuring benefit to flow through the European numbers but that is really a second half of the year phenomenon and it'll be probably more fourth quarter-weighted than third quarter realistically.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then is it possible to just get a sense of what your operating rates look like in the 4 regions right now? Well if I look at across-the-board our machine operating rates are still in the low 90s.
And when we look across-the-board what we have of course from time to time the impact of the rebuilds like for instance in North America because of the rebuilds it was a little bit lower in the first quarter of the year and Latin America is going to be a bit lower in second quarter of the year.
But overall there is really not a lot of free-floating capacity around the world.
And unfortunately this industry is an industry that has a very hair-trigger determinant with regard to whether the market is going to be short or long.
And very often you will only have -- need a difference of 1 or 2 percentage points in overall demand.
So I think as far as overall utilization is concerned it has not changed very much from where we were last year.
And we expect it's not likely going to change that much in the remainder of the year either.
Your next question comes from the line of Scott Gaffner with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> A bit more of a strategic question on this wine business in Europe.
It looks like it's about 30% of your sales there.
Obviously the customers are highly price sensitive.
Is there anything that you can do with your value proposition so that you're not continuously competing on price? And then the second part of that would be is part of the business optimization strategy to actually reduce your cost position in that region so that you can maybe become more price competitive and not have that volume lost on a irregular basis? Well there are 2 underlying trends in the European wine industry.
First of all more and more of the European wine is being exported rather than consumed domestically.
That tends to go to higher pricing points and higher pricing points typically favor glass and glass packaging material.
And also what I mentioned earlier the lower harvest expectations and discussions that we saw emanating in I think 3 or 4 months ago also have a tendency to then cut the low-cost wine and cut the low-cost wine volume and push more wine into the higher-price part of the marketplace which also -- which tend to favor glass.
So I do not think that the trends that we're seeing in Europe are detrimental to the choice of packaging materials.
I think it's favorable to the choice of packaging material.
And I believe that the overall volume is sufficiently large enough to still benefit then the consumption of glass in this industry.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
I guess my question was more focused on rather the substitution to new substrates was -- you lost volume last year based on price.
You're getting it back this year based on price.
If you're competing with other glass manufacturers and you're still losing volume share based on price how do you make those customers that still want glass less price-sensitive going forward? Well it really depends of course on the entire environment in which you operate.
And clearly last year we saw several of our competitors make the choice to go for volume rather than to recovery of inflation.
As I mentioned earlier in my comments we're seeing clearly now a desire on the part of those suppliers that last year then saw a compaction and a contraction of their margin to go more for a recovery of inflation.
And I believe that's setting the stage for us to be able to recover some of those customers without running into a huge amount of competitive activity.
And Scott don't forget that the primary driver of our $250 million incremental investment in Europe over the next couple of years is to improve our competitive position and asset utilization.
And obviously a key piece of that is to make sure we can remain and improve upon our cost competitiveness.
And wine as a segment is a large portion of what we're targeting.
Your final question comes from the line of Alex Ovshey with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> On the furnace rebuilds would you be able to give a little more clarity on the schedules for the rebuild across the different parts of the world? I think you said that in North America you had rebuilds in the first quarter.
Are you anticipating any further rebuilds in any other quarters this year? Well there typically are a few rebuilds that are sprinkled throughout the year.
But in the past we have put a lot of emphasis on rebuilds and doing maintenance in the last month of the year in the last month of the -- 1.5 months of the year.
What we are doing now is we're spreading out some of that more equally throughout the various quarters because it of course led to some significant variations in production and thereby into the profitability of the operations.
And I would expect that what we are seeing at this point in time in the 2 instances that we highlighted North America as well as Latin America is really indicative of that shift to a broader distribution of those rebuilds in the course of the year.
And I don't think that we would expect a peak in all 4 regions at the same time to occur anywhere in the course of this year.
Research Division</strong> Okay understood.
And then the metal can companies that have reported so far have talked to a strong volume trend in Brazil for them.
And they're very much exposed to the beer end markets there.
And it just seems like the glass bottle has really underperformed the metal can in the first quarter of '13 down in Brazil.
Do you have an explanation of why that may have happened? I don't know where these comparison -- or how these comparisons really give us relevant information.
I believe it depends also a little bit on what they were doing last year with regard to volume to make a true comparison.
Clearly we see the can industry doing reasonably well in the non-alcoholic beverage segment.
You know from discussions that we've had in the past couple of quarters that several of our customers in the beer industry are in fact at this point in time promoting returnable beer bottles much stronger than cans in the channels to the marketplace that they are promoting that they're driving.
And I believe that's going to continue as we go forward.
So whatever we may have seen in the first quarter may perhaps be a temporary comparison issue because we are not seeing any inroads from cans at this point in time into our customer base.
Thank you everyone.
That concludes our First Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
Please note that our Second Quarter 2013 Conference Call is currently scheduled for Thursday July 25 at 8 a.m.
Eastern Time.
We appreciate your interest in O-I.
And remember that glass is the most sustainable packaging choice.
Thank you.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning my name is Angela and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the O-I Second Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the call over to Mr.
Dave Johnson Vice President Investor Relations.
Sir you may begin your conference.
Thank you Angela.
Good morning and welcome everyone to O-I's Second Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
I am joined today by Al Stroucken our Chairman and CEO; Steve Bramlage our Chief Financial Officer; and several other members of our senior management team.
Today we will discuss key business developments review our financial results for the second quarter and discuss trends affecting our business in 2013.
Following our prepared remarks we will host a question-and-answer session.
Presentation materials for this earnings call are available on the company's website at o-i.com.
Please review the Safe Harbor comments and disclosure of our use of non-GAAP financial measures included in those materials.
Unless otherwise noted the financial results we are presenting today relate to adjusted earnings which exclude certain items that management considers not representative of ongoing operations.
A reconciliation of GAAP to non-GAAP earnings can be found in our earnings press release and in the appendix to this presentation.
Now I will turn the call over to Steve who will review the quarter.
Al will follow with a regional overview.
Steve? Thank you Dave and good morning.
Overall our results were consistent with our expectation despite increasing headwinds throughout the quarter.
We reported adjusted EPS of $0.81 the same as the prior year quarter.
Price was up 2% for the quarter and fully offset cost inflation.
Globally shipments were down 1%.
While May volumes were strong demand tapered off toward the end of the quarter causing volumes to come in modestly softer than anticipated.
For the quarter as a whole sales in beer markets declined in all of our regions due to well-known issues namely abysmal weather in North America and Europe along with macroeconomic pressure in South America.
In Europe wine volumes in the second quarter were higher year-on-year despite an overall down market.
In fact overall European profit expanded in the second quarter due to an improved product mix primarily increased wine sales progress on reducing costs and early benefits from the asset optimization program.
In Asia Pacific we also continued to benefit from restructuring undertaken in the course of 2011 and 2012.
Our capital allocation remains disciplined debt levels have declined year-on-year.
Although we had expected to buy back shares in the back half of the year when cash flow is seasonally stronger this year we began share repurchases in the second quarter due to our confidence in being able to reach our free cash flow targets.
Turning to Slide 3 we will begin our financial review with a second quarter reconciliation for sales operating profit and EPS.
In the first column second quarter 2013 segment sales were $1.8 billion up approximately 1% over the prior year.
Price and mix in the quarter were up $36 million which equates to a 2% increase from the prior year.
Sales in tonnes were down 1% on average.
As I mentioned previously this was largely driven by global softness in beer.
Volume gains in wine were not limited to Europe.
All of our other regions recorded modest gains in wine shipments as well.
Volume growth in nonalcoholic beverages was largely driven by gains in Southeast Asia and spirits were nearly flat overall supported by gains in North and South America.
Currency translation negatively impacted the top line by $2 million in the quarter primarily due to the Brazilian real.
Moving over to the second column.
Segment operating profit in the second quarter was $267 million which was consistent with prior year.
Remember that our pricing strategy in 2013 is focused on ensuring that we recover inflation which we did successfully during this quarter.
The earnings impact from lower volume is less than we would typically see.
The mix of sales is the key factor here.
When sales of low-profit business decline the impact to the bottom line is obviously tempered.
For us this was the case when we shut down our plant in northern China late last year.
Manufacturing and delivery costs were $4 million unfavorable to prior year.
Lower fixed cost absorption related to lower production in Europe and North America masked savings from improvements in our overall cost structure.
Operating and other costs improved by $4 million mainly driven by progress in our ongoing global cost-reduction programs.
Moving to the last column on the chart as I mentioned previously we achieved adjusted earnings of $0.81 per share in the quarter in line with the prior year.
Operating profit driven by the factors just discussed was up $0.01 from the prior year.
Nonoperational items primarily higher corporate costs offset the penny gain.
For instance pension expense was approximately $0.14 per share in the quarter.
That's about $0.02 per share higher than last year.
Please note there was also an accounting reclassification within the quarter that modestly benefited both the tax and interest expense lines but simultaneously lowered our South American segment profit.
There was no impact to total consolidated earnings as a result of this reclassification.
Now let's move to Slide 4 to discuss our balance sheet and free cash flow.
We continued to enhance our financial flexibility by strengthening our balance sheet.
At the end of the second quarter our net debt was $3.5 billion.
That's down nearly $160 million from 1 year ago.
While our leverage ratio has been stable due to the timing of our quarterly cash flow generation we do expect to drive it down to approximately 2.5x by the end of the year.
Moving to cash flow as many of you are already aware the seasonality in our business results in a use of cash in the first half of the calendar year and a source of cash in the second half.
In the second quarter free cash flow was considerably higher than prior year despite higher planned outlays for capital expenditures.
This reflects our actions to phase our furnace rebuilds to reduce production volatility over the course of the year.
I now would like to turn the call over to Al in order to review our operating performance.
Thanks Steve.
Let's begin with Europe on Slide 5.
Sales were up 2% as price and currency gains outweighed declining volume.
Sales volume in tonnes declined approximately 1% for the quarter.
Our targeted efforts to win back wine customers continued to show traction.
In fact wine volumes were up across all of southern Europe.
That said adverse weather and weak macroeconomic conditions are taking their toll on demand in other markets.
Volume contracted in beer nonalcoholic beverages and food.
Despite challenges in sales volume as well as lower fixed cost absorption from tapering back production you can see that we have expanded profitability in Europe.
Modest cost inflation has been covered by gains in price and product mix.
And clearly savings from our cost-reduction and asset optimization programs are becoming increasingly apparent in Europe's bottom line.
In North America our operating profits were down $3 million from prior year.
Shipments were down approximately 1% in the quarter and this was primarily due to a decline in shipments of the mega beer brands.
We are seeing steady growth in the craft beer segment of which we have a 70% share and we experienced volume gains in wine spirits and to nonalcoholic beverages.
Mostly -- modestly lower production volume year-on-year due primarily to furnace rebuild timing impacted the region's results as well.
Moving to Slide 6.
While South America has excellent long-term fundamentals macro pressure here can cause volatility and results in variations in any one quarter.
In the second quarter headwinds became increasingly apparent.
The Brazilian real devalued approximately 6% year-on-year and volumes in Latin America were down by nearly 3%.
Declines in beer demand across the region were driven by 2 key issues that seem now to be abating: lower consumer confidence and weather.
While economic conditions in Argentina remain tenuous we are encouraged that the government has lifted the price controls that have been in place since early in the first quarter.
Our 2 planned furnace rebuilds in the quarter temporarily impacted profitability versus prior year.
In all South America reported a solid performance in the first half of the year.
Volumes are up low-single digits and operating profits have improved over the prior year first half.
Now moving to Asia Pacific volume for the quarter was consistent with prior year but operating profits and segment margin were up significantly.
Volume levels in Australia and New Zealand were flat with very modest gains in beer offset by contraction in other category.
These trends are a clear improvement over the declining volume we experienced in preceding years.
We continue to see strong sales growth in Southeast Asia primarily in the food and nonalcoholic beverage category.
The aforementioned plant closure in China offset the volume gains in Southeast Asia.
We continue to see the benefits of our restructuring efforts flow to the bottom line.
Our operating profit margin increased to 11% in the region.
This is 400 basis points over the prior year quarter.
We are pleased to see this step increase in profitability in the region.
I would now like to turn the call back over to Steve to discuss our outlook.
Thanks Al.
On Slide 7 let me begin our third quarter outlook with Europe.
Overall we expect European sales volumes to be positive versus prior year despite softness in beer a market in which we do not expect any short-term meaningful recovery.
We will continue to benefit from our efforts to recapture wine business and we expect growth in food after a year-on-year decline.
Adverse weather for instance delayed the harvest processing in southern Europe for several weeks.
Be mindful that in the third quarter of 2012 we were already experiencing volume declines from the share shift in wine as well as concomitantly curtailing production.
This means we have a relatively benign comparable period.
As such we expect operating profits to be up over the prior year.
While we have modestly adjusted our volume expectations for Europe downward we anticipate that higher year-on-year production will favorably impact fixed-cost absorption.
Furthermore benefits from the asset optimization program will become more evident.
In North America we expect our operations to continue to perform well.
On the sales side we expect volume to be flat to slightly down.
It's difficult here as well to see a short-term increase in mega beer at this point.
Yet we see continued progress in wine spirits and nonalcoholic beverages.
Ongoing gains and structural cost reductions should more than offset soft volume which will lead to modestly higher year-on-year earnings.
In South America we expect to return to low-single-digit growth in the back half of the year.
Within beer we remain confident of growth yet we do lack visibility as to the exact inflection point.
Our customers need to see more stable trends in end-consumer demand.
The market is already seeing some encouraging signs of year-on-year gains in beer consumption in recent weeks.
We expect strong growth in all other categories through the back half of the year.
On balance we see modest volume growth for the third quarter.
From a profitability perspective the devaluation of the real presently approximately 8% down year-on-year will offset expected volume gain in logistic savings from the furnace we started up late last year in Brazil.
Finally in Asia Pacific volumes are likely to be up low-single digits with growth more pronounced in the emerging markets.
We will lap the 2012 restructuring benefits in the second half of the year.
This coupled with currency headwinds in the Australian dollar of approximately 11% at current exchange rates is expected to offset the volume gain resulting in flat year-over-year earnings.
Aside from segment earnings we anticipate that higher levels of pension expense will be only partially offset by lower net interest expense.
Although the outlook is fluid we expect to generate a double-digit increase in EPS for the quarter.
Let's look for a moment at a sequential view of the third quarter outlook versus the second quarter of 2013.
Sales and production volumes are expected to be fairly flat.
We should see incremental benefit from our cost-saving and asset optimization programs yet we are beginning to lap the benefits of prior year restructuring in Asia Pacific.
Sequential currency devaluation will dampen profitability as it's translated back to U.S.
dollars versus the second quarter.
So on balance third quarter earnings could approach that of the second quarter of 2013 though at the moment macroeconomic uncertainty is creating some modest downward pressure.
Continuing on Slide 8 our results in the first half of the year are consistent with our expectation really no surprises in terms of executing on priorities within the company's control.
And now that we have better visibility into the second half we are updating our financial targets for the full year as we promised to do.
The company remains fully committed to delivering improved earnings and generating higher free cash flow.
Most importantly our free cash flow target of at least $300 million remains unchanged.
Furthermore we have not changed our capital allocation priorities.
Therefore we plan to devote approximately 90% of our free cash flow generation to debt repayment and the remaining 10% to antidilutive share repurchases.
Let me concentrate for a moment on the key drivers that impact our EPS guidance.
First currency devaluation specifically in Brazil and Australia compared to January exchange rates will reduce earnings by approximately $0.10 per share in the back half of the year.
That is currency alone would otherwise shift the range to $2.50 to $2.90 per share.
Second as we have discussed we are seeing incrementally more challenging macroeconomic conditions in Europe and South America.
The potential impact of volume would decrease the range.
Finally of course we're not standing still.
Management is squarely focused on executing on our cost reduction and asset optimization programs and the benefits of these concerted actions shift the range higher.
Considering all of the moving parts we are narrowing our 2013 full year EPS guidance to $2.65 to $2.85% per share.
We believe this demonstrates our confidence in executing on our strategic priorities in a volatile environment.
Let me now turn the call back over to Al to discuss our key priorities on Slide 9.
Al? Thank you Steve.
As we outlined to you at our Investor's Day in February we have sharpened our focus on initiatives that will strengthen our core business and enhance our competitive advantage.
We have had success to date in delivering on these priorities.
On the operational side we have seen labor productivity gains in North America and we accelerated furnace rebuilds in 2 regions in the first half of the year.
Prices are keeping pace with inflation so far this year.
As Steve already mentioned we are fully committed to driving shareholder value principally through free cash flow generation.
On the strategic front we are on target with our European asset optimization program.
To date we have closed furnaces in France Germany and Italy.
Upgraded machines are now in operation in Germany and the Netherlands and additional line upgrade projects are underway in France.
We have many innovation projects in the pipeline and are working in new ways with customers to enhance their brands through glass.
For instance Amorim a leading cork manufacturer and O-I have jointly introduced Helix to serve the European wine market.
The new twist-to-open Helix concept combines an ergonomically-designed stopper made from cork and a glass bottle with an internal thread finish in the neck creating a high-performing and sophisticated wine packaging solution.
By focusing our resources on fewer initiatives we enhance our ability to execute to drive higher earnings and higher cash flows.
Before opening the lines to your questions let me summarize.
We performed well in the second quarter.
Our cost-reduction actions have offset rising headwinds.
We remain committed to generating $300 million in free cash flow and we have narrowed the range of expectations for EPS.
And lastly we will remain disciplined in our capital allocation striking the appropriate balance between deleveraging and share repurchases.
Thank you and now I will ask Angela to open up the lines for your questions.
[Operator Instructions] And your first question is from the line of Chris Manuel with Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> A couple of questions for you.
If we could talk a little bit about the volume trajectory ending the quarter and what you're expecting.
And specifically if we could zero in on some of the wine business that you won back.
Is that business that you might have for 1 year or 2? Or some of it under longer-term contract that you might keep for a period of time? Or maybe a little bit of the dynamics around some of the business that you've been able to win back? Well Chris as you know wine predominantly is Europe for us at this point in time.
And Europe clearly is where we have seen the greatest variation from year to year in volume shifts because many of these customers are very small customers and have a variety of options available to them for supply.
And what we saw last year was we saw a significant drop in our volume because we were more aggressive with our recovery of our inflation.
What we're seeing this year is really that our competitors are recovering some of the inflation and some of the same customers we lost last year are coming back this year.
It's very difficult to predict on how this is going to play out for next year because as you know we renegotiate again towards the end of this year so it's an entirely new set of deck of cards.
And it's most when we're going to have some variability continuing in the future as well.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay and then any comments on how volumes kind of came out of the quarter? It sounded like they were...
Well I -- we were really surprised the last week of June dropped off dramatically.
Now clearly for many of our customers June is an important data point.
Some of them end the year there and therefore are really watching their cash flow significantly.
But also just to give you a perspective our customers in Europe are in our view running with extremely thin inventories at this point in time.
I saw a statistic from the French Brewer Association which reported that the beer output in the first half of this year was 16.5% below the first half of last year.
So as you can see sales perhaps may have been down 5% or 6% as far as beer sales are concerned.
So there's clearly a significant compression of inventory that has taken place and that may be skewing the numbers a bit.
And your next question is from the line of Alex Ovshey with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> For the footprint optimization that you're currently undertaking in Europe can you remind us again how you think about the benefits to operating earnings in the back half of the year from that? Yes Alex we have guided that we would expect to realize about $25 million over the course of 2013 mainly in the second half of the year from the European footprint optimization.
I think the reality is we picked up a couple million dollars of that $25 million a little bit early and that helped us in the second quarter in Europe to the tune again of a couple million dollars.
But I would still anticipate $25 million the majority of that in the second half and probably weighted a little bit more heavily to the fourth quarter due to the engineering schedule.
Research Division</strong> Okay and then on Asia Pacific I mean we've seen really nice margin improvement over the last 12 to 18 months.
How much more margin improvement do you think you can get out of that region outside of volumes really picking up for you there? Is there much more margin improvement there in terms of just taking costs out? I'd say yes there still is clearly some margin improvement possible.
And that will be helped somewhat of course by the development with regard to the Australian currency.
Because what we were seeing in the last year was significant impact from impact that -- from imported finished products as well as from some imports of bottles from other countries because the Aussie dollar had made the market so attractive.
So as the dollar is declining in relation to the U.S.
dollar that may secure our position a little bit better and most of all will give us a slight boost in our margins as well.
Your next question is from the line of George Staphos with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to focus first on operations and I had a question on beer as my follow-up.
Al as you look at how you've phased the rebuild schedule with an eye to both getting done what needs to get done and also preserving cash flow are there any regions or any furnaces where you're perhaps worried about pushing the rebuild schedule a bit too far? And the related point would be next year should we expect a little bit more rebuild activity or pretty much in concert with what you're seeing in 2013? I would say in general our rebuilds are clearly dictated by the state of the furnaces at any point in time because we don't want to endanger operations nor do we want to endanger our people.
That's really the predominant guideline.
As we are looking at our overall investments in maintenance as you have realized over the last couple of years we've really scaled back our investments a bit to make sure that we really get maximum use out of our assets.
And we're presently under discussions.
We haven't concluded yet whether there is a potential of bumping that number up a little bit for maintenance to make sure that we have some additional margin of safety.
But I don't think it's anything significant at this point in time.
Research Division</strong> Okay and then this question comes up periodically.
Obviously beer has taken some significant volume lumps this year as a market because of the weather and because of economic uncertainty.
Europe is going through perhaps what we went through 3 or 4 years ago.
But again do you sense that your customers are also shifting to other pack mix sizes -- pack mix types excuse me specifically cans and that's another reason why your volumes aren't necessarily as good as you would've liked within beer.
If you could remind us on what color you've seen what market did you have that supports that point or refutes that point that would be great.
Yes I think there are 2 aspects that we need to address there.
Number one is during any economic downturn what you will see is that the on-trade business will decline first.
And so the off-trade business will pick up and typically the share of alternative package in the off trade is greater.
So you would automatically in regions and in countries that are seeing some economic pressure see a slight shift just like we saw in the United States 4 or 4.5 years ago.
However on a much broader basis what's happening is really that the mega brands are the brands that are under pressure and are losing market share.
And there clearly is a concerted effort by many of the brewers to become innovative also in their traditional glass packaging and become more proactive in driving their marketing efforts to regain some of the share losses that they are seeing.
And that's going to help us.
And we clearly see much more activity in the innovation side with the brewers than we have seen in a long long time.
The third aspect that I also want to point out and it comes back a little bit to potential share shift to other packaging.
I mean you have seen that in particularly competitive environments like we are witnessing at this point in time in Brazil the largest brewers in the country have clearly decided to go to returnable packaging.
And that of course only allows them to go to glass because that gives them the greatest level of economics and allows them to reach flashing points in the market that they may need during a potential pressure on the marketplace.
So I would say it would be adventurous to say there is a significant share shift happening at this point in time.
In fact we are encouraged by some of the trends that we're seeing and the discussions with our beer customers.
And your next question is from the line of Scott Gaffner with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> I was hoping you could walk us back through the accounting reclassification on the tax interest in the South American operating profit.
I just wanted to make sure we fully understand that impact and also if you think it's going to recur in the second half.
Sure the net effect of this in the second quarter was approximately a $5 million reduction in our South American segment operating profit.
And then we received a benefit.
So that $5 million was split close to evenly not quite with a reduction in interest expense and a reduction in tax expense.
And we did that to conform the way we accounted for several items in Latin America with the way we account for similar transactions in the rest of the world.
So you ultimately ended up with $5 million less segment profit in South America and $2.5 million to $3 million of better tax expense and better interest expense.
Research Division</strong> And do you expect this to continue in the second half and maybe just a little bit more around the logistics? What's causing this shift? Yes ultimately the short answer is yes.
It won't be quite at that run rate because there was a catch-up component associated with the second quarter adjustments that we made.
But yes we will have as a result of this change there will be a reduction in South American profit.
It'll probably be about 100 basis points relative to what we had expected and guided at the beginning of the year and then you will get an offsetting benefit in interest and tax going forward as well.
So the bottom line number will be unchanged but we will have this shift and it will be a permanent change going forward.
And your next question is from the line of Mark Wilde with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Yes actually just to follow on that I wondered allowing for those changes Steve what type of an EBIT margin would you look for long term down in Latin America? Mark we -- if you remember from our Investor Day we guided to by the time we get to 2015 20 to -- low 20s 20% to 22% 23% segment margins in South America.
We don't see this changing that.
We still see even in the current year a path to very close to 20% margins in South America for this calendar year.
So I don't see it fundamentally changing where we think we can end up within the business though.
Certainly in the current year as I said it'll take about 100 basis points out of where we anticipated we would be at the beginning of the year.
Research Division</strong> Okay and Steve if I could for follow on what would it take to get us to the upper end of your earnings target range for the full year this year? For the $2.80 that we're sitting with now Mark we would just -- the first thing we would not want to happen is continued currency devaluation in light of this change.
The one thing that has not changed for us is the euro.
The euro is essentially flat year-over-year.
So continued currency stability at the current levels is a significant item for things beyond our control.
But beyond that slight upticks in volume vis-a-vis what our base case assumption.
As you know we get quite a bit of leverage benefit from both production and drop through.
So a little bit better volume scenario than our base case assumption would get us to the top end of that range.
And your next question is from the line of Anthony Pettinari with Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> You referenced the Analyst Day in February and you laid out volume growth targets by region through 2015.
And I'm wondering over the last couple of quarters there seems to be a little bit of a darker macro view especially in Latin America.
Are you still comfortable with the kind of 3% volume growth target for LatAm and the remainder of the regions? Yes we are and as I said in my comments Latin America will tend to have some greater volatility depending on what's happening in the individual markets there.
But clearly overall underlying growth of the middle class and of consumption in Latin America is projected to be fairly strong.
I would say certainly for the next couple of years in 2016 2017 after the main events of the Olympics and the main event of the world soccer championship we might perhaps see a slight difference then.
But within the time period that we had projected at our Investor Day I think we're still on target.
Yes and I think for Anthony for the other regions if you recall we are quite modest in our expectations.
I mean if I recall correctly we didn't have anything better than 1% for any of the other regions over that period of time.
And I don't think there's anything that's happened in the last couple of months that changes our view of that longer-term potential.
And your next question is from the line of Ghansham Panjabi with Robert W.
Baird.
Research Division</strong> On the wine market share gains in Europe clearly that came from someone else.
Are you starting to see a more competitive environment in Europe for the other categories as that extra capacity starts to get filled in? And the reason I ask is your French competitor reported high-single-digit volume declines in Europe in the southern part of Europe where it looks like you picked up some market share in wine.
Well I would say first of all we're not picking up market share.
We're regaining what we gave up last year number one.
Number two if you look at what's been happening in the region the competitor you're alluding to has its base in France and France clearly shows a much weaker development in the entire European region than other countries.
In particular I mean I mentioned to you already that the brewers have curtailed their production by about 16.5%.
And what we also saw is that particularly the weather in France was abysmal with regard to filling.
Particularly champagne was affected by that.
So I think there are differences also in where the emphasis of our business is.
I would expect that overall Europe may be at its low point at this point in time as far as consumption is concerned.
I have compared from a timeline Europe to be somewhere around where the U.S.
was in 2009.
And I would expect some gradual and continuing improvement which would most probably offset any competitive pressure from capacity that may be rattling around in the marketplace.
Research Division</strong> Okay and then switching to South America I think last quarter when you were sort of looking at 2Q you expected low-single-digit volume increases for South America.
Obviously it came down 3%.
How did that play out during the quarter on a monthly basis? Because it would seem like you'd had the visibility into April when you gave that guidance.
Well it really was from a regional perspective the weakness was particularly in beer in the Andean regions as in Brazil.
In Brazil for instance all other categories were plus so that Brazil came about out almost flat compared to last year.
But clearly what's happening is and that's why the impact was late in the quarter some of the replenishment of the float for returnable bottles did not occur as we had expected because people were husbanding their capital and pushed up some of the reordering of the float into later quarters for the year.
That really was the impact that I believe we had not counted on.
And your next question is from the line of Alton Stump with Longbow Research.
Just a quick question on Europe first off.
I think you mentioned in your opening comments Steve that you were starting to see volumes come back a little bit so far in 3Q.
Could you touch on that in a bit more color? Yes Alton.
We -- I think what Al had referenced in Europe specifically was a noted or a marked reduction or slowdown in volumes in the second half of June.
And again whether that's inventory control or a combination of different perspectives on the market in Europe it clearly slowed down for us.
In general we have seen a little bit better activity not just in Europe but frankly in Latin America as well in the beginning of this quarter.
It's probably too early to call a trend but we're certainly not on the same line that we were at the end of the second quarter.
That's helpful.
And then one quick follow-up as you look at Brazil obviously it's in their nonpeak winter season down there.
You've had a couple of good quarters in a row during the peak season over the last 2 quarters heading into 2Q.
So is it fair to say that there is -- have a slim chance that this is not indeed a trend but just a short-term blip during what's obviously a seasonally weaker quarter? Yes we are still expecting a solid second half.
Most probably it's going to start to strengthen in September of this year which is the beginning of the season.
Just like it did last year and what our customers are telling us and particularly our beer customers are telling us is that they have quite a variety of programs on tap to pardon the pun to push into the marketplace in the second half of the year to strengthen some of the volume.
And your next question is from the line of -- from Philip Ng with Jefferies.
Research Division</strong> Looks like your restructuring effort in Europe's progressing very well and you're seeing some of the savings a little quicker.
Is there any upside to that $35 million you guided for the entire project? And considering demand is generally softer in the region could we see a little more right sizing on the capacity down the road? Let me try that first Phil.
So the just to clarify the $35 million is a combination for the calendar year 2013 of what we expect to get out of both Europe and Asia Pacific.
So $25 million of the $35 million was Europe.
We do expect to achieve that.
$10 million is in Asia Pacific.
We have achieved a majority of that in the first half of the year because of the lapping.
I candidly don't think it will ramp up significantly higher than that mainly because in Europe it's driven by project completion and most of that completion is not going to happen till the second half of the year.
We just don't have that much time to realize incremental benefits in this calendar year beyond that.
Research Division</strong> In the earning capacity front I mean demand is generally soft in the region.
Could you look to take out some capacity? Well remember for us we are actually because of our asset optimization program in Europe we're actually going to be short relative to current market demand because of the timing of our restructuring program.
So we will have a lot of capacity coming off line as we reinvest in it and optimize it.
So certainly in the short term for us we will remain fully -- largely fully balanced purely because of the engineering work that's required.
Your next question is from the line of Chip Dillon with Vertical Research.
LLC</strong> Just 2 questions one is how does at least directionally does CapEx look to be next year as we get close to '13 and you start budgeting? And then I guess the second thing is as we do look at Europe you did mention that most of that $25 million -- that behind that there might not be a lot but how do you think about volume next year and do you have strategies to kind of try to deal with volume declines even if the market stays sluggish there? Chip this is Steve.
I'll answer the CapEx question first and let Al look at the or address the volume.
I'll remind everyone that we had -- it's premature for us to be specific as to what we're thinking about for 2014 certainly at this point in time.
But we did at Investor Day give some general guidance that over each of the next couple of years we would expect the total investment of the business which is CapEx plus restructuring to be in the $425 million to $450 million range though the distribution of between those 2 might change in any given year.
I have no reason to believe we would spend something radically different in 2014 than that range though I can't tell you exactly how much might be restructuring versus capital at this particular point in time.
Al do you want to address the volume? Yes I would say Chip with regard to volume expectation it's very difficult to find an optimistic person in Europe at this point in time.
But if you really look at the evolution and at the numbers it seems to be quite obvious that we are at a low point.
So I would expect some increased economic activity some increased consumption to help and support our business.
And as you have heard in the past just slight variations in volume whether it's 1% or 2% have a significant impact on our profitability.
So my level of confidence despite the fact that we've gone through very dark times in Europe over the last 1.5 years is still fairly high and optimistic with regard to what we're going to see next year.
And I would expect to see a trend change.
And your next question is from the line of Al Kabili with Macquarie.
Just wanted to talk about Australia and it's good to see some of the volumes doing a little better after some weakness the last few years.
And I wanted -- I know your volume outlook's modestly positive in the back half.
I just wanted to a get some additional color on what you're seeing there and also just an update on some of the contract renegotiations there.
Well I'll try to answer then I'll let Steve expand on it a bit because he of course used to run the region and has more perspective and better perspectives than I have.
What I saw as a significant change is that really the change from bottled wine to bulk wine has largely run its course.
It's been done.
So that has stabilized the market.
On top of that the currency evolution that we have seen over the last couple of months is also helping local manufacturers in Australia and New Zealand versus imported products.
So that's going to strengthen demand a bit.
And then of course we have through the actions that we've taken in Australia with rightsizing our operations increased our competitiveness which is going to help us specifically.
Now on top of that Southeast Asia clearly is a very strong growth region and market.
And with the acquisitions that we made 3 years ago we have a fairly strong position in the region that we're taking advantage of.
Steve any additional? I would just I'd remind you that our guidance for the volume side of Asia Pacific with volumes being up low-single digits that's weighted.
The growth component of that is weighted to Asia as opposed to Australia and New Zealand first of all.
And the trend we've seen in Australia and New Zealand has been a flattening one a flattening of a decline.
I think that's a little bit different than an increase in demand.
I mean there's still not a lot of signs of a true uptick in domestic consumption in those markets.
SABMiller has done a good job with reinvigorating some of their brands specifically Victoria Bitter which is clearly helping us in the overall market.
But probably a little too early to truly call the inflection point on the domestic demand in Australia.
Okay got it.
Steve that helps on -- makes sense on the Asia Pac or the Asia side driving it okay.
And then just a quick follow-up European -- you mentioned there's a production benefit in Europe and just wanted to see if you could size what that variance -- what that benefit would be in the second half of the year for Europe.
We I believe in the first quarter we had said that we took about a $20 million negative impact from the production differential between higher production last year and lower production this year.
It was modestly negative a couple of million dollars in the second quarter.
And we expect that to turn around over the course of the second half of the year.
So you'll get that $20 million back between third and fourth quarter probably a little bit more in the third than in the fourth just based on the year-over-year comps.
But I would expect us to essentially end up the year pretty close to flat from a production penalty standpoint in Europe.
And your next question is from Philip Gresh with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Just on the guidance for the year if I take the midpoint the $2.75 number in your third quarter guidance of a 10% improvement it would imply the fourth quarter would be up around 40%.
So I was hoping maybe you could help bridge that for me a little bit in terms of maybe some of the discrete pieces that might benefit the fourth quarter relative to the third.
I know there's a European phase but are there some other items there that we need to think about for the fourth quarter that helped drive that improvement? Because from what you said it sounds like the production benefit is kind of more similar 3Q 4Q in Europe.
Sure I'll try to do that.
So we're not being prescriptive on the fourth quarter but I'll talk about just the trends that we expect.
So clearly the production obviously as you've referenced in Europe is one of them.
We also will have the continued asset optimization benefits from Europe which are separate from production benefits.
And those will ramp up at a faster run rate as the year goes on due to the completion of the various engineering projects.
And if you think of the other regions of the world we had a furnace significant furnace rebuild in South America last year that we had accelerated into the fourth quarter.
We do not have that repeating this year.
That's a couple million dollars of fixed cost absorption that will be to our benefit.
And North America as a region will produce at a higher level than they did in the previous year again because we're trying to phase the overall production a little more evenly.
So there's a lot of production-related benefit in regions outside of Europe which are driving much more of that fourth quarter improvement we're expecting.
Research Division</strong> Got it okay that's helpful.
Just one other question in Europe one of your competitors had talked about winning some business in the U.K.
recently.
And I was just wondering kind of what kind of competitive activity you've seen in the U.K.
given your exposure there? Well overall the U.K.
is doing very well this year.
It's up single digits.
Low-single digits compared to the rest of Europe.
So it really stands out.
As a positive as I mentioned earlier there is typical churn about one customer or the other customer every year in Europe.
We have been able to recover whatever that volume was and that volume is prospectively it really was not anything yet effecting this year.
It's for next year.
And we have been able to shift that volume to other customers and have in the course improved the mix and the profitability of the profile.
And our final question is from Adam Josephson with KeyBanc.
Research Division</strong> Al can you elaborate on the delay of the replenishment of the float in South America that you talked about? Was that a customer delaying its CapEx program or something else? Yes basically when they replace their float it's a CapEx decision for them.
And they clearly have the ability to shift those from quarter-to-quarter or sometimes even shift it by a longer time period depending on how willing they are to see some scuffed bottles on the shelves and in the float.
And so it really is an easy decision for them to make and typically they make it in the last month of the quarter whether they do it this quarter or the next quarter.
And that has a considerable impact of course sometimes on the outflow of our product out of our plans and on the profitability.
Research Division</strong> A related question based on the data I've seen cans have gained a few percentage points of share in the beer market in Brazil over the past few years.
Why wouldn't you expect that trend to continue assuming you don't think it will? Well I think we have talked about the can versus glass market in Brazil several times in the past.
What we have seen is that clearly cans were growing at a much faster rate in the beginning of the last decade then there was an oversupply for a period of time and it has quieted down somewhat.
I would say at this point in time as far as overall volume is concerned the growth rates for cans and for glass are really not that different.
Now as a proportion of the total market and as a proportion of the share that they have in the market sometimes these percentages can be significantly different.
But I believe in the last call we already expounded significantly on the fact that the large brewers are really pushing returnable containers into the market also now through the off channels and through the supermarkets and so on to really get to lower-cost points and more competitive pricing in that market segment which bodes well for us.
So I really don't see a significant shift occurring.
I see a coexistence of 2 packaging modalities in a market that has strong underlying growth.
Thank you everyone.
That concludes our second quarter earnings conference call.
Please note that our third quarter 2013 conference call is currently scheduled for Thursday October 31 2013 at 8:00 a.m.
Eastern time.
We appreciate your interest in O-I and remember that glass is the most sustainable packaging choice.
Thank you.
This does conclude today's conference.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Angela and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the O-I Third Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the call over to Dave Johnson Vice President Investor Relations.
Sir please go ahead.
Thank you Angela.
Good morning and welcome everyone to O-I's Third Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
I am joined today by Al Stroucken our Chairman and CEO; Steve Bramlage our Chief Financial Officer; and several other members of our senior management team.
Today we will discuss key business developments review our financial results for the third quarter and discuss trends affecting our business in 2013.
Following our prepared remarks we'll host a Q&amp;A session.
Presentation materials for this earnings call are available on the company's website at o-i.com.
Please review the Safe Harbor comments and disclosure of our use of non-GAAP financial measures included in those materials.
Unless otherwise noted the financial results we are presenting today relate to adjusted earnings which exclude certain items that management considers not representative of ongoing operations.
A reconciliation of GAAP to non-GAAP earnings can be found in our earnings press release and in the appendix to this presentation.
Now I'd like to turn the call over to Al.
Thank you Dave and good morning.
We reported adjusted EPS of $0.79 for the third quarter a 14% increase over prior year.
Throughout the company we continued to successfully take costs out and our results again demonstrate the benefits of running a globally diversified operation.
The return to growth in Europe and North America helped offset the impact of challenging demand and currency headwinds in South America.
Shipments of glass containers were up more than 2% in the quarter overall.
Global gains in wine were fueled by our success in recapturing share in Europe.
Sales volumes also benefited from an improvement in beer demand.
Although beer volume was flat globally we experienced significant growth in Europe and modest gains in North America.
From a geographic perspective volumes were up in all regions except South America.
We continue to focus on generating free cash flow and are on track to execute on our target of at least $300 million for 2013.
And we remain committed to disciplined capital allocation which we again demonstrated this quarter through continued debt paydown and share repurchases.
Let me briefly review our regions beginning with Europe on Slide 3.
Sales expanded 12% driven by a 7% increase in shipments.
Sales also increased on the strength of the euro.
While our price increases were in line with the market this year local price gains were largely offset by an overall lower price point product mix in the quarter.
This is the first time in 7 quarters that we have posted higher year-on-year volume in Europe.
Our efforts to win back wine customers in Southern Europe continued to show traction.
And after poor weather resulted in slow sales earlier in the year we saw an uptick in beer sales volumes in the third quarter.
Food volumes posted a double-digit gain in the quarter and heavy rains in the second quarter had delayed much of the harvesting season which impacted our food volumes.
These volumes recovered nicely in the third quarter.
And keep in mind also that European volumes benefited almost 2% from an extra shipping day in the quarter.
As expected our production volume was substantially higher than in the prior year third quarter at which time we had begun to idle capacity for inventory control.
We're also pleased with progress in our European asset optimization program which is now delivering about $10 million per quarter in cost savings.
In North America our operating profits increased 16% from the prior year.
Shipments were up 1% in the quarter.
Nonalcoholic beverages have been trending higher throughout the year.
Consumers increasingly prefer premium products like iced coffees and teas packaged in glass the substrate that best preserves taste and differentiates our customers' brands.
Beer sales volumes were up slightly in North America coming on the heels of dismal weather in the second quarter.
Craft beer sales continued to show strong growth while mega beer performance improved modestly.
Our production volume was essentially flat year-on-year.
Our success in taking out structural costs in the region clearly helped expand our profitability.
Moving on to Slide 4.
Let's begin with South America.
Although currency was a known headwind and we expected a slowdown in the region and indicated such at an investor conference in September we were disappointed with our results in the region overall.
Lower expectations for growth throughout South America served to lower consumer confidence and as a result consumption.
As margins came under pressure our customers delayed investments in returnables a trend consistent with prior economic slowdowns.
In fact most all of the decline in the region was driven by contraction in beer and returnables in particular.
In Brazil overall sales volumes were flat as lower beer sales were effectively offset by growth in all other categories.
The slowdown was felt more acutely outside of Brazil.
For instance in Colombia already depressed sales levels were further exacerbated by a general strike that paralyzed the transportation system and temporarily forced us to stop customer shipments and to idle one plant.
On the production front our asset efficiency was dampened by several dynamics.
Choppy sales within the quarter led to an unreliable order pattern that complicated our production configuration and resulted in more downtime.
And we also accelerated some maintenance activity in the region which resulted in higher expenses and increased asset downtime.
Remember that through the decades in South America we have faced many slowdowns of short duration and we will continue to adapt to evolving business conditions in real time as we enter into South America's ice season.
And Andres Lopez and his team are doing a terrific job to deal with these changing conditions and we're very confident that we will get back on track very soon.
And finally to our fourth region Asia Pacific.
Volume for the quarter was consistent with prior year but operating profits and segment margin were significantly higher.
Volume gains were driven by continued strong growth in Southeast Asia while China was essentially flat.
Overall volume levels in Australia and New Zealand were down approximately 1% and the contraction was primarily driven by modest ongoing weakness in Australian wine.
The benefit of our cost savings efforts in the region has more than offset the weakening Australian dollar.
So overall a solid quarter for most of our operations and a good springboard for the rest of the year.
I will now turn the call over to Steve to review the financials and provide our outlook for the fourth quarter.
Thanks Al and good morning.
Turning to Slide 5 in the first column third quarter 2013 segment sales were $1.8 billion an increase of 2% over the prior year.
Price and mix in the quarter were up $28 million a step above prior year.
Sales in tonnes were up more than 2% for the quarter as well.
This increase was largely driven by broad-based gains in wine particularly in Europe.
All regions reported higher volume in nonalcoholic beverages.
Beer as Al mentioned was nearly flat overall.
The substantial decline in beer in South America was mostly offset by growth in other regions.
Currency translation negatively impacted the top line by $17 million in the quarter primarily due to the Brazilian real and the Australian dollar.
Moving over to the second column.
Segment operating profit in the third quarter was $259 million approximately 6% more than prior year.
In Europe a changing product mix.
For instance beer as a higher proportion of sales pulled down our average price per tonne.
Although cost inflation has been quite stable this year the aforementioned current dynamics with product mix caused our spread to turn negative in the quarter.
Year-to-date however price mix has covered cost inflation.
We have seen significant improvements in our operational costs.
In line with our desire to reduce earnings volatility from production swings higher production levels allowed us to absorb more fixed costs.
And our successful cost savings programs driven by our asset optimization program in Europe helped as well.
The net impact of currency was a headwind of approximately $5 million.
Moving to the last column on the chart.
We achieved adjusted earnings of $0.79 per share in the quarter compared to $0.69 in the prior year.
Operational items driven by the factors just mentioned were up $0.06 from the prior year.
Nonoperational items provided an additional $0.04 to earnings.
Please note that the flat retained corporate cost line this quarter belies the fact that we successfully offset a sizable pension headwind via spending curtailment.
Interest expense benefited from debt reduction as well as lower rates.
Our tax rate was a bit lower than previous guidance driven primarily by the mix of earnings.
As Al mentioned earlier we remain disciplined in our capital allocation.
We will use approximately 90% of our free cash flow for deleveraging and the remaining 10% for share repurchases to offset dilution this year.
During the third quarter we repaid $168 million of debt and repurchased 10 million shares -- $10 million worth of shares.
By the end of this year we continue to expect our leverage ratio to be approximately 2.5x net debt to EBITDA.
Let me begin our fourth quarter outlook on Slide 6 starting with Europe.
Overall we expect European sales volumes to be up low single digits.
We will continue to benefit from our share recapture in the wine segment.
Beer volumes should revert to being flat or modestly down as they have been on average over the past 2 quarters.
We presently lack visibility into our customers' specific year-end plans for inventory management which of course can have a considerable impact on European volumes for the quarter.
That being said European operating profit is projected to be substantially higher year-on-year.
Higher sales volumes have a straightforward drop-through impact.
Higher year-on-year production will favorably impact fixed cost absorption and we expect about the same level of benefit from the asset optimization program that we saw during the third quarter.
In North America we expect the fourth quarter will unfold in a similar way to the third.
We should see modest volume growth with beer more or less flat and small gains elsewhere.
We expect to continue to benefit from our structural cost reductions.
Production levels are expected to be considerably higher than the fourth quarter last year when we scaled back our production quite a bit.
And as a result you should see better year-on-year bottom line performance in North America.
It's difficult to gauge demand in South America.
Consumer sentiment has been dampened by the macroeconomic slowdown and we cannot predict exactly when our customers will choose to reinvest in their returnable floats which are capital expenditures for most of them.
On balance then it seems prudent for us to plan at the moment for no growth in South America during the fourth quarter.
We see Brazil flat to modestly up and the remaining countries flat to slightly down.
We should continue to see growth in spirits nonalcoholic beverages and food.
Beer volume is likely to remain soft.
The devaluation of the real which is down approximately 8% from prior year currently will continue to weigh on earnings in South America.
Finally turning to Asia Pacific.
Volumes are likely to be flat with overall declines in the mature markets offset completely by volume gains in the emerging markets.
Given the divergent price points across the region the geographic mix of sales will result in an unfavorable year-on-year price mix for the region.
Assuming steady inflation this will lead to a reported negative price cost spread during the quarter.
While the region will continue to pursue cost reductions the restructuring benefits realized over the past few quarters now have largely lapsed.
A big headwind continues to be the adverse impact of the Australian dollar which is presently off approximately 11% compared with last year.
In all even in Asia Pacific is likely to be modestly down year-over-year.
Corporate costs should be approximately $30 million.
This is a notch lower than our typical quarterly guidance of $35 million which reflects continued success on cost takeout.
Our expectations for a modestly lower annual effective tax rate versus previous guidance are driven primarily by the geographic mix of our earnings.
On the whole we face a fair amount of uncertainty in the fourth quarter.
It's particularly true in South America which due to seasonality will have a disproportional influence on the company's performance in the fourth quarter.
Still for adjusted EPS we expect a sizable improvement at least 25% compared with last year.
Now I'll turn the call back over to Al for some final comments.
Thanks Steve.
We continued to make progress on delivering on the priorities we laid out at investor day early this year.
On the operational side we have executed on our goal to reduce earnings volatility which has historically been caused by production swings quarter-to-quarter.
We have already seen the manifestation of smoother production on European profits and in the fourth quarter this will also be evident in the North American results.
Year-to-date price mix has kept pace with cost inflation.
Although the third quarter product mix has modestly dampened price we will continue to seek higher prices in the marketplace to recover inflation.
Turning to our financial goals.
We still expect to generate more than $300 million in free cash flow this year and continue to allocate it in a disciplined way.
On the strategic front we are on target with our European asset optimization program.
There are several line upgrades underway in France Czech Republic and the U.K.
And the savings generated by the program overall are improving our European profit margins.
Around the world we are helping more and more customers differentiate their brands with our product design and innovation capabilities.
We recently received first place in the Dieline Packaging Design Awards for our VersaFlow container and we received 4 Clear Choice Awards for package design from the glass packaging industry.
We are particularly excited that we lit the furnace in our new innovation center in Perrysburg this month.
This small-scale R&amp;D facility mimics our large-scale operations affording us the opportunity to investigate new melting and forming processes as well as increase our speed to commercialization.
Before opening the lines to your questions let me summarize my thoughts on our performance.
We delivered healthy third quarter results.
The benefits of our geographic diversity and our focus on internal levers are clear.
Sales and production volume gains in Europe and North America are more than compensating for the economic slowdown in South America and our diligent efforts to reduce costs in the regions and at the center more than offset currency headwinds.
And we will continue to relentlessly focus on that which we can control reducing our cost structure optimizing our assets and managing production volatility.
These will be key to driving earnings and cash flow higher even in the challenging economic environment.
Thank you and now I will ask Angela to open up the lines for your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question is from the line of Al Kabili with Macquarie Research.
South America it sounds like September was a pretty tough month based on where you ended up with volumes relative to how you were thinking about earlier in the month.
And I just wanted to get a -- get your kind of feeling what gives you the confidence of kind of flattish volumes in 4Q given how you exited the quarter and what you're seeing in October thus far there? Well because we can really point the reason for the volume impact to specific actions and specific activities that happened in the marketplace.
And in particular it was the virtual shutdown of the Colombian economy by a general strike.
And so most of the impact that we saw in volume were really in Colombia.
We had already indicated earlier that we saw some weaknesses in the North Andean region and so that was exacerbated by what we saw there.
What we -- when the strike was over we saw some recovery of volume but we still have to deal with a customer base at this point in time.
That's not yet very clear and prescriptive about what they're going to do with refilling the float because that's a decision that they can make on a moment's notice.
And so we'll have to see how that's going to evolve.
But overall as you also saw from some of the brewers reports underlying consumption in the North Andean region was virtually flat with last year.
So it did not see the dramatic dropoff and that gives us a confidence that we'll see some pretty decent recovery.
Okay that's pretty helpful.
And just to follow up Al just the trends you're kind of seeing thus far in October and also with the headwind on the Colombia plant shutdown how much of that -- how much of a headwind earnings-wise was that in the third quarter that could come back in the fourth quarter just from the plant being back up? I would say the impact of Colombia on the third quarter was approximately $7 million and that includes the shutdown of the facility.
Now we brought the facility back online in September so that was really last quarter.
And October overall is of course included in our comments that Steve made for the remainder of the year.
So it's moving on track.
And your next question is from the line of George Staphos with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to come back to South America.
And Al I appreciate that a lot of times your -- a company's regional mix or your mix of customers can have an effect on volume.
But again when I look at some of the other reports from companies in packaging or paper South America hasn't been as bad as the volume decline that you saw.
And it's interesting too that we're seeing growth in one-way containers while your customers are not sure yet when they're going to replenish their float of existing glass.
So do you think there's something else going on in terms of -- I know you get this question every quarter but I think it's relevant here again -- that glasses may be losing some share to other materials and we're seeing evidence of this in the fourth quarter? And I had a follow-on.
All right.
Well let me try to address this.
Number one what we saw in volume evolution in Latin America in the third quarter as I said earlier particularly driven by Colombia.
So we have to be careful that we keep our countries separate when we look at them and what's happening in Colombia is not necessarily influencing what's happening in Brazil.
As we said our total volume in Brazil was flat with last year so we did not really see a dropoff.
What we did see was a dropoff in beer.
Now since you are asking the question regularly we of course are putting quite some emphasis behind trying to find out what's really happening in the Brazilian market.
And what we're trying or what we're seeing at this point in time is that clearly there is consumption expansion in more of the Midwestern region of Brazil.
And there is not a lot of infrastructure there neither as breweries nor really as glass manufacturing facilities.
And what we surmise from this is that perhaps the trend that we're seeing is that to prepare the market and to establish market share people are brewers in particular are focusing for those segments on cans because they don't have the established returnable infrastructure in place yet.
But once they start building brewers -- breweries in those regions we most probably will see that more equalized with what we see in the rest of the nation.
I do not feel and if you look back at the beer growth that we have seen in Brazil in particular over the last 3 or 4 years that we really have been losing market share per se.
I believe it really is driven more by geographic considerations.
And also one thing that we have to keep in mind that if there are temporary increases in demand like for instance if you have an event like the World Cup and so on very often brewers would tend to use one-way containers for those events because there are limits of course on the use of glass in stadiums and surrounding stadiums as you go forward.
I think that's most likely impacting some of this stuff that we're seeing.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful Al.
I appreciate that.
The other question I had quick one I think either in your remarks or Steve's remarks the mention was made you anticipate recovering inflation through pricing.
I assume that was a comment into 2014.
Could you affirm that that's the view? And do you see any opportunity to recover more than inflation in 2014 through your pricing? I think that clearly we are continuing with what we have been following over the last 5 or 6 or 7 years as basically recover inflation.
Now if overall supply-demand gives us an opportunity to do more than that we will of course do more than that.
But that is also going to be a bit dependent on what the underlying markets trends are going to be with regard to consumption.
So certainly focuses on recovering inflation.
If we can do more than that we'll jump on it.
And your next question is from the line of Phil Gresh with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> First question is just I guess hopefully a final question in South America.
With respect to the fourth quarter if I look back at last year I believe you had start-up costs relative to the furnace and so your margins were pressured relative to the prior year down 400-plus basis points.
And so I guess I was under the impression that you might get some of that back this year now that you're kind of ramped up.
Obviously I understand some of the puts and takes around volumes but can you correct me if I'm wrong on that? Yes.
I think you're correct in that assumption and therefore overall when I look over the entire year the margins in the region will approximate those that we had last year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I guess with respect to productivity kind of outside of the European cost savings programs I was wondering if you could talk a little bit bigger picture about where you see those productivity opportunities as we enter 2014 and if you'd expect kind of a linear achievement of those productivity initiatives kind of as we go from '13 through '15 as you talked to at your analyst day? Okay I'll ask Steve to respond to the European question but let me again clarify from what I said earlier.
When I said the margins in the region will approximate those of last year I mean for the entirety of last year not for the last quarter of last year.
Steve? Phil I guess as it relates to Europe specifically if we understood your question correctly we've told people that we expect $25 million or so of year-over-year benefit in 2013 from our current year initiatives in Europe.
I think we had about $4 million or $5 million in the second quarter and I think we've realized somewhere in the neighborhood of $10 million during the third quarter.
So doing the math I would anticipate a run rate of about $10 million for the fourth quarter as well on that path.
And it's not -- that will largely carry over likely into the first quarter as well if you think of the timing associated with our specific engineering projects.
And then it probably takes 1 quarter or 2 for us to ramp it up into next year just based on how long it takes us to finish engineering on the next set of significant projects in 2014.
And your next question is from the line of Ghansham Panjabi with Robert W.
Baird.
Research Division</strong> Al just on the -- switching to Europe again in terms of the wine recapture in Europe that you mentioned how do you think it affects your pricing initiatives in the region as you look out to 2014 and beyond if at all? I don't think it will have an impact because what you've been seeing this year is really a reaction to the actions that we took last year when we got to a fairly significant price increase because we were recovering 2 years of inflation.
So it's only natural that this year's price increases are a bit lower.
Also as we had indicated we wanted to recapture some of the volumes that we had lost last year.
And typically those are more price-conscious buyers and that's why you see in the mix also of the portfolio this impact.
I don't think it's fundamentally a question of not being able to recover inflation.
And that's also why we believe that going into next year we have a good opportunity to continue on that trend.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just one more on Latin America just to clarify and I'm sorry if I missed this.
But did you say that October volumes for Latin America as a whole region including Brazil and the Andean region were they flat so far? We've said Ghansham that our fourth quarter guidance is incorporating and reflective of everything we've seen in October thus far.
And your next question is from Scott Gaffner with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Just wanted to dig in on the comment in Latin America.
I think you mentioned that your customers with returnable bottles had -- maybe held onto those bottles a little bit longer given the softness in the macroeconomy there.
Can you talk about how much longer they're keeping those? Is it now they're going to 25 turns per bottle versus 20 before? Some sort of quantification of that so that we can gain an understanding and how long does that normally happen before that trend reverses? Well as I had indicated earlier our customers are not necessarily telling us exactly what they're going to do.
So a lot of these decisions are basically ad hoc decisions that got made by the customers based on their financial situation and also on the scuffing that they will see on the bottles that are in the float.
But we have gone back over the last 20 years and looked at similar periods in the last 20 years when we saw a dropoff in demand for returnable bottles.
And we typically saw a recovery generally within about 6 to 8 months of that dropoff and sometimes that was still within the same years.
In other cases of course it moved into the subsequent year.
So it's -- was a little bit aperiodic at times.
But clearly the overall timeline of delays is limited and given the overall underlying consumption that's showing a dramatic dropoff we would expect that recovery to happen reasonably soon.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just switching to Europe for a minute you said it was the first quarter instead and then you actually got positive volume year-over-year in Europe.
So you had the 2% benefit from the extra shipping days and you did say beer was up.
Can you just sort of parse that a little bit how you're feeling about the underlying demand trends in Europe excluding the wine recapture and that 2% extra volume? Well I would say overall Europe is still very tentative in its recovery.
But it is recovering which is a good sign.
I think the majority of the impact that we saw in particular in the second quarter and then the first quarter was really weather-related more than economy-related.
So I would certainly expect that as we go forward I mean typically the fourth quarter is not a big beer quarter.
But as we go into next year that normal demand patterns will manifest themselves again.
And when I look again on what the brewers are reporting they also were reporting a gradual recovery in the third quarter related to weather.
But overall for the year they're still slightly down in their projections.
But that's about the magnitude of it so 1% to 2% or 3% in beer weakness.
I think wine has held up pretty decently and certainly the harvest this year is a pretty solid harvest as we go into next year.
And clearly demand around the world for wine is increasing which is going to help the European wine-producing economies more than domestic consumption in Europe as it has been the case over the last decade.
And your next question is from Adam Josephson with KeyBanc.
Research Division</strong> Two questions.
One is can you give us perspective regarding the scope for continued cost savings in North America and Asia Pacific particularly in light of the fact that you're already generating EBIT margins that are at your 2015 targets in both regions? And are you considering perhaps raising those targets? Well you're referring to the targets -- to the margins that are achieved in 1 quarter.
You always have to look at the entirety of a year and you know that most of our regions have at least 2 quarters where they're a little bit weaker than in the high-demand quarter.
So I would not necessarily project 1 quarter to the entirety of the year.
I think we still have opportunities to take costs out as we go forward.
It's certainly a significant focus of our operations as well as of our administration activities in the company.
And we believe there's still is quite a bit of runway.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And just on Brazil Al what's driving the volume gains outside of beer? And I know you broke out South America in terms of product mix.
But can you break out Brazil specifically beer versus other? Well perhaps in the carbonated soft drink area and nonalcoholic beverages we're seeing some pretty good growth.
And that growth is also and very often in returnable containers.
And your next question is from the line of Alton Stump with Northcoast Research.
Yes.
I guess just look back at Europe on the pricing front obviously at this point should be into early stages of '14 contract negotiations.
Any color -- it's obviously early but as to whether or not it appears that your competitors will once again stay rational? Or is there any insight either way that you can give us on that front? Well I would say it's still a bit too early right now.
I mean discussions are really only beginning and they're at a very early stage.
Like we have seen in the past more determinant of where pricing and pricing posturing is going to be is really what the demand projections are going to be for next year overall and the consumption patterns that our customers see.
I would say we mostly still have to wait a -- 2 or 3 months before we get clarity on what's going to happen with pricing.
But if I look at comments that are being made by our competitors in their report-outs for the earlier quarters in the year there clearly is a focus also by our competitors to recover inflation.
And that's a good sign.
Okay.
And then just one quick follow-up Al.
I know in the past you have mentioned that you guys get close to a 60% contribution margin once the volumes come back in Europe.
Is that still a good number to use currently? Maybe I'll try to answer that Alton.
I -- no 60% doesn't sound like -- it'd be great if it was but it's not a number I'd be comfortable having people rely on.
I mean we would tend to get somewhere from an incremental margin standpoint where there's existing capacity.
30% to 40% is probably a better rule of thumb very much dependent on region and mix.
But as a general rule something in that neighborhood is probably more realistic.
And your next question is from the line of Mark Wilde with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Just one more South American question.
Steve I think you've mentioned that one other issue in the third quarter was increased maintenance spend and I assume that some of that is going to come back in the fourth quarter.
Can you just talk about that? Then I had a follow-on.
Yes.
Mark if I had to break it down into just the 3 or 4 largest drivers of the year-over-year negative delta in South America Colombia is the one we've already talked about.
That's $7 million or $8 million.
Currency is probably another several million or so as is an additional several million for the accounting change that we referenced last quarter where we've reclassed some things out of EBIT to the benefit of tax and interest to conform in South America.
That's probably another $3 million to $4 million.
Sales alone outside of Colombia just overall sales volume decline probably is another $7 million to $9 million or so.
So that leaves everything else somewhere in the $4 million to $5 million range.
And on the maintenance asset downtime that's the primary driver of those.
So we did take some assets offline some voluntarily some not in the case of Colombia.
So that number should come back in the fourth quarter because we certainly don't have any plans right now for similar levels of downtime.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's very helpful.
And then just as a follow-on there's -- looks like there's going to be some assets for sale in the North American industry.
And I wondered just generally if you can give us some thoughts on how that might affect OI.
I don't know what's going to happen there.
I think of course whenever assets become available we take a look at it.
But a determinant factor for us is going to be what is it really going to do for us? I don't believe though that given the discussions that we at least have been able to follow in the press that it would be easy for us to make any acquisitions in North America without getting into a similar discussion that we've been able to follow in the press.
So I would not really at this point in time believe that you will see a action from our side with regard to acquisition.
Your next question is from the line of Philip Ng with Jefferies.
Research Division</strong> You mentioned lack of visibility in the inventory dynamics in Europe going in Q4.
Is that any different from years past? Or are your customers telling you they're just a little more cautious about demand going in Q4? I believe we have seen over the last 5 or 6 quarters in Europe some fairly significant swing sometimes at the end of the quarter in particular in the last week of the quarter when most probably companies are scrambling to get their balance sheet in better shape.
And that's really the big uncertainty.
And then of course at any way from about the 20th of December on there is really not a lot of shipping days.
And so if then and the one or other case a customer or a company decides to cut back and push it out by a week or so of course it's going to have a significant impact on that quarter but it's not really indicative of any underlying demand trend.
And that's really the uncertainty that we're trying to bake in a little bit as we look into the future.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I guess the question bigger picture Al I know there's been some consolidation on the beer and spirits market in North America and Mexico.
Probably one of the south manufacturers potentially are looking to put up some business to -- up for bid in North America and Europe.
And some time from now is that a big opening for you guys? And how should we be thinking about that down the road at least from a demand-supply standpoint? Well again as we look at what's going to happen down the road of course it really depends on what the owners of those assets are going to decide whether they want to keep running them whether they want to just use them to supply their own captive consumption or whether they want to become active in the merchant market with those or whether they want to dispose of those facilities.
And I think we will -- if the decision is to dispose of some of those facilities again as I said earlier we'll take a look at it.
And if it fits our strategy if it fits our needs we will of course take a stab at it.
And your next question is from the line of Chris Manuel with Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> Two questions for you.
First if you could kind of walk through maybe what some of the puts and takes are as we would start to build a bridge towards 2014 free cash flow specifically what pension might look like specifically what restructuring might look like next year given kind of where you've got things as they sit today.
Maybe I'll start with that Chris.
We're not going to make real specific comments yet at this point in time on 2014.
We're still in the middle of our own internal budget process and we'll be discussing that with the board later in the quarter.
I think in general you could expect us -- later in this quarter we have an investor event where we'll give some guidance on some of the bigger picture items into 2014.
But certainly as it relates to the couple you mentioned pension very much is driven by the year-end discount rate and I'm not willing to handicap what I think that rate would be here with everything happening in Washington.
If it's higher than last year yes we will benefit to some extent for sure.
And interest rates staying where they are with our debt balances going down clearly we would expect some benefit on the interest line.
But we will give you a little more clarity here as we get further into the quarter for 2014.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then my second question actually kind of falls a little bit on the first.
But when you think about restructuring that you've done this year it's primarily been to kind of your asset optimization plan in Europe.
Seeing that volumes have been a little bit better out of Europe how would you think about what you want to do on a go-forward basis to make sure that you do have -- how tight is the market how much more do you want to do there et cetera and specifically if we do see a little bit more volume recovery even 1 point or 2 over the next couple of years to make sure that you're leaving enough capacity to service that market? I think our overall plan as we indicated while we were talking about this project at the beginning was not to take a lot of capacity out but basically to maintain our capacity with a lower amount of assets or with a lower degree of assets in the region and to get -- that way get some productivity improvements and cost improvements in our projects.
And that's still the overall direction.
So I believe the overall demand profile that Europe is going to evolve into depending on the economic recovery is well covered by our plan at this point in time and does not require us to modify or significantly alter the intended scope of the project.
And your next question is from the line of Anthony Pettinari with Citi.
Research Division</strong> Just a quick question on Asia.
It seems like mature markets were a little weaker than expected and developing economies were a little stronger.
And I'm wondering the double-digit growth you saw in Southeast Asia if you could give any color on what's driving that.
Are you just growing with a strong market or gaining share? Or I think in the past you've talked about using glass smart to gain traction.
Just wondering if you can give any detail there.
Yes it's a combination of points.
Number one we are clearly much more active with glass smart in the region and are finding new ways of presenting glass as a preferred solution to our customers for new product introductions.
Also Southeast Asia has done extremely well over the last couple of years and what we're seeing in particular is again an increase in the middle class.
So consumption is just growing at a proportion that we are not really ever going to see in Europe or in North America.
So the dynamics of the market are a little bit different.
And then the third aspect that is helping us is that we are using our established infrastructure in Asia Pacific to support some of the markets that may be either short in capacity or that may not have sufficient volume capability to produce locally.
So we're seeing us supplying Southeastern -- Southeast Asian markets with capacity that we have in other facilities in the region to support that growth and that's giving us a totally new dynamic.
Yes.
And Anthony I would add to that that one thing to remember for Southeast Asia for us is we do not consolidate all of that business only a portion of it.
So some of the sales top line benefit that we're describing qualitatively you won't necessarily see in our financials.
But you do see it when we get down to the EBIT.
So the higher margins are reflective of sales that aren't necessarily always consolidated.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's very helpful.
And just turning to China I think you talked about flat volumes.
Can you talk about the margin environment you're seeing in China? Well China is still a challenging market and that's why we have gone through some retrenchment over the last 1.5 years and 2 years.
And the focus area for us of course is on those segments of the market where we can get decent margins and decent contribution.
But I'd say overall if I look at China also from our customer base most of the multinationals as you know have a significant position in the Chinese market it certainly is also for them not a big contributor to overall profitability.
And I believe that is not going to change soon but it's still important to have a foothold in the Chinese market.
But of course we've got to make sure that it stays at a level where it allows us to eventually should markets turn to take action and to establish ourselves more firmly.
But be prudent at this point in time with our engagement and with our capital spending in those segments.
And your next question is from the line of Alex Ovshey with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> On Europe cost saves I know you're talking about that number on a run rate basis so the goal is to get to $80 million by the end of '14 and entering into '15.
But you did talk about an absolute dollar cost savings number for the third quarter and what you expect it to be in the fourth quarter.
So would you be able to give us an absolute -- or a range for what you expect the dollar cost savings to be for your European segment in 2014? Alex let me just clarify the one assumption right off the bat.
The run rate of $80 million which is accurate is what we expect to be exiting 2015 with not 2014 going into 2016 at the end of our 3-year investor day plan period.
Again we're expecting the $25 million or so for the entire calendar year of '13.
Again we will be more specific on '14 expectations as we get a little bit further into it.
Clearly we would expect a higher number obviously because we will have more project work under our belts.
But we haven't quite finalized all of the timelines of the specific projects for '14.
So I'll hold on '14 guidance until we give a more broader look later in the quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay it's fair Steve.
And then as you get ready to negotiate with your customer base entering '14 on the price cost side can you just talk about what your initial feel for cost inflation is for 2014 and what cost buckets are you most concerned about I mean as you look in 2014? Overall we expect cost inflation for the next year to not be that much different from what we saw in this year.
So I think it's just a continuation of the trends.
Yes.
We are -- yes I think we've guided for '13 if I recall correctly somewhere in the neighborhood of $150 million to $175 million of total inflation.
We'll probably be a little bit below that probably closer to $140 million or so which is a little bit under 3% if you take it across the global inclusive of the labor inflation.
And so right now we don't have any reason to believe it's going to be radically different from that.
But we'll -- again we'll plan to update that a little bit later in the quarter.
Your final set of questions is from Chip Dillon with Vertical Research.
LLC</strong> Switching back to the U.S.
market where the -- certainly the numbers are turning up the right way could you talk a little bit more about if how big of a dent in the business the craft beer business is having? I know it's a small base and maybe other specialty drinks that are moving more into glass.
You talked a little bit about coffees and teas.
And then on a separate note could you just update us on how natural gas works in North America? I know you changed some of the contract terms a few years ago but is there any ability to benefit on a lasting basis from what seems to be a very low and flat natural gas price? Let me answer the first question and I'll ask Steve to talk about the gas pass-throughs capabilities that we have.
I think certainly the microbrewers have been a significant provider of growth over the last couple of years.
And in fact they have been the only providers of growth in the beer market over the last couple of years.
I would say still overall the microbrewers most probably are less than 10% of the total demand.
But if they're growing 15% a year that certainly equates to 1% to 1.5% growth for the entirety of the marketplace.
And as you see from most of the large brewers reporting that their mega brands are showing some relative decline yet overall demand for beer and demand for beer consumption most probably is flat it really shows the dynamics of the microbrewers.
And I think that if this trend is going to continue as it likely will be then I would not be surprised if microbrewers within 3 or 4 years are well in their teens with regard to percent of market share.
And I think that's a position that we have built up gradually over many many years and decades I would say.
And we'll -- we feel very comfortable in that space and have the ability to support and help our customers with their specific needs which are sometimes quite different from what we see with mega brands.
And for the natural gas pass-through question Chip the short answer is no I don't believe the way the market is structured in North America specifically on natural gas there's any opportunity for us to somehow take advantage or retain some disproportional benefit from low gas prices nor do I think there's significant risk to us to be exposed to an increase in gas.
Granted that's hard to foresee in the very short term.
The vast majority of our contracts vast majority of our business in North America is under long-term contracts.
The vast majority of those contracts have pass-through provisions specifically for natural gas.
And the majority of those pass-through provisions pass through on a quarterly or sometimes even a monthly basis.
So we tend to pass all of that through good or bad very very quickly.
Thank you everyone.
That concludes our third quarter earnings conference call.
Please note that our fourth quarter 2013 conference call is currently scheduled for Wednesday January 29 2014 at 8:00 a.m.
Eastern Time.
We appreciate your interest in O-I.
We wish you a happy Halloween.
And remember that glass is infinitely recyclable and always the most sustainable packaging choice.
Thank you.
This does conclude today's conference.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Jeremy and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the O-I Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers’ remarks there will be a question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions).
Please limit your question to one and one follow-up.
Thank you.
I would now like to turn the call over to Mr.
Dave Johnson Vice President of Investor Relations.
Sir you may begin your conference.
Thank you Jeremy.
Good morning and welcome everyone to O-I's Earnings Conference Call.
Our discussion today will be led by Al Stroucken our Chairman and CEO; and Steve Bramlage our Chief Financial Officer.
Today we will discuss key business developments review our financial results for the fourth quarter and full year 2013 and discuss business trends in 2013.
Following our prepared remarks we'll host a Q&amp;A session.
Presentation materials for this earnings call are available on the company's website at o-i.com.
Please review the Safe Harbor comments and disclosure of our use of non-GAAP financial measures included in those materials.
Unless otherwise noted the financial results we are presenting today relate to adjusted earnings which exclude certain items that management considers not representative of ongoing operations.
A reconciliation of GAAP to non-GAAP earnings can be found in our earnings press release and in the appendix to this presentation.
Now I'd like to turn the call over to Al.
Thank you Dave and good morning.
As we committed to you last year at this time we have delivered higher cash flow and earnings for 2013.
And that in a rather challenging environment of no volume growth coupled with currency and pension headwind.
Our focus on execution is clearly making a difference in structural cost reductions and asset optimization and managing production volatility and in enhancing our financial flexibility.
Let me touch on fourth quarter results before moving to the full year picture.
We reported adjusted EPS of $0.51 for the quarter a 28% increase over prior year and in line with our expectation.
Shipments of glass containers were up 2% similar to the year-on-year increase that we saw in the third quarter.
Beverage volumes rebounded in South America driven by double-digit gains in Brazil.
Shipments in Europe on the other hand remained stubbornly soft especially at the end of the year.
Production volumes were significantly higher in North America and Europe the result of our deliberate actions to even out production throughout the year.
And lastly we continue to improve our cost structure particularly in North America and Asia Pacific.
Turning to the full year the organization's focus on cash flow is paying off.
We generated nearly $340 million in free cash flow for the year up 17%.
Higher segment profit and improvement in working capital contributed to the year-on-year increase in cash flow.
Adjusted EPS for the full year was $2.72.
This is in-line with the guidance we set up at the beginning of the year despite all geographies reporting essentially flat volumes for the full year.
Without a doubt solid progress on structural cost saving initiatives led to higher year-over-year earnings.
With respect to capital allocation we are strictly implementing our plan.
For the year we repaid nearly $300 million in debt and repurchased $33 million in share.
On the next slide let me review our business performance by region.
Clearly North America turned in an excellent performance.
For the full year 2013 volumes were flat.
Declines in mega beer were offset by gains in draft beer wine and non-alcoholic beverages such as iced coffees and teas.
Through solid execution on cost reduction initiatives most notably in automation and freight North America has already reached the 15% profit margin target that we led out at Investor Day.
In Europe after a very challenging first quarter our results improved considerably.
For the year European segment profit was flat even though external factors like the economy and weather did us no favors.
In 2013 volume and tons shipped was down by less than 1% although volumes in the back half of the year were up nearly 4%.
On matters more within our control we have made solid progress.
We recaptured about half of the wine business that we lost to competitive activity in 2012 and our asset optimization efforts are on track and yielding about $40 million per year in savings on a run rate basis.
While South America continues to generate the highest regional margins a handful of factors dampened our growth and profitability there.
The low-single digit growth for the region we projected on this call one year ago simply did not materialize.
We started and ended the year with mid-single digit growth rates.
But those gains were offset by declines recorded in the second and third quarters.
Brazil was a clear positive with volumes up 5% for the year.
The rest of South America underperformed as we experienced a number of challenges.
A general strike in Columbia broad economic uncertainty in the region that caused our customers to postpone orders most acutely felt in [returnables] price controls high inflation and economic malaise in Argentina and currency headwinds across the region.
Volatile conditions are certainly not new to us in South America and we are committed to this very important region.
We remain confident that we have the right strategy experience and challenge in place to drive growth of sales and profitability in the region.
Asia Pacific performed exceptionally well in 2013 already reaching the 13% target margin we outlined at Investor Day.
Our ongoing restructuring efforts in Australia are clearly adding value.
In South Asia we've benefited from substantial growth in the non-alcoholic beverage and food market.
And in China we continue to selectively shutdown assets that have unacceptable return on capital profiles.
Now I'll turn the call over to Steve who will review our financial performance.
Jr.</strong> Thanks Al.
Turning to slide four.
Fourth quarter 2013 segment sales were $1.8 billion.
Price and mix in the quarter was up 1% less than gains in prior quarters due to an adverse sales mix within our segments.
Company’s sales volume was up 2% primarily due to mid-single digit gains in both North and South America.
Currency translation negatively impacted the top line by $35 million in the quarter.
The weakening Brazilian real and Australian dollar were only partially offset by the strengthening euro.
Segment operating profit in the quarter was $195 million approximately 19% more than prior year.
Price and mix contributed $16 million while margin on sales volume added $8 million to operating profit.
Within operating costs inflation of $32 million was partially offset by our cost reduction efforts and higher year-on-year production volume which allowed us to absorb more fixed cost.
Lastly the net impact of currency was a headwind of approximately $6 million.
As we turn to slide five you will see that higher operating profit contributed most of the increase in earnings.
We are making additional inroads in non-operational items as our balance sheet continues to improve and our focus on overhead cost control stays sharp.
We continue to scale back corporate costs.
However this progress was partially masked by higher year-on-year pension expense.
Interest expense continues to benefit from our ongoing de-leveraging activity.
Note that tax expense in the quarter was adjusted primarily for the geographic mix of full year earnings.
In fact the effective tax rate for the full year 2013 was 22% which is on par with the prior year.
Let me shift my comment to GAAP earnings per share for the moment highlighting the items contained in the note one table.
Our annual evaluation of our asbestos-related liability resulted in a $145 million charge in the fourth quarter.
This is in line with expectation and consistent with the underlying trends we’re experiencing.
It is $10 million less than the prior year’s charge.
Asbestos remained a gradually declining albeit still significant liability for the company.
We also recorded pretax restructuring and asset impairment charges of $109 million in the fourth quarter.
These charges principally relate to the second stage of our European asset optimization program the final stage of our Australian restructuring program the closure of our non-strategic flat glass operation in South America and China where as I mentioned before we continue to selectively prune our footprint.
I would like to note that similar to last year the accounting rules dictated timing under which we can recognize certain restructuring charges.
In 2014 we anticipate recording approximately $10 million to $20 million in additional charges related to the aforementioned items.
Please also note that our note one item in South America impacted minority interest by $11 million.
Excluding this minority interest in the quarter flips from a positive $3 million recorded on a GAAP basis to a negative $8 million on an adjusted basis.
Let’s move to slide six for a financial review for the full year.
We’re very pleased with our progress on several key financial metrics.
Higher earnings contributed to the $339 million of free cash flow we generated in 2013.
That’s up more than 50% versus 2011.
Clearly our focus on free cash flow is making a difference and we’re confident we still have momentum to carry it further towards our 2015 goal of $400 million.
With respect to capital allocation we continue to deliver on our commitments.
Over the past two years in fact approximately 90% of the $629 million of free cash flow we generated went towards debt repayment and the remainder was used for anti-dilutive share repurchases.
During the year we repaid nearly $300 million of debt.
The gross debt on our balance sheet declined by a lower amount due to the stronger euro accretion of our convertibles and the modest up-sizing of our first half Euro bond refinancing.
Exiting the fourth quarter our net debt-to-EBITDA leverage ratio was 2.6 times.
As we have already said many times we intend to stick with this capital allocation until we reach approximately two times net debt-to-EBITDA which is the low end of our target leverage ratio range.
In all we are making continued progress in enhancing our financial flexibility via an improving balance sheet.
Our leverage ratio continues to decline.
Discretionary pension contributions over the last two years have significantly boosted our funded ratio and a $330 million euro bond transaction we entered in the first quarter of 2013 extended our debt maturity horizon at historically low interest rates for us in Europe.
Let's move to slide seven to review our business outlook for 2014.
In Europe sales volumes are likely to be flat with prior year.
We remain very cautious on the Eurozone macros.
While we had initial guided Europe volumes to be modestly up for 2014 the repeat experience of slow sales in December has made us more pessimistic about any meaningful expansion in Europe this year.
However we still expect higher profits in Europe principally due to savings from our asset optimization program.
In North America we see 2014 unfolding much as 2013 did.
Volumes and margins are expected to be essentially flat.
We are already operating at record margins which provide us with a good foundation to pursue future commercial opportunities.
In South America we anticipate returning to low single-digit volume growth for the region.
Note that we do not anticipate a material boost in our sales due to the World Cup.
On the whole our customers are more likely to use one way containers only some of which will be glass to supply the increased demand from this one-time sporting event.
South America’s profitability does stand to benefit from less downsize in 2014 as the disruption in Colombia as-well-as several other one-off events should not repeat.
In Asia Pacific many moving pieces are likely to offset one another.
Further plant closures in China will reduce sales volume but will have little impact on overall profit margins.
On the other hand the final phase of our restructuring program in Australia should improve our cost structure.
In all stable profit on a lower sales basis suggests that we will see margin expansion in Asia Pacific in 2014.
In total we expect higher segment operating profit for 2014 driven primarily by improvements in Europe and South America.
Corporate expense for 2014 is expected to be approximately $100 million.
The largest tailwind will be pension higher interest rates will drive pension expense at least $30 million lower than in 2013.
This benefit will be partially masked by other corporate expenses such as modestly higher investments in product commercialization and research and development.
Interest expense is expected to decrease approximately $5 million from 2013.
We stand to continue to benefit from lower outstanding debt levels as our deleveraging efforts continue but the rates of the debt being repaid will be lower than the prior year’s repayments.
We see our effective annual tax rate in the range of 23% to 25% next year.
This would be a modest uptick from 2013's 22% and is largely attributable to the geographic mix of earnings.
For the full year 2014 therefore we expect our adjusted earnings to range between $2.80 and $3.20 per share assuming steady foreign exchange rate and the current macroeconomic environment.
Please be mindful that this includes an approximately $0.10 per share headwind versus 2013 at current exchange rates.
Generally speaking as many of you already know changes in volume continue to have the biggest impact on our earnings per share.
That is an incremental 1% of sales and production volumes for the year is worth approximately $0.15 to $0.20 in earnings.
Let's now turn to slide eight to review cash flow.
We see a continuing trend of rising cash flow from operation next year.
As I just said we expect higher adjusted earnings.
Working capital will likely be neutral to cash with further working capital reduction actions offsetting inflation headwinds.
Pension contributions are now projected to decline due to the discretionary payments we made in 2013.
Unlike pension expense we do not expect rate changes in the United States to directly impact our required pension contributions in 2014.
This is because our required contributions remain exclusively outside the U.S.
Asbestos spending should be a continuing tailwind given the expected trend of the $5 million to $10 million per annum reduction.
Restructuring payments of approximately $70 million in 2014 should be approximately $10 million less than the prior year.
The need for the European asset optimization restructuring spending should be marginally lower as the program shifts incrementally towards capital spending in 2014.
Still restructuring and CapEx taken together should be on par with our 2013 spending levels of nearly $440 million.
Therefore our capital spending is expected to be approximately $370 million.
On balance we envision our 2014 free cash flow to be approximately $350 million continuing the positive year-over-year trend and on track towards our 2015 target of generating more than $400 million of free cash flow.
Let me begin our first quarter outlook on slide nine with Europe.
Absent a substantive pickup in macroeconomic activity we expect European sales volumes to be flat with the prior year.
The carryover benefit from higher sales in the wine business is likely to be offset by lackluster demand across other categories.
That being said European first quarter operating profit is projected to be higher year-on-year primarily driven by the cost savings from the asset optimization program.
In North America we expect volumes to be flat.
We should see volume growth inline and non-alcoholic beverages while mega beer is likely to trend modestly downward.
We do not currently see a significant change in regional profitability levels in 2014.
In South America uncertainty in sales volume and ongoing headwind are likely to dampen profitability and make for a quite difficult first quarter.
The trend of softness in beer in the Andean countries is likely to continue.
Early signs suggest that volumes in Brazil should be flat to very modestly higher than last year.
Taking together though we expect regional volumes in the first quarter of 2014 to be down mid-single digits.
Beyond volume the region faces several other headwinds in the quarter; the devaluation of real which at current rates is down approximately 18% from prior year.
The accounting reclassification will continue to carry over though for just the first quarter.
And finally we will have more furnace repair expense and downtime compared with the very light regional rebuild activity in 2013.
Finally let's turn to Asia Pacific where we see lower year-on-year operating profit in the first quarter.
Volume in the first quarter is expected to be lower.
Shuttering plants in China will be a clear drag on the top line.
Consistent with our broader view on macroeconomic conditions we project continuing softness in the mature markets but we should see continued growth in Southeast Asia.
I would remind you that a portion of our Southeast Asia business is a non-consolidated joint venture and hence does not appear in our top line revenue result.
Turning to segment profit for the region we expect lower sales volume to be fully offset by structural cost savings.
However the region will still face some headwinds.
At current exchange rates the Australian dollar is off approximately 15% compared with the first quarter of 2013 impacting translation of our financial performance.
In addition per contractual agreements significant energy inflation in Australia will not be passed through to our customers until the middle of the year.
This will result in margin pressure in the first half of the year.
Corporate costs should be approximately $25 million.
This is a decrease from prior year and is driven by lower pension expense.
Considering all of the puts and takes we expect adjusted EPS for the quarter to be approximately in-line with prior year.
Now I'll turn the call back over to Al for some final comments.
Thanks Steve.
Let's turn to slide 10 where you see that our priorities in 2014 remain unchanged.
We are building upon our success and delivering on the strategic priorities we laid out at Investor Day a year ago.
On the operational side we'll continue to see price increases yet selectively balance this with our desire to maintain our market share.
And we expect to preserve the great strides we achieved in mitigating variability in our production.
On the financial front we are committed to generating higher free cash flow in 2014 and to allocating capital in the same disciplined way.
On the strategic side we are on target with our European asset optimization program.
We expect the next demonstrable step up in benefits to manifest in the back half of the year given the phasing of project spending within the year.
Although you’ll hear us talk a lot about reducing cost we are also investing in the future.
A visible demonstration of that investment is our new innovation center in Perrysburg which actually served as a pilot plant as well an R&amp;D facility.
Some scientists and engineers work on new ways to melt and pour glass while others are testing process changes in an operating environment.
Our ability to produce sample containers in the pilot plant allows a much faster design to market process.
Before opening the lines to your questions let me summarize my thoughts on our outlook for 2014.
In short we don't expect much help from the external environment with the exception of a sizeable pension tailwind.
We will continue to relentlessly focus on that which we can control reducing our cost structure and optimizing our assets across the globe particularly in Europe.
And on the commercial side we will capitalize on opportunities where our customers recognize the value we bring to the table and we will continue to balance price volume management.
Taken together we fully expect to continue delivering rising cash flow and higher earnings.
Thank you and now I'll ask Jeremy to open up the lines for your questions.
(Operator Instructions).
And your first question is from Christopher Manuel from Wells Fargo.
Your line is open.
LLC.</strong> Good morning gentlemen and congratulations on good finish to the year despite some difficult market conditions.
Hi good morning Chris.
LLC.</strong> Al you said this up pretty well when you kind of talked to where you were in Malaysia and some of your objectives for 2015 in particular we look across most of the segments most of them are at pace or even ahead of pace of where you anticipated being with kind of the notable exception being Europe.
As you sit today picking up 2014 and sort of a bridge to your objectives in 2015 how do you feel about meeting those or potentially even some of those segments being better than you expect and in particular do you think that with the rest of restructuring you are doing in Europe you can still kind of get towards that 14% 15% margin target there? Yes I think Chris what you will recall is that we had an underlying assumption of about two percentage points of volume growth in the two or three year period that we talked about and clearly 2013 varied from that assumption.
We didn't see a growth we in fact even a slow decline and that was mainly driven by the boo-ha-ha we had in the first half of the year with regard to the financial uncertainty on the European community and that certainly had an impact and that was not very helpful either.
So I do not think that is a continuing trend and we already saw the second half of the year our volume was up approximately 12% year-over-year.
So I believe that with the volume component coming back we certainly have a decent chance of getting to the objectives that we had set for Europe as well and I don't see it varying too much.
On top of that our activities with regard to the restructuring and with regard to the investments that we’re making in Europe are clearly generating the projected numbers that we have talked about and so in the whole I believe that in Europe we are on the pretty decent track.
Going forward clearly this year will determine on how much progress we can make and volume again will be a significant factor in this.
You heard Steve talk about the impact of volume on a global basis and Europe being about 40% of our overall sales clearly a significant component of that would benefit Europe if the growth occurs in Europe.
Okay that’s helpful.
And then my follow-up question is you may be seeing if you could your band for 2014 280 to 320 is relatively wide.
What might be some of the underlying conditions that would get us to the top end bottom end whether it’s volume whether its price cost et cetera that you are expecting in those range? Jr.</strong> Hi Chris the range is consistent with the size of the range we used in 2013 and we think that worked relatively well for us.
I would say the two primary drivers to either the high or the low end of the range frankly are volume as well as currency and a favorable volume scenario relative to our flattish expectations obviously benefits us because we get both margin drop through and production benefits and currency would certainly help us quite a bit given the 75% to 80% of the company is generating revenue outside of U.S.
Flip side at the lower end of that range why would we be down there because the volume has not come through.
It’s deteriorated more than we’re currently anticipating which causes us to make production adjustments or a significant weakening beyond current levels in a couple of the main currencies for us would also migrate us to the lower end of that range.
LLC.</strong> Okay thank you.
Good luck guys.
Thanks.
Your next question comes from the line of Mark Wilde from Deutsche Bank.
Your line is open.
Good morning Steve good morning Al.
Good morning.
I wondered if you can talk just a little bit on how you see kind of raw material cost are playing out for you in 2014 and how that will line up vis-à-vis increased pricing.
I think you mentioned that in Australia you see a little bit of a miss match at least through the first half of the year between kind of natural gas prices and your ability to pass those through.
Yeah I would say that overall inflation is most probably going to be pretty much in line with what we saw in 2013.
Now in some countries currency may add to that inflation because the conversion then of imported raw materials may have a more significant impact than perhaps we had assumed but overall what you are seeing in Australia is because the typical approach for us is to try to pass through increases and in particular increases in energy cost as quickly as possible.
In Australia typically the contracts are for a longer period of time so we also have a longer transition period there build into the contract and Steve can perhaps give you some more detail.
Jr.</strong>  Yeah.
Mark what I would add specifically on Australia our primary contracts are passing through via price adjustment formulas on July 1st to June 30th cycle so we will adjust in the middle of the year and that will -- it’s a backward looking calculation.
So we’ll have a lag because of that really over the course of most of the year but mostly skewed in the first half.
Total inflation for 2013 was right around $130 million to $135 million or so and I think right now we’re expecting 125 to 150 of inflation for 2014 so something very-very consistent about 2.5% on a year-over-year basis and the raw material component of that is not radically different from the total average.
Just to be clear you are assuming right now that kind of price offsets that fully?  We expect our pricing to offset cost and inflation in the coming year.
Okay and this is just a short follow-on Steve.
I wondered if you could talk about the impact of those furnace rebuilds down in Latin America on a year-over-year basis and also what quarters we are likely to see them.
I would assume it’s mainly second-third quarter? Jr.</strong> Yeah so for us on a full year basis we will rebuild approximately 14 furnaces I believe in 2014.
That will be a couple more than we had rebuild in 2011 but it will be most acute in South America in the first quarter.
So we are doing two significant furnace rebuilds in South America in the first quarter and last year we did none.
And so that downtime and the fixed cost the lack of fixed cost absorption will be most significant for us probably $5 million or so incremental penalty in South America alone from that in the first quarter.
Our next question comes from the line of Scott Gaffner with Barclays.
Your line is open.
Alex I want to go back to your comments on Europe in response to the first question you sound a little bit more positive on the outlook for Europe.
And maybe you have in your guidance there sales volumes flat do you still think you can get to the 2% volume over the planning period.
What exactly was going on late in 4Q was that more inventory management by your customers or is this something there that gives you better caution about underlying demand as we move into 2014? Well it’s of course very difficult to get real precise information from the customers but what we observed what we saw was a friendly start in October and then a flattish November and then a very weak December in particular the last two weeks.
And what I saw happening in Europe was that basically everybody took off the last two weeks because the holidays were in the middle of the weekend so you have bridge days on Mondays and Fridays and everybody took advantage of the opportunity.
And that led them to most probably a lot of the facilities just shutting down rather than keep operating on a skeleton crew or paying a lot of overtime.
And then of course it may also have been impacted a little bit by inventory controls.
But still it creates a sense of uncertainty when you come out of such a strong volume reduction from what you had expected.
So people are a little bit more cautious than predicting what's going to happen in the first quarter.
I would say that most probably by February or so we will have a much better picture.
Okay.
And then just following up on that what did demand trends look like in January in Europe? And then as far as the volume regain in the region are you still gaining back client share in 2014 is that in your assumption today.
January looks slack compared to the previous year.
And a lot of the activities and a lot of the recapture of the wine business took place somewhere around the middle of the year so we will expect that to continue as we go forward.
Your next question comes from the line of Ghansham Panjabi from Robert W.
Baird.
Your line is open.
Hey guys good morning.
Good morning.
Jr.</strong> Good morning.
Hey Steve maybe a question for you to start off on the free cash flow guidance just starting with the $339 million you delivered in 2013 versus the $350 million guidance.
Most of the variances you kind of outlined on slide eight seem positive.
There is a pretty wide range for earnings as well.
So why the precision on 350 versus a broader range if you will? Jr.</strong> I would just remind you that we are [talking] approximately in front of -- just for the record.
However the primary negative that we will face in 2014 year-over-year is that we are not expecting the same working capital improvement.
Working capital generated over a $100 million of cash benefit for us in 2013 and our current expectation is that we will keep it flat.
So on a year-over-year basis it’s actually a $100 million headwind for us.
And so you are right most of the other items are positive and they in total will offset a little bit better than the working capital drag that we expect.
Okay.
And then in terms of what you mentioned in North America already being at your 15% threshold target for ‘15 you mentioned new commercial opportunities.
Can you just kind of expand on that? Yeah.
I think that what we've demonstrated and what we've shown over the last couple of years is that the strategy that we've followed in North America has worked out very well for us.
And we've have recently had some insights into competitive margins in this field and they fairly are significantly below ours.
And so what we are trying to do is balance our income streams and the profitability profile that we have with individual opportunities that we may come across.
And I think we have a good base to start from we are selling very close to what we can make at this point and time.
And so we have an opportunity to look at overall distribution of our business and see where there may be opportunities to perhaps shift one piece of the business that has not generated as much profitability to another one which has higher opportunity.
Your next question comes from the line of George Staphos from Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Your line is open.
Thanks hi everyone.
Good morning congratulations on the year.
Good morning George.
I guess the first question I had just back to Europe in your slide pack you mentioned that you expected to continue growing share and I think the last question either Scott or Ghansham you mentioned that you still expect that you have some activity within one but it wasn’t specifically delineated in this slide pack.
So are you seeing should we takeaway that there has been a bit more competitive action in Europe in the last quarter perhaps as volumes weaken at the end of the year or is that over thinking it and how do you view competitive activity overall in your relative 2013? No I don’t' think we saw a different trend in the last quarter than we saw throughout the year.
I think what generally happened throughout the year it was because of the weakened demand in the European market we saw of course more activity with regard to in particular the smaller competitors trying to place volume.
So there is not an unusual pattern and an unusual behavior.
And that's also why we are little bit more conservative in our projections for the coming year because if that continues and there is some loose capacity rattling around it and they particularly would be the smaller competitors they will try to regain some volume.
But overall we believe we're on track we're not really shifting significant share.
What we're trying to do is make sure that what we lost two years is being recovered and I think we're making good progress in that direction.
Okay.
Second question totally unrelated on asbestos you mentioned that the pack patterns and trends have been as expected.
Could you update us where the serious disease cases are as a percentage of the backlog and how trends are what kind of trends you are seeing either in terms of inflation and things like measles and lung cancer which is behind the $5 million to $10 million decline you are projecting for the foreseeable future? Thank you guys.
Yeah sure George.
The overall trend that we see a continuing reduction in filings of claims really is consistent across all potential types of diseases the clearly measles claims are the primary driver of liability and dollars for us.
We continue to see decline in filings of measles claims and lung cancer claims.
We will disclose in the 10-K specific numbers around the filing.
We also continue to see increases in the average age of people filing claims or seeking relief again the company which makes sense obviously since we exited the business in 1958.
So it's a very consistent pattern with our expectations of slow but steady progress and that’s across all of the various categories of claims that we deal with.
Your next question comes from Alex Ovshey with Goldman Sachs.
Your line is open.
Good morning Al and Steve.
Good morning.
Jr.</strong> Good morning.
If I am looking at price cost spread for '13 is actually a modestly negative first half is positive and the back half was negative relative to your expectations in '13 did price cost trend inline or the things kind of weaken for you in the back half of '13? No it's pretty much inline and Steve will be able to give you a few more details but on a broad basis what we did see is a pick-up of beer.
And the second half of the year which typically has lower pricing points so there is a mix effect and on top of that some of the wine recapture that we did were more conscious price buyers and that had an impact as well.
So I think that really is a considerable mix impact that you see in the price mix differential.
Jr.</strong> I would add to that you are correct in that the full year negative on that spread was largely attributable to the fourth quarter was essentially even in the first a little bit better than even in the first three quarters of the year.
And on the price mix the mix did play a much bigger role than it historically has for us in North America specifically we shipped much more in bulk packages than in what we would consider in cartons and generally the price associated with cartons because of the extra work is at a higher price point though you get an offset in cost for sales.
So more bulk less cartons is a negative mix item which shows up as lower price for us and that’s not exactly the case.
Then into Al’s point in Europe a lot of the line wine specifically that we’re picking up we had protected previously the very high end high price point business quite well and as we’ve gone back and gained share at generally higher volume lower price points types of business that drives the average in total down on price.
Okay that will make sense.
And then in China when you guys are done with your restructuring there can you just talk about what the revenue and EBIT profile will look like in China and when do you guys think you’ll wrapped up with the restructuring there?  I think what we’re trying to do is make sure that what we’re looking at is a business profile that is more geared to the upper range or quality range and price range of the marketplace and that certainly is going to help our contribution and our profit profile in China even though the volume maybe off considerably.
But I would expect that after we’re done with it the overall volume maybe about half or so of what we used to have in China but certainly the results will have improved considerably.
Steve perhaps you want to add? Jr.</strong>  I would just reemphasize you know our returns mix efforts are not in exit from China.
We will remain with facilities in the North in the West the South and some of those facilities as Al pointed out will be directed at premium segments.
Some of those facilities will be aimed at ourselves in helping us manage our supply chain via exports from China and we will continue to meet customer commitments where they have requirements and desires for us to invest alongside them to provide them the quality that they are looking for and supply as long as it meets our capital return expectations.
Your next question comes from the line of Philip Ng from Jefferies &amp; Co.
Your line is open.
Good morning guys.
Just on CapEx came in about $20 million higher than what you initially guided and for ’14 you are expecting that to step up a bit as well.
Are you spending more because of costs associated with the restructuring effort or you are actually just ramping up the process more quicker than anticipated?  Well let me step back for a second and remind you the way we think about it is that the total investment in the business for us is a combination of both capital spending and restructuring and we have said the total investment that we expect to make over the three year cycle for our investor day guidance is essentially equivalent to depreciation and amortization together over the core and that’s this $425 million to $450 million range.
As 2013 evolved it became clear to us that we’re going to spend a little bit less on the restructuring side of the ledger than we had thought at the beginning of the year largely due to better social cost outcomes and some of the activities we took in Europe and that allowed us to essentially move some of that investment into the realm of CapEx.
And going forward into 2014 it’s really a continuation of that.
In general the structuring requirements related to severance redundancy et cetera continue to be modestly less than we had anticipated and so we’ll have the opportunity to reallocate that to more traditional capital spending but again total reinvestment in the business is going to be right at that 100% of DNA level which was the point all along.
Got you.
And switching gears to North America I mean demand was pretty strong in Q4.
I know there were some easy comparisons but from the optimism you guys were discussing earlier in the call I am surprised that you are expecting volumes to be flattish.
Just want to get color on that front and how are you thinking about the overall marketplaces you know the transaction marketplace getting pushed out a bit is that an opportunity for you to pick up some market share down the road?  Well in believe as far as the fourth quarter is concerned I am always reluctant to take one quarter and project it for the entire year because we have seen quite a bit of variation in the past from quarter-to-quarter and from month-to-month.
So I think we need a few more quarters under our belt before we can really make a comment about level we are seeing a trend that is going to be strong and is going to be consistent as we go forward.
And Steve perhaps you have a comment on the overall market conditions as far as I am concerned are pretty stable pretty solid.
Now there is uncertainty of course on who is going to own what at the end of this acquisition process that's taking place in the marketplace but I don't think it's impacting the market at least I haven't seen any impact on the market at this point in time because overall I believe supply demand is pretty well balanced in the North American theatre.
Jr.</strong> Yeah we continue certainly from our own perspective as Al mentioned earlier we’re largely full with the production base that we have now.
So there is limited ability to have large swings up with our current footprint.
We think that's generally the state of most of the market and as for the transaction is on the table and subject to approval we'll give you the same answer we have given for the last five quarters we have been asked which is we know what you know in terms of what we read and what those various parties publish et cetera.
And so they seem to be quite focused on trying to get that over the finished line and as a result commercially there really hasn't been much of the impact one way or the other that we would see.
I think one other comment that I would like to make with regard to volume and volume opportunity in North America is similar to what we have been talking to you about in Brazil in the past North America as Steve reaffirmed is pretty full at this point in time.
So whatever we pick up in growth we will have to source from other facilities outside of the region and that is not necessarily going to add a lot of contribution for North America as the selling region but it clearly allows us to support our customers in their growth and then when the volume is substantive enough than we can make an investment decision as we go forward.
Your next question comes from Al Kabili from Macquarie Research.
Your line is open.
Hi.
Thanks.
Good morning.
Just I wanted to clarify the outlook in South America on volumes in the first quarter you are looking for mid-single-digit volume decline and for the year you are looking for volumes to be up and I am just wondering if you could clarify what you are seeing and the visibility and the cadence of the volume progression there? Yes I believe if you recall we already mentioned last year in the first quarter we had strong growth and we also had strong growth in the fourth quarter but then we had a dramatic drop off in the second and the third quarter.
At this point in time the main driver of the downside is really the Andean region and there we are dependent very heavily on when they would make the decision to order their returnable containers.
And we have no clarity as this point in time yet as to what the pattern is going to be whether they were going to be as reluctant as they were last year in placing orders or whether they are going to now regional float.
Because if I look at the overall demand of beer in the Andean region from the customers of ours that publicly report the data is fairly flattish as far as beer volume is concerned.
So certainly not indicative of the volume trends that we saw supplying the beer industry.
So I would expect that there may be an opportunity that as soon as these customers start to decide to renew the float then we may have to relook at the numbers.
But at this point in time it surely doesn't look like the North Andean or the Andean region is going to outperform last year.
Brazil on the other hand we expect to be rather flattish perhaps slightly up as far as volume is concerned.
Okay.
That's very helpful.
Thanks Al and then just the follow up is the additional restructuring and cost savings items that you highlighted with the China and Europe phase two et cetera.
Can you just help us think about what aggregate cost savings is from that and how that ramps up in '14 or is much of that benefit really going to kick in ' 15 more? Jr.</strong> Certainly on the European side Al it is fully these actions are fully incorporated in our asset optimization program within Europe.
So the guidance that we've given around exiting 2015 at an $80 million cost run rate improvement and I think we exited 2013 at $40 million and will record $25 million in year-over-year incremental this year.
That is fully reflective of the actions that we announced so they will have no change from the guidance on those sort of things.
The Australian component it's a single furnace that was always part of the $50 million cash spend that we had announced as part of that program and that restructuring activity is clearly driven bottom line benefit in that region and so we will continue as we said we will continue margin expansion in 2014 because of that activity.
The South American activity which was a flat blast furnace which is a very small business for us that we chose to exit the impact there is not material to the overall result and it's incorporated in the guidance that we've given.
And then finally on the Chinese stuff as Al mentioned earlier the actions we are taking in China are very consistent with what we've talked about around driving better returns on the invested capital and a good portion of the last couple of years of improvement in Asia Pacific is also due to simply exiting unprofitable or poorly returning business in China.
And our next question comes from Adam Josephson from KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Your line is open.
Thanks good morning everyone.
Good morning.
Steve quick question on the structural cost reduction program.
Can you quantify the savings you expect to generate from that program this year and next year? I know you talked about being a $75 million program over the course of the program? Jr.</strong> Yeah so this is separate from the European asset optimization program.
We would expect to have a full $75 million run rate over the three year period of the strategic plan the three year I day guidance that we've given.
So it's going to be roughly ratable.
So I would expect somewhere in the $20 million to $25 million incremental range on a global basis because of the global program in 2014.
All right perfect.
And then just on Brazil Al can you talk about the trends you are seeing.
I know you said you expected to be pretty flat in the first quarter but just talk about the market as whole and the shift between returnables and cans? Yeah I would say Brazil clearly has gone through some struggles overall and demand profile for consumer products in the last year or so and you've seen slight a bit of variation of course in our sales as well.
If I look at beer in Brazil I think total production volumes in Brazil were off about 2% for beer production.
And glass has been reported by companies that track this information by approximately 6% or so.
Yet our sales in the beer category were up 1% in Brazil.
And that difference was even more pronounced in the fourth quarter.
So I believe what we are seeing is that the Brazilian brewers are still trying to find the sweet spot with regard to their pricing and just recently you've seen quite a bit of initiative on the part of the largest brewers in Brazil to run campaigns with a significantly reduced price to generate additional demand to generate additional volume to perhaps counteract some of the trends that they saw last year.
So I would expect that overall and particularly of course most probably a little bit driven also by preparations for the World Cup overall beer production is going to be up in the first half of the year.
Whether that then continues in the second half is really the uncertainty that we do not have a clear picture on at this point and time.
Your next question comes from Chip Dillon with Vertical Research.
Your line is open.
LLC</strong> Yes and good morning gentlemen.
First question has to do with just thinking about the next couple of years in your free cash flow I know it was mentioned that your net-debt to EBITDA ratio is now within the range or in fact well in the range what your target should we still see a sort of this 90 to 10 split or do you think it might start to go more towards 50-50 and may be as an add on to that is your sort of a magic level that you think the annualized asbestos charge needs to get to before you start to entertain a dividend? Let me take a shot at that Chip.
The leverage ratio currently is in the middle of the range that we target about 2.6 we are targeting two to three.
So certainly for 2014 I would expect no change whatsoever in our capital allocation.
So 90% the vast majority of the cash we generate will go to debt reduction.
We will spend enough on share repurchases to mop up the dilution so that the share count doesn’t creep on us.
We continue to believe at the current leverage level not only does the incremental financial flexibility help the organization but we actually believe from a value accretion standpoint the equity holders de-leveraging at this point is still the best thing we can do in terms of attributing value to them.
So certainly for 2014 it’s a 90-10 as obviously we will be closer to the low end of that range at the end of the year and moving into 2015 I would expect once we hit that number that that ratio will change more to the benefit of share repurchase than last de-leveraging because we simply won’t need as much but it’s too early for us to try to being prescriptive in exactly how we are going to end up changing that range.
And then as it relates to dividends there is no doubt at the current level of asbestos spending in the tail that we believe we continue to face with some substance is the single biggest driver of the decision not to have a dividend from the organization’s standpoint.
And it would have to be significantly lower than it is today I think for us to have a higher level of comfort with that.
In the short term cash used in share repurchase is a much more effective tool for us to manage the overall capital structure and the asbestos litigation.
And your final question comes from the line of Alton Stump with Northcoast Research.
Your line is open.
Good morning.
Morning.
Just a quick question on the European pricing front.
Any comments so far on how the competitive environment is reacting whether or not you are still seeing fully rational behavior year-to-date? Well I believe our observations are also a little bit confirmed by what publicly is reported by the companies that give backdrop and background on their own development of what we are seeing is a basically in most cases the large competitors are just around staying in line staying in line with the overall inflation trend.
And we see that behavior also reflected in the marketplace.
So while Europe is a bit different from the rest of the regions there is -- there the large ones are not the ones in the marketplace there are many small ones and their behavior tends to be a little bit more ad hoc and erratic at times.
And we have to react to those situations as well.
So I believe overall I have not seen a tremendous trend change in Europe in the last two or three years.
As demand has weakened due to the general economic demand profiles and situation clearly pricing activity has increased a bit but in most cases people have been able to cover their cost inflation quite well.
Thank you everyone.
That concludes our fourth quarter earnings conference call.
Please note that our first quarter 2014 conference call is currently scheduled for Wednesday April 30 2014 at 8 AM Eastern time.
We appreciate your interest in O-I and remember that glass in infinitely recyclable and always the most sustainable packaging choice.
We encourage you to choose glass for all your food and beverage needs.
Thank you.
And this concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Angela and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the O-I First Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers’ remarks there will be a question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions).
Thank you.
I would now like to turn the call over to Mr.
Dave Johnson Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead..
Thank you Angela.
Good morning and welcome everyone to O-I's Earnings Conference Call.
Our discussion today will be led by Al Stroucken our Chairman and CEO; and Steve Bramlage our Chief Financial Officer.
Today we will discuss key business developments review our financial results for the first quarter of 2014 and discuss trends affecting our business.
Following our prepared remarks we'll host a Q&amp;A session.
Presentation materials for this earnings call are available on the company's website at o-i.com.
Please review the Safe Harbor comments and disclosure of our use of non-GAAP financial measures included in those materials.
Unless otherwise noted the financial results we are presenting today relate to adjusted earnings which exclude certain items that management considers not representative of ongoing operations.
A reconciliation of GAAP to non-GAAP earnings can be found in our earnings press release and in the appendix to this presentation.
Now I'd like to turn the call over to Al.
Thank you Dave and good morning.
We’re quite satisfied with our performance in the first quarter.
Our adjusted earnings were $0.62 up 3% over prior year and in line with our expectations.
We have good momentum in volume as evidenced by our third consecutive quarter of year-on-year growth.
Beer showed particular strength albeit against an easy comparison.
We are clearly benefiting from the shift in consumer preference towards wine as we experienced growth in our wine business in every region in the quarter.
Europe delivered a strong financial performance which offset weather related challenges in North America both of which I will address as we turn to Slide 3.
Volumes in Europe increased 6% in the quarter exceeding expectations.
There was a strong recovery in beer aided by the unseasonably warm winter the region experienced apparently the European center rented to the United States.
We continue to see the benefit of our wine share recovery efforts from last year.
In fact our wine sales are now approaching the level we maintained prior to our pricing activity in 2012 which as you will recall had resulted in a temporary share loss.
Prices were down modestly in the quarter which was expected given competitive market dynamics and a benign inflation environment.
Similar to the previous quarter our asset optimization program in Europe delivered $10 million in cost savings year-over-year.
These savings along with higher sales and production volume boosted our segment operating profit by 300 basis points.
In North America sales volumes were up 2% primarily due to beer and non-alcoholic beverages.
We clearly benefit from continued double digit growth in the craft beer segment and our more marketing savvy customers in North America are increasingly interested in using glass to differentiate their brands.
Not only in craft and premium beer but also non-alcoholic beverages such as Starbucks Frappuccino's iced coffees as well as Pepsi Twist.
North America’s positive sales and production performance was masked by the wide spread impact of extraordinarily severe weather conditions that complicated our supply chain.
The rail system came to a grinding halt particularly in the Midwest compromising inbound logistics impassable roads and intermittent energy shortages exacerbated the situation at many of our plants.
To overcome the challenges we took decisive action to meet customer needs.
We had inbound raw materials transported by truck and we produced and supplied product to customers from suboptimal plant locations.
By the time the snow finally melted at the end of the quarter we had incurred substantially higher transportation costs and we were left with pockets of inventory in less than ideal locations the situation we expect to rectify in coming months.
Extreme weather conditions also caused exceptional volatility in natural gas prices during the quarter.
On average natural gas was nearly 50% higher than a year ago.
And we expect to recover the higher energy costs over the course of the first half of this year.
In all the total cost of the winter disruptions was approximately $10 million in the first quarter and we expect further related costs in the second quarter although not at that level.
Moving on to Slide 4.
In South America our volumes exceeded initial guidance due to increased shipments in Brazil across most categories.
Volumes in the Andean countries were down compared to prior year as our customers continued to delay replacing their floats of returnable bottles.
We anticipate that they will begin to ramp up float replacements in the second half of this year.
We faced a number of known headwinds in the region in the quarter as well a higher level of plant furnace rebuilds than previous year and of course a double digit devaluation of the Brazilian real.
All things considered we turned in as solid performance in South America.
Asia Pacific’s performance was not as strong.
A large part of the volume decline in the Asia Pacific region was driven by the plant permanent shutdown of three manufacturing sites in China.
We’ve been frustrated by ongoing weakness in Asia Pacific’s matured markets particularly in beer.
Profitability was also dampened by the devaluation of the Australian dollar and cost inflation particularly energy.
For contractual agreements we will begin to pass on higher cost to customers in the back half of the year.
Now I'll turn the call over to Steve to review our financial performance.
Thank you Al good morning.
Turning to Slide 5.
Starting on to table on the left first quarter 2014 segment sales were $1.6 billion which is flat with prior year.
Price during the quarter was 1% above prior year.
Prices in North America were higher in part due to our contractual pass-through provisions plus our assumption during the quarter of freight handling for a top customer.
Price gains were broad-based across South America and as Al already noted prices in Europe modestly contracted.
Sales and tons increased 2% with bear wine and food all recording year-on-year gains.
As also mentioned currency movements impacted sales in every region Europe positively South America and Asia Pacific negatively.
North America was not immune either with the weaker Canadian dollar reducing sales in the region by approximately 1%.
On balance however foreign exchange adversely impacted overall segment sales by 2% in the quarter.
Segment operating profit in the quarter was $218 million compared with $226 million in the prior year.
The $14 million impact from price carries directly over from the sales line.
The drop through on higher sales volume added an incremental $8 million to operating profit.
Within operating costs cost inflation of $38 million was substantially higher than we expected given our annual guidance.
Over half of the cost inflation in the quarter stands directly from North America which as Al mentioned suffered from a spike in natural gas prices.
Operating costs were also burdened by higher logistics costs in North America.
On the positive side operating costs benefited from continued progress with our European asset optimization and structural cost reduction programs.
Finally the net impact of currency was a headwind of approximately $3 million.
Let's move to adjusted earnings now on Slide 6.
First the modest decline in segment operating profit that I just discussed had a $0.04 impact on earnings per share.
Within corporate pension expense was lower while investments in commercialization and long-term research and development projects were higher all of this completely in line with our expectations.
Corporate while essentially flat with prior year was a bit higher than our annual guidance of $100 million would suggest mainly driven by the timing of certain of the aforementioned items.
Going forward we expect corporate and other costs should begin to decline towards the expected $25 million run rate per quarter.
Interest expense benefited from continued debt reduction as well as lower rates.
Our tax rate in the quarter was lower than our full year guidance principally due to the favorable resolution of certain audits which require us to recognize the impact within the quarter versus spreading it out over the full year ratably.
Now let's turn to Slide 7 for our second quarter outlook.
We should start by mentioning that we will have one less shipping day in the second quarter compared to prior year as a result of the timing of Easter.
This is in contrast to the one extra shipping day from which we benefited during the first quarter.
Turning to Europe we expect sales volume to be up modestly over prior year driven largely by beer.
Wine volumes were expected to be essentially flat with prior year.
Recall that in second quarter we will begin to lap the wine share recovery actions started last year.
Separately it is becoming increasingly evident that Chinese demand for European luxury goods such as wine and spirits is contracting due to the government crackdown on gift giving.
In light of long and apparently full supply chains it may take some time for our customers to right size inventory levels thereby temporarily dampening our sales.
European operating profit will also benefit from asset optimization cost savings and expected modestly stronger euro.
In North America we expect volumes to be flat for the quarter adjusting for the number of shipping days this is in line with the first quarter performance.
Profitability in the region will be lower than prior year as we unwind the supply chain related issues caused by adverse weather during the first quarter.
Turning to South America while we are not yet expecting a return to growth in the Andean countries we do expect improvement there in the second half of the year.
Reserve volumes were expected to be up mid-single digits in the second quarter driven by growth in beer.
Taken together we expect modest volume increases to drive higher profitability.
Finally let's turn to Asia Pacific where we anticipate lower year-on-year operating profit in the second quarter.
Volume is expected to be down double-digits.
China will be an increasing drag on the top line as the full impact of the recent retrenchment activity manifests itself in the second quarter and we've yet to see demand pick up in the mature markets.
Turning to segment profit for that region we expect the impact of our lower sales volume to be mostly offset by savings from our recently completed restructuring in Australia.
However the region will still face significant headwinds.
At current exchange rates the Australian dollar is off approximately 5% compared with the second quarter of 2013 impacting translation of our financial performance and in addition as we saw in the first quarter significant inflation in Australia will not begin to be passed through to our customers via contractual agreements until the second half of the year.
Corporate costs should trend toward $25 million in the second quarter.
This is a decrease from prior year and is mainly driven by lower pension expense.
Considering all of the puts and takes we expect adjusted earnings per share for the quarter to be flat with prior year.
Please note that our full-year guidance remains unchanged at $2.80 to $3.20 per share adjusted EPS and approximately $350 million of free cash flow.
As we've done in the past we plan to provide an update if we need to to our full-year guidance on the second quarter earnings call when we will obviously have more visibility into trends for remainder of the year.
Before turning the call back over to Al let me point out that there has been no change for our capital allocation plans for the year either which calls for 90% of our approximately $350 million of free cash flow to go toward debt repayment and the remaining 10% towards anti-dilutive share repurchases.
Al? Thanks Steve.
Finishing up with Slide 8 we remain committed to the management priorities we have outlined for you before.
While we already highlighted the financial benefits of Europe's asset optimization plan I would like to provide a little more color on this critical program.
The European team has many engineering and technical projects underway aimed at increasing asset efficiency and flexibility and producing in closer proximity to our customers.
We expect to see the continued benefits of these changes on financial performance in the months and years ahead.
Earlier this month we celebrated a $30 million – sorry €30 million investment in our Aloa [ph] facility in Scotland.
The upgrades to that plant allow us to significantly expedite the design and development needs of our customers especially in the Scottish whiskey business.
In Aloa [ph] we are commercializing black glass for a number of spirits customers.
Black glass is also growing increasingly popular with beer customers in the U.S.
Miller Coors recently launched Miller Fortune in black glass.
There continues to be great enthusiasm around the capabilities we have created in our new innovation center.
In the first quarter alone we produced samples of more than 20 newly design concepts for customers for wine beer and nonalcoholic beverages highlighting the strong collaboration between our global product innovation team and the research and development team.
Before we turn to the Q&amp;A let me summarize my thoughts on our performance.
We posted solid results as our teams in Europe and South America compensated for weather issues in North America.
While the second quarter is expected to be largely in line with last year we anticipate improved financial performance in the second half of the year.
This will be driven by cost takeouts improved manufacturing performance and currency becoming a modest tailwind.
Our relentless focus on controlling the controllables will allow us to make the most of the external environment and to deliver on our commitment to grow both earnings and cash flow.
Thank you and now I will ask Angela to open up the lines for your questions.
(Operator Instructions) And our first question comes from the line of George Staphos with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
My two questions first in Asia Pacific is it fair to say that you only get partial recovery of the inflation lag in the third quarter since awarding is that you're beginning to recover in the second half? And is any of the lag related to competition or is it purely contractually driven and then I had my second question is on North America which I will continue in a minute.
Well I think that we expect to get close to full recovery of the inflation because as you know the cost structure is not going to change in the second half.
And so we will get the full impact of the price adjustment and that will cover what we saw in the first quarter and certainly still expect in the second quarter.
This is unrelated to competitive pressure I think what we did see with regard to competition was that last year when the Australian dollar in the beginning of the year at least last year was still very strong.
We saw some import products coming into Australia which created some price pressure and had an impact on some of contract negotiations at that point in time.
But I think that’s basically resolved itself now given the development in Australia dollar [ph].
So you’re saying you will be fully recovered by the third quarter on recovering inflation in Asia-Pacific? I said by the end of the year.
Yes George we won't -- we will fully recover in the third and the fourth quarter we will recover the inflation in those two quarters and we will largely recover on a full year basis the full-year inflation it may not be totally offset but it will be pretty close.
And then just for modelling purposes how much of a lingering supply chain affect do you expect in North America in the second quarter? As we’ve mentioned there was about a $10 million penalty in the first quarter.
We would expect it to be not quite that high in the second there’s probably a couple million dollars of incremental costs that are now sitting in inventory that will turn during the course of the quarter and several million dollars from additional logistics.
So I would say at a minimum it will be half what we saw in the first and so somewhere between 5 million to 10 million depending on how quickly the logistics issues will result.
And your next question is from the line of Debbie Jones with Deutsche Bank.
I was just wondering given the trend you are seeing in the [indiscernible] and China are you concerned about the margin expansion targets that you put out for 2013 and [indiscernible] you guys to get to those targets? Debbie could you ask that just one more time please you’ve cut out a little bit on – Given the trends that you are seeing in the Andean region in China do you have concerns about having your margin expansion targets for these regions for 2015? And what needs to happen for you to get to these targets? Maybe I will start with that and let me do the Chinese one first and then I will come back to the Andean one.
No we don't have concerns for Asia-Pacific per se from a margin target standpoint in 2015.
Our targets were set out with an expectation that was we’d be retrenching over this period of time some of our less profitable businesses in China and that business will lead to higher-margin in the region.
So I think we're very very much on track with what we expect from a margin standpoint of for 2015 across Asia Pacific.
And certainly in the Andean regions which obviously impact of South America margin target.
We expect improved performance in the Andean countries and we need improved performance in the Andean countries to have that low 20% segment margins in South America but sitting here today we have no reason to expect that we will not be able to achieve low 20% margins in the 2015 time period in South America.
Just also in South America you talked about the trend you saw in Brazil this quarter how much do you think that was related to the World Cup and are you optimistic that you can continue to kind of see better growth in that region? It was a very strong pick up in demand in Brazil some of that also is due to comparables from last year but I would say the overall impact of the World Cup of course leads to some additional demand to fill some of the channels to the market.
I would say most benefit from this is really in the area of one way packaging so cans and also one way glass we will get some additional volume increases because it's unlikely that people will increase their float of returnable containers for a blip in demand.
As far as the second half of the year is concerned which typically of course is the stronger demand period for the region we at this point in time expect that to compare favorably with last year perhaps it does not have the same burst of increase compared to the first quarter that we saw in the first quarter of this year.
But I think overall demand profile is still relatively strong.
And your next question is from the line of Al Kabili with Macquarie.
First question is just Europe if you can highlight or just give us some commentary on how the contractual renewals went in Southern Europe if you maintain your share gain or loss or any and if with the price cost kind of being a bit unfavorable in the quarter how do you sort of -- is that going to continue that unfavorable price cost situation in Europe throughout the balance of the year? Overall we’re well along with our contractual renewals and as you may recall from past comments once you hit May it’s very difficult for that volume to shift anymore significantly because a lot of these contracts do have a provision for volume in them.
So I think it would be very difficult to see any loss of volume in the second half of the year and of course we’re helped a little bit by overall demand from the wine industry picking up again compared to last year somewhat.
With regard to pricing I believe really what you're seeing there is a dual effect.
Number one when we raised our prices in 2012 and lost volume it weren’t clearly the more price aware customers that were making those changes and they typically are at a lower price range anyway.
So if we have recovered some of that volume it really is more of a mix effect than an overall pricing effect.
Secondly what you tend to see as well if the inflation environment is benign it’s sometimes given the competitive profile that we see in Europe with so many competitors it's very difficult sometimes for the smaller suppliers to really make an argument for a higher price and that is having an effect as well on the overall pricing.
But I would say what we've seen so far is pretty mild.
And then just a clarification on North America given the spike in natural gas prices that you highlighted in the first quarter and given that a lot – by far the vast majority of the businesses is sort of pass-through on that gas a little bit of a lag should we expect a benefit in the coming quarters from that pass-through and is not factored in your 2Q guidance or how should we be thinking about that nat gas recovery spike up in North America in the first quarter? We will expect to see the contractual pass-through to really flow through in the first half of this year and that's included in the outlook that we've given you.
There were some one off spikes which were force majeure spikes that were called by utilities in the first quarter that we most probably would not be able to pass through entirely.
But that would then not recur in the second quarter.
Yes Al I would add that about 60% of our contracts in North America are monthly pass-through so now more than half was in theory recovered in the first quarter and then the other 40% is something between 31 days and 90 days.
So we will pick up a couple million dollars of that in the second quarter from residual cost pass-through in the first quarter assuming no change obviously from current prices.
And your next question is from the line of Tyler Langdon [ph] with JP Morgan.
Just had a quick question on Brazil and I think volumes were up in the high single digits.
Could you just talk about what was driving that whether it was market growth what category if there is sort of share gains just give a little color on that? Well we look at the of the published statistics and I think the relatively heart of the press overall bear production was up 10% or 11% in Brazil so that really was a driver and then also as I said earlier the comparison with the first quarter of last year where apparently some material was being provided by other suppliers that we picked up this year may have had an impact.
We clearly were well above the overall growth in the beer volume in Brazil in particular and more comparable with the can volume increases that we saw.
Canned volume increase I believe around 20% or so.
And then the inflation that you experienced in Q1 and expect to see in Q2 can you kind of quantify dollar amounts roughly what the impact of that was? Tyler could you ask the first part of that one more time you’re specifically referring to inflation for the company or for a particular region? I was just wondering if you could quantify the dollar impact? Yeah we were squeezed by about 5 million approximately $5 million in Asia Pacific unrecovered inflation and I would expect number to be very similar in the second quarter.
And your next question is from the line of Ghansham Panjabi with Robert W.
Baird.
The weather issues in North America that you commented on presumably we had an impact in your competitors also.
Al what do you think we are in terms of inventory levels relative to this point of year and years past and what are you hearing from customers as it relates to the strong selling season and – inventories in the supply chain.
Well overall our customers are really trying to bring innovation to the front because especially in the mega beer brands they all have been suffering from lackluster volumes and I'm sure all the big ones are trying to change that around.
So we want to make sure that we’re prepared for that so we clearly have the inventories to be responsive to our customer needs and I don't think that that's any different with regard to other suppliers in the marketplace.
A lot of course will depend on how the summer is going to evolve and easily sway the volume by 1% and 2% and that of course has a tremendous impact on the overall supply chain.
So we will have to wait a little bit on how this is going to evolve otherwise.
And then in terms of what you're tracking – in terms of your implied guidance for 2Q on EPS basically first half on a year-over-year basis on EPS versus last year your guidance is still pretty wide for the full-year to a 20 Steve what would it take to hit that – hit towards the end of that range? Ghansham there's no doubt that the weather-related issues in North America have obviously put more pressure on us to execute in the second half that will be disingenuous for us to say otherwise.
But we certainly see a past still or we would have changed the range obviously.
Also what needs to go right for us to get to the higher end of that range I would remind folks that the third quarter comp is very favorable for us as a starting point we have lots of problems especially in South America last year that we don't see repeating for a number of reasons.
Currency will help us where it is today vis-à-vis some of those initial expectations if we're successful in resolving the North American issues more quickly or more effectively then we’re currently expecting that obviously will give us a little bit more upside than we are currently projecting.
And certainly within Europe if that market continues to stay at its current level and does not go backwards as it has in the last couple of years we will get some additional Benefit there.
So we see multiple paths to get to the higher end of the range which is why we’ve kept it where it is.
And your next question is from the line of Philip Ng with Jefferies.
Margins were quite strong in Europe is that trajectory sustainable going forward after adjusting for seasonality and were there any one offs during the quarter? Well I think if you look at the comparison to last year of course we were dealing with a fairly low volume quarter last year.
So the difference is clearly very pronounced.
I think as we go further into the year and we see some of the volume normalizing and be more in line with what we expect at this point in time clearly that differential in the margin is not going to be maintained.
I am just talking more about adjusting for seasonality you would have peak quarters in Q2 Q3 so we should see normal step up from this point on? Yeah there is no change in the seasonality in the second and third quarter for the northern hemisphere should remain from a sales volume standpoint the stronger quarters for us but that won’t change.
In your prepared remarks you guys flagged increased competitive pressure which impacted pricing was that mostly in Europe Asia can you give some color on that front? I would say that was specifically referring to Europe and as I already explained in an earlier response there’s two aspects to it.
Number one our pricing effect that you see for us was a mix issue to a certain extent as well because we picked up some of the volume from customers that are more price conscious buyers and that we have lost in 2012 and early 2013 so that has an impact.
But generally it's really – if there is benign inflation there is a very often a dirt off reasoning or argument on the part of suppliers into the market say they need a price increase and I believe that really is impacting a little bit of this point in time some price pressure because you don't have the ability to just go in with a couple of percentage of price increases if there is no reason behind it with regard to inflation.
And your next question is from the line of Adam Josephson with KeyBanc.
Steve in Europe how much of the EBIT growth in the quarter came from the cost savings programs both programs and roughly how much growth you’re expecting from those programs for the duration year in Europe? We picked up about $10 million worth of benefit purely from the asset optimization program which is very consistent with our expectations we expect that to be about 25 million of year-over-year benefit and we knew the first quarter would get a large chunk of it.
So 10 is from asset optimization there is probably another $3 million to $5 million of what I would call just general structural cost reduction across the business and then the remainder of that will be a little bit of currency helping us and then obviously the volume drop through.
And in terms of the pickup in growth you're expecting in second half I know you called out South America being a fairly easy comp in the third quarter as you expect Europe to be up to some extent.
Where would you say the bulk of the growth you're expecting in terms of regions would be most concentrated again [indiscernible] South American in third quarter? Well I think if you look at two regions North America and Europe will most probably pretty much aligned and the remainder of the year at least that’s our projection and given that Europe of course is twice as big as North America.
As far as the bulk of the volume is concerned that would be clearly coming from the area where we have a larger share.
Your next question is from the line of Scott Gaffner with Barclays.
Al you mentioned that you thought your customers in South America would accelerate repurchases in the second half of year maybe ramp up the purchase of their float but I am just wondering if you’re concerned at all that your customers are shipping more towards one way packaging ahead of the World Cup if you’re concerned at all that maybe they don't revert back to returnable glass after that event is over? I would say aside from what we already discussed with regard to Brazil clearly there may be a World Cup impact in the other parts of the region as well because people of course watch TV and watch the event as well.
But I would say we have not seen a shift to one-way containers in those regions at all.
I think a lot of that demand is still being filled with floats that are in the marketplace.
I would expect though that – and I believe I mentioned a couple of quarters ago that we typically would see people delaying their purchasing decisions by perhaps two quarters but then it’s reaching the end of the line that’s what gives us some confidence that we will see the reordering of float as we go forward later in the year.
Specifically on China can you talk about the facility that you have left are those profitable and competitive and should expect to expand in the region for the long-term? Well the facilities that we have left are profitable and they’re really focused on the upper tier of the marketplace in China so they certainly have much better pricing points.
And at the same time they are also in locations that really give them a very good opportunity to participate in shipments to overseas locations to help some of the demand spikes and buffer strategies that we’re applying.
So that's really the focus of our strategy as we are going forward.
Your next question is from the line of Chris Manuel with Wells Fargo Securities.
Couple of questions first if I could center in on North America for a second and my second come back is more on the volume side but earlier you indicated that you would attempt to recover different cost elements and some things that impacted you herein 1Q and like we are here in the 2Q in the back of the year in North America.
My question is your recovery of that is that largely driven by contractual component to it or do you need to go out and try to pull back in certain elements and the reason I am coming at this way is if we were look at recovery your volumes have been pretty good there were no issues with shipments similarly to your customers wanted the demand but are you able to – in other words were you out-earn in the back half given what you recovery is the anticipation just to get back to kind of normal spread into second half how would you think about that? I think the recovery is really related to energy and to the energy prices because that's provided for in the contracts.
Whatever gyrations we have to go through to keep our customers supplied in the first quarter with regard to logistics is most probably not recoverable that fundamentally was a unilateral decision on our part to be a preferred supplier to our customers during very difficult times but certainly we expect that cost factor to diminish in the second quarter of the year because of the weather tuning significantly.
And then the second question I had was with respect to volumes and clearly Europe seemed -- the supplies you a bit on the volume side given previous commentary that you weren’t seeing a lot of – weren’t anticipating much there what changes as we work through the back half of the year I recognize you’re not going to have a much growing volume but if we look around the globe North America fundamentals are still seemingly solid here why can’t we continue at 0.2 points of volume Europe seemingly getting better why can't we continue in Latin America you talked in the past about strikes and different things in certain in the Andean region and places that resolving itself along with normal kind of pick up – why can’t volumes seemingly still be a couple points positive over the balance of theyear what are the puts and takes? Well I would say the puts and takes are fundamentally are typically picks up in demand when employment improves and we've seen some employment improvement in North America.
We've also seen some improvement in the overall framework of economic conditions in Europe which might hopefully lead to some higher employment so that's positive.
On the other hand as we have seen time and time again over the last couple of years weather has a significant impact as well and it's really balancing those two aspects between what’s likely going to happen from an economy and what maybe some of the unforeseen circumstances that's really giving us the position that we've taken at this point in time.
Your next question is from the line of Anthony Pettinari with Citi.
I had a follow-up on cost inflation I think previously you expected 2014 cost inflation of 125 to 150 million and given the spike that you saw in North America and some of the pressures in Asia is there an updated range that you're thinking about for the year? Yeah maybe I will start with that Anthony.
You are correct the guidance around inflation is 125 to 150 for the calendar year and a short answer is no we don't see a need to change that range the distribution of the inflation among the quarters is certainly changing.
obviously it’s higher in the first and a little bit in the second but the reality is there is less inflation today that we see in Europe than we had initially anticipated when we set that guidance out.
So I still think it will fall within that range and it’s going to be more front-end loaded and more North America loaded than we had originally anticipated.
But I don't see it being higher than this 3% number which the range indicates.
Okay that's helpful and then maybe just following up on Europe on the demand side and the strong volume growth you saw if I recall I think last quarter you talked about maybe he timing of holidays or some inventory practices from some of your customers that might have hurt some activity in 4Q.
And I was wondering if you feel that that pushed some demand into 1Q and just generally when you look at how volumes trended through the three months of the quarter did you feel like demand was accelerating as you exited the quarter or if you can give any color there.
No I don't think that we can say that demand throughout the quarter was accelerating I think it was fairly stable throughout the quarter in comparison to the previous year.
I do believe that the low order volume in the last quarter particularly in December may have had an impact on the slide blip in January but that's sustained.
And I think some of the effects that we’re seeing that may be dampening or mitigating a little bit demand is really the export part of the European wine and spirits industry is getting under pressure because China is clearly cutting back significantly and as Steve indicated in his comments the supply chain tends to be fairly long so we don't know how long it’s going to take to work its way out of that process.
Your next question is from the line of Alex Ovshey with Goldman Sachs.
A couple of ones for you.
In Brazil do you have a sense for how much of volume improvement is underlying demand versus the impact of the supply chain getting ready for the World Cup? And then for planning purposes down there for ‘15 how are you thinking about that volume trajectory I mean the expectation be that it would be flattish to down early next year given the difficult comparison? Well it’s very difficult of course to predict how it’s going to develop by quarter next year and so I wouldn’t even want to take a stab at this but what we are seeing is an – I believe I mentioned numbers before overall beer production was up 11% and our sales to the beer industry were up more than that.
So I think there is most probably some channel effect in there to try to ascertain how much that is going to be is very difficult.
But I think if we are assuming a mid-single digits growth rate for the remainder of the year at least for the second half of the year in Brazil that’s most probably a safe assumption.
And then we had a consolidation event in North America.
Do you see any impact to you from that event in perhaps maybe customer concentration being too high as opposed that some of that potentially coming your way or any other potential impact from the consolidation in North America on our business? Well I think given the outcome of the settlement discussions I don't really think that there is an additional concentration of market position as an effect of the various transactions.
So I don't think it’s really going to have a fundamental impact on the overall supply demand profile that we've seen with that.
So I think that perhaps may have been some uncertainty in the last 12 or 14 months but I believe a lot of that has really been resolved.
And your last question is from the line of Chip Dillon with Vertical Research.
Sort of as a follow-up to that previous question.
You are right there isn't much of a change in the concentration of the industry but you have had pretty much the rest of the competition kind of dealing with a lot of uncertainty on the ground with folks.
And I was wondering did that have any impact on the market either good or bad? No I think it may have increased a lot of the interaction between companies a little bit that they have looked at alternatives and to be prepared and to have some contingency plans in order.
But fundamentally people were not really willing to make dramatic changes to their supply positions until it was clear what was going to evolve from this consolidation.
And I think as I said earlier now since it’s been resolved it most probably will become relatively quiet again.
And then just last quick one is you guys have really put together a couple of solid years when you look back.
However you go back to 2010 when I think you guys were more aggressively moving into say China and obviously that has resulted in not reaching your expectations.
Any lessons that you learned from that that you are carrying forward? Yes I believe that the lesson is that the when you move into new markets you have to move into a new market with a fairly strong position.
If you move into a new market with a very small share of the market it is very difficult to have any influence or to bring your concepts or your ideas to market and I think given the position that we have in the rest of the world we may perhaps have been a little bit too over confident that we could put our approach and the way we think business should be successful imposed in China and clearly with more than thousand competitors in the Chinese market that’s very difficult to achieve.
I think that's the more fundamental lesson.
The other part is also that we could through the acquisitions of course get to a lower cost profile in the manufacturing base.
What we also did see was that in the marketplace transactional behavior from our competitors was not something that could be copied or replicated by us given our adherence to ethics and compliance laws and considerations that we have ourselves.
I think those are two big lessons that we have to draw from what we did in 2010.
Thank you everyone.
That concludes our first quarter earnings conference call.
Please note that our second quarter 2014 conference call is currently scheduled for Wednesday July 30 2014 at 8AM Eastern Time.
We appreciate your interest in OI and remember that glass is infinitely recyclable and always the most sustainable packaging choice.
We encourage you to choose glass for all your food and beverage needs.
Thank you.
This does conclude today’s OI first quarter 2014 earnings conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Shirley and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Second Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers’ remarks there will be a question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions) Thank you.
Mr.
David Johnson Vice President of Investor Relations you may begin your conference.
Thank you Shirley.
Good morning and welcome everyone to O-I's Earnings Conference Call.
Our discussion today will be led by Al Stroucken our Chairman and CEO; and Steve Bramlage our Chief Financial Officer.
Today we will discuss key business developments review our financial results for the second quarter of 2014 and discuss trends affecting our business this year.
Following our prepared remarks we'll host a Q&amp;A session.
Presentation materials for this earnings call are available on the company's website at o-i.com.
Please review the Safe Harbor comments and disclosure of our use of non-GAAP financial measures included in those materials.
Unless otherwise noted the financial results we are presenting today relate to adjusted earnings which exclude certain items that management considers not representative of ongoing operations.
In the second quarter of 2014 and 2013 there were no such items.
A reconciliation of GAAP to non-GAAP earnings can be found in our earnings press release and in the appendix to this presentation.
Now I'd like to turn the call over to Al.
Thank you Dave and good morning.
Earnings per share of $0.80 were in line with our expectations and essentially on par with the prior year.
Global volume for the quarter was down 1%.
However if we take out the impact from China where we shuttered three plants earlier in the year global volume was actually up 1%.
Although Asia-Pacific volumes were down volumes in all of the other regions especially South America were up.
This continues the growth that we have seen for several quarters.
Beer was particularly strong in Europe and the Americas driven by the World Cup and better weather compared to prior year.
South America delivered strong financial results due to substantial volume growth across the region.
This performance was modestly outweighed by lower profitability in the other regions.
Now let us turn to Slide 3 for a closer look at Europe and North America.
Volumes in Europe increased by 2% in the quarter with gains reported in the beer wine and food categories.
Our growth in the relatively flat wine market came primarily from sparkling wine and our spirits volume was soft as our customers worked through high inventory levels due to demand declines in China.
Prices were down about 1% in the quarter.
This was fully offset by tailwinds from cost [inflation] (ph) and the stronger euro.
Our asset optimization program in Europe continues apace.
We have taken out an additional $5 million in structural costs year-over-year.
This benefit however was masked by comparably lower production volume due to downtime driven by three key factors the pulling forward of a furnace repair in the UK engineering work associated with asset optimization and more changeovers of jobs than average to meet our customers’ shifting demand needs during the peak second quarter.
All in all European performance was essentially on par with prior year.
In North America sales volumes were up 1%.
In the non-alcoholic beverage segment we continue to benefit from the strengthening of our customers’ preference for glass.
Premium juices iced coffees and teas craft sodas and Pepsi Twist package being unique compelling and sometimes retro glass bottles are boosting our sales.
Within the beer category soft mega beer sales were more than offset by continued double-digit growth in the craft beer segment where O-I has the lion’s share of the market.
Volumes in other categories declined modestly largely the result of customer inventory destocking.
North America’s profitability was adversely impacted by the mix of business in particular by softness in wine and spirits.
The region continued to grapple with higher warehouse and delivery costs and we anticipated the carryover impact of Q1 weather.
This was compounded by additional strain on the supply chain from the higher than anticipated change in the sales mix.
In South America – moving on to Slide 4 now in South America our volumes exceeded initial guidance.
We saw double-digit growth in Brazil due primarily to strong beer volume.
In the Andean countries we saw our first positive volume trends since the first quarter of 2013.
We were especially pleased to see our beer customers ramp up float replacement purchases in the second quarter a bit sooner than we had expected.
In addition to higher volume this quarter’s operating profit benefited from less production downtime during furnace rebuilds.
In all segment margin in the region was up more than 500 basis points in the quarter.
By contrast Asia-Pacific’s performance was disappointing.
Most of this volume decline in the Asia-Pacific region was driven by our retrenchment in China earlier in the year and we will continue to feel the topline impact of those permanent shutdowns through the back half of 2014.
The remainder of the volume decline was due to continuing weakness in the Australian wine and beer markets.
The Australian export wine market particularly to the US and China continues to lag behind prior year volumes.
The Australian mainstream beer market where we have significant volume has been losing considerable share to imports.
Separately profitability in the region was also dampened by cost inflation as we have mentioned in earlier calls.
Contractual agreements in Australia will allow us to begin passing on higher cost to customers in the back half of the year.
Now I will turn the call over to Steve to review our financial performance.
Thanks Al and good morning.
Turning to Slide 5 starting with the table on the left second quarter 2014 segment sales were $1.8 billion up 1% over the prior year.
Price in the quarter was 1% above prior year.
Prices in North America were higher in part due to our contractual pass-through provisions plus our assumption of freight handling for a top customer.
Price gains were broad-based across South America and as Al already noted prices in Europe modestly contracted consistent with a slight deflation we have experienced there.
Sales in tons decreased 1% with volume declines in China only partially being offset by gains in Europe and across the Americas.
As also mentioned currency movements impacted sales in every region Europe was positive and South America North America and Asia-Pacific negative.
On balance currency positively impacted overall segment sales by approximately 1% in the quarter.
Segment operating profit in the quarter was $262 million compared with $267 million in the prior year.
The impact of price carries over directly from the sales line.
The positive impact of sales volume on operating profit may not be intuitive.
You can see that the $24 million headwind on the sales line actually translates into a $3 million tailwind on operating profit.
This reflects the varied incremental margin on sales across the globe.
In particular in this quarter the significant drop in low margin sales in China was more than offset by higher margin volume gains in both South America and in Europe.
Within operating costs inflation abated to more normal levels compared to the first quarter inflationary spike that was driven by North America energy costs.
While the company suffered from higher supply chain costs in North America and lower production volume in Europe and Asia-Pacific our continuing efforts to take out structural costs were mitigating factor.
I would note also that South America’s results very modestly benefited from a small sale of a non-strategic asset.
Finally the net impact of currency was a tailwind of approximately $6 million primary driven by the euro as Al has already mentioned.
Let me now address the few moving parts of our earnings bridge on Slide 6.
First as we just discussed segment operating profit was lower than the prior year.
Second corporate expense was favorable to prior year driven by reduced pension expense primarily.
Thirdly our effective tax rate was 22% which was modestly unfavorable due to a low rate in the comparable period.
All in all second-quarter earnings were $0.01 lower than the prior year.
Now let's turn to Slide 7 for our third quarter outlook.
In Europe we expect sales volume to be up modestly over the prior year driven primarily by beer.
European operating profit will also benefit from further asset optimization savings and from higher production volumes as the impact of engineering downtime and the number of job changeovers which impacted the second quarter begins to abate.
In North America we expect sales volumes to be flat with prior year.
Higher planned furnace maintenance should lead to lower production levels in the third quarter.
As a result this will manifest itself in lower fixed costs absorption which will adversely impact the bottom line during the quarter.
Turning to South America we see several factors coalescing into another positive performance in the third quarter.
We anticipate volume recovery in the Andean countries especially relative to a lackluster comparison period in 2013.
In Brazil we have more modest expectations for growth.
The uncertainty around post-World Cup demand is compounded by a likely tax increase on beer in Brazil that is expected to be announced in the relatively near future.
Recall further that several one-off events in South America dampened profitability in the third quarter last year such as the general strike in Colombia which created uncertainty in the market and also caused several of our production facilities to halt shipments temporarily.
Barring similar events we expect a further lift in the region’s operating profit.
Finally let's turn to Asia Pacific where we anticipate lower year-on-year operating profit in the third quarter.
Volume is expected to be down again double-digits.
China will continue to be the primary drag on the top line following the plant shutdowns that Al previously referenced.
Depressed Australian wine and beer markets are likely to continue to weigh on results during the quarter.
This will be partially offset by fixed cost savings from the furnace that we took out at the end of last year and by higher contract prices as price adjustment formulas particularly related to energy kick in during the third quarter.
We are also intensifying efforts to reduce spending.
We expect corporate costs to be somewhat higher than the prior year due to higher R&amp;D spending and the timing of certain other expenses.
The effective tax rate for the quarter and the full year is now expected to be no more than 23% which is the low end of the previous guidance range.
Considering all the puts and takes we expect adjusted earnings per share for the quarter to be up approximately 10% over the prior year.
I will now move to Slide 8 and we will discuss the 2014 updated guidance given the fact we have better visibility into the second half of the year.
first the company remains fully committed to delivering improved earnings and generating higher free cash flow year-over-year.
Most importantly our free cash flow target of approximately $350 million remains unchanged.
Further we have not changed our capital allocation priorities for this year.
We will devote approximately 90% of our free cash flow generation to debt repayment and the remaining 10% to anti-dilutive share purchases.
Turning to earnings per share the first half of the year has unfolded within the range of our expectations.
Given that plus our clear view of the second half we are narrowing the EPS range for the full year.
Let me highlight the key drivers that have impacted this range change.
North America’s higher than anticipated supply chain and expense cost us approximately $0.10 and we are unlikely to be able to recover this in the second half of the year.
By contrast South America has outperformed our original expectation driven by volume growth to date in Brazil and favorable volume trends in the Andean countries.
Other influences largely offset each other including better than anticipated European volumes versus ongoing demand weakness in Australia.
Considering all of the moving parts we’re narrowing our EPS guidance range to $2.85 to $3.05 per share.
We believe this demonstrates our confidence in our ability to execute on our strategic priorities in an ever-changing environment.
Let me now turn the call back over to Al to discuss our key priorities on Slide 9.
Thanks Steve.
We continued to successfully deliver on the management priorities that we outlined for you at our investor day in 2013.
On the operational side while the regions have made solid progress in taking costs out we still have more to do.
We must drive the cost reduction efforts to the bottom line by implementing long-lasting structural changes that improve efficiency and productivity across the entire supply chain.
On the financial side we remain disciplined in our capital allocation as Steve mentioned.
In fact during the second quarter we brought back $12 million of stock.
On the strategic front we are in the midst of the European asset optimization program with many machine upgrades and other improvements underway.
The program continues to generate cost savings in line with expectations.
Our new innovation centre has significantly increased the speed with which we move product innovation from concept to customer.
In just a few short months the team successfully produced red glass the culmination of great efforts by the global innovation team.
We are now in discussions with several customers about possibilities to enhance their brands with red glass.
Dozens of other projects have moved forward more rapidly because of the new center’s capabilities.
We have also seen beer and spirits containers and black glass from O-I commercialize in North America and Europe.
The strong collaboration we are seeing between our global product innovation and R&amp;D teams is leading to more fruitful discussions with our customers.
We saw the Helix bottle commercialize in Europe this quarter.
The new twist to open Helix concept combines an ergonomically designed stopper made from cork and the glass bottle with an internal thread finish in the neck creating a high performing and sophisticated wine packaging solution.
And another matter you may have heard that we recently expanded the scope of Andres Lopez’ role.
He is now serving as president of the Americas taking on the additional responsibility for leading North America.
Having Andres in this broader leadership role allows us to capitalize on the success his team has had in South America and he brings a great deal of knowledge and insight to our North American operations.
He has stepped into the role with ease as he has held leadership positions in North America earlier in his career and is very familiar with our North American operations.
Thank you and now I will ask Shirley to open up the lines for your questions.
(Operator instructions) Our first question comes from the line of Chris Manuel from Wells Fargo.
Your line is open.
Gentlemen a couple of quick questions for you first as we look at you know some of what is happening down in Latin America you spoke about the mix beginning to improve there a bit with respect to refillable floats and things getting better is this something that you kind of look forward at the balance of the year and into next year that you think is sustainable or consistent that we have seen a begining of a turn that you know what has looked like an increase in kind of one way packaging around the World Cup is beginning to maybe abate a bit or what is your view down there on how sustainable you know the demand improvement is? I would say when we look at the Andean region in particular what we experienced last year was atypical drop-off demand of a normal replacement of floats and so what we have talked about in past meetings was that we expect this to start again this year and at least first indications on the second quarter of this year are that this is going to happen and so in our projections for the second half clearly a replacement of floats is a component of our expected growth that we see in Latin America.
In Brazil of course refillable package is still a significant component of the market but a lot of the volume growth that we saw in the first half of the year was geared towards one way containers because of the short-term nature of perhaps the consumption blip that we expected but we still see based on the comments that our customers are making that refillable containers are going to be a considerable share of their strategy to hit the pricing points and to get to consumer affordability levels much earlier in the evolution and so we are quite positive at this point in time with what we can expect with regard to refillable containers.
The uncertainty in Latin America is really derived from the high demand in the first half of the year in Brazil which was certainly [upheld] by the World Cup and we do not know how much of a contraction we are going to see in the marketplace and that is particularly – that uncertainty is particularly exacerbated also by an excise tax that Brazil is considering to implement but we don’t know the timing nor do we know the size of the excise tax so that is the only uncertainty at this point in time.
Okay that is helpful and then my follow-up has to do with Europe where there was you know a little bit of a shortfall in the year.
It sounds like you mentioned a furnace that went down early.
Could you maybe give us a little color there was that one that was slated to be closed or was that one that is just a rebuild and then you know some of the higher costs for changeovers and things you know remind us aren’t those typically things that you know as you are getting orders for changes that you can typically maybe not in this quarter but over the next quarter or two recover from you know pricing and things of that nature for having new products and having new the service et cetera? Typically of course we plan the furnace replacements but when furnaces come to the end of their lives they very often do not hold on to the last couple of days that we have planned for and so that the level of uncertainty increases and what we saw in Europe was at a furnace that we had scheduled for rebuild for the third quarter fundamentally needed to be rebuilt a quarter prior so three months or four months earlier.
Similarly we see such situations happen in other regions as well and they do affect of course the region in that quarter-to-quarter comparison but then typically since they were planned shutdowns anyway then we would expect a recovery then in the quarter where originally it was planned to be replaced.
So that is also why you see some shift in the quarterly performance in the comments that Steve has made earlier with regard to our projections for the remainder of the year.
Our next question comes from the line of Ghansham Panjabi from Robert W.
Baird.
Your line is open.
Hi good morning.
It is actually Mehul Dalia sitting in for Ghansham.
How are you doing? Hi good morning.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Just wanted an update on your free cash flow allocation strategy going forward you expect about 10% of free cash flow to go towards share buybacks in 2014 what does that percentage look like in 2015? Yes.
This is Steve Bramlage here.
You are correct.
In 2014 it will be 10% for anti-dilutive share repurchases.
We have not been prescriptive yet on the percentage that 2015 will ultimately deliver for free cash flow.
It will certainly be a higher percentage a significantly higher percentage based on the balance sheet and the scope of the business that we have now.
We are in the midst of our planning and budgeting process.
We are essentially kicking that off now and so I would expect us to give more detailed guidance on that as we exit the third quarter but it will be a significant increase because we will be much closer or at our desired leverage level and there simply will not be from our perspective incremental attraction to putting the current level of cash flow towards deleveraging that we are doing this year.
Great thank you and when reconciling your full year and 3Q guidance it is implied that 4Q will have a record quarter relative to previous fourth quarters what gives you that confidence for such a solid 4Q? I guess I would start with the production levels in Europe so back to some of the issues that compress the profitability relative to expectations in Europe in the second quarter were driven by production the timing of projects in the European asset optimization side.
A lot of that engineering work is happening earlier in the year than in the comparable period last year.
So we will be producing at significantly higher levels in Europe on a year-over-year basis which will drive a large part of the improvement in profitability on a year-over-year basis.
And in addition to that in Latin America we expect stronger sales then we had last year in the third and fourth quarters.
Our next question comes from the line of Al Kabili from Macquarie Research.
Your line is open.
Good morning.
I wanted to dig in first on the supply chain issues you highlighted in North America and Steve maybe you can size up at your vantage point right now your best guess sort of what that headwind is looking like it sounds like it is a bit higher than you anticipated? Yes.
I would – our best guess best estimate right now is we probably incurred another 7ish million dollars of negative supply chain related EBIT impact in North America that was a carryover from you know the weather-related issues in the first quarter.
That is a little bit more than we anticipated.
If you recall we – I think we said it was about 10 million in the first quarter and we thought we would have about half of that flow through in the second.
So it has been modestly more.
I think it is somewhere in $17 million $18 million for the entire first half of the year and that is the primary reason that we’re lowering the top end of the range.
I think it is safe to say that the weather related issues are finished and resolved in the business at this point in time.
But I think it is all so quite unlikely that we’re going to be able to recover that in the second half of the year.
Okay.
That is helpful.
I appreciate that and then on the Australian business the soft continued soft volumes there I think you mentioned that China the declines there can you help us with the volumes specifically on Australia you know what they are doing year-over-year and to the degree they remain sluggish are there any additional levers that you can – you can do from the cost side? Yes that is a constant consideration.
Of course we have to look at whether the trends that we are seeing are permanent trends or just temporary trends.
I think what we are seeing at this point in time with regard to the wine market it is quite obvious that the Australian wine market especially their export related business is taking it on the chin I would say through May export bottle volume in Australia is known about 10% and that of course has a significant impact.
On top of that one of the large exporters in Australia in wine is going through a major restructuring program which has an impact on their overall demand profile as they are looking at their inventories and so on.
But that is most probably going to be something that is temporary in nature.
Now with regard to beer it is a question of competitiveness and of price levels imported beers can be bought into the stores at a lower price than domestically manufactured beer and that is clearly having a dampening effect on domestic production.
I would say that overall most probably beer as far as domestic beer is down 3% to 4% or so and I don’t think that that is likely going to change until currency has an impact on the Australian market.
Now what we have done in the past and what we will continue to do is we will make adjustments then in our installed base to make sure that we have the cost structures that are appropriate for us to still get to the margin levels that we need and that we had projected in our investor conference in 2013 in Australia by 2015.
Our next question comes from the line of Debbie Jones from Deutsche Bank.
Your line is open.
Hi good morning.
Good morning Debbie.
I have a couple of questions and the first you know it seems your rationale for moving away from the unprofitable business in China is trying to make sense but I am just curious what is your long-term strategy at this point in that region because I’ve seen the gross rate for beverage consumption in China is higher than most of the regions where you currently compete so what would you ultimately need to speed kind of re-enter and grow your business there? Yes our approach at this point in time is to keep a presence in China in the coastal regions and then we also have a joint venture in Sichuan province because those customers really serve more of the international brand to the customers in China either foreign companies in China or Chinese companies that export a lot and quality requirements and price levels tend to be higher there and allow us to get a decent margin for our business.
It still allows us to keep an eye then on the Chinese market without becoming entirely dependent on the very competitive nature of that market at this point in time.
And it also provides us given their locations with the buffer capability for Australia New Zealand the west coast of the United States.
So I think by having a presence for the next couple of years and keep watching the market place it will give us sufficient knowledge about the Chinese market to then make decisions down the road when is the right time to engage at a more substantive level and at the substantive level where we can also get to return on invested capital that we desire.
Okay thanks that’s helpful.
I guess my follow you now have some visibility on how your cost savings efforts brought through or will roll through on the back half comment on your 2015 margin expansion targets what regions are you most satisfied with your efforts and where am I there be with to the targets you have given is that correct to Asia Pac is the biggest risk at this point? Hi Debbie this is Steve I’ll try that.
So first thing we’re not making any changes at all to our communicated target margins either at the NTT level or the individual region as it relates to it to 2015.
I really don’t think the story has changed from when we last commented on this significantly I think we’ve already demonstrated an ability to be at the target margin level in the prior year at North America but for the weather related issues this year I don’t see any significant impediments to us being able to consistently achieve those kind of margin levels in North America of around 15%.
We’ve very good visibility in South America on a (inaudible) below 20 numbers I don’t see any constraint on our ability to achieve that.
We’ve already at the Asia Pacific margin levels last year of kind a low mid teen clearly the Australia situation has put some pressure on us this year but we’ve a very well understood playbook to drive margin improvement there.
I don’t think that’s the challenge.
I think our biggest challenge has always been in Europe that’s what we would characterize as the longest – relatively speaking a more competitive environment and it was relatively speaking a larger amount that we need to make up.
But we’re confident right now based on what we see with the market dynamics there as well as the progress in the asset optimization side.
There is a path for us to get to those approximately 14% margins but sitting here today I think Europe is going to be the most significant challenge for us and it’s consistent with the investments we’re making in that region to make sure we’re able to get there.
Our next question comes from George Staphos from Bank of America Merrill Lynch your line is open.
Hi everyone good morning thanks for all the details.
I wanted to take my two questions and get back to volumes and production levels and competitive trends.
In Australia and New Zealand are you seeing any effect from market share loss versus the other producer in the region and overall were the volumes and productions levels as you would have expected broadly in the region or did export issues and the other factors to mention Australia really provide the negative variance? The second question that I had in Europe you mentioned that you’re pulling forward some engineering work you had the set went down little bit early and that was an issue in terms of your production taking a little bit differently did any market softness that materialize in 2Q cause you to say hey let’s take advantage of this and pull forward our engineering and furnish rebuild work to hopefully get ahead of it and get a bigger uplift in the second half? Thank you guys.
Let me start with the Europe question first then I’ll hand it over to Steve to talk about Australia a little bit.
Clearly what we’re seeing in Europe is a strengthening demand trends in general and that has significantly helped overall by beer demand as we already had indicated wine was more flattish food was pretty strong.
So there is a regional differentiations still in Europe with regard to what demand profiles look like and some of our smaller competitors that reported on the Southern region of Europe indicated that the market is still a bit soft.
But overall looking at a total volume of the European market I think the market is recovering is on a bath forward and I believe that some of the pricing dynamics which were also driven by a very low inflation rate at this point in time in Europe will eventually dissipate.
With regards to our projections going forward we’re confident that the overall volume evolution that we’ve seen over the last three or four quarters is going to continue and that has really given us the confidence to make sure that we stay within timelines of the restructuring program and in fact whenever we need to make sure that we repay our facilities perhaps a little bit sooner to be ready for that increased demand as we go into next year.
They will also help us in the second half of the year of course to build up some inventory which has been run down quite a bit over the last six months in the European market because of that construction activity and that’s going to help the projected numbers for the second half of the year as well.
And related to the Australian to your question George I would I guess I would start with New Zealand and add Indonesia and Persia.
Over the last 12 months we’ve gained share in several segments wine and beer in New Zealand over the last year we’ve also gained share in Indonesia as we’ve added some incremental capacity and capabilities.
Australia is a little bit more of a mixed bag I think as it relates to the sole domestic competitor that we’ve there I think its we’ve picked up some and we’ve lost some but over the last couple of months or the last first six months of the year I don’t think there has been a significant net change then I’m aware with the domestic competitor.
We’ve lost a little bit of share to some imported where coming into Australia on a temporary basis we’ve re-secured that share of loss starting at second half of 2015 for I think in other six or seven years but there will be a 12 month period a time a little bit longer than 12 month period a time or we’ve ceded a little bit of share to some imported ware in Australia that’s probably the most significant negative share change in that region.
And our next question comes from the line of Philip Ng from Jefferies &amp; Co.
your line is open.
Hi guys one of your competitors in North America is shutting some capacity is that an opening for you to pick up some of that business and how should we think from the margin standpoint as well? Well I assume we would only have arrived at that conclusion if that business had already been lost and we haven’t picked up business.
So I cannot really comment further on that.
Then what our perspective is at this point in time but I do not think that that provide us with an opportunity to pick up additional work certainly we would have been in discussions right now.
Got you that’s helpful.
And then Asia Pac is from a demand perspective it’s been pretty weak for some time now even you ship out China it’s encouraging to hear you’re going to pick up some new business next year but when you look at your footprint is there a need to right size that a little bit and can you give us a sense where capitalization is checking out in Asia Pac at this juncture? Well as you know we’ve been taking care of some of our infrastructure as I said earlier we shut down three facilities in China late last year early this year and you also are aware of the restructuring that we went through in Australia.
I think if we really find that some of these volume evolutions are going to meet more permanent in the nature we’ll still look at our installed base and make the adjustments that are necessary to remain at a competitive price and cost structure in that market because one of the attractive features of course of the Australian and New Zealand market is are relatively high market share and I think solid and stable domestic consumption normally which of course at this point in time is a little bit turn out of filter by the huge changes that we’ve seen in exchange rate over the last couple of years.
But this as you know is a fairly long term business so we’ve to be careful when we make our adjustments because once we shut down an operation or take out capacity it will become extremely difficult to correct that if we guess to the wrong side.
So we have to be bit careful but there still levers available to us to make sure that we get to the margins that we desire in the region.
Our next question comes from the line of Adam Josephson from KeyBanc Capital Markets your line is open.
Thanks good morning everyone.
Good morning.
My two questions one is just on wine and spirits you mentioned in North America was soft.
Can you discuss what you think contributed to that and you expect that to continue? And the other question is related to your free cash flow guidance obviously you maintained the guidance despite taking down your EPS guidance a bit.
So can you talk about how you’re able to maintain that cash flow guidance? Thank you very much.
I’ll let Steve handle cash flow.
With regard the demand and that is the demand of products from us into the wine industry because if you look at the overall wine consumption in North America it was flattish in the first half it was not a significant downtrend it really we believe is de-stocking on the part of our customers that is really affecting in the first part of the year.
We expect that that is going to recover as we move forward after they have gone through this process but the long term trend for wine in North America really has really has not changed and that has continued growth for the foreseeable future.
And as it relates to cash flow we put out the guidance at the beginning of the year around cash flow with the expectation we would have in earnings number within the range that we had initially 280 to 320 we’re still within that range.
We’ve narrowed the range and so there would be no reason for us to change the cash flow it’s very consistent with the broader earnings range that we had anticipated and as you know there are – and there are many many levers related to cash flow capital expansion etcetera and those are all generally tracking quite consistent with our expectations at the beginning of the year and I’m very confident that we’re well positioned to deliver on that number.
Thanks Steven I appreciate it.
Our next question comes from the line of Alex Ovshey from Goldman Sachs your line is open.
Alex Ovshey your line is open.
Our next question comes from the line of Tyler Langton from J.P.
Morgan your line is open.
Yes good morning thanks.
This is Martin.
Just as South America can you talk a little bit about what drove the double digit increases in Brazilian shipment I think you said it was mostly beer but I think sort of just beer production in return about the last was I think down or flattish slightly for the industry so I was just wondering if you’re getting share or kind of what drove the strong increases on your end? What we have to keep in mind is that we also participated in the one-way beer sales and Latin America which we’re really not that far off from the increase in the can beer sales as far as growth is concerned.
Now as you know one way bottles is a smaller share of the total volume but I think we saw very solid double digit growth in the one way beer segment.
The growth in the returnable container was a little bit lower one additional factor which impacted us last year and which has not seen this year is that one of the larger customers in Brazil last year had procured significant volume from Venezuela on an imported basis and the second and third quarter of last year which is not happening this year likely because that volume is not available for export and that of course added an additional boost to our volume increases in the Brazilian market.
And I think that by itself is of course not reflective of overall demand just reflective of a changing supply line and that has helped us well.
Okay got it thanks.
And then just with Asia Pacific could you add quantify to the impact in the quarter the delays in sort of passing through cost inflation and then just for the second half of the year do you still expect to kind of recover fully what you have lost in first and second quarter? The primary delay relates to energy cost energy inflation in Australia we incurred about a $5 million squeeze in the first quarter and I think the squeeze was comparable in the second.
So I think we’ve had about a $10 million headwind in the first quarter related to that.
We will start to recover that in the third and fourth quarters I’m not sure we’ll recover quite all time based on the timing of the past years but I would expect us to recover the majority of that in the second half of the year.
Our next question comes from the line of Chip Dillon from Vertical Research your line is open.
Hi guys this is Brian then filling in for Chip.
Just a question looking at OI’s compact situation – sorry can you guys hear me now.
This is actually Brian Lynch filling in for Chip Dillon.
Looking at OI’s income tax situation as the company analyzed the benefits of possibly re-domiciling outside the U.S.
say in Europe? This is Steve I’ll do that.
The answer is yes of course obviously we read the paper just like everybody else.
The reality is our particular situation so called in version type of a transaction for us we’re not a large domestic payer of taxes at this point in time in the United States largely due to our legacy asbestos liability which has created significant net operating losses for us in the U.S.
and we do not anticipate being a U.S.
tax payer of any substance for the foreseeable future.
So the merits of that sort of transaction really don’t fit our particular fact profile here for the near future.
Okay.
And regarding the asbestos exposure just a quick question on that as well as you work towards the year end accrual how much do you feel the charge will change versus 2013 stats? It’s a little bit early for us to obviously to handicap exactly what that will be so I’ll fall back to the fact that the underlying fact pattern has not changed.
We continue to receive modestly diminishing numbers of claims on a year-over-year basis the folks you’re filing claims against the organization continue to get older albeit at a slow pace.
So our guidance is on the cash side that number will come down $5 million to $10 million of cash for each of the next several years based on the demographics and the trends that we see.
And obviously the annual charge we take is a three year look forward so it should be reflective of that modest continuing step down.
I don’t see a change in the fact pattern in terms what will impact the charge this year once we go through those mechanics.
Our next question comes from the line of (inaudible) from Bank of Montreal your line is open.
Good morning Steve good morning Al.
Just a couple of questions first one on pricing I wondered if you could touch on pricing both in Europe where you had said you’ve seen heads and weakness and then in Latin America and then I had a follow on? Okay.
Well overall pricing in Latin American of course also given the inflation rate has always very solid we were at about 5% to 6% or so of price movement in the first half of the year in Latin America.
And in Europe as we had indicated we saw some softness we’ve seen some weakness in pricing but that’s in my view largely driven of course by the fact that inflation is very mild at this point in time and given some softness still in some of the volumes and certain regions of Europe there was not a lot of appetite to actually drive for price increases in the marketplace.
I would say given the underlying trends strengthening trends of the economy whatever is impacting us from an overall supply demand balance may disappear because demand will most probably arise a lot of those issues.
The question still forward is what is inflation going to do? And then of course the biggest factor in this is going to be energy and energy as you very well know of course on the discussions in many countries with regard to the impact of the rusher on the overall energy supply for next year.
So that will most probably if that becomes a little bit clearer as we go forward will make or will have a significant impact on what the pricing stands going forward is going to be for next year.
Okay alright.
And then just on a follow on this craft beer story has been great for you guys over the last several years I’m just curious seeing more this going in the cans do you have any sense in the craft beer market right now sort of what mix looks like percentage wise between kind of cans and bottles? I would have to really take a wild guess because I only have anecdotal information at this point in time.
When we talk to the brewers there is a desire for them to be represented in venues to be sporting events to be on the beaches and so on and of course glass does not allow them to that which is one of the driving factors.
And so they look at it as one additional model of having products available to a customer base that desires of drinking their products in a variety of venues.
But I would say and I’ve to take a guess I think overall the share of cans in that segment is less than 10%.
Our last question comes from the line of Alton Stump from Longbow Research your line is open.
Just two quick questions.
First half if you look at stat obviously hasn’t been as strong as Northern Europe if I recall the harvest for grapes for wine with weak last year but maybe looking better heading into the back half of this year any color on how the harvest is looking in for the near for back half? We typically don’t see the harvest influencing our demand as much because Europe also imports a lot of juice and fundamentally then still has the same amount of wine available that they can bottle and the bottling is really the key to us.
So we really have not seen significant variation.
The only difference that we see sometimes is if the harvest and Champaign is weak then we see an impact on the overall volume but that typically with the couple of years delay because the wine needs to be fermented and needs to be stored and so it takes a while until we see the impact.
But I would say we had a similar story two years ago or three years ago when the wine harvest was weak and we really did not see a significant impact on the overall demand on bottles.
Okay thanks.
And then I guess one quick follow up on the U.K.
plant issue in the quarter any color on how much of an impact that was of profitability in 2Q and also is that now done with or is there any more that we see bleed into quarter? Alton this is Steve.
I can’t give you a specific number I mean it would be a couple to several million dollars of an impact from above the downtime associated with it as well as the downstream supply chain implications and I would not expect it to be a significant number going forward as Al said.
We’re executing the exact same plan we’ve always had in mind for that facility just the timing is a little bit different.
Great.
Thank you everyone that concludes our second quarter earnings conference call.
Please note that our third quarter 2014 conference call is currently scheduled for Wednesday October 29 2014 at 8:00 a.m.
Eastern Time.
We appreciate your interest in OI and remember everything takes better in glass so choose glass thank you.
This concludes today’s conference call you may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Stephanie and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Third Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers’ remarks there will be a question-and-answer session.
(Operator instructions) Thank you.
Dave Johnson Vice President of Investor Relations you may begin your conference.
Thank you Stephanie.
Good morning and welcome everyone to O-I's Earnings Conference Call.
Our discussion today will be led by Al Stroucken our Chairman and CEO; and Steve Bramlage our Chief Financial Officer.
Today we will discuss key business developments review our financial results for the third quarter of 2014 and discuss trends affecting our business in 2014.
Following our prepared remarks we'll host a question-and-answer session.
Presentation materials for this earnings call are available on the company's website at o-i.com.
Please review the Safe Harbor comments and disclosure of our use of non-GAAP financial measures included in those materials.
Unless otherwise noted the financial results we are presenting today relate to adjusted earnings which exclude certain items that management considers not representative of ongoing operation.
A reconciliation of GAAP to non-GAAP earnings can be found in our earnings press release and in the appendix to this presentation.
Now I'd like to turn the call over to Al.
Thank you Dave and good morning.
Our third-quarter earnings were $0.75 per share in line with guidance we shared in mid-September.
Globally shipments were down approximately 3%.
While South America again delivered strong performance with double-digit volume growth Europe and North America experienced moderate declines.
Asia-Pacific volumes were down significantly due to ongoing market weakness in Australia and the continued impact of our plant closures in China.
In the latter part of the quarter we saw a slowing in consumption across multiple categories in all of our regions and we will address this shift in more detail later on.
South America delivered sound financial results due to a stronger operational performance overall and growth in the beer category across all markets.
Despite a modest downtick in volume Europe showed bottom line gains primarily the result of savings generated by the asset optimization program.
Profitability in North America was below previous years levels driven by volume declines and the lower productivity and Asia-Pacific’s profit contraction reflected continued weak market demand in Australia.
Turning to Slide 3 earlier this month we announced our intent to form a 50:50 joint-venture with Constellation Brands in Mexico to support their growing beer business.
The deal which we expect will close in the fourth quarter calls for the new joint-venture to purchase the glass plant located next to Constellation’s brewery in Nava Mexico.
This brewery exports a portfolio of popular Mexican beer brands to the United States including Corona Extra Corona Light Modelo Especial Negra Modelo and Pacifico.
We bring our expertise in glass manufacturing and plant operation to the joint venture while Constellation brings the products and the market.
The Modelo and Corono brands have experienced growth in the mid-single digits and the United States significantly outperforming the US beer market.
The brands’ sales momentum complemented by strong marketing and brand building activities is expected to continue outpacing US beer brands for the next several years.
To keep up with volume requirements Constellation is expanding the Lava brewery and will have increasing glass supply needs as a result.
The new glass plant currently has one furnace and after adding three furnaces over the next four years the joint-venture will supply about half of the Nava brewery’s needs.
We will fill another portion of their needs for the North American plants under a separate long-term supply agreement between O-I and Constellation.
Let us turn now to Slide 4 for a closer look at our business in Europe and North America.
Volumes in Europe shifted significantly within the quarter.
After a strong July shipments declined in August and only partially recovered in September.
In mid-September we spoke about softer volumes in Europe.
Since then it has become clear that the market weakness there extends beyond the glass industry.
There is a sense of unease in Europe and consumers are reacting accordingly.
Beer demand was not particularly robust in the quarter.
Several customers for instance extended their typical shutdowns in August in response to the decline in demand.
The spirits market in the UK was also down mid-single digits largely due to weaker exports.
In all sales volumes were down 1% in the quarter while production volume was flat.
Prices were also down 1% in the quarter similar to the decline experienced in the second quarter.
On a positive note our European asset optimization program continues to yield benefits adding approximately $5 million in cost savings over prior year third quarter.
All in all improving European performance boosted profit margins by 150 basis points over prior year.
Turning to North America we were disappointed with the performance of the North American business where results were impacted by several external and internal factors.
Sales volumes were down approximately 3% largely driven by a mid-single digit decline in the mega beer brands.
While major domestic beer volume has been declining for several years we were not initially as strongly impacted by the slowdown because of the strength of our Craft beer sales and the introduction of our premium blue and black glass products.
Volumes in other categories declined modestly except for food which increased over the prior year quarter.
North America’s productivity suffered considerably in the quarter primarily due to operational challenges that included a furnace leak at one plant and product loss at another both of these specific issues have been addressed and steps have been taken to provide greater operational stability across the network.
Consistent with our expectations operations were not impacted by supply chain issues from the first half of the year.
The larger than expected decline in beer however has translated into North America presently holding more inventory than needed for the coming quarters.
And Steve will have to say more about this in the outlook for North America.
Let us move now to Slide 5.
In South America we are on track to achieve our 20% margin target.
Volumes were up approximately 15% over the prior year and were strong across all categories particularly beer.
Volumes in Brazil were up mid-single digits with gains reported across most categories.
Sales in the Andean countries increased double digits continuing the positive trend that began last quarter.
Higher volumes and strong connectivity led to a 45% increase in profitability over prior year’s third quarter.
The year-on-year comparison also benefited from the non-recurrence of events that had impacted the third quarter of last year.
Andean volumes have recovered from the uncertainty caused in the region by the 2013 Colombian strike and now exceed comparable 2012 levels.
By contrast our performance in Asia-Pacific was below expectations due to lower sales and production volume.
Sales volume in China is about half that of the prior year in line with the retrenchment we began in earnest at the end of 2013.
Australian volumes were down double digits driven by continued weakness in the domestic beer and wine export markets.
We have a clear path forward to restore profit margins in the region.
We structurally reduced our production capacity serving the Australian wine markets to better align supply with demand and we are working to regain beer volume and have successfully negotiated a large contract which will begin filling in mid-2015.
We are also working on a number of other opportunities to increase the top line.
Taken together we expect to improve our profitability in the region next year.
Now I will turn the call over to Steve to review our financial performance.
Thank you Al.
Turning to Slide 6 I want to start with the table on the left where third quarter 2014 segment sales were $1.7 billion down 2% over the prior year.
As Al previously mentioned price in the quarter was up in every region except for Europe.
Sales in tons decreased 3%.
Currency negatively impacted sales by 1% in the quarter as the US dollar strengthened steadily over the course of the quarter.
Moving to the table on the right-hand side of the chart segment operating profit in the quarter was $248 million compared with $259 million in the prior year.
Within the operating cost line cost inflation was a notable headwind of $24 million which resulted in a modest price to cost gap.
Separately the impact of lower production volumes along with the aforementioned operational challenges was more than offset however by gains from structural cost reductions especially from our European asset optimization program.
Let me move to Slide 7 to address the various pieces of our earnings bridge.
First as just discussed segment operating profit was lower than the prior year.
Second corporate expense was favorable to prior year primarily driven by reduced pension expense.
Thirdly net interest expense was also moderately favorable to prior year reflecting our ongoing deleveraging efforts and finally our effective tax rate was slightly higher than prior year.
As we have previously discussed it was at the high end of our range during the third quarter due to timing in the changing geographic mix of our earnings.
In all third-quarter earnings per share were 5% lower than prior year.
Let me shift momentarily to GAAP earnings per share.
The delta between our reported earnings and the adjusted earnings is due to an $84 million charge for restructuring.
Included in this amount are activities related to the current quarter’s furnace closure in Australia and previously discussed and previously executed asset optimization initiatives in Europe and retrenchment activities in China where the timing of the expense recognition is driven by the accounting rules.
Now let's turn to Slide 8 for our fourth quarter outlook.
Beginning in Europe we are expecting flat sales volumes which reflects the demand uncertainty we began seeing during August.
The asset optimization program is enabling improved productivity at the plants in which the investments have already been made.
We continue to expect the program will achieve a savings run rate of $60 million by the end of this year and it should generate an incremental $5 million of year-on-year benefit during the fourth quarter.
This is consistent with our expectations for the program at this point in time during its life.
On balance then we expect higher year-on-year profit for Europe in the fourth quarter.
In North America we are expecting continued mid-single digit declines in sales volume.
Due to high inventory we are curtailing a significant amount of production through year end to help meet cash flow expectations for the region.
In all we expect the year-on-year delta in fourth-quarter profitability to mirror that of the third quarter.
Andres Lopez our new leader in North America is squarely focused on improving productivity and has begun to map out plans to restore the performance level to that of the previous several years.
We expect South America to continue its positive earnings momentum in the fourth quarter despite currency headwinds and demand uncertainty in Brazil due to the recent presidential election.
We foresee that continued volume growth in the Andean countries will likely be offset by a slowdown in Brazil.
The sales mix though even with flat overall volumes should marginally add to the region’s bottom line.
Continued strong productivity from our operations here will contribute to positive results.
Finally let us turn to Asia-Pacific where we anticipate lower year-on-year operating profit in the fourth quarter.
Volume is expected to be down double digits.
China will continue to be a drag on the top line following the plant shutdowns earlier this year.
Depressed Australian wine and beer markets will continue to weigh on results.
Spending reductions and fixed cost savings stemming from our wine capacity reduction in Australia will likely be dampened by currency headwinds.
We expect that corporate costs in the fourth quarter will be lower than prior year due both to lower pension expense as well as incentive compensation related adjustments.
Higher tax expense however is projected to offset the benefits of lower corporate expense in the quarter.
As we mentioned in September we expect a tax rate of approximately 23% for the entire year which means the incremental tax rate in the fourth quarter will likely be 26% to 27%.
This rate implies an approximate $0.05 headwind to the prior year’s tax rate during the fourth quarter.
Let me step away for a moment from the charts to provide some perspective on the adjustments that we have made and are making to our guidance.
On our last earnings call in July we [Indiscernible] to our 2014 and 2015 financial targets.
As we have long said free cash flow is more easily achievable than earnings and that has not changed.
By early September it was clear that operational issues and lower demand were impacting our results to such an extent that we were not going to meet our initial third quarter expectation.
As you know and would expect we communicated this to the broader investment community during a sell-side conference in September.
Even then we felt that our full-year targets were still achievable although they were becoming more of a stretch.
Since that mid-September communication the continued strengthening of the US dollar and the now wide-spread macroeconomic gloom in Europe plus the more acute uncertainty in Brazil have led us to adjust our full-year outlook.
If foreign exchange rates remain stable since mid-year our projected earnings in the fourth quarter will be comparable with the prior year despite the current market challenges and the higher tax rate.
However the recent slide in currency rate is an incremental $0.05 headwind which is driving our expectations for lower year-on-year earnings in the fourth quarter.
Let me summarize currency volatility such as the recent Brazilian Real devaluation just this week and likely volume weakness due to macroeconomic conditions and general uncertainty suggests that our fourth quarter results will be in the lower half of our guidance range.
Moving to cash those who follow the company closely will know that the majority of our free cash flow is generated in the fourth quarter due to the seasonality of our business.
With three quarters of our business outside of the United States our cash flow is largely generated in foreign currency.
As a result the translation of our sizeable fourth-quarter foreign currency denominated cash flow back into US dollars is expected to be [Indiscernible] severely impacted by current foreign exchange rates.
Note that we have not projected any meaningful change in cash flow generation in local currency.
However the strength of the US dollar is now expected to provide at least $30 million headwind leading to a translated free cash flow generation of no more than approximately a $320 million number for the full year.
On the next slide I would like to talk in more detail about how currency and other external factors are expected to impact next year’s earnings and cash flow.
Moving to Slide 9 in light of the international footprint plus our sizeable pension plans we do not believe that the current macroeconomic environment is going to allow us to achieve $3.50 per share of earnings next year.
I have already discussed the strength of the U.S.
dollar at this stage we would expect the foreign exchange impact on next year's earnings to be approximately $0.20 per share at today's exchange rates.
There are also external factors which will negatively impact our non-cash pension expense.
With the ten-year treasury rate near 2% discounts rate have not been far from all-time lows to second half of this year.
Plus we will revisit our actuarial assumptions around the life expectancy of pensioners in our U.S.
pension plans further recent guidance that was issued by the relevant actuarial experts.
These two factors will result in a sizable increase in our reliability and therefore our non-cash pension expense.
In this case quite likely a significant increase.
We estimate that the combined impacts of foreign exchange and pension expense will take at least $0.50 off our $3.50 target which is approximately 15%.
Adding to the financial headwinds is the softer demand in Europe Australia and Brazil all potentially creating more downside pressure on volumes and the price call spread next year.
We will provide a more fulsome update on 2015 earnings guidance on the fourth quarter call which is consistent with our normal practice.
The impact from these headwinds will not be as pronounced on cash flow however because we don't see much change if any to our pension contributions in the near-term.
Still the stronger U.S.
dollar is an expected to $30 million to $50 million headwind to 2015 cash flow previous expectations for the same reason i.e.
translation that we discussed in the context of the fourth quarter.
Please keep in mind that the company's ability to generate cash in local currency terms is in line with our original expectations despite the earnings adjustments.
Nevertheless we have adjusted the bottom end of our free cash flow range to reflect the expected headwind from foreign-exchange translation.
Let's turn to the next slide where I would like to discuss capital allocation.
On slide ten we continue to manage your cash in a way that balances allocation out among four major priorities.
The first two relate to making investments that are aimed about maintaining and improving the underlying business that we have.
While the latter two relate to returning funds appropriately to our capital providers.
Clearly we need to continue investing in the assets that generate our solid operating profit margins.
We invest principally through CapEx to maintain and rebuild our assets as well as to enhance our productivity and improve our flexibility.
As we have increased our cash flow in recent years we have enhanced our financial flexibility via deleveraging and enabled ourselves to pursue value-added strategic investments.
Early last year we started up a new furnace in Rio de Janeiro to support the growth of our customers in Brazil.
Several weeks ago and as Al already discussed we announced our plans to grow with constellation brands in Mexico.
The joint venture in the long-term supply agreement with CBI will be accretive to earnings by 2016 by at least $0.15 per share.
We expect the upper range of capital required for that transaction to be approximately $275 million while the ongoing EBIDA attributable to our investment should exceed $50 million.
Of course one of America's results will fully consolidate sales under its supply agreement the corporate results will reflect only one half of the joint venture's net earnings due to the fact we will not be consolidating joint venture.
There is no doubt our new partnership with CBI is a great strategic expansion of our business in a new geography at a very favorable multiple.
While we continue to invest in the business we have been allocating more cash flow to our capital providers.
In recent years we have rigorously devoted approximately 90% of our free cash flow to debt repayment and the remaining 10% to anti-dilutive share repurchases.
In light of lower interest rates and the presence strength of our balance sheet we are nearing a significant inflection point with respect to capital allocation.
Although our board continues to actively and regularly assess the merits of initiating a dividend we continue to prefer the flexibility of share repurchases at this point in time.
In fact our board just authorized a $500 million share repurchase program through 2017.
This action supports the management teams’ desire to distribute the benefits derived from the many strategic and operational actions that we have successfully undertaken and executed upon in recent years.
Note however we will continue our 90:10 capital allocation in the remainder of 2014 as we strive to meet our previously communicated commitments to our various stakeholders.
We will make a minimum of $100 million available for share repurchase early in 2015 while continuing our deleveraging program albeit at a slightly slower pace later in the year.
Let me now turn the call back over to Al to wrap up on the following slide.
Thanks Steve.
Although we did not achieve the kind of results we would have liked in the quarter.
We did not want to lose side of the progress we have made in pursuing our business objectives and the strategy outlined at our 2013 Investor Day.
Our global cost reduction efforts are on track our European asset optimization program in particular is generating the financial and productivity improvements expected.
We have invested in R&amp;D and technology our new combined innovation center in pilot plan is clearly bolstering our competitive profile.
And we are successfully strengthening the fundamentals in our manufacturing processes across the network.
EBIT margin in South America is nearing 20% European margins are expanding.
Andres Lopez and the leadership team in North America are starting the region back on the successful path.
And in Asia Pacific we are right sizing the manufacturing base to ensure that we continue to produce our expected returns on capital for that region.
Thank you.
And all I will ask Stephanie to open up the lines for your questions.
(Operator Instructions) And our first question comes from Scott Gaffner from Barclays Capital your line is open.
Good morning.
Just wanted to go back your couple of comment you made on the North American business I think you said sales were down wines are down what was it 3% in the quarter and that historically overlap couple of years that the decline in craft beer something with the craft beer market with math by your introduction in blue and black glass.
Can you just talk about that for a minute? Are you actually losing is glass actually losing share within the craft beer market is that something that we have come to now or is there something else going on there? Let me put this in perspective let me put overall volume in perspective.
We clearly had a difference in what we were expecting in the first half of the year versus what we are expecting in the second half of the year and in fact our actual sales in the first of the year particularly in beer across the world were pretty strong.
That has dropped off dramatically and is really dropped off through mega beer brands across the various regions.
If I still look on a year-over-year basis our overall volume around the world this year is not going to be significantly different from our volume last year when I take out the retrenchment in China.
It's fundamentally flat.
So I don't see a big dramatic drop-off in demand for glass across the regions or across the markets.
In the United States we have seen mega beer declining for a number of years and that has been made up by increased demand in the area of the microbrewers and that's continuing.
But clearly what we saw in August and in September was dramatic drop offs in beer sales for mega beer brands in general in the retail sector.
And that was something that than the growth in the microbrewers could not really overcome.
Now with regard to the red – or with the black and the blue business as we entered into this year there were several new product introductions that the mega brewers wanted to put into the markets to boost their sales.
And so we were supplying that preparation of the supply chain which increased demand in the latter part of last year and then the first part of this year.
And that demand did not realize as well as the brewers had expected.
And then what you saw in the second half of the year which you will see in the second time of year is a correction of that demand.
So those are the factors that are really impacting the overall picture for supply demand as we are experiencing at this point in time.
With regard to the microbrewers and shift to cans we have today I think in a market we are about 10% of the volume in the microbrewer's cans.
And it's really driven by venue accessibility to a large extend by the microbrewers because as people are getting used to the brands and getting attach to the brands they want to have access to the brands also and venues.
Where glass is not allowed and that is I think driving quite a bit of that growth that we see but still an overall relationship to the total demand for glass in that segment is still a fairly minor part of the overall demand.
Okay.
And then just quickly on the inventory builds in quarter in North America.
How much of a cash drag with that on 3Q? I would say if I look at what we saw as an impact in the third quarter we had unusual events of about $10 million and so the other $10 million to $12 million was really impacted by reduction in volume and cutbacks in volume.
And again as I had indicated we were expecting a stronger year as we came into this year so we had build up inventory to be ready for the big demand which then did not materialize and then as a result of the second quarter of course our overall production is impacted by the reduction in inventory which is cutting back our normal production rates.
Our next question from Chris Manuel with Wells Fargo.
Your line is open.
Good morning gentlemen.
To take a minute or two and kind of focus a little bit on 2015 and some of the updates you have given us there.
And with respect to cash flow and you kind of updated the earnings targets to an extent too; can you give us a sense as to what you embedded in there in those 2015 assumptions? It sounds like volumes are going to be softer in Europe it sounds like price mix is going to be negative in Europe as well.
What are you seeing across some of the regions or how do you thinking about volume overall in that equation for 2015.
And then the second element is within the cash flow component what are you embedding for further restructurings or CapEx? Yes Chris good morning.
This is Steve I will take a crack at that.
Let me characterize what we are not saying about 2015.
We are not giving specific guidance for expectations around 2015 at this point in time we will do that later in the year or early next month.
We have a budget that's been approved by the Board of Directors we are simply trying to walk people back from what has changed in the macroeconomic environment around a couple of key drivers relative to work what those drivers were when the $3.50 was at.
So currency is clearly more unfavorable to us vis-à-vis when that $3.50 was that in the end of 2012 early 2013 and the pension impact will be significantly different.
At a very high level as Al mentioned earlier X the Chinese restructuring volumes were roughly flat for the broad entity level.
There's no reason to expect at this point in time that the entity level volumes will be much different than flat going into next year based on what we see today.
But we wouldn't want to be more specific as to regional splits at this point in time.
And to the second question related cash flow we continue to expect we will invest in the business akin to 100% of depreciation and amortization.
That will be roughly $400 and plus million that will be a combination of both capital spending and restructuring.
Restructuring should be lower in 2015 than it was in 2014 given the schedule of the European asset optimization program.
So total investment dollars will be about the same 100% of DNA.
But the composition will be more capital and less restructuring between those two.
Our next question comes from Adam Josephson from Keybanc your line is open.
Hey good morning everyone.
Two questions.
One on the share repowers of the dividend.
Why do the 500 million repurchase program through 2017 instead of initiative dividend would obviously speak to the covenants you have in your free cash flow and the years to come and would likely send a very positive message to shareholders I would think? Yes.
I can assure you that of course that's a constant discussion with the board and management on a regular basis.
You’ve heard me talk in the past about the issue that we still have with Asbestos liabilities and that I would feel more comfortable to really shift to a dividend based approach.
If eventually we have reduced that liability for Asbestos more significantly than where it is today.
And you heard me say in the past if we get below $100 million or so that would most probably the point where we would seriously consider this.
I think on the other hand when we look at today and where we look at the earnings profile for the company we feel confident that we will be able to generate cash to refund - to bring back some of that cash to our shareholders to a greater extent that we have done in the past.
And we have come to the conclusion that at this point in time the buybacks is the more appropriate medium to do this.
Perhaps Steve has another additional comment that he would like to make? Yes I would simply reiterate the flexibility that the buyback provides us certainly in light of our current share price levels which we would strongly believe we are very attractive makes a lot more sense for us to pursue share repurchase at this point in time.
Thanks Steve and Al.
And just one on your outlook for next year just broadly so you have obviously made significant progress on your two restructuring programs this year but obviously some of those benefits have been offset by the weakness you have encountered in North America and Asia Pac particularly.
Do you have reason to think that next year will be different in that regard that you won't experience the same sort of operational and demand headwinds that you had to deal with this year.
What's different next year? Well I believe it really has a little bit to do on how we go into next year with regard to expectation or we certainly had a spring in our step as we came out of 2013 based on what we were hearing from our customer base of what we were expecting with regard to the impact from world soccer championship on demand and beer.
Demand in particular was still on a global basis is a significant portion of the majority of our business.
And I believe the real disappointment this year is that the second half is significantly different than what we have projected.
That does not indicate a trend of the overall business.
I think it just means that we were a bit too optimistic and what we believed was happening with recovery from the overall economic malaise.
The various countries around the world have been going through in the last couple of years.
And I believe it behooves us to be a little bit more careful as we go into next year.
Because the fundamentals the underlying fundamentals of demand in this industry really are still relatively stable if I look at it over a period of three four five years.
Our question comes from Debbie Jones from Deutsche Bank.
Your line is open.
Hi good morning.
You guys mentioned weakness in Europe but it doesn't appear that they can't demand which is really that off that in the quarter.
And I know you mentioned spirit for a week but can you comment in the other specific weakness was it broad-based across your footprint across your customers and then on Europe you did say that pricing was negative in the quarter.
And I am just wondering what's driving this and how we should think about this going forward.
Okay.
Let me talk about demand and I will talk about the first and then I will talk about pricing.
Let me let me give you a few data points with regard to demand.
Nielson European beer sales and mass retail outlets sell 7.1% from July to August.
And alcohol free drinks saw sales drop by 12%.
According to Assovetro which is the beer glass association in Italy.
Beer glass sales in Italy decreased by 7% in July and 16% in August year-over-year.
And I believe one of our – can competitors also reported that third quarter can beverage volumes were flat in Continental Europe.
So clearly it's broader base than what we had expected when going into the year and the Large Brewers of course did report on Europe as well whether it was Miller or Heineken.
And all of them were seeing considerable declines.
In North America equally beer shipments again showed a considerable decline in August all pack types for instance declined by 5% in August.
So clearly a very rapid and dramatic impact and that's why we felt compelled in September because we are seeing this to come out.
Perhaps it came out earlier than others but it certainly was having quite a bit of impact.
Now again looking and reflecting on this a lot of this may have been corrections of the over optimism that existed in the first several year.
With regard to Europe pricing with these demand figures and overall inflation in Europe being at a fairly low level and in some countries we even have deflation.
That of course creates pricing pressure in the marketplace at this point in time.
I had expected as I believe indicated in the conference call for the first half for the second quarter.
That eventually with the increased demand those price pressures would correct themselves.
But now with demand still being slow I would say that price pressure is most likely going to be with us for a couple of month longer.
Our next question comes from Philip Ng with Jefferies and CO.
your line is open.
Hey good morning guys.
I appreciate the color you provided in North America.
And obviously you have some operating when you are gained business in Asia but what gives you confidence volumes are going to be flat because clearly just from your tone on Europe and Latin America you sound a little more cautious.
Could you kind of help me understand bridge the volume gap for next year? Yes.
I would say again we will be more specific in the first conference call next year when we talk about the outlook for 2015.
But again when I look at what has been happening this year we clearly had as I said earlier this location between the first half of the year and the second half of the year which also led to the differing expectations.
I think if you look at the underlying trends though the market just appears to be very very stable flattish at this point in time.
In Asia-Pacific for instance we will regain some volume next year in Australia because we have lost volume this year and last year because of the reduced demand also due to some competitive activity and we have secured business as we go into next year.
So that will give us some additional bumps.
I believe also that in Latin America clearly demand trends overlong period of time have been mid- single digits and I don't see a dramatic decline there with the one uncertainty at this point in time still with regard to Brazil what's going to happen following the elections with promoting economic activity in Brazil.
So we are guarded at this point in time based on what we seen in the last three months but we are certainly not pessimistic about that the market is going to see a broad-based decline around the world.
Okay that's helpful.
And then I guess as a partial offset you obviously have your European cost take out initiative is there that retaining to expand that and what are some of the other thing that we got to be cognitive as a positive any list from the consolation tie up potentially through more demand out of the Waco plan? Well we will see how that is going to evolve that of course depends on how successful consolation is going to be and the continued competitive market share gain that they have demonstrated over the last year or so in North America.
I believe the agreement that we’ve reached certainly puts us in a significant position in the driver seat with regard to whatever upside there is and beer volume in the North American.
North American market to take advantage of that.
So I am very optimistic with regard to that perspective.
I believe across the world with adjustments and readjusting our footprint that's been an ongoing process.
So we clearly raised Europe in the awareness level because of the total amount and the three-year period that we were going to make those investments.
But along the way we made other adjustments as well.
And you just heard Steve talk about an adjustment that we made in Australia to make sure that our cost structures are appropriate for the demand profile that we are seeing.
Yes Phil maybe I would add that we still have the third year of the multiyear European program to go in 2015.
So we will be continuing to invest close to an incremental $70 million $75 million in project related work above and beyond maintenance levels in Europe in 2015.
And then on the constellation point I would remind you that we don't anticipate significant financial benefit of the visible from that until 2016.
We do need to do some engineering work at our plants and Texas is going to be providing the incremental supply to the Mexican brewery and that will happen over the course of 2015.
Our next question comes from [Inaudible].
Your line is open.
Good morning this is actually George sitting in for Mark.
I just wanted to see if you could talk a bit about the I guess the sustainability of current– South American volume growth especially given the big rebounding in the Andean region? Yes.
I think clearly the growth that we are seeing in the Andean region is particularly high because last year we were seeing a dramatic drop in demand.
So I think beyond line over a number of years is still pretty much in line with what we have said before.
And these variations are very significantly driven by individual decisions that are made to replace floats in the returnable glass market which of course is a very attractive business for us even though it has this variability to it because margins tend to be very very positive.
Now with regard to the overall demand profile we are going into next year I believe Latin America will be again significantly influenced by what's going to happen in the largest market which is going to be Brazil.
And at this point in time what we’re hearing from our brewers is that they are going to put more emphasis on returnable glass containers to make sure that they hit the pricing points that are required and perhaps and even more challenging environment.
It's been very obvious that the largest brewer in the country has been very vocal in their various last quarter’s conference calls about their strategic focus on glass because it improves their profitability.
And I believe that goes well overall for - at least a trend line and underlying demand profile that may not be entirely in line with perhaps the economic activity in the long country or the other.
Great.
Thank you and I guess just one follow-up I mean in recent queries you had some success offsetting some of the FX headwinds in the region with price.
And I assume you expect that to continue overtime? Moreover of course a region is heavily influenced by imported products in ORI country by heavily influenced by imported product.
Those adjustments will be made.
Where however you do have a manufacturing base in the same country in which the region is devaluing that's the more difficult argument to make but even there we sometimes see that the basic raw materials whether it's either for energy or whether it's for so-dash for instance which typically is imported into those countries.
There you can of course have a very valid argument and we use that very frequently to get them price adjustments to at least make sure that we recover that part of the inflation.
Our next question comes from Chip Dillon with Vertical Research Partners.
Your line is open.
Hi it's actually James [Inaudible] for Chip.
Good morning.
The first question is on the pension.
You cited that expect pension cost to be about 35 million in 2015.
How much is this due to longer expected lives of U.S.
retirees and how much is interest rates after a different way.
If rates ended up unchanged in 14 versus 13 what would be increased be.
And then lastly what would the pension contributions with like in 15 and 16 versus 13? This is Steve good morning.
Related to the first piece.
Roughly half of the number say $20 million to $25 million or so would be attributable to the increase in mortality assumptions.
So we have approximately two and half billion dollar liability in the United States pension plans the actuary of table adjustments only relates the U.S.
plans not the international plans.
And so if you have a roughly 7% in net liability that's going to be a $175 million or $200 million of an immediate loss in the pension plan and then we will amortize that over some period at a time close to ten years or so.
So you arrive at somewhere around $20 million of headwind for the mortality table and that will happen irrespective of where interest rates actually land.
As it relates to the cash flow expectations around pension contributions we have guided to somewhere in the neighborhood of $50 million of pension contributions this year.
All in the international plan that number probably be a little bit lower than that number.
I do not anticipate a significant change in our required contributions in 2015 or 2016.
We do not have any required contributions of substance in the United States and that should not change in the foreseeable future.
And the international plans are relatively stable in terms of their contribution.
So we should not have a significant change year-over-year in cash pension contributions.
Our next question comes from Tyler Langton with J P Morgan.
Your line is open.
Yes.
Good morning.
Thanks.
Just on the – I think you mentioned cost savings help probability in South America.
I just want if you just kind of quantify what contribution that was in the third quarter sort of going forward how much was left with us before the fourth quarter and beyond? Yes I think what we are trying to communicate is relates to south America so we had close $20 million year over year improvement and the south American segment results but the first $7 million or so of that relates to the non-repeat of one time item.
So strikes in Columbia etc that were discrete negative last year didn’t repeat.
So we immediately picked up about $7 million of benefit from those and then we had roughly $30 million or so incremental sales that dropped through on marginal sales somewhere in the 33% to 40% range.
That's another $10 million to $12 million of benefit.
So the combination of those two items drove most of the year-over-year improvement in south America as it relates to the fourth quarter we continue to get the strongest amount of efficiency and productivity out of our south American operations versus any region in the world and we certainly do expect that region to continue to have very strong productivity results coming forward.
Okay and then just within Asia-Pacific volumes next year is it fair to assume that sort of the head wins from China should largely lapse and I just want to comment about I guess in Australia you are walking away from some business (inaudible) talk about sort of how that potentially impact volume? Yes I don't as it relates to volume first from the Chinese standpoint so China the retrenchment in China generally has the favorable impact on EBIT as we walk away from well low poor returning business there from a volume standpoint we will continue to face unfavorable volume comps really through the second quarter of next year just given the timing of how we actually phase shut downs of several of those facilities.
So I think we will certainly still have -- will be diminished from what we have seen in the second half of this year we will still have negative volume comps in China through the first half of next year just as we map those.
From an Australian perspective we will see some benefit as from the volume recovery that Al mentioned but that will not start until the later part of 2015 based on the timing so we will get some cost benefit from the restructuring activities that we have undertaken right now volume wise we really won't see the volume change until the second half of later part of the second half of next year in Australia.
We have time for one more question.
Our final question comes from Alex Ovshey with Goldman Sachs your line is open.
Alex your line is open.
Our final question comes from Ghansham Panjabi from Robert W.
Baird.
Your line is open.
Hi good morning.
It's actually (inaudible) sitting in for Ghansham.
How are you doing? Good morning.
For the FX headwind in 2015 that you highlighted what are your assumptions for the Euro riyal and Australian dollar and also can you remind us the sensitivity to the various effects components? Yes the assumption around rates are essentially using this week's closing rates so the rates of the couple of days ago so Euro is about 127 or so Riyal is 250 or so and the Aussie is sub 90 cents.
From the sensitivity standpoint these are on a full year basis roughly 10% change in the U.S.
dollar from an Euro standpoint is somewhere $0.10 to $0.12 on a full year basis for us in terms of earnings.
The Riyal is similar to 10% change is going to be somewhere in the neighborhood of $0.08 to $0.10 per share and then Australia that same 10% change would be closer to $0.05 on a full year basis.
That is great and just the follow-up assuming that effects and tension stay at the current $0.
55 headwind 2015 and then you said volumes are pretty much going to be flat is there a scenario where earnings are still up year-over-year in 2015? Yes this is Steve.
Yes there is a scenario.
There are multiple scenarios around where earnings may land and we will provide more clarity around that on the fourth quarter call.
Thank you everyone and that concludes our third quarter earnings conference call.
Please note that our fourth quarter and full year 2014 conference call is currently scheduled for Tuesday February 3 2015 at 8 Am Eastern Time.
We appreciate your interest in OI and remember to choose glass it's safe it's pure and it's sustainable.
Thank you.
Good morning.
My name is Bath and I will be your conference operator.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to our Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers’ remarks there will be a question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions] Thank you.
Dave Johnson you may begin your conference.
Thank you Bath.
Welcome everyone to O-I’s earnings conference call.
Our discussion today will be led by Al Stroucken our Chairman and CEO and Steve Bramlage our Chief Financial Officer.
Today we will discuss key business developments review our financial results for 2014 and discuss trends affecting our business.
Following our prepared remarks we will host a Q&amp;A session.
Presentation materials for this earnings call are available on the company’s website at o-i.com.
Please review the Safe Harbor comments and disclosure of our use of non-GAAP financial measures included in those materials.
Unless otherwise noted the financial results we are presenting today relate to adjusted earnings which exclude certain items that management considers not representative of ongoing operations.
A reconciliation of GAAP to non-GAAP earnings can be found in our earnings press release and in the appendix to this presentation.
In light of the significant amount of information that we have to cover today and our desire to answer address your questions we are asking that you limit your inquiry today to one question.
Now I’d like to turn the call over to Al.
Thank you Dave and good morning.
I’d like to start today with a brief summary of our 2014 results and performance and touch on our expectations for 2015.
Europe and South America delivered solid results for the year and we achieved our second highest cash flow in company history at $329 million.
Like every other U.S.
based global company our final results were negatively impacted by the strong U.S.
dollar.
As an example we experienced a $40 million headwind to free cash flow in the year.
On a constant currency basis free cash flow would have been closer to $370 million higher than the target we established a year ago.
Our adjusted EPS for the year was $2.63 modestly lower than 2013.
This reflects our strong performance in Europe and South America and disappointing performance in North America and Asia-Pacific.
The underlying demand pattern in the first half of the year was in line with our projections going into 2014.
During the third quarter however we perceived a considerable gap between actual volume and our expectations plus the dollar began to strengthen and we shared this with you in September.
On the whole 2014 was still a strong year for O-I financially nearly record cash flow stronger balance sheet and disciplined capital allocation.
Our higher level of financial flexibility was illustrated in 2014 when we used capital to invest for growth in a joint venture with Constellation Brands to supply glass for well-known Mexican beer brands that are exported to the United States.
These include the Corona Modelo and Pacifico brands.
We also signed a separate long-term agreement with Constellation to supply additional bottles.
These agreements are great examples of strategic partnerships with our customers and allow us to participate in growing segments in the U.S.
This is possible due to O-I’s unique capabilities as the only truly global glass provider.
On Slide 3 I will provide a bit more detail about business performance in each region.
Profits in Europe improved in 2014 despite a sluggish macro environment.
We are clearly benefiting from our ongoing asset optimization program which delivered an expected $25 million of incremental cost savings in 2014.
In addition we continued to strengthen our position in the wine and beer segments.
I am happy to report that our most senior commercial leader in Europe Vitaliano Torno has succeeded Erik Bouts as the Managing Director of O-I Europe.
As one of the architects of our market oriented structure in Europe Vitaliano provides the continuity we need to keep our European operations strongly moving forward.
In South America operating profit margins climbed back to 20% driven by overall volume growth 4% including record volumes in Brazil.
Our results were boosted by the anticipated recovery in the Andean countries.
Currency headwinds dampened operating profit margin in the region but were essentially offset by considerable productivity improvements.
North America and Asia-Pacific were less profitable year-on-year due to a number of challenges we identified earlier in the year and are working diligently to address.
In North America sales volumes were down 2% largely driven by the ongoing decline in the sales of mega beer packaged in glass.
Our difficulties in the region started in the beginning of the year with weather induced supply chain challenges and we ended the year by curtailing production to adjust for demand expectations that did not manifest during the peak season.
In Asia-Pacific our financial performance was impacted by lower sales and production volume sales volume in China was about half of that of the prior year in line with our deliberate actions to scale back our presence there.
In addition Australian volumes were down double-digits driven by continued weakness in the domestic beer and wine export markets.
On the upside we are well positioned in Southeast Asia to take advantage of ongoing growth opportunities there.
Our management team in Asia-Pacific has responded to the macroeconomic environment aggressively so we expect the region to stabilize and increase its profitability in 2015.
With that I will turn the call over to Steve to review our financial performance in more detail.
Steve? Thank you Al.
Before discussing any specifics I would like to make a general comment on currency.
Given the well documented strengthening of the U.S.
dollar recently combined with the fact that 75% of our business resided outside of the United States we will present financial information this morning on a constant currency basis that is using the prior year’s currency rates.
Our intent is to allow greater visibility into the actual underlying business performance and trends.
I hope this facilitates a clearer understanding for investors generally.
Now turning to Slide 4 in the fourth quarter of 2014 sales on a constant currency basis declined as price increases were more than offset by a decline in volume.
Please be cognizant however that much of the volume decline compared with prior year fourth quarter was driven by the footprint adjustments we consciously and proactively made in China where we took out three facilities versus the prior year period.
The strengthening dollar started to significantly take its toll on the top line in the fourth quarter ultimately causing an approximate 6% decline in sales in.
In line with expectations however segment operating profit contracted only modestly.
Price increases tracked in line with inflation of $23 million which is consistent with the trends seen in the prior two quarters.
On the whole our cost containment efforts more than offset the impact of production curtailments.
Lower sales volumes and currency rates were clear headwinds.
Turning to adjusted EPS on Slide 5 you will see that while there are various influencing factors 80% of the decline in profitability in the fourth quarter was due to currency.
Moving to the full year adjusted EPS on the right note the correlation between fourth quarter and full year impacts with modestly unfavorable segment and tax results offset by better corporate and interest expense.
The one exception is currency where you may have expected a larger full year impact.
Because the U.S.
dollar only really began to quickly strengthen in the back half of the year the currency impact in Europe specifically on profitability was essentially flat for the full year.
Let me shift my comments to GAAP earnings per share for the moment highlighting the items considered not to be representative of ongoing operations which you can find enumerated in our earnings press release.
The annual evaluation of our asbestos-related liability resulted in a $135 million charge in the fourth quarter.
This is $10 million less than the prior year’s charge and is entirely consistent with the underlying trends we have been experiencing for several years.
Asbestos remains a gradually declining though still significant liability for the company.
We also recorded pre-tax charges of $92 million in the fourth quarter.
These charges were primarily from our refinancing activity during the quarter plus a non-cash charge for pension liability reduction actions in the United States and Europe both of which we have been expecting and have previously communicated.
On Slide 6 we provide a snapshot of our financial performance for the year.
In line with our owners’ priorities we remain clearly focused on generating free cash flow.
In local currency we have seen growth for several years.
In fact as we have said before we expected record free cash flow in local currency in 2014 and that’s exactly what we delivered.
Said differently had we not experienced such strong currency headwinds in late 2014 we would have exceeded the $350 million in free cash flow that we guided to at this time last year.
We have been I believe quite transparent about how we allocate our cash and the logic underpinning our allocation priorities.
Of our approximately $700 million in cash flow from operations a bit over half is directed to maintaining and enhancing our manufacturing assets.
To-date we have used the remaining cash what we call our free cash flow in a balanced way for anti-dilutive share repurchases net debt reduction and in 2014 from modest non-organic growth investments via the CBI joint venture.
As such we continue to make progress reducing our leverage ratio which stood at 2.4 times net debt to EBITDA at year end 2014.
Please note that the weakening euro provided half of the 0.2 year-on-year improvement in the ratio.
Otherwise we would have achieved our expected year end target of 2.5 times.
Moving to the last graph you can see that our return on invested capital has been consistent for several years and well above our cost of capital.
Going forward we anticipate gradual improvement in returns via the elimination of low return businesses in China and the addition of value-added investments such as our joint venture in Mexico.
Let me now spend a few minutes with our 2015 business outlook on Slide 7.
Overall we continue to expect fairly stable local market environments in 2015 as our base case scenario.
In Europe the asset optimization program is enabling improved productivity especially at plants in which investments have been made.
In line with our original expectations the program should deliver an incremental $25 million in cost savings for the full year.
Competitive pressures particularly in the wine segment in Southern Europe will partially offset the benefit of these cost reductions.
In North America we anticipate a similar environment with a gradual dissipation of the mega beer demand slowdown.
We have not incorporated any upside in our base case scenario from the North American consumers’ potential higher discretionary income emanating from lower gasoline and energy costs.
Although it’s too soon to tell we are certainly hopeful for a positive impact.
We fully expect our business to recover from the supply chain and production problems that impeded 2014 results.
In South America we expect the growth will pause in 2015 after record volume levels were achieved in 2014.
We also anticipate reduced production volume in the Andean countries due to lower buffer stock requirements from Brazil and the United States.
We do see some inflation pressure in the region that will likely take time for the market to fully absorb.
For instance electricity costs in Brazil are increasing substantially as has been referenced by other companies doing business in the region and global commodities that are heavily influenced by U.S.
dollar movements such as soda ash will certainly be more expensive in 2015.
Turning now to Asia-Pacific by the end of the second quarter we expect to lap the sales declines attributed to our early 2014 retrenchment in China.
And in Oceania we expect essentially stable demand albeit at today’s relatively low historical levels.
On balance though our actions to regain beer business market share and restructure assets in Australia are expected to more than compensate for the sales and production declines we project for the first half of the year.
In other words the second half should be better year-on-year than the first half.
For the company overall we expect higher segment operating profit for 2015 on a constant currency basis driven primarily by productivity gains in North America and continued asset optimization benefits in Europe.
Moving now to Slide 8 in 2015 we will incur the brunt of the strong U.S.
dollar on full year earnings.
We have updated our currency expectations here since our last communication in December as the U.S.
dollar continues to strengthen particularly against the euro.
Clearly the volatility is not over with the U.S.
dollar index just reaching another approximately 12-year high late last week.
Currency rates are expected to reduce translated sales by nearly 10% in 2015.
As it relates to segment operating profit in early December we calculated the adverse year-on-year impact of currency at roughly $50 million.
Using current rates with the key currencies listed in the slide it is now double that amount.
This includes the decoupling of the Swiss franc from the euro which happened in mid-January with the cost structure of our Switzerland-based headquarters largely denominated in Swiss francs for our EU business.
Our European region now faces an incremental $10 million to $15 million headwind from this change alone.
As our budget process for 2015 is now behind us we can also see more clearly the impact of currency on local inflation expectations.
In particular the price of certain raw materials such as soda ash are de facto based on U.S.
dollar pricing.
This has led to an approximate $20 million headwind that will manifest itself in lower segment operating earnings particularly in South America but also partially in Asia-Pacific.
For long-term contracts with price adjustment formulas we will ultimately recover this albeit with a 1 -ear lag.
Even though our local production and sourcing business model our non-U.S.
debt and modest medium-term euro hedging program mitigate significant amounts of currency risk.
We still envision that foreign exchange will negatively impact earnings per share by approximately $0.40 at this time.
Given the sensitivity and magnitude of currency movements on our reported earnings we will continue to provide timely updates to the investment community as needed with revised expectations of currencies impacts on our consolidated results.
Turning to our non-operational performance on Slide 9 now corporate expense ought to be on par with that of 2014.
Pension expense which I will discuss on the next slide is roughly flat with prior year.
This is a clear improvement over our earlier expectations.
While we will continue to invest in research and development and technology I expect any increases there will be offset by cost containment elsewhere.
With regard to interest expense we will benefit from debt refinancing and lower overall leverage levels.
And finally our tax rate is still projected to be in the range of 23% to 25%.
Let me now turn to pension on Slide 10 where there have been many moving pieces.
First of all I am pleased to say that the final impact of lower discount rates and the adoption of new mortality tables in the United States were not as severe as we had feared.
This is exclusively attributable to the aggressive actions we took to deal with the real economic liabilities within our pension plans.
These actions have allowed us to reduce our pension liability by $750 million since 2012.
We took a major step forward in 2014 when we were able to reduce our economic liability by approximately $600 million.
We achieved this by closing all major plans and converting them with one exception to define contribution plans most recently for salaried North American employees.
By completing the buy-outs of nearly all term vested participants in the United States and by effectively annuitizing the pension in the Netherlands where we merged our plan into a national multi-company fund these transferred assets and liabilities completely off of our books.
On the asset side we have consciously channeled approximately $225 million in discretionary funds to our pension plans over the past several years.
In addition to being accretive to earnings these payments have eliminated the need for us to contribute to our U.S.
pensions which are our largest for the foreseeable future.
In all we now expect pension expense to be essentially flat in 2015 and pension cash contributions to be approximately $10 million lower than in 2014 in light of a global reduction of rates anywhere between 75 to 100 basis points during the year plus the implementation of actuarial tables which broadly increase longevity assumptions for retiree mortality in the United States.
Flat pension expense is a tremendous outcome for the company.
After thoroughly examining the various pros and cons of accounting methods for pension plans the company intends to maintain its current accounting methodology.
As a rule we tried to avoid changing our accounting practices if the changes would not reflect an underlying change in actual economics.
However as with all significant accounting assumptions and estimates we will continue to assess this practice on an ongoing basis.
I do believe it is important however to continue to be very clear as to the impact of non-cash non-service related charges in GAAP pension accounting on the company’s results.
Amortization of historical actuarial losses for instance do not reflect day-to-day operations nor do they have any relationship to cash funding requirements.
Yet if you back-out this single item our earnings would be approximately $0.50 higher per share which is almost 20% of our adjusted earnings.
On Slide 11 I would like to bring together the key pieces of our earnings outlook.
As I indicated earlier on a constant currency basis we see improved operational and non-operational performance allowing for our normal lack oppressions 12 months into the future adjusted earnings would be $2.60 to $3 on a constant currency basis per share.
The midpoint of this range suggests an underlying earnings growth rate of approximately 5% to 6% but of course and unfortunately we must take into consideration the strong U.S.
dollar which as mentioned before we estimate will provide about a $0.40 headwind at this time.
That brings us back to an adjusted EPS range of $2.20 to $2.60.
Keep in mind that we believe the core business is quite stable and we are not anticipating any fundamental shifts in volumes or price cost spread which have been key sources of historical volatility in our business.
Moving to Slide 12 given our full year outlook and recognizing sales and production patterns in 2014 it should come as no surprise that we expect that the first quarter of 2015 will be down year-on-year followed by improving performance later in the year.
Let me step to the regions first on a constant currency basis.
In Europe the results are expected to be considerably lower due to project timing and the asset optimization program which will temporarily reduce production volume and increase cost during the quarter.
There will also be sharpening competitive pressures as I mentioned before in the wine segment in Southern Europe.
In North America we expect to see a $15 million benefit in logistics cost.
This will partially be offset by lower beer sales.
In South America profits will be dampened by inflation induced by the impact of local currency devaluation on U.S.
dollar priced raw materials and some major local issues such as the spike in electricity costs in Brazil.
We will also face difficult comparables in the first half of the year in Brazil due to the volume uptick related to the World Cup in 2014.
Asia-Pacific is likely to be flat as the actions to right-size production with sales volumes take hold.
The impact from currency in the quarter is expected to be approximately $0.07 maybe $0.08 mainly reflected in Europe and South America.
In all adjusted earnings should be in the range of $0.40 to $0.45.
Summarizing the delta from prior year first quarter close to 40% is currency related 40% is related to sales and production volumes as well as project timing and most of the remainder is due to the higher expected tax rate of 4% to 5% we will see in the quarter.
Let’s turn back to the full year with a more detailed look at free cash flow on Slide 13.
In short we expect to generate $300 million in free cash flow again in 2015.
We have already mentioned improved operating profit in local currency terms.
The year-on-year impact of foreign exchange on cash flows will be substantially lower than on earnings because we typically generate our cash flow in the latter half of the year.
Because the stronger dollar already significantly impacted 2014 cash flows its impact in 2015 should be less pronounced.
Working capital has been a source of cash for the past few years but in the coming year we expect it to be balanced neither as source nor use of cash.
Payments for asbestos and pension together are expected to be $15 million to $20 million lower.
Together capital spending and restructuring should approximate our 2014 spending levels which is approximately equal to the total depreciation and amortization.
Cash flow is expected to benefit from the lack of several outlays that we have made consistently over the past few years such as for abnormally high returnable packaging levels and payments related to a non-income tax matter.
When we put all the pieces together we expect free cash flow to be $300 million.
You can be certain that we will continue to focus on cash generation and that we will continue to prudently deploy cash we earned in a value-added way as I would like to discuss on Slide 14.
We will continue to invest over half of our cash from operations into CapEx in order to maintain and rebuild our assets as well as to enhance our productivity and improve our flexibility.
As we have increased our cash flow in recent years we have enhanced our financial flexibility and enabled ourselves to pursue value-added strategic investments.
Even as we invest in the business we remain disciplined in the allocation of cash to our capital providers.
While we have focused on reducing debt in recent years lower interest rates and the strength of our balance sheet have brought us to a significant inflection point with respect to capital allocation.
Namely as we have been consistently foreshadowing we are poised to return more cash to our shareholders in 2015.
We have regularly discussed with our Board of Directors and have solicited input from both investors and advisors on the best way to do this without compromising our financial flexibility.
As we consider our debt and asbestos obligations as well as opportunistic non-organic growth investment commitments we strongly prefer the flexibility of share repurchase at this time versus other legitimate alternatives such as a dividend.
Our Board has recently authorized a $500 million share repurchase program.
Within the next week or so we intend to enter into an accelerated share repurchase agreement with a financial institution to repurchase $100 million of our stock.
Over the course of the year we expect to purchase at least another $25 million.
For certain we will be disciplined in our capital allocation.
We will continue to invest in the business in order to sustain its cash generating ability return cash to shareholders and modestly de lever over time.
Thank you for your attention.
Let me now turn the call back over to Al in order to wrap up.
Thanks Steve.
The path that we have been on for last the 2 years or 3 years continues into 2015.
We will maintain many of the same priorities such as strengthening our manufacturing capabilities and reducing costs.
And as you heard we will be making some adjustments to our capital allocation process.
We will also continue to focus on the CEO succession process.
Our Board of Directors has always viewed CEO succession as one of their most critical responsibilities.
We launched a robust and detailed process several years ago.
Internal succession candidates were identified and given expanded responsibility and external candidates were hired into key leadership roles.
External firms were hired to help assess track and coach all of the candidates with late 2014 targeted as the time in which a decision would be made whether to proceed with a candidate.
In December of last year the Board determined that we did indeed have a strong internal candidate in Andres Lopez.
As the next planned step in the process Andres was promoted to President of Glass Containers and Chief Operating Officer of O-I.
Andres has proven himself as a strong and creative business leader with extensive knowledge of the industry and a deep understanding of manufacturing.
After leading our South American operations to record record volumes over a 5-year period Andres assumed responsibility for the North American operations in the fall of 2014.
He has shaped and reinvigorated that business already and will hand over the reins of North America to a new leader soon.
Andres is now working to more deeply familiarize himself with our businesses in Europe and Asia-Pacific.
We are anticipating that we will complete the CEO transition process by the end of 2015.
In and around that time I expect the new CEO will update the investment community on the company’s long-term plans and its related financial targets.
With regard to my role as Chairman of the Board I intent to relinquish that role at our Annual Meeting in May 2016 at which time a non-executive Chairperson will be chosen by the Board.
Our Board has clearly defined the company’s expectations of succession and I look forward to working with my team to ensure a smooth and orderly transition during the process.
Now before we take your questions let’s turn to Page 16 where I would like to summarize our outlook.
Local market conditions and demand will remain largely unchanged.
Of course while this means ongoing competitive pressure in certain areas our volumes stand to benefit from the long-term contracts we have locked in with most of our multinational partners.
Our cost structure will improve through our restructuring activities asset optimization improved logistics and operating models.
Non-operational items are also in good shape.
Interest expense will be lower and pension expenses flat in the phase of lower discount rates.
Our cash flow generation will remain strong in local currency terms.
Of course the stronger U.S.
dollar will affect our reported results.
Yet we are focused on improving our underlying business to deliver value for the long-term.
And lastly as stewards of our owners’ investments we are acting now to increase our share buybacks yet preserving the flexibility to invest in value added opportunities.
Thank you.
And now I will ask Bath to open up the lines for your questions? [Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Chris Manuel Wells Fargo.
Your line is open.
Good morning gentlemen congratulations on good free cash flow here in 2014.
Good morning Chris.
Good morning Chris.
Wanted to – I believe this is the last year or is the finishing up the European restructuring and I think you got maybe $25 million or so left from it.
What’s the next phase as I look across the businesses your returns in the regions still aren’t where you necessarily want them to be is there a next phase of restructuring or anything you built into your cash flow guidance for further restructuring as we look forward? Well we are constantly looking of course at our footprint and to make sure that we are appropriately located for the customer base and for the cost structures that are required to be competitive and to get to the margins that we are targeting.
I would say 2015 is most probably going to be influenced by some of the movements that we are seeing in ownerships in the European market so that adds a certain level of uncertainty.
But as far as we are concerned certainly I think for the next couple of years we have put a lot of things in place that will help us to get to the improvements that we have foreshadowed through our restructuring programs.
Steve? Chris I would just remind you the next phase is really 2015 where we are still going to spend incrementally $75 million or so of asset optimization capital in 2015.
So there is a lot of work to be done in the current year in order to achieve that $25 million expected savings and I would expect as we have said several times based on the phasing of some of the engineering work.
The reality is some of the final construction or work will probably leak into the first quarter or so of 2016 realistically.
Your next question comes from Tyler Langton JPMorgan.
Your line is open.
Yes.
Good morning thanks.
Yes just with North America I guess operating profit was down $27 million I guess volumes had some impact I guess I was just wondering if I guess some of the supply chain and production challenges had an impact and then also just for ‘15 if you could quantify sort of the magnitude of the productivity and supply chain improvements you are looking to capture for 2015 there as well? I will start with that Tyler on your second question you know the easy ones to identify we have already referenced $15 million we would expect not to re-incur in the first quarter of this year which was weather/supply chain related in 2014.
We also took approximately $10 million or so in the third quarter of 2014 that were operational related items we clearly would not expect those to repeat in that quarter as well.
Yes.
And I think if you look back at the fourth quarter about half of our underperformance was due to lower volumes being sold.
So lower demand from mega beer in particular.
And the other half was caused by lower production to reduce our inventories because we had anticipated the higher volume requirement in the peak season of the year which they did not materialize.
Your next question comes from the line of George Staphos Bank of America.
Your line is open.
Hi everyone.
Thanks for taking my question.
And thanks for all the details.
Good luck on the upcoming year.
My question is on North America and what you are seeing in terms of beer volume.
Al you referenced mega beer and the volume issues there and that’s certainly been born out in the scanner data but the can industry seems to be growing in the beer segment.
So what do you think is going on between cans and glass? How long do you think it will be sustained? And what are the ultimate implications for Owens-Illinois given it’s still a very large piece of your North American mix? Thanks.
Yes.
George it’s very difficult of course to be predictive but what we have been seeing so far is clearly a lot of push to move volume of mega beer despite changing trends in the marketplace.
And the best way to move volume is of course to move volume through supermarkets or large volume offerings and typically cans of course are better suited for that type of offering.
And that is I believe some of the emphasis that we have seen over the last year and a half or last 2 years.
Generally expectations would be if consumption picks up a little bit that the brewers would tend to favor the more premium beer brands again and that’s where you see a higher percentage of glass.
So we have gone through these cycles before in the past.
It’s very difficult to predict how long they will last but I think also we have seen a significant offset through our sales and continually increasing double-digit growth in the sales to the microbrewers.
Your next question comes from the line of Al Kabili Macquarie.
Your line is open.
Hi thanks.
Good morning.
And I just wanted to ask a question on North America as well and if you could update us on your largest customer there and the contract renewal situation there and how that’s gone if that’s now complete and any impact you anticipate on 2015 from that? Thanks.
Yes.
Hey good morning Al this is Steve.
I would say that for all of the major contracts in North America there essentially complete very consistent with our expectations we do not envision for us or anybody else frankly in the market significant share changes as a result of any of those contracts nor do we expect any significant margin change to happen.
There is not going to be a price step up that drives margin expansion certainly but generally speaking the contract volumes consistent with what they were previously and the cost recovery aspects of the contracts via pass-through adjustments etcetera all very consistent with what we have had historically.
Your next question comes from the line of Debbie Jones Deutsche Bank.
Your line is open.
You highlighted the raw material inflation in South America and Asia-Pac can you talk about the financial impact of higher electricity in Brazil and then when should we expect some of this pass-through to roll through and how much of your business is on long-term contracts in these regions? Yes.
Hi Debbie this is Steve.
Specifically with electricity in Brazil we would expect it to be $7 million to $10 million of incremental expense over the course of 2015.
We would ultimately expect to recover a portion of that.
However I do not expect us to recover any of it in 2015 that the amount we recover will be certainly in 2016.
And then related to the question around what percentage is under long-term contract I don’t think that percentage has really changed.
The vast majority of North America is under long-term contract less than half of the European business is under long-term contracts probably closer to 30% 35%.
The majority of the Asia-Pacific business certainly in Oceania is under long-term contracts which have all been agreed to and our largest customers in South America are long-term contracts but the percentage is probably less than half in terms of the number of customers.
Your next question comes from the line of Mark Wilde BMO.
Your line is open.
Good morning Al.
Good morning Steve.
Good morning.
I wondered you flagged out the increased competition in Southern Europe I wondered if you could just give us a little bit of color on what’s going on there? Yes.
And it may just be caused by the uncertainty concerning the transactions that are pending at this point in time or that have been announced clearly there is increased activity in the marketplace to gain volume to perhaps improve the overall performance of the items or of the units that are out for sale which is causing some additional pressure.
Now we will have to see how this is going to evolve over the next couple of weeks because on the other hand we believe that the lower euro will provide a boost to the wine industry volume for exports number one.
And number two also we had a particularly good harvest last year so eventually the wine customers will have to start filling relatively soon so that may temper a little bit of the pricing pressures that we are seeing.
Your next question comes from the line of Philip Ng Jefferies.
Hi good morning.
How should we think about price costs overall this year I know energy should probably be a tailwind but you kind of flagged out soda ash but I do appreciate you got some fixed price contracts in Europe? Yes.
Phil hi this is Steve.
I do not think it will be even in terms of the spread I think we will have some modest pressure related to the spread in general from a price cost standpoint.
So we will clearly not recover some of the inflation in Brazil as we had talked about previously.
We have got about $20 million or so of currency related inflation that again we won’t recover via pass through until 2016.
And then probably on the margin I think Europe will be $15 million to $25 million negative spread due to some of the sharper competitive pressure that Al referenced earlier.
Your next question Scott Gaffner Barclays.
Your line is open.
Thanks.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Steve just going back to pension for a minute if we go back to the third quarter it was about $0.35 headwind and it sounds like a lot of these actions that you talked to mitigate the pension expense headwinds occurred in prior years can you maybe talk about if that’s true or were some of those items more near-term and what sort of changed between now and then.
And then also talk about funded status of the pension plan? Yes.
I mean Scott no I would actually say the majority of our actions we were referencing were executed in the late part of 2014.
The planning for them had been underway for obviously quite some time but the offloading of the plant to the Dutch government was a late third early fourth quarter actually the early fourth quarter action.
The closing of United States and Canadian plants or the freezing of those plants were communicated in the fourth quarter as well so that $600 million liability reduction that we referenced that was all effectuated by actions taken in the fourth quarter generally.
And as it relates to funding status in general as we had indicated overall pension funding expectations are modestly lower for 2015 than they were in 2014.
We do not have any near-term funding requirements in the United States or in Canada.
Our North American plants being our largest we continue to have relatively consistent funding requirements in the United Kingdom and in some smaller country specific plans in Europe but of the $20 million or so we are going to be putting in in 2015 it is I think almost all in European-related plans.
Your next question comes from the line of Adam Josephson from KeyBanc.
Your line is open.
Thanks.
Good morning Al and Steve.
Good morning Adam.
Steve in terms of the first quarter guidance and comparing that to the full year guidance which of the drags that you are expecting in the first quarter on a constant currency segment EBIT basis will dissipate thereafter aside from the lower plant production in Europe and the easier volume comps in South America? Thank you.
For sure production volume in general globally will be a larger proportional headwind for us in the first quarter so the European stuff we had referenced before we will also have more production off-line in North America for some continuation of the inventory control actions that had impacted the fourth quarter.
And I would expect that to be complete going into the high season in North America.
So there is production downtime in North America a little bit more in South America due to project timing as well.
And then on some of the volume part of our volume headwind in the first quarter in North America is a comparability issue where we are lapping the rollouts of blue and black glass where we benefited from them in the first quarter of North America in ‘14 which gave us a stronger than market performance in that quarter those are rolling off and now we are looking at a weaker than market performance on the volume side in North America as well.
Your next question comes from the line of Alex Ovshey Goldman Sachs.
Your line is open.
Good morning.
Good morning Alex.
Good morning.
Can you talk about the impact of lower Brent oil prices on the business? Thank you.
Well over the last couple of years we have moved a lot of our production facilities in Europe to natural gas and we have been hedging quite a high percentage of the natural gas prices especially when we were in the middle of the year and the uncertainty concerning Ukraine became a big issue.
So it was important for us to be covered.
So I don’t think that Brent by itself is going to impact directly as much as it used to be in the past when we are still using heavy fuel oil in some of our facilities.
Steve any additional comments? Yes we will enter – we did enter 2015 about 80% hedged by design in Europe specifically.
So do we have some upside if energy stays where it is? Yes modest over the course of the year maybe that’s $10 million or so relative to what we are currently expecting again if it stays where it is but if the bigger benefit for us would really be entering 2016 whereas we roll into fixed positions in ‘16 we would be reflecting lower energy rates but I think it will be modest as Al said in 2015.
Your next question comes from the line of Ghansham Panjabi Robert W.
Baird.
Your line is open.
Hey guys.
Good morning.
Good morning Ghansham.
Good morning.
Hey I guess my question relates to whether the Asia-Pacific business makes sense as part of the portfolio for the company long-term this region has been a problem for O-I.
For most of the past few years and I guess is Asia-Pac as a whole as attractive for you as it once was? Thank you.
Yes.
Certainly given the significant drop off that we have seen in line volumes that are being bottled in Australia and New Zealand the market has shifted and has changed and similarly have we.
We have adjusted our footprint to the market conditions.
I believe with the local production in Australia and in New Zealand and a fairly high market share in those markets it’s an enviable position to have despite the fact that we have seen some trends in the last 2 years or 3 years that have been pretty negative but I believe also what we are seeing with the currency going down and I just saw this morning the Australian Reserve Bank reduced their rates and so the currency is now at 76 or 77 I believe the Australian business starts to become more competitive again.
And having a local position in Australia and as well as in New Zealand by extension I think makes a lot of sense.
And also the focus that we have in Southeast Asia through joint ventures I think is a good position.
Where we have made a correction as you very well know is in China.
I think that was a bridge too early for us to cross and we have taken the steps to correct that situation.
Your next question comes from the line of Anthony Pettinari from Citibank.
Your line is open.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Regarding the CEO succession I was wondering to the extent that you can comment what are the qualities the Board really focused on when trying to identify a CEO candidate? And from a big picture perspective when you look at the challenges and opportunities O-I might face over the next 5 years 10 years what do you think are the most important skills for the next CEO of O-I to have? Well as you can very well imagine there is a whole list of more than 50 or so items.
But if we really bring it down to the more critical issues it was to fundamentally understand the dynamics of this business and to have a very solid manufacturing background in general because as you know this is a very high fixed cost oriented business.
The other parts that were extremely important is to have courage.
To have the courage of a difference of opinion to have the courage of moving other people along and that the individual would have a very high level of attention to talent development to make sure that the individuals that eventually are in the organization and in responsible roles can move up without a lot of lead time and be ready to take on additional responsibilities.
I believe that beyond that of course it also was very important that a leader was able to learn and keep on learning and adjusting their strategy and their approaches to changing market conditions to changing environments and I believe all of that comes very well together in Andres and I think also the track record of course was an important aspect.
And we have seen now over quite a number of years 6 or so years how that has developed and how many innovations Andres has brought into his businesses in Latin America that eventually finds their duplication and other regions of the world as well.
So I think clearly a very broad range of capabilities but a very strong focus on particularly this business and understanding this business.
Your next question comes from the line of Chip Dillon Vertical Research.
Your line is open.
Yes good morning.
On the joint venture deal that you all have with Constellation I know that you all have remained in an initial investment obviously but there is some quite a bit of expansion at that location planned and could you talk a little bit about how the cash or the timing of the cash flow is going out to that and will it all be equity financed that is where you will contribute cash or will the venture itself be borrowing money so that the draw on capital from O-I will be limited? Yes good morning Chip.
This is Steve.
Let me try to answer that.
The expectation currently for all the guidance we have made we said about $275 million investment or so.
We assume that all of that is essentially equity financed by the two partners for purposes of communication.
Certainly the $50 million or so incrementally that we are planning on putting in in 2015 will initially go in via an equity injection from partners whether the joint venture ultimately project finances itself is something that we will obviously in conjunction with Constellation be talking about but I think our ideal scenario for both partners is that the project becomes self-financing to a large extent right there is an operating furnace there now.
There will be two operating furnaces early in 2016.
Those furnaces are generating revenue.
And so while our guidance assumes there is no self-financing aspect of it certainly beyond 2015 that would be the ideal scenario for us.
Your next question comes from the line of George Staphos Bank of America.
Your line is open.
Thanks everyone.
Thanks for taking the follow-on.
Taking a step back and maybe a bigger picture question recognizing that over the last number of years pension has turned into a major headwind or had been up until ‘14 certainly foreign exchange has been pretty pernicious here looking out into ‘15.
Al when we look at earnings it’s they have been relatively flat over a number of years more or less somewhere in the low to mid $2 range.
Going forward what do you think is going to make for – what one or two things is going to make for a more sustained level of improvement in earnings and cash flow as well has been flat to non-trending? What’s going to make for better sustained earnings and cash flow improvement going forward? Thanks and good luck in the quarter.
Well thanks George.
I believe clearly what’s going to make a huge difference is the general economy and the general economic environment.
As you know very well certainly in 2008 2009 all the way to 2011 and ‘12 North America had a significant impact in consumption because of the financial crisis and eventually economic crisis.
I think Europe is going through the same phase with a 2-year to 3-year time delay behind it.
That does have a significant impact on demand.
And as you know from our discussions in the past a 1% variance in demand has a significant impact typically is around what $40 million of profit contribution.
So I believe if we are going to see some general economic confidence returning into the marketplace then the battle that we have been fighting to hold on to our volume will be alleviated will be getting some support from demand profiles and that will have a significant impact.
The other part that we have been working on for quite a number of years is in research and development to get to a different process of manufacturing glass and to get to a much lower cost manufacturing approach as we go forward.
That’s still a couple of years down the road but we are already at this point in time taking lessons that we have learned and putting it in place in facilities.
We just opened a facility in Järvakandi in Estonia which is using some of those insights.
We will have another plant coming on stream in I think April or May of this year in Italy.
So I believe we are going to get some benefit in the margin and margin expansion as well from technology and technology improvements aside from the overall demand profile improving with a general economic environment improving.
Bath we have time for one more question.
Your next question comes from the line of Debbie Jones Deutsche Bank.
Your line is open.
Hi thanks for taking my follow-up.
Just a quick question on the cash flow guidance you mentioned the lower spending returnable packaging is that – was that investment in Brazil in 2014 or what was that and what was the financial impact? No Debbie this is Steve.
It was more a function of the inventory build that we made in North America in 2014 which ultimately then led to some of the inventory curtailments we took at the end of the year.
Al’s earlier comments that volume expectations were more bullish in 2014 than were what actually eventuated.
And so there was an inventory build most of that was done or sourced via imports from O-I operations in South America.
So we spent more on packaging to move bottles from South America to North America $40 million or so strikes me as a ballpark number.
And now that the inventory reduction effort has been undertaken by North America we would not expect to need to import that kind of wear into the United States again.
Thank you everyone.
That concludes our earnings conference call.
Please note that our first quarter 2015 conference call is currently scheduled for Wednesday April 29 at 8 AM Eastern Time.
We appreciate your interest in O-I and remember to choose glass.
It’s safe.
It’s pure.
It’s sustainable.
Thank you.
This concludes today’s conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Thank you.
Good morning.
My name is Shannon and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to O-I's First Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers' remarks there will be a question-and-answer session.
Thank you.
I would now like to turn the call over to Mr.
Dave Johnson Vice President of Investor Relations.
Mr.
Johnson you may begin your conference.
Thank you Shannon.
Welcome everyone to O-I's earnings conference call.
Our discussion today will be led by Al Stroucken our Chairman and CEO; and John Haudrich our acting Chief Financial Officer.
Today we will discuss key business developments review our financial results for the first quarter of 2015 and discuss trends affecting our business.
Following our prepared remarks we'll host a Q&amp;A session.
Presentation materials for this earnings call are available on the company's website at o-i.com.
Please review the Safe Harbor comments and disclosure of our use of non-GAAP financial measures included in those materials.
Unless otherwise noted the financial results we are presenting today relate to adjusted earnings which excludes certain items that management considers not representative of ongoing operations.
Now I'd like to turn the call over to Al.
Thank you Dave and good morning.
Our results in the first quarter were in line with our guidance despite the continued strengthening of the U.S.
dollar beyond our initial projections.
Our EPS for the quarter was $0.44; this is $0.18 below the first quarter of 2014 yet the decline was $0.06 on a constant currency basis.
Our results reflect the lower sales and production volume that we had anticipated.
Shipments were down about 2.5% globally one percentage point is attributed to our China retrenchment and the remainder was driven by beer which faced a difficult comparison with high volumes associated with World Cup demand in 2014.
Shipments of all categories combined were on par with the prior year.
Production volume was down more than sales primarily due to a relatively heavy furnace rebuild schedule.
Turning to segment performance and leaving aside currency headwinds North and South America performed well in the quarter: South America through price gains and operational efficiencies; and North America with improved supply chain performance following last year's very challenging winter conditions.
In Asia Pacific the benefits of last year's footprint restructuring largely offset lower sales and production volumes.
Coming off a strong 2014 Europe has had a challenging start to this year while production volumes were markedly lower as expected price pressure has been greater than we had anticipated.
Our attention to non-operational cost reduction delivered strong results in the quarter through lower pension and interest expense.
We continue to manage our capital structure and allocation in line with our commitments.
We launched a $100 million accelerated stock repurchase program in February and anticipate another $25 million to be allotted for repurchases through the remainder of the year.
Also we renegotiated our bank credit agreement in April.
This transaction significantly enhances our financial flexibility by extending our debt maturity horizon and enables further refinancing to reduce future interest expense.
I'd like to provide a bit more detail on the each of the regions in the next two slides.
Beginning with our largest regions: Europe and North America.
Our segment profit in Europe was down considerably from the prior year.
About half of this decline can be attributed to the stronger U.S.
dollar which negatively impacted results by 22%.
Profits were also impacted by the lower price and higher production downtime.
Shipments were nearly on par with the prior year.
Our wine volumes were weak relative to the double-digit growth experience in the same quarter last year however spirits demand stabilized and food volumes increased.
Beer was off by less than 3% a respectable result in light of last year's double-digit volume growth leading up to the World Cup.
Selling prices were lower driven by two factors.
First we entered into a number of long-term contracts mainly in beer to lock-up attractive business that will secure market share and allow us to participate in the market growth over time.
At this early stage we are seeing the impact of pricing associated with the contracts however securing more volume will drive improved operating leverage and make up for the lower prices which is consistent with our asset optimization strategy.
The second factor impacting price was the more intense competitive price pressures being experienced in Southern Europe which we believe to be of temporary nature and mainly driven by uncertainties surrounding the sale of a major competitor.
Construction activities and their related operational impact accounted for more than half of Europe's lower profit in constant currency.
We expected more production downtime in Europe in the first half of the year due to a frontloaded furnace rebuild schedule.
Production was also impacted by several complex projects associated with the final phase of the asset optimization program.
In some cases new capabilities and technologies were introduced which require some ramp-up time before we can achieve high utilization rates.
While these factors impact earnings in the short term they will yield benefits in the long run.
North America managed its business well in the quarter.
Smooth running supply chain operations added at least $10 million to segment profit and improvement over the high costs associated with weather-induced logistics challenges last year.
This was partially offset by the 1.5% decline in sales volume largely reflecting the continued decline of the major domestic beer brands.
In February we purchased a single furnace glass plant in Kalama Washington which has a state-of-the-art gas oxy furnace built in 2012.
The plant primarily serves the West Coast wine market as well as craft beer both growing markets with which we are actively engaged.
The plant gives us some needed capacity in wine and will allow additional flexibility across our North American production network.
Turning to slide four.
South America was severely impacted by currency and inflation.
Segment operating profit dropped more than 25% entirely due to currency translation.
Likewise soda ash purchases in the region were impacted by local currency devaluation because prices are effectively set in U.S.
dollars.
If we back this out South America's underlying operating performance improved over the prior year.
Although business in the Andean region was quite stable the macroeconomic environment in Brazil continues to present challenges.
For instance electricity rates have doubled and additional tariffs are in the works.
Due to the strong comparable period we had a small dip in South American volumes in the quarter year-over-year but the region performed better than projected by offsetting rising inflation with price adjustments.
Although productivity in South America improved we have reduced production in Colombia because of lower exports to the U.S.
and Brazil as noted in our previous earnings call.
Asia Pacific's performance was in line with expectations.
The strong U.S.
dollar accounted for nearly all of the operating profit reduction.
Results declined about $2 million from the prior-year quarter on a constant basis.
Shipments were down in the quarter by about 15% but three quarters of that is attributed to our deliberate shutdowns in China last year.
The China retrenchment is now nearly complete and the comparables will begin lapping in the second quarter.
In Australia it appears that the wine and beer markets are stabilizing albeit at a lower year-on-year level.
In particular we may be seeing early signs of an uptick in wine exports as a result of the lower value of the Australian dollar.
In all lower sales and production volumes were almost fully offset by the restructuring actions we took in late 2014 to balance local supply and demand in Australia.
With that I'll turn the call over to John to review our financial performance in more detail.
Thanks Al.
Turning to slide five.
Due to the very strong impact of foreign currency translation we are again showing prior-year results on a constant currency basis.
We believe this provides a clear picture of our underlying performance.
In the first quarter of 2015 sales were $1.4 billion which was 14% lower than prior year.
You can see that nearly 90% of the decline almost $200 million is attributed to the stronger U.S.
dollar.
Price increases about 1% overall were more than offset by lower sales volume.
As you could see on the right our segment operating profit was $168 million down from $208 million in the prior year.
Like sales most of the decline was currency driven.
On a constant currency basis the decline in profit was more modest.
On the upside global price increases covered cost inflation which included the currency-related pressure from U.S.
dollar priced raw materials.
The margin impact on sales volume carries over from the top line and lower production including the impact of greater furnace rebuild activity weighed on results.
We rebuilt five furnaces in the first quarter of 2015 compared to just two furnaces in the prior-year quarter.
Turning to earnings on slide six.
First quarter EPS was $0.44 which compares to $0.50 in the prior-year quarter in constant currency.
You can see the $0.07 headwind from segment operating profit that I just reviewed.
The net of non-operational items added $0.01 to our EPS.
Corporate costs and interest expense were both favorable.
Our effective tax rate was a bit higher in the quarter compared to a lower 2014 tax rate which benefited from a few discrete items that did not repeat.
Accordingly our guidance for the full-year 2015 tax rate is still expected to be between 23% and 25%.
And lastly the $100 million share repurchase program we launched mid-quarter reduced our share count and contributed about $0.01 to EPS.
On slide seven we illustrate the impact of mounting currency headwinds on earnings generated outside of the U.S.
which accounts for nearly three quarters of our sales volume.
Based upon prevailing currency rate at our last earnings call we anticipated a $0.40 annual EPS impact related to currency translation plus $0.09 of currency-induced inflation on U.S.
dollar priced raw materials especially in South America and Asia Pacific.
Using March 31 currency rates the annual impact has increased to almost $0.70.
This represents a $0.20 incremental headwind compared with the full-year 2015 earnings guidance we provided earlier this year.
On slide eight you can see the impact of currency movement on our projections.
We are updating our annual adjusted earnings guidance range to between $2 even and $2.30 per share.
This reflects the estimated $0.20 incremental currency headwind presented on the previous slide.
And we have tightened the range slightly because of pricing pressures in Europe and continued weak trends in beer.
Note that the midpoint of our guidance range compares favorably to our 2014 results in constant currency.
Overall we expect our earnings in the second half of the year will exceed prior-year levels and more than offset lower first-half results which were impacted by five additional furnace rebuilds compared to last year's activity.
Maintenance activity in the second half of the year will be at more normalized levels.
Let me pause for a moment to touch on free cash flow generation.
While we have not changed our target for cash flow in local currencies we have reduced our annual free cash flow projection by $50 million.
This adjustment solely reflects the continued strengthening of the U.S.
dollar.
As a result we expect 2015 free cash flow will approximate $250 million.
Since we generate most of our cash in the fourth quarter exchange rates in that quarter will have a significant impact on full-year results.
Turing to slide nine let me narrow the focus a bit to the second quarter outlook.
Again currency will be a strong headwind.
We reported EPS of $0.80 per share last year.
Based on March 31 rates we anticipate translation will impact second quarter results by about 20%.
This is similar to what we experienced in the first quarter of this year.
Given a $0.17 currency adjustment second-quarter 2014 results in constant currency would be $0.63 per share.
From this base I will provide some directional guidance for each of our regions as well as for non-operational items.
In Europe underlying volume trends should remain stable with some upside potential in beer if warm weather conditions prevail.
We expect the previously mentioned competitive dynamics leading to modestly lower prices will continue.
Operationally we expect lower production in Europe partially due to a continued greater level of furnace rebuild activity.
As a result we anticipate having between $5 million and $10 million of additional unabsorbed fixed cost and maintenance expense.
However those costs are temporary as we expect to benefit from higher production to serve increased demand in the back half of the year.
Europe's second quarter results will be impacted by another timing factor.
In 2014 our European business received an energy rebate in the second quarter.
We will again receive a credit in 2015 which should approximate $8 million.
However due to regulatory procedure this year's rebate will be recognized during the third quarter.
In North America second quarter results should be comparable to the prior year.
The ongoing volume headwind in mega beer should be largely offset by better supply chain performance and increased productivity resulting from several organizational and process improvements.
In South America we expect stable underlying business performance.
That said there is some uncertainty as to how weak macroeconomic conditions in Brazil may impact demand there.
Our results in the region will be adversely impacted by having an entire quarter's worth of currency-induced inflation which ramped-up over the course of the first quarter.
Also the region will not have the benefit of the last year's $6 million sale of non-strategic assets.
Asia Pacific's results should be essentially on par with prior year.
Performance in the back half of the year is expected to improve due to increased sales and production volume associated with the major new beer contract.
Plus there will be fewer furnace rebuilds in the second half of the year compared with the prior year.
We expect corporate items will be favorable compared to the prior year.
Lower pension expense will reduce corporate costs and net interest expense should be modestly down.
Keep in mind that the $0.17 currency adjustment already noted includes the translation benefit from interest expense related to our non-U.S.
dollar denominated debt.
While we see no change in our annual tax rate our second quarter rate should approximate 20% which is lower than the prior year due to discrete tax items plus EPS should benefit by $0.01 from our share repurchase program.
In all adjusted earnings per share should be in the range of $0.55 to $0.60 in the second quarter.
Note that the U.S.
dollar has weakened a bit compared to March 31 rates.
If current rates hold currency pressure should be reduced by about $0.02 in the second quarter.
Setting currency aside we expect modestly lower second quarter results compared to the prior year.
However this primarily reflects timing issues such as furnace rebuild activity.
For reasons already noted we expect financial results to strengthen in the second half of this year.
Now let me turn the call back to Al to wrap up.
Thanks John.
Although we are clearly challenged by a foreign currency exchange rates the company is strong and profitable.
We remain focused on the same priorities that have guided us in recent years while working to increase the benefit of some of the actions taken last year to advance our business.
This includes expanding capacity at the joint venture with Constellation Brands in Mexico integrating the Kalama plant into our North American footprint and taking full advantage of the capabilities we are building in our innovation center.
We're pleased with our partnership with Constellation and the integration of Kalama has gone very well.
In 2015 we are working to achieve more stability in our operations overall while we continue to build capabilities and reduce costs.
Andres Lopez is actively engaging in all parts of the business globally in preparation for the CEO succession.
The process is progressing well and we intend to complete the transition by the end of this year.
Before I open the call for questions I'm pleased to announce that we have issued our first ever global sustainability report.
It's the first time we have captured our many sustainability activities in one place.
The report covers our commitment to sustainability and the progress we are making against targets we have set to reduce energy use and emissions also increased the amount of cullet we use and of course eliminate safety incidents in the company.
The report also serves as an excellent vehicle to demonstrate the terrific franchise this business represents at the packaging space as well as to tell the very strong environmental story behind glass.
The report brings increased transparency to the company and will serve as a tool for change.
We hope that you will download the report from our website and learn more about these critical aspects of our business.
Thank you and I will now ask Shannon to open up the lines for your questions.
Your first question comes from the line of Mark Wilde from BMO Capital Markets.
Your line is now open.
Good morning Al.
Good morning John.
Good morning Mark.
Hi.
Good morning.
I wondered if you can just put a little bit more color around the pricing situation over in Europe.
You highlighted a couple things one is just more competitive pricing in Southern Europe and then maybe a little color on those new contracts as well? Yes.
We started last year – around the middle of the last year to engage several of our larger customers.
Because in Europe as you know we typically tend to run to shorter-term contracts and we've held for stability in the business and to get the stable pay-off for the investments that we're making in our restructuring in Europe.
It was important to secure those larger volumes for a longer-term.
So in the discussions with the large brewers we were able to get them to shift to a more longer-term perspective and secure those volumes for the company.
And that did require some adjustments in the pricings that we had to make sure that our customers felt they had a good deal and of course we also had a good deal.
Now coming into this year that of course we heard the announcement that Verallia was going to sell their business and that created some uncertainty in the market.
Because as you – I think I'd see last night from the reports that Verallia issued – they picked up some volume in the marketplace and that clearly created some price pressure.
Now the uncertainty in the market is the greatest in the first quarter because that's when the wine customers have some leverage because they don't have to fill yet and – but that is now behind us.
And so we expect that the pricing trends in the remainder of the year will stabilize and be mitigated somewhat compared to what we saw in the first quarter.
Okay.
And if I could it's just a follow-on Al.
Can you talk about any places where foreign exchange may be starting to work in your favor? I mean I think you mentioned down in Australia you may have started to see a little uptick in export volumes? Yeah we had two aspects that are important to that I think we've mentioned on the last call that when the European currency falls below $1.20 we expect that the European exports will benefit from that and particularly in the wine industry and in the champagne industry I think we will expect to see some bump-up in demand for products on the shelves equally that applies to Australia and New Zealand.
We were recently in Australia and I think the latest reports that we're getting from the wine industry we're certainly a little bit more confident about volumes because the decline in the Aussie dollar allows them again to reach the pricing points on the shelves economically.
So I'd expect that trend-wise we're going to see some strengthening.
Your next question comes from the line of George Staphos of Bank of America.
Your line is now open.
Hi everyone.
Good morning.
Thanks for the details as always.
Al my two questions: first of all within domestic beer recognizing that volumes had been down for a while to the extent that you can comment what specifically or what factors led to volume being a little bit worse than you would have planned.
And you mentioned that there was some curtailment that you need to take to reduce the inventories is there a way to put a number on that the impact that is for the second quarter? And then the other question the investments that you're making in Europe and elsewhere can you comment at all in terms of how that might make less more competitive down the road so as to arrest what's in this gradual share loss that we're seeing versus other packaging? Thanks very much.
Good luck in the quarter.
All right.
I think there are two aspects that I'd like to address.
First of all relative share loss I think has been a trend that we have seen for quite a number of years.
However when we look at the overall volume evolution of our products we see that even in Europe and in North America where that pressure has been the greatest the volume still is relatively stable.
So I think there are other underlying trends that help us to compensate for some of those specific issues that we see in certain markets.
Now with regard to the mega beer in North America I believe clearly there is a considerable trend change on the part of consumers that is impacting the overall volumes that go into the marketplace.
And as a result what we're seeing is large brewers are trying to move that volume still into the market with lower pricing points and that favors cans.
We would expect that if the economy improves and on-trade consumption picks up that that is going to change again.
And we've seen this happen in the past.
Now with regard to what steps are we taking.
You know that we have put more investments into those markets that are benefiting in the North American market which is really the craft industry – the craft beer industry as well as imported products.
That's why we did the deal with Constellation Brands.
So I think we're taking the right steps to make sure that we are in the stronger parts of the beer segment over represented to mitigate several of these impacts that we have seen.
Now with regard to Europe.
What we are doing there is really to get to a much more competitive pricing base or cost base for our business.
Now the main focus of course is that is related to other glass manufacturers and other glass providers in the marketplace.
But certainly it also is going to help in comparison to alternative packaging.
Now when we see percentages of what can is doing in Europe we also have to understand this is coming from a very low percentage of share especially in the beer segment.
And I believe when we put that into perspective we also then have to put into additional consideration that Europe is a returnable market especially in Germany it's a very strong returnable market.
So for every one beer bottle you would need 20 or 25 cans to replace that bottle in the marketplace.
So that sometimes distorts the direct comparisons of units.
Your next question comes from the line of Debbie Jones from Deutsche Bank.
Your line is open.
Inc.</span></strong> Hi good morning.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Inc.</span></strong> I was hoping if we could just focus on the free cash flow guidance.
If we go back to the initial guidance from your Investor Day in 2013 the $400 million and obviously you've had a few trims (31:12) and a lot of it's largely on FX but could you kind of bridge that for us what the difference is between what you were seeing then and now to help us kind of understand maybe what's one-time in nature at this point? Yeah.
Sure.
Debbie this is John.
Let me first address our outlook and the most current adjustment and how we look at the current year and then we can backtrack a little bit to what we said back in the Investor Day a couple years ago.
First of all we generated about $330 million of cash last year.
If you put that in constant currency that's about $250 million.
So it's very comparable to the outlook that we are laying out right now for 2015.
Likewise if you take a look at our outlook that we provided or guidance in the midpoint of the range as an illustration we are pointing to earnings that are slightly better than the prior year in constant currency.
So those seem pretty commensurate.
Now one thing I would say is that last year we did have a benefit from working capital.
We do – at this point in time we're not assuming a significant change in working capital but we do have a few items that are moving in our favor this year that are different than what we saw last year.
First of all with the challenges we had in North America and higher inventory levels we had a higher packaging spend last year and we think that's going to come down about $40 million.
With the conclusion of our Italian VAT litigation we expect to refund in the neighborhood of $40 million and between pension and asbestos payments we are anticipating about $20 million in that regard.
Your next question comes from the line of Scott Gaffner of Barclays Capital.
Your line is now open.
Inc.</span></strong> Thanks.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Inc.</span></strong> Al just looking at the beer contracts in Europe I guess it looks like – if I recall correctly you did a similar thing in North America at the beginning of last year when there was some uncertainty as to how the market would play out.
I guess my question is really in this situation did you ever look at potentially since you're a leader in the market walking away from some of this volume and trying to push prices potentially higher in the industry rather than lock in contracts for a longer period of time? Yes of course.
I mean we always look at what is the benefit of entering into such agreements and we do a fairly detailed net present value calculation of any contracts that we negotiate especially on this scale.
And you will recall that three years ago or four years ago we walked away from a significant business in North America and took the actions that were required because it just didn't meet the requirements.
But all the contracts that we locked up and that we signed this year make perfect sense for our business that there was no need for us to consider walking away from the business.
Now clearly as we continue to negotiate for other parts of the business benefit considerations will always be first and foremost in our discussions.
And I think at this point in time the biggest impact that we can have on our business and on the profitability of the business going forward is create a stability in the demand profile.
Your next question comes from the line of Al Kabili of Macquarie Research.
Your line is now open.
Inc.</span></strong> Hi thanks.
Good morning.
Al on the – also just a follow-up on the European beer contracts can you just update us on what percent of total Europe is now under long-term contract? And then also wanted to confirm that the bulk of this activity is now behind you so kind of have – from the sounds of it you have – you feel like you've got pretty good pricing visibility through at least the remainder of this year? Thanks.
Yes Al.
The bulk of the agreements is done is behind us.
I would say that today we're running around between 35% and 40% of our European volume is contracted in longer-term agreements.
As you may call some years ago that was a much lower percentage about 20% or so.
And again when we look at the European scene we have to keep in mind that's a bit different in market distribution in North America where over 50% is beer.
In Europe the beer component is 25% of our total business so that is something we need to consider as well when look at these numbers.
Your next question comes from the line of Lars Kjellberg from Credit Suisse.
Your line is now open.
Yeah.
Good morning.
If you can provide any sort of thoughts on your visibility on your second-half guidance in terms of your increased sales volume? And if you can shed any light on how you see – if I did the math rightly in excess of 20% EPS growth in H2 distributed between improved production sales and cost from less furnace rebuild et cetera that would be really helpful? Thank you.
Well as you may recall from last year we had a very strong sales first half of the year which then we saw a significant corrections in August and September so basically in the third quarter of last year with regard to purchases by our customers which required us to significantly cut back on volumes.
So most of the benefits that we are going to see this year are really going to come from the differential in production volume plus a little bit stronger sales profile compared to last year because we do not expect the same correction to happen in the third and the fourth quarter that we saw last year following the ramp-up for the World Cup and then a pretty miserable summer in Europe.
Now when – I believe we are looking at trends we started in the first quarter of this year January and February were weak but then March started out much stronger and then that trend is continuing in April.
Also some of the vibes that we're picking up from our various markets at least lead us to believe that the foundation of our business has become more solid it's not as tenuous as it has been in the past.
And that I believe combined with what we're seeing so far going into this quarter and what we have been discussing with our various regions leads us to believe that our predictions for the slight pick-up in volume are going to be pretty realistic.
I would add a couple points as we look to the difference between the first half of the year and second half of the year from an earnings standpoint on top of the volume trends that I was talking about is I think we mentioned in our prepared remarks we have more furnace rebuilds in the first half of the year.
There is five additional in the first half compared to the second half.
As a rule of thumb of about $3 million impact plus-or-minus on those you can see that's a pretty substantial impact on earnings on a period-over-period basis.
Additionally the – as we mentioned before is to truly get the value-add out of the asset optimization program we really need to be able to have the additional production coming through the furnace rebuild schedule has to taper off.
And so as we mentioned that's about a $20 million $25 million annual benefit.
And let's not forget that $8 million energy credit that is a timing issue between the first half and the second half.
So when you look at all those pieces there's clearly some cost performance elements that suggest the stronger second half of the year for O-I.
Your next question comes from the line of Ghansham Panjabi from R.W.
Baird.
Your line is now open.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Hi good morning.
It's actually Mehul Dalia sitting in for Ghansham.
How you're doing? Fine.
And you? Good morning.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Good.
Doing well.
Just wondering what the solution is for the European market longer term it seems like pricing pressure pops up fairly frequently there.
Is there an opportunity to consolidate that market? And also how long are you locking in customers with your new contracts in Europe? Well as far as the trends are concerned in Europe clearly the market and the market dynamics get predominantly dictated by the balance in supply and demand.
And as we all know Europe has been going through a couple of very difficult years economically.
I would say generally and I've said this before Europe is running about three years behind to North America with regard to recovering from the financial and economic crisis.
I would say that as soon as demand is picking up a little bit in Europe that 5% of overcapacity that exists in the market is no longer going to have as significant an impact on the pricing activities as we have seen in the past.
So that's really a question of dynamics.
It's not a question of a fundamental imbalance in supply and demand in the marketplace.
And your second question was related to the long-term contracts.
And in the long-term contracts we typically are talking about a five-year commitment four to six years is the range of the various contracts.
Your next question comes from the line of Tyler Langton from JPMorgan.
Your line is now open.
Yeah.
Good morning.
Thanks.
I think you'd previously talked about not being able to fully offset some of the cost inflation both cost and energy on South America until 2016.
I think you mentioned price largely covered it in the first quarter.
I guess do you expect sort of to continue to be able to offset the inflation or will it be sort of more of a headwind for the remaining quarters? I think it's going to be a little bit more of a headwind in the remaining quarter because we will still see additional electricity increases and then it becomes a question of timing with regard to the pass-through provisions that we have in the contract.
But our Latin American team has been managing this very well.
I would have to say and I would expect that we will see a similar focus on those areas in the second half of the year.
I would say the greater uncertainty in Latin America is really coming from the overall macroeconomic conditions in Brazil and what the demand profile is going to do.
I think those areas that we can influence and that we can manage we're managing well.
I would add just that one other variable that we got to really watch is this FX-induced inflation.
We saw the reais significantly depreciate over the course of the first quarter.
Obviously it's come off a little bit as high as in the last couple of weeks or so here but we're looking at a fuller piece of that as we look through the balance of the year.
And that as we mentioned earlier is going to take a little bit time to pass-through.
South America has some windows to do this but we assume at this point it's going to be more of a 2015 pass-through on that component.
2016.
2016 sorry 2016.
Your next question comes from the line of Adam Josephson of KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Your line is now open.
Inc.</span></strong> Thanks good morning everyone.
Al one on volume.
I know China has been a drag on your volume in recent quarters for obvious reason and at the World Cup comps are difficult this year.
But obviously the company's volume has been down over the past three years.
I mean if these declines continue do you expect to have to do additional restructuring in the foreseeable future or do you think your capacity utilization globally sufficiently high that that likely will not be necessary? Thanks a lot.
Okay.
Adam I think what we have done in the last couple of years if we look at where the volume has been impacted it's been impacted in Australia it has been impacted in China.
And as you know from the retrenchment we have corrected those capacity numbers in China as well as in Australia appropriately to adjust for that reduced demand.
However overall the company's volume has been fairly flat.
So if I look at 2013 2014 if I take China out of that comparison the rest of the volume has remained flat and we expect again this year our volume to be relatively stable with the exception again of the China situation.
But I think what we are doing is clearly adjusting capacity to the reduced demand to maintain the balance in the marketplace.
We will continue to do that also in the more mature markets as we look at this.
And fortunately we're not the only ones who look at this scenario.
And I believe we mentioned it at the last call that we just had some significant capacity taken out of North America which I think amounted to about 2% of the available capacity in the U.S.
market by taking out a facility in New Jersey by one of our competitors.
So I think the market is reacting appropriately to the trends that we are seeing.
Inc.</span></strong> Thanks a lot Al.
All right.
Your next question comes from the line of Alex Ovshey of Goldman Sachs.
Your line is now open.
Thank you.
Good morning everyone.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Can you talk about your comparisons in Brazil and how they stack up for the balance of the year? And just as a quick follow-on to that what would be the expectation for how the glass bottle performs versus the metal can in a weaker economic environment in Brazil? All right.
When I look at the first half of the year of course quite a few of the numbers will be impacted by what we saw in strong trends last year with regard to glass.
I would say for the first quarter Brazil beer production was down 4% and cans in the first quarter outperformed glass.
I believe that we did see in comparison again with last year a different trend last year was very strong this year was weaker.
So we were down about 7% or something in glass but that was specifically for beer.
On the other hand we picked up considerable volume to – in segments like non-alcoholic beverages and carbonated soft drinks which really helped us considerably in the overall balance of the marketplace.
And then of course in Latin America from an overall perspective the Andean region again with soft drinks and non-alcoholic beverages helping significantly in the overall demand profile.
Now with regard to the second half of the year at this point in time when we talk to our major customers they're still fairly confident about overall trends and what they expect to do in the marketplace.
But we still I think have to take that in light of the uncertainty and economic uncertainty that still is in the headlines in Brazil.
So that is why we're a bit cautious for the second half of the year because the uncertainty in Brazil clearly permeates a lot of our considerations.
Next question comes from the line of Philip Ng of Jefferies &amp; Co.
Your line is now open.
Good morning.
This is Alex Hutter on for Phil.
Thanks for taking my question.
Hi Alex.
Can you talk about how the furnace rebuild schedule stacks up relative to what you're expecting entering the year whether you're accelerating those projects into the first half or not? And can you also talk about how your volumes across the globe are trending thus far in the second quarter? Thanks.
Yeah I would say with regard to the furnace rebuild it's pretty much in line with what we had expected.
I recall when we talked about the first quarter we said 40% of the impact compared to the previous year would be due to furnace rebuilds and operational production as well as sales and 40% was currency.
Currency was much stronger than we had assumed.
So we made up for the currency with some of the non-operational items which is really the only lever that we have.
But I believe that certainly as far as these trends are concerned we have done pretty well in relation to adhering to this schedule that we have set in place and so we were not surprised by the impact that we saw in the first quarter.
Yeah I'd provide a little bit more information here just for clarity purposes.
Just the total number of rebuilds and then the sequencing of it is a little bit different than what we had last year.
Overall we have 15 furnace rebuilds this year compared to 2011.
In the first half of the year this year we're going to be doing 11 in the second half four; and this compares to six and five respectively last year.
So you can see that we have five more in the first half of this year one less in the second half for a total of four additional rebuilds this year.
And those are largely driven by the input by our engineers and it's just what we need to do over the long-term to make sure our operating conditions stay healthy.
Your next question comes from the line of Anthony Pettinari of Citigroup.
Your line is now open.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Good morning.
Good morning.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Just following up on Latin America.
I think previously you had said electricity costs in Brazil could be $7 million to $10 million for the year and in your prepared remarks you referenced additional tariffs.
I was wondering if it was possible to size the impact of those additional tariffs and just generally what you think the hit is for the year? I think it's most probably (50:46) at the upper end of what we had indicated to you in the earlier calls so around $10 million in total.
Your next question comes from the line of Chip Dillon of Vertical Research.
Your line is now open.
Yes and good morning.
And by the way it's good to connect with you again John; welcome aboard.
Thanks Chip.
Good to hear from you.
Just real quickly if you can just remind us of the interest rate on the bank loans.
And then just the main question is could you just update us on how you will – and in the timing of the funding at least off your balance sheet that we'll see for the Mexican expansion? Yes.
So let me address the first one with the bank credit agreement.
So yeah as we mentioned as Al mentioned in his remarks this month in April we have refinanced our bank credit agreement; it's a five-year agreement and the midpoint of it is LIBOR plus 150 bps.
So if you looked at today's rates it would be at something less than 2% overall.
That's pretty consistent with what the rates were before and the complement of it is pretty similar although we have increased our European-related debt which provides a natural hedge for us on FX going forward.
With regard to the funding for the consolation investments we are – and I think we had mentioned total investment of $275 million that we intend to make.
The initial investments will be as equity investments that will have capital flowing into the joint venture.
But as the joint venture starts to operate more holistically we will of course expect this joint venture to generate cash flow itself and we would expect that in the latter years the capital spend will really be more self-funding.
But for purposes of presentation and getting an idea of what the total concept is we have assumed that the $275 million will be equity investments.
And this year's assumption is up to about $50 million of additional investment that's part of our capital allocation strategy.
Thank you everyone.
That concludes our earnings conference call.
Please note that our second quarter 2015 conference call is currently scheduled for Thursday July 30 at 8:00 A.M.
Eastern Time.
We appreciate your interest in O-I and remember to choose glass.
It's safe.
It's pure.
It's sustainable.
Thank you.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Jeremy and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Second Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers’ remarks there will be a question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions] Mr.
Johnson you may begin your conference.
Thank you Jeremy.
Welcome everyone to O-I’s earnings conference call.
Our discussion today will be led by Al Stroucken our Chairman and CEO; and John Haudrich our acting Chief Financial Officer.
Today we will discuss key business developments and review our financial results for the second quarter of 2015.
Following our prepared remarks we will host a Q&amp;A session.
Presentation materials for this earnings call are available on the Company’s website at o-i.com.
Please review the Safe Harbor comments and disclosure of our use of non-GAAP financial measures included in those materials.
Unless otherwise noted the financial results we are presenting today relate to adjusted earnings which exclude certain items that management considers not representative of ongoing operations.
A reconciliation of GAAP to non-GAAP earnings can be found in our earnings press release and in the appendix to this presentation.
Now I would like to turn the call over to Al.
Thank you Dave and good morning.
I will begin with a summary of the quarter on slide three.
We were able to achieve solid results in the quarter despite sluggish macroeconomic conditions in many markets a continued strong U.S.
dollar and several major engineering projects in our plants.
Our adjusted EPS was $0.60 which was at the high end of our guidance range.
Adjusted EPS was down $0.20 compared to the prior year yet by $0.05 on a constant currency basis.
Overall lower segment operating profit was mostly offset by the effect of favorable non-operating items.
Given our global footprint we had variations in our regional performance.
Sales volume increased in North America despite the ongoing decline in mega beer.
In Asia-Pacific benefits from last year’s restructuring in Australia largely mitigated lower sales and production volume.
Declines in Europe were caused by lower prices as well as lower output stemming from plant engineering and maintenance activity while volume remained relatively stable.
And in South America the bottom line was impacted by lower sales volume of beer in Brazil.
The majority of the drop in beer reflected the record sales volume achieved in the comparison period of 2014 as a result of the World Cup.
Brazil’s broader economic weakness contributed to the rest of the decline.
We continued to actively manage our capital structure in the second quarter.
We refinanced our bank credit agreement repaid $300 million of high coupon bonds and completed our $100 million accelerated share repurchase program.
And due to the hard work of many teams and the status of reviews by the regulatory agencies we anticipate that our proposed acquisition of Vitro’s food and beverage business in Mexico will close in the second half of this year.
Turning now to an overview of our performance by region beginning on slide four.
Weaker results in Europe were significantly impacted by currency headwinds; currency devaluation in the region drove more than 90% of the revenue decline and 40% of the decrease in operating profit.
Despite broad uncertainty in the Eurozone our sales volumes were in line with relatively strong shipments realized in the prior year.
Beer volumes even increased 2% as the benefits of our approach to long-term contracts in 2014 began to take hold.
As we have previously discussed our results in Southern Europe were pressured by competitive dynamics in wine that impacted both price and volume.
While cost inflation in Europe remained fairly benign lower prices in the region led to a price cost gap of approximately $10 million similar to our experience in the first quarter of this year.
European profits also were impacted by a higher than normal amount of furnace rebuild activity as well as production downtime related to ongoing asset optimization efforts.
While these efforts can impact short-term profitability they are of course designed to make changes that yield long-term benefits.
For instance we recently celebrated the installation of a gas oxy furnace system in Jarvakandi Estonia.
By using purified oxygen we can melt glass using less energy.
We are installing similar systems in other plants in an effort to reduce overall energy consumption and thereby also significantly reducing our emissions.
A final element to note in Europe’s profitability relates to an energy rebate we received we received in the second quarter of 2014.
We will receive another energy credit of approximately $8 million this year but not until the third quarter.
Summing up the region Europe’s volume was fairly stable but bottom-line results in constant currency were dampened by roughly equal parts of industry price pressure production downtime and the timing of the energy credit.
Moving on to more favorable results in North America.
Their segment profit was up slightly in constant currency from the prior year.
Sales volume was up nearly 2%.
A modest decline in mega beer was surpassed by gains across all other categories.
Prices in the quarter were slightly lower mostly due to the contractual pass-through of lower natural gas costs.
By design production volume in the quarter was lower than prior year.
Recall that in the second quarter of 2014 we ran our assets hard in anticipation of strong summer sales that then did not materialize.
This year we did a better job balancing production with sales.
In fact we reported significantly improved warehouse and delivery costs and a double-digit decrease in finished goods inventory.
Turning to slide five similar to last quarter our results in South America were severely impacted by currency valuation.
On a constant currency basis operating profit was lower due to a 10% decline in shipments.
Low consumer confidence amid economic uncertainty in Brazil led to lower on-premise consumption where glass is the primary packaging option.
Brazil accounted for nearly 90% of the region’s volume decline almost all of which was beer.
As I mentioned earlier demand was at record levels in the comparable period of 2014 and in fact compared with 2013 Brazil volumes were down low single-digits which more aptly reflects the underlying market conditions.
Inflation in the region picked up considerably in the quarter.
As we reported earlier this was driven by substantially higher electricity costs and the currency impact on dollar denominated purchases of soda ash.
The successful efforts of our commercial teams virtually offset all of the inflation.
Asia Pacific results improved slightly from the prior year on a constant currency basis.
Shipments were down 3% while the Australian wine market began to stabilize the overall beer market may still be a few quarters away from reaching a bottom.
Also keep in mind that we now have lapped the unfavorable comparisons resulting from last year’s retrenchment activities in China.
Improved results in Asia Pacific mostly reflect benefits from the prior year’s restructuring efforts to better align supply with demand in Australia.
With that I will turn the call over to John to review our financial performance.
Thanks Al.
Let’s turn to slide six.
Due to the very strong impact of foreign currency translation we are again showing prior year results on a constant currency basis.
We believe this provides a clearer picture of our underlying performance.
In the second quarter of 2015 sales were $1.5 billion.
This is 15% lower than prior year.
You can see that $240 million or more than 90% of the decline was attributed to the stronger U.S.
dollar.
Price was flat at the enterprise level.
Higher prices in South America were essentially offset by modestly lower prices in the other regions.
Shipments globally were down about 1%.
Excluding Brazil volumes were flat year-on-year.
As you can see on the right hand side of the slide our segment operating profit was $187 million down from $262 million in the prior year.
As expected the stronger dollar weighed heavily on segment operating profit.
Beyond that price and the margin impact on sales volume carried over from the top-line.
Results were impacted by cost inflation the effect of engineering activity on production and prior year one-time items that we’ve already discussed.
Moving to EPS on slide seven.
Second quarter adjusted EPS was $0.60 which compared to $0.65 in the prior year quarter in constant currency.
On the whole the main components of our earnings moved in the direction and on the order of magnitude consistent with the guidance we presented at a sell side conference in early June.
Segment operating profit accounted for a $0.19 headwind.
The net of non-operational items added $0.14 to our EPS.
Corporate costs were favorable and benefited from lower pension expense and higher machine part sales for engineering projects conducted by our licensees.
We realized a $0.02 benefit from net interest expense in the quarter driven by the debt refinancing already mentioned.
We had an effective tax rate of 17% in the quarter lower than the prior year rate.
That said we expect that our full-year 2015 tax rate will be between 23% and 25%.
The $100 million accelerated share repurchase program that we finished in May reduced our share count and contributed about $0.02 to EPS.
For the full-year we expect about a $0.05 favorable impact on EPS from share repurchases.
Let me shift momentarily to GAAP EPS.
In the second quarter we reported $61 million of pretax charges that were not representative of ongoing operations.
About half of that charge stemmed from bond redemption premiums and fees related to refinancing activities.
Separately we recognized the impact of modest restructuring activities at several sites around the world.
And finally there were initial one-time costs related to the proposed Vitro acquisition.
In all EPS was at the high end of our range as somewhat weaker than expected volumes in Brazil were offset by a tax rate that was marginally better than expected.
Moving to slide eight we continue to actively manage our capital structure.
We renewed our bank credit agreement in the quarter and repaid $300 million in high coupon debt that was due in 2016.
Both of these efforts enhanced our credit and liquidity profile.
As noted earlier the strong U.S.
dollar negatively impacted our consolidated earnings.
However this trend favorably impacted the considerable amount of non-U.S.
dollar denominated debt that we have in our capital structure.
Like many other manufacturing companies we have a large pension liability to manage.
In recent years we have taken actions to reduce that liability including buyouts and converting several major plans to defined contribution plans.
Keep in mind that our underlying earnings performance is partially masked by pension accounting guidelines.
If you back out the non-cash charge in pension related to the amortization of actuarial loss for instance you would see that the business is generating $0.50 per share higher earnings than one sees in a quick review of our financials.
On the equity side our buybacks this year amounted to 4 million shares.
We expect to repurchase another 25 million shares by the end of 2015.
Turning to the third quarter outlook on slide nine.
Currency will continue to be a strong headwind.
We reported adjusted EPS of $0.75 per share in the third quarter of last year.
Using June 30th rates prior-year results were more like $0.60 an impact of about 20%.
Overall we do not see material changes from first half of 2015 in the business environment.
That said let me provide some insight on our third-quarter outlook by region on a constant currency basis.
In Europe buying should be stable with the prior year and the year-on-year price declines experienced in the first half of 2015 will continue rather than abate as we had expected.
While most of our engineering projects were concentrated in the first half of 2015 we do expect some work to continue into the early part of the third quarter.
Production and efficiency should improve over the course of the quarter.
We estimate the combined effect of price and production downtime will negatively impact results by nearly $20 million compared to the prior year.
However this should be partially offset by the $8 million energy credit mentioned earlier.
For North America gains in craft beer spirits food and nonalcoholic beverages should counterbalance the continued decline in mega beer.
We expect continued performance of our manufacturing and supply chain operations which will compare favorably with prior year largely due to our efforts to better match production with sales.
However this will be partially offset by the costs associated with two more furnace rebuilds than the prior year quarter.
Overall we expect North American profit to be modestly higher than the prior year.
In South America we anticipate that price increases will mitigate cost inflation.
We expect sales volumes will be down low single digits reflecting macro uncertainty primarily in Brazil.
As a result we see South America generating lower year-over-year operating profit.
In Asia Pacific we expect segment profit will improve modestly from prior year.
In sluggish overall market conditions our volume should benefit from the new beer contract in Australia.
The region will also benefit from less production downtime.
Non-operational items should be favorable compared to the prior year lower pension and interest expense will help.
Keep in mind that the $0.15 currency adjustment already noted includes the translation benefit from interest expense related to our non-U.S.
dollar denominated debt.
While we see no change in our annual tax rate guidance the third quarter rate should be at the low-end of our full-year range plus EPS will benefit by $0.01 or $0.02 from a lower share count.
Taking into account all the puts and takes we expect our adjusted EPS to be in line with the prior year in constant currency terms.
Note that the U.S.
dollar has strengthened compared to June 30 rates.
If current rates hold the currency pressures would reduce EPS by another $0.03 in the third quarter compared to this outlook.
Let’s turn to our full-year guidance on slide 10.
We are taking $0.10 off the upper end of our previous EPS guidance reflecting economic weakness in Brazil and ongoing competitive pressures in Europe.
That said we still expect second half year-on-year comparisons to fare better than those of the first half.
Sales volumes other than South America are expected to be modestly better year-over-year and production volumes should improve driven by higher sales and more normal levels of engineering and maintenance activity.
We have not changed our target for cash flow for the year.
Although the midpoint of our earnings guidance is modestly lower other cash flow sources and uses are tracking with our expectation.
Notwithstanding this year’s $80 million currency headwind on cash flow we remain focused on generating $250 million in free cash flow in 2015.
Of course while we generate cash in local currency our cash flow is reported in U.S.
dollars.
Since we make most of our cash in the fourth quarter exchange rates in that quarter will have a significant impact on full-year results.
Please note that this guidance excludes any impact of the proposed acquisition of Vitro’s food and beverage glass container business.
At this point let me turn the call back over to Al.
Thanks John.
Now turning to slide 11.
As you know in May we announced an agreement with Vitro the leading glass container producer in Mexico and Bolivia to acquire their food and beverage glass container business.
From a financial perspective we expect the transaction to be immediately accretive to earnings and cash flow.
In the third year after closing we anticipate EPS accretion will reach approximately $0.50 per share as we deliver on the rising impact of highly achievable low-cost synergies.
By that time we also expect the transaction will add at least $100 million in incremental free cash flow.
The Mexican glass container segment is strong and has continued to demonstrate healthy demand trends.
We presently expect to close the transaction in the second half of 2015 earlier than our original expectations.
In early July the waiting period under Hart-Scott-Rodino expired without any action taken by the Federal Trade Commission.
The transaction is still subject to approval from the Mexican Federal Competition Commission and the National Foreign Investment Commission.
And we are working with these agencies as appropriate to support their reviews and to come to their conclusions.
Internally teams from both companies are appropriately collaborating to achieve a successful integration.
As we stated at the outset the leadership of the Vitro business including the plants will largely remain intact.
While we have identified specific ways in which we believe we can add value we absolutely want to capitalize on Vitro’s proven track record of meeting customer needs and serving local markets.
Andres Lopez is playing a critical role in the Vitro acquisition and he has been heavily involved in integrating the planning and will ensure that we meet critical milestones in this transaction.
We are deep into preparation for the financing of the deal so that we can access the credit markets soon and timely enough to be ready for a closing this year.
We believe the transaction represents a significant opportunity to create shareholder value extend our global franchise in glass and cement and build upon our position as the world’s leading glass packaging company.
It provides access to a strong and growing market in which we have virtually no presence.
It also allows us to grow with our multinational customers as they tap into Mexico’s market.
And seen together with our joint venture with Constellation the Vitro business enhances our position to participate in the growing segments of the U.S.
market served by Mexico.
As I wrap up on slide 12 I want to highlight a couple of our priorities for the second half of 2015.
The CEO succession process is progressing smoothly and Andres Lopez is primed to assume the CEO role by the end of this year.
He has been actively shaping his future leadership team.
In the quarter he was able to hand over his Latin America and North American leadership responsibilities to Miguel Alvarez and Sergio Galindo respectively.
Tim Connors formerly the General Manager of Australia and Asia Pacific CFO succeeded Sergio as President of Asia Pacific.
In addition we hired Suley Muratoglu as our Chief Marketing Officer.
He brings a wealth of rich packaging experience to the company.
Andres and his team are developing the company’s short and long-term strategy which he will present to the board later this year and he is also actively engaging with our shareholders and the broader investment community with several events scheduled for the back half of the year.
He intends to discuss the company’s new strategic and financial plan with investors in the first quarter of next year.
We are continuing with the CFO selection process.
We expect to announce a decision on the role before our next earnings call.
Despite a backdrop of uncertain macros we feel that the volume stability in North America Europe and now Asia Pacific are positive signs.
Although the evolution of volume in Brazil is difficult to predict typically we have seen a V-shaped recovery in the past and this may well be the case again.
Our engagement in Mexico is a very positive step forward.
And with all the work we are doing to improve our operations and cost position we are setting a firm foundation on which the new leadership of O-I can build.
And now I will ask Jeremy the operator to open up the lines for your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Tyler Langton from JP Morgan.
I just had a quick question on I guess your guidance for the year.
Assuming the $0.60 in the third quarter I guess you need a pretty strong fourth quarter to hit the top end of the guidance.
Could you just talk about the factors that maybe -- that could drive sort of earnings for the year to the top end of the range? Yes I would say the major difference from last year and I think you see that reflected in comments from other packaging companies as well is that last year saw a significant volume drop-off in the second half of the year which we really do not expect this year which then led to inventory reductions and inventory curtailments towards the end of the year.
And they were particularly concentrated in the fourth quarter.
That’s not going to happen this year.
And also in Europe we really had underproduction in the first half of this year because of the construction projects and we need to make sure that we have a sufficient level of inventory as we go into next year.
So those two factors and it’s really all mainly production related combined of course with some expectations of volume stability which we have seen evolving over the last couple of months is going to be a significant factor for the differentiation in the performance in the second half of the year.
Perhaps John can add one or two comments as well on specifics.
Yes I would say the expectation is we have seen this pricing pressure in Europe which is continuing as we would expect into the third quarter.
As we get into the next year negotiation period in the fourth quarter we would anticipate that being a stabilizing effect for the pricing environment in the fourth quarter.
On top of that we do have a handful of contracts coming on line that Al included in his prepared remarks in a couple of different geographies across the country.
Those will be in full swing by the fourth quarter.
So those represent tailwinds as we go into the fourth quarter.
Our next question is from George Staphos from Merrill Lynch.
Thanks for the details.
I wanted to get into with our question South American volumes in a two part question here.
Shorter-term Al can you help us parse what you think the effect of the World Cup swing and what the effect of the macro is in that decline being driven by Brazil is? I kind of remember last year’s overall South American volumes as being up only about a couple of percent in aggregate.
Correct me if I’m wrong on that comparison.
And then the other part of the question is back in the late 1990s when you had a lot of similar factors at work emerging markets declining the dollar being strong you saw some very interesting trade patterns in glass one way glass returnable glass and one way packaging.
How do you see those playing out here in this potentially comparable cycle? If I look at last year compared to the previous year we saw a double-digit increase last year in volume in the second quarter.
So that clearly was impacted by the World Cup.
And also it was very close to double-digit in the first quarter of last year.
So both of these factors of course give you some perspective as to what really the underlying economic impact was.
Comparing to 2013 the volume reduction is really single-digits and mid-single digits I would say and so I think that is more reflective of the economic impact.
I believe that given the overall currency evolution in the region because this also applies to Colombia this applies to Peru this applies to Brazil of course is going to be beneficial for economics in the manufacturing process for our customer base and the packaging base that they supply to the marketplace.
So typically we would expect that a lower value of the currency will lead to a greater drive to economics and packaging which would favor returnable packaging which I believe answers the question at least tangentially that you have with regard to the potential impact on the mix of one-way versus returnables.
Our next question comes from the line of Mark Wilde from BMO Capital Markets.
On George’s Latin American questions the other thing that we saw I guess about five or six years ago was a stretching out in the float down in Latin America when things were soft.
And I wondered if you are seeing any evidence of that right now? No we are not seeing that at all.
In fact again given the economies and having the ability to have pricing points in the marketplace is really the stronger driving factor at this point in time.
And what we also saw last year and you will recall I think it was also in the second quarter of last year we had some float renewals in Colombia already that we were not planning to have this year.
So I think as far as the trends are concerned with regard to returnable containers we are presently on track with what our expectations were and we expect that the economic conditions and the currency in particular will even help us and sustain that.
Because ultimately the question of whether eventually a float gets replaced is a different question from okay how can we access markets that we can no longer access perhaps with one-way containers economically because that is adding to the need for a float rather than just replacing the float.
Our next question comes from the line of Philip Ng with Jefferies &amp; Company.
Glad to see the Vitro acquisition closing sooner than expected.
But just curious to get your thoughts with the Mexican peso down about 15% since you announced the Vitro deal how are you offsetting some of that because you reiterated the free cash flow targets you set forth initially? And I think based on what you are guiding for year one implies like 29% EBITDA margin.
How sustainable is that profitability level? If you look at the history of Vitro’s packaging business over the years and I think I commented on that when we made the announcement it has despite variations in the currency remained fairly stable and fairly strong.
And again I think Vitro came out a day ago or two days ago with their results.
And even though of course the top line is impacted by the currency the reported EBITDA was very strong and showed a very strong evolution or a very strong growth in reality.
So I believe the processes are in place and a significant portion of the Mexican business is also in the United States.
And of course clearly some of the cost structures in Mexico are based on U.S.
dollars so there are pass-through provisions that would make sure that that is going to not burden the results and the profit generation capability in the future.
I believe as we have said that what we are seeing at this point in time from published information it’s very much on track and on track with what we assumed when we made the deal when we announced the deal to you and we are very encouraged by what we’ve seen so far.
And I would expect that the strength of the profitability profile is really driven by a variety of factors.
First of all it’s the distribution of the customer base which is very similar to Latin America where we also tended to have fairly high margins over a series of years because the customer base is a much more distributed customer base.
And secondly I believe also that the contracts that Vitro engaged in with regard to supply of Constellation have added additional earnings generation on an existing cost base which really I believe give us a pretty good assurance that these margins are sustainable for quite a while.
I would add a couple of points here.
First of all when we gave our outlook for the expected potential accretion of the deal we had kept some conservative assumptions to accommodate any chance of the FX movement post closing adjustments things like that.
So at today’s rates we believe we can still hit the numbers that we talked about before even with an elevated stronger dollar versus the peso.
And specifically on that I would add that up to 40% of the business in Vitro is actually outside the United States -- I’m sorry outside of Mexico such as the United States Caribbean et cetera that would be priced in U.S.
dollars.
So there is a reduction in the exposure to the peso in that regard.
We are also considering other tax planning strategies.
And not to mention that there is a robust hedging market for the peso much like the euro that we may consider in the future from time to time.
Our next question comes from the line of Chris Manuel from Wells Fargo Securities.
First let me come back to -- you made some comments about inventories but if we kind of continue at present corporate sort of down a percent or so volume levels how are you feeling about where inventories sit today? You mentioned about building some inventories heading into 2016 but what would change? So kind of a couple of questions within there I mean one where are inventory levels today are there any regions where you feel you might need to take an adjustment? And then two what would change next year with volumes that would make you want to build some inventory ahead of that? I think I had commented in my prepared remarks that in North America we have seen a 10% reduction in inventory.
So that’s indicative of what we have been doing so far this year.
I believe also what we will see is this considerable draw of inventory still in the third quarter which is the peak quarter in Europe.
And of course with the lower output that we had in the first half of the year because of the construction projects and the start up of the plants and investments that we have made that is going to lead to a need to build up inventory as we go into next year to be able to supply our customers in a fashion that allows us to be on time and to deal with the demand profile that we expect at this point in time to come next year.
Our next question comes from the line of Scott Gaffner with Barclays.
Just shifting to North America for a minute sales volume was up 2% in the quarter.
Can you talk about the other categories where you saw some strength? And then as you move into 3Q I think you said volumes are going to be stable is that indicative of those being one-time sales or maybe there is something else going on there as we move into 3Q? No I think it is really trending in a similar fashion to what we have seen and it’s driven by nonalcoholic beverages it is spirits that are offsetting some of the pressure that we see in mega beer and of course also micro-brewers are still growing at a pretty decent clip.
So I think it is a combination of those three factors.
And we have been working on of course on getting position in those segments for quite a while over the last couple of years as we have seen the trends in mega beer and we believe we are positioned pretty well at this point in time to continue with this trend for the remainder of the year.
Our next question comes from the line of Adam Josephson with KeyBanc.
Would you mind talking about the non-operational items that you expect to offset lower cash flow from working capital and operations and are there other such non-operational items that you might be able to realize in the event FX rates stay below where they were as of June 30th? I think John can most probably give you some more details on the specifics.
But I believe there are several categories.
Last year we had significant outlays for packaging that I recall; pension expenses are most probably going to have an impact.
And John do you want to comment on the third? So if we take a look at our cash flow overall I mean if we did $330 million of cash flow last year there is -- as I mentioned in the prepared comments there is about an $80 million FX component going on there.
So in last year’s turns we were at about $250 million thereabouts which is close to what we think we are going to be doing this year our target.
At the same time we are looking at fairly stable earnings.
So the moving pieces within that is working capital will be a benefit it won’t be as much of a benefit as we had last year.
But as Al mentioned we expect we can have better performance in packaging costs as inventory levels were higher in North America last year which required more palettes and tear sheets and things like that.
We don’t expect that type of spending.
We expect restructuring costs to be down overall.
We expect asbestos payments to be down as well as the pension that Al mentioned before.
And of course as we have discussed in the past the Italian VAT litigation was actually requiring cash outlays in the last couple of years; it now becomes a cash source this year as we get some money back there.
So overall we feel comfortable that all those puts and takes brings us to the $250 million in cash flow for the year.
Our next question comes from the line of Ghansham Panjabi with R.W.
Baird.
As you transition to the corporate level from a leadership standpoint I guess the question is how are you thinking about footprint adjustments ahead of that if at all for 2016 for some of the more challenged markets that you are operating in such as Europe? I think we are making quite a significant investment in footprint adjustments in Europe and have been working at it for the last two or three years.
And it really has been addressing misalignments of where we have manufacturing facilities where we have capacity to where the market strengths have been.
So that is going to continue.
And I believe that at this point in time it’s very well balanced with what we are seeing in the overall volume evolution and demand profile.
In North America we constantly are looking at adjustments here and there.
And I think as you saw in the note one items we did some light restructuring in North America to make some adjustments for the volume changes that we’re seeing.
But again it’s really addressing more a change in the demand pattern than a decline in overall volume because I believe if you look over the last couple of years our sales in North America have remained fairly stable.
And then of course in Latin America again in the quarter we made some adjustments to the capacity in Latin America because of the reduced demand.
And there is no need to keep this capacity in the bands and you know our rule or our approach has been particularly in Brazil that we want to make sure that in Brazil we don’t have an overcapacity because of the high manufacturing costs that we typically have in that country.
And so we have taken the steps there.
So I believe it is an ongoing process Ghansham.
And I think that looking down the road we are in pretty good position at this point in time with regard to our balance of supply and demand or capacity and demand as we go into the next year.
Our next question comes from the line of Anthony Pettinari with Citigroup.
Regarding price pressure in Europe continuing rather than abating as maybe you had expected I was wondering if you could give any color on kind of what the key surprises were relative to maybe three months ago.
Is it on the demand side or maybe a change in behavior from your competitors or I was wondering if you could just give any color there? I think it really from our perspective has more to do with logic because as you could tell from our comments volume in Europe despite last year being a pretty strong second quarter was fairly stable this year.
We have seen some of our competitors particularly those that are active in Southern Europe showing some slight increases in volume between 2% and 3% which really would indicate to me that demand is pretty solid which typically would not be an environment where you would see a lot of price competition.
I believe it really had to do with the transaction that is pending at this point in time in Europe where the seller most probably wanted to optimize the profile of the company and that of course has led to an instability in the marketplace.
Once that instability is there it takes a while to dissipate to eventually get out of the system.
And we were possibly a bit too optimistic that the stronger demand profile we are gradually seeing evolving in Europe would counteract some of the price pressure.
And at least it hasn’t happened yet.
As John indicated in his comments we expect that as we go into the negotiation for next year with our customers that that will have a more positive effect on pricing because it gives people an opportunity to reset as we go into those discussions.
Our next question is from the line of Chip Dillon with Vertical Research.
If you could talk a little bit about what’s going on specifically with the beer contract in Australia.
And maybe just remind us of are you still seeing some improvement in the wine business after I know years of decline you had mentioned I think on the last call that maybe that’s stabilizing or even improving.
Yes.
The latest trends are basically confirming what we discussed already at the last conference call that wine exports are strengthening.
And that is certainly driven by the currency situation to a very large extent making it possible for our Australian customers to reach the pricing points that they need to be placed on the shelves in the overseas markets.
So that trend is continuing.
Also you will recall that last year midyear we lost a significant wine contract.
So we are also now basically overtaking that impact that we saw in the first two quarters of this year which leads to a strengthening of the comparables.
And then as we have signaled already since last year we had an agreement for a significant beer contract to bump up volumes in the second half of this year which is also most probably going to set us a little bit apart from the general trends that we still observe in the market as I said in my comments where the overall market in beer is still soft.
But clearly in our portfolio beer will look stronger year-over-year in the second half of the year.
Our next question comes from the line of Debbie Jones from Deutsche Bank.
Debbie your line is open.
I actually have a follow-up on that Asia-Pac question.
You had a lot of changes over the last few years.
Could you just help us frame what the current business mix is for you in Asia-Pac now with the contract change coming out of China? And then kind of what the future is I guess for glass there on pack mix basis? Well I think John has some details with regard to the product mix but overall clearly Australia and New Zealand always have had a very strong beer component to it but that is also true for China.
So I don’t really think we have seen a lot of mix change in the last two years.
I think most of that change really happened when we saw the considerable decline in locally packaged wine containers shifting to bulk shipments where we saw that shift.
But overall I believe in the last year and a half or two years the overall volume distribution in Asia Pacific has not really shifted too much.
And John you can perhaps give a bit more on the ratios.
Yes.
Overall I mean beer remains over 40% of the business in Asia Pacific which has been where it has been over the last several years.
Wine is closer to 25%.
Again fairly stable overall.
So I just reiterate to Al’s point that we haven’t seen a major shift.
Keep in mind China was more 50% beer.
And as that becomes a smaller footprint you do shift a little bit away from beer to some of the other categories but if we’re just talking a couple of percentage points.
Our final question comes from the line of George Staphos.
Thanks for taking my follow-up question.
Al just more from a technology and manufacturing standpoint two things one can you tell us how the rollout of the new technology is going? My guess would be that it will be a number of years maybe five years down the pike before we start seeing a more material impact in terms of your fleet of furnaces but if you could comment on that.
And the related question oxy fired furnace has been around for a long time.
Is there a reason why we are starting to see a greater pick-up in their use maybe just related to the fact that you have rebuilds hitting now but if you can comment on those two things that would be great and good luck on the quarter.
I believe with regard to some of the insights that we are achieving in our research and development we are already applying them into our existing infrastructure.
And I mentioned the investment that we made in Jarvakandi; equally we are making a significant investment in Bogota [ph] which really is using a combination of technologies.
And as you said oxy-fired has been around for a long time but the way we are applying it is in a combination of factors that has not been really used that way in the glass industry or in the glass container industry.
It is a combination of using waste heat much more efficiently to save energy to generate additional components that are needed for the process or to be able to reduce waste heat also to reduce the energy input into the furnace.
I think those are the factors that really have quite a significant impact.
And I believe that will progress as we make investment particularly in the case of Europe where in Europe the energy component of the manufacturing cost is twice as high as the energy component of manufacturing cost in the United States.
So it really make sense to do it in Europe.
With regard to the broader and longer term technology aspects that we have talked about in the past as I have said we will not see a major impact until the end of this decade.
So that’s four or five years out at this point in time.
But I certainly would say that we will see a progression of events that we will when it’s appropriate at that point in time then talk about.
But certainly it has focus it has the attention of the organization and you have the opportunity to see our facilities.
I think we are very well-equipped to really deliver on the promise of a new approach as we go forward.
Thank you everyone.
And that concludes our earnings conference call.
Please note that our third quarter 2015 conference call is currently scheduled for Wednesday October 28 at 8 am Eastern time.
We appreciate your interest in O-I.
And remember when faced with the choice of rigid packaging make the smart choice choose glass.
It is safe pure and sustainable.
Thank you.
This concludes today’s teleconference.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Brianna and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the O-I Third Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers' remarks there will be a question-and-answer session.
Thank you.
David Johnson Vice President of Investor Relations you may begin your conference.
Thank you Brianna.
Welcome everyone to O-I's earnings conference call.
Our discussion today will be led by Al Stroucken our Chairman and CEO; Andres Lopez our Chief Operating Officer and CEO-successor; and John Haudrich our Acting Chief Financial Officer.
Today we will discuss key business developments and review our financial results for the third quarter of 2015 and highlight our path forward.
Following our prepared remarks we'll host a Q&amp;A session.
Presentation materials for this earnings call are available on the company's website at o-i.com.
Please review the Safe Harbor comments and disclosure of our use of non-GAAP financial measures included in those materials.
Unless otherwise noted the financial results we are presenting today relate to adjusted earnings which excludes certain items that management considers not representative of ongoing operations.
A reconciliation of GAAP to non-GAAP earnings can be found in our earnings press release and in the appendix to this presentation.
Now I'd like to turn the call over to Al.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</strong> Thank you Dave and good morning.
I'd like to begin our call today by congratulating Andres Lopez on his appointment as CEO beginning January of next year.
Andres has long served as an innovative and visionary member of our leadership team so his assumption of the CEO role is a natural fit.
We have been working closely this past year to transition responsibilities.
As Andres has been playing a key leadership role already he will lead today's discussion of regional performance.
Besides finalizing the CEO succession process we completed the acquisition of Vitro's food and beverage glass container business in Mexico Bolivia and the U.S.
much earlier than originally anticipated.
I want to compliment the transaction teams on both sides for a smooth transition.
We're very pleased with the business performance and have included September results in our reported earnings.
Turning to third quarter earnings our adjusted EPS was $0.57 the operating performance of our legacy business was essentially flat to the prior year in constant currency and in line with our most recent guidance.
While we did not receive a significant energy credit we had expected lower corporate costs made up for this difference.
Given the uncertainty surrounding the timing of this credit we have removed it entirely from this year's projections.
We anticipated the acquisition would reduce results by $0.05 given temporary tax expense as we set up the optimal structure in Mexico.
And we were pleased with the operating results of the acquired business in September and also that its headwind on EPS was less than expected.
Although EPS was $0.18 lower than the prior year third quarter the difference on a constant currency basis was only $0.03.
And these $0.03 were essentially attributable to temporary tax issues related to the acquisition.
Global volumes were up 4% overall.
Without the acquired business global volumes were stable compared to prior year.
Segment operating profit in the quarter was lower than prior year third quarter by $9 million in constant currency and the delta was entirely offset by favorite corporate items.
Now let me turn the call over to Andres.
Thank you Al and thank you for your kind words.
I'm both humbled and honored to be given this great opportunity.
I've been working with my leadership team and the board to identify the opportunities prioritize our efforts and determine how we can lead change in the company.
One of our first priorities and one we are already working on is stability.
We need to bring stability back into all of our operations.
Stability can bring significant financial benefits as it is the basis for improved performance in the future.
So as I walk you through our results today for the third quarter I will mention a couple of places where we are stabilizing the operations as well as other areas where improving performance is creating value.
Let me start with Europe on slide four.
Europe's operating performance was in line with our expectations.
We were pleased to see an uptick in volumes primarily related to the improved beer sales.
In fact overall European volumes are slightly up year-to-date.
Operating profit was lower primarily due to ongoing price pressure and elevated engineering activity.
The price pressure stemmed from two sources.
One source is long-term beer contracts negotiated in 2014.
Another source is lower wine price in Southern Europe which were set earlier in the year.
Operating profit was lower than our expectations due to a significant non-operational item.
A legislative delay prevented us from recognizing an $8 million energy credit in the quarter.
We are now waiting for clarification as to when or if it will be granted.
We are working to bring more stability in Europe targeting productivity improvements at selected plants and completing initiatives associated with the asset optimization program.
Moving to slide number five and about North America.
The modest decline in North America's operating profit hides the very real progress we are making in this region.
We have addressed the significant operational challenges we faced in the third quarter of last year.
Again the objective was stability.
We had a substantially higher level of engineering activity in this quarter some devoted to planned furnace reveals some devoted to projects that will lower end-to-end supply chain cost and provide more flexibility as we serve growing segments.
In each case the temporary impact on downtime and productivity is setting the stage for increased performance in the future.
Demand trends in the region remain the same.
Sales volume of our legacy business were down 1% in the quarter due to weak demand in megabeer.
With the addition of the U.S.
portion of the acquisition a distribution business now called O-I Packaging Solutions volumes were up 2%.
Integrating this business into our North American operations will be a key area focus for us going forward.
We are excited by the high level of capabilities and enthusiasm the new distribution team brings.
The team is eager to leverage legacy O-I products in the distribution system.
And separately to meet consumer needs that increasingly prefer craft beer wine spirits and non-alcoholic beverages will continue to advance the flexibility of our operations.
We are confident that we are turning the corner in North America and regaining stability in the business.
Turning to slide six Latin America earnings adjusted for currency improved from the prior year.
This primarily reflects the contribution from the acquisition.
Results were down modestly in our legacy business.
This is what we expected.
Sales volumes declined 4%.
While domestic shipments were up slightly in the Andean countries shipments for Brazil declined primarily driven by beer.
Cost inflation remains high influenced by currency rates.
However our commercial team was able to secure price gains to largely offset inflation.
We are pleased with the results and we have opportunities to add more value.
The most obvious opportunity is the integration of the Mexico and Bolivia operations.
Another opportunity is to support our customers effort to introduce new product designs and to tap into new markets.
In summary the region is operating well and we expect this to continue.
Turning to slide seven Asia-Pacific has turned the corner.
We can see the impact of a strong leadership and execution on our results.
Our team in Asia-Pacific has worked hard to right-size the footprint to improve operating cost and to earn incremental business.
Overall sales volume was flat for the region.
We benefited from a change in the geographic mix with business in Australia up and China down.
The weaker Australian dollar helps competitiveness.
Australian wine exports are up and so is our business.
For us beer was up due to a new contract even as mainstream beer in Australia has lost share to craft beer and imports.
Our production profile improved substantially in the quarter.
Previously Australia had a significant amount of planned downtime.
With its assets now ramped up we are producing more for local markets.
As such we imported fewer containers from China.
By minimizing cross regional shipping we improved the cost position of the region.
In all the Asia-Pacific team has done a great job of stabilizing the business.
They are now focused on incremental performance improvement by working together with customers to meet their needs and collaborating internally across the sales manufacturing and supply chain functions to ensure sustainable performance gains.
That completes the regional review.
So let me turn the call over to John to review performance at the enterprise level.
Thanks Andres.
Let's turn to slide eight.
Third quarter adjusted EPS was $0.57; this compares to $0.75 last year.
The strong U.S.
dollar is still a significant headwind for the company amounting to about $0.15.
In constant currency our earnings were $0.60 in the prior-year quarter.
Segment operating profit was lower by $0.04 as Andres just covered with the regions.
This was completely offset by lower corporate costs.
Pension expense declined and management incentive accruals were trimmed.
Corporate also benefited from our modest currency hedging program.
Net interest expense in constant currency was higher mainly due to the borrowings for the acquisition.
We had an effective tax rate of 27% in the quarter.
This was higher than average principally reflecting timing issues associated with the setup of the optimal legal structure for the acquisition and EPS benefited from our share buybacks earlier this year.
Let me shift momentarily to GAAP EPS.
In the third quarter we reported $78 million of pre-tax charges that were not representative of ongoing operations.
We recognized several key charges: initial one-time costs related to the Mexico acquisition restructuring activities at several plants around the world and bond redemption premiums and fees related to refinancing activities.
In all adjusted EPS was modestly higher than our $0.55 guidance.
The legacy business performed as expected and the ultimate impact of the acquisition was a $0.01 or $0.02 better than we had expected.
Let's turn to our fourth quarter outlook on slide nine.
We reported adjusted EPS of $0.46 per share in the fourth quarter of last year.
Currency will continue to be a strong headwind.
Using September 30 rates prior-year results were more like $0.31 a contraction of nearly one-third.
Overall we see no change in the external business environment.
Of course we face specific opportunities and challenges so let me drill down now on each region.
In Europe operating profit is projected to be modestly down.
Sale volumes should be flat with the prior-year quarter.
The ongoing price declines experienced in the second and third quarters of 2015 will continue but with less year-on-year impact.
Our asset optimization program will wind down and our focus will shift to improving productivity at our lower-performing plants.
We expect that better manufacturing results will partially mitigate the price declines in Europe.
And while price will continue to be a headwind for the fourth quarter we are assessing the situation for opportunities to increase price in upcoming annual contract negotiations.
Turning to North America.
We expect overall industry trends to continue yet our financial performance should increase substantially against an easy comparable due to a number of factors: modestly higher sales volume higher production volume since we don't anticipate curtailing production like we did last year improved productivity continued cost improvements in our end-to-end supply chain and a full quarter contribution from O-I Packaging Solutions.
In Latin America the acquisition will provide significant benefits to segment profit.
However the legacy business will see some continued pressure especially given macro challenges.
For instance in Brazil we anticipate modestly lower production volume.
And price increases may not completely cover persistently high cost inflation linked to the strong U.S.
dollar.
Overall Latin America's operating profit should be similar to the prior year taking into account currency headwinds the legacy business performance and the benefit from the acquisition.
In Asia-Pacific we expect higher year-on-year profits.
Andres already mentioned higher sales volume and we'll see a similar increase in production volume.
While we are now lapping the benefit of the last furnace closure in Australia the region continues to benefit from a favorable cost position.
Corporate expense should be similar to prior year.
Please note that pension expense had already begun to decline in the fourth quarter of last year.
Interest expense will be higher of course as we are carrying incremental debt for the acquisition.
Our effective tax rate is higher than usual.
We face timing issues associated with a setup of the optimal legal structure for the acquired operations in Mexico.
We expect this to normalize by year-end.
Blending in Mexico we see a full-year tax rate of approximately 25% to 27%.
Taking into account all the puts and takes we expect that our adjusted EPS in the fourth quarter will be approximately $0.40.
This is substantially higher than prior year in constant currency terms reflecting better business performance from North America and Asia-Pacific.
Our 2000 (sic) [2015] (18:58) free cash flow target is now approximately $200 million.
In local currency terms we are on track to generate about the same free cash flow as last year.
Currency changes alone have created a $120 million headwind to free cash flow.
Our original cash flow forecast has been dampened by several issues none of which should impact us beyond year-end 2015.
They include upfront acquisition costs CapEx to finish O-I Mexico's furnace for the new CBI business higher taxes and the European energy credit worth $8 million which we removed from our forecast to remain conservative.
Of course while we generate cash in local currency our cash flow is reported in U.S.
dollars.
Since we make most of our cash in the fourth quarter exchange rates at year-end will have a significant impact on the translation of full-year results.
Let me comment on the impacts of the acquisition to earnings.
In the fourth quarter it will be more or less breakeven to earnings.
Benefits that manifest in North America and Latin America operating profits will be essentially offset by higher borrowing cost and most importantly the temporarily higher tax rate.
In 2015 it will be a modest use of cash flow for the reasons I just mentioned.
And in 2016 it turns accretive to both earnings and free cash flow.
Moving to slide 10.
We tap the financial markets to borrow for the Mexico acquisition.
We did so at a blended rate of approximately 4.2% a real achievement given choppy market conditions in the credit markets.
Separately we repaid the remaining $300 million of outstanding 2016's that carried a rate of 7.375%.
At quarter end our total debt has increased to $5.9 billion and our leverage ratio was nearly 4.2 times.
Consistent with our previous guidance we are shifting our capital allocation priority to debt reduction now that the acquisition is completed.
As the acquisition closed earlier than anticipated we will cap our 2015 share repurchase program at $100 million.
By concentrating on deleveraging we anticipate a leverage ratio of approximately three times by the end of 2018.
Now let me turn the call back over to Andres.
Thanks John.
Turning to slide 11 the acquisition of Vitro's food and beverage business is a key building block of our strategy.
We waited a long time to acquire it and all signs today demonstrate that it will make a significant contribution to O-I financially commercially operationally and culturally.
We are pleased with the rapid pace with which the integration is progressing.
The business in all three countries performed well and in line with expectations.
There has been a great deal of activity.
Employees in all of the major functions are working together to align processes and identified opportunities for improvement and strong local leadership teams are working hard to motivate and energize our 5 500 new employees there.
We are just one month into the integration and we are gaining more visibility into the performance of the operations every day.
While there is a lot to learn we are working to validate the assumptions we had established at the time of the acquisition.
So our financial expectations remain the same the acquisition should contribute about $0.30 in earnings per share in 2016.
It should contribute about $0.50 per share in 2018 and it should generate at least $100 million in free cash flow by 2018.
Note that these expectations are based on average third quarter rates for the Mexican peso.
Of course we are working to drive upsides.
Turning to slide 12.
I mentioned earlier that we have identified some clear opportunities to create shareholder value.
To pursue these opportunities we need to change and I know I absolutely know that we have what it takes to bring about this change at O-I.
We have most of the capabilities already and what we don't have we can develop build or hire.
We need to develop a performance-focused culture a culture based on collaboration and integrated decision-making.
We are already working on many of the necessary changes beginning with the senior leadership team.
We have realigned and strengthened our team.
And to emphasize the importance of strategy and integrated approach to business and change in our future we are creating a new role the Chief Strategy and Integration Officer who will be instrumental in executing our strategy.
While John Haudrich has done an excellent job as Acting CFO he is ideal for the strategy and integration role.
So he will take it on once we have a new CFO in place.
And on that point we have narrowed our search for an experienced CFO.
The external hire will have a solid manufacturing industry background and will bring an outside a strategic perspective on value creation to the senior leadership team.
We look forward to sharing news on this as soon as possible.
We have said it already but I want to reiterate that integrating our new businesses O-I Mexico O-I Bolivia and O-I Packaging Solutions is an important and critical opportunity.
These are enormously important additions to our business and we need to capture all the value they bring.
We look forward to sharing more of our strategy with you at our Investor Day in March.
And now I will ask Brianna to open the lines for your questions.
Your first question comes from the line of Chris Manuel with Wells Fargo.
Your line is open.
Good morning.
This is actually Gabe Hajde sitting in for Chris.
Couple of questions.
I guess to start with you Andres you talked about restoring some stability to the operations.
If you could elaborate on that a little bit more; I mean I know you talked about having to add some capabilities whether it's personnel or otherwise.
But are you more referencing furnace rebuild schedules production schedule stuff like that? How should we think about it? Well thanks.
Stability is a very critical aspect of our future strategy.
And we see two areas to be covered by stability.
One is the revenue the other one is the end-to-end supply chain performance.
And when we look at revenue we're thinking about taking a very balanced approach to price and volume so we avoid volatility the one that sometimes we see from quarter to quarter when we compare year-on-year.
We are also thinking about generating stability in our operations looking at the end-to-end supply chain.
So it includes the entire supply chain and it is about – it is project activity but it's also our performance in terms of efficiency asset load everything that drives the performance of our operations.
For us stability is the basis for performance improvement.
When we achieve a stability we can give our management the time to be able to concentrate on elevating the performance of the company.
So as you see we emphasized that quite significantly along the – our comments this morning.
And we're very focused on driving stability in the earliest stages in every one of the operations around the world.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Perhaps in addition here because Andres may be a little bit too modest.
But for the last two years he has been a significant driver of manufacturing fundamentals in our operations that basically are leading to a significant improvement and predictability and in stability of the operations.
It's really knowledge that was resident in the organization but not always equally applied across the world.
And his effort have made a significant change in that respect.
And then I would just add on since there was the question about the capital side there will be capital investments in our asset base.
But it's really a reallocation of the CapEx within the business.
So it's not meant to be a step-up in that regard.
Obviously we evaluate through our strategy but we believe that we can do this through reallocation.
Your next question comes from the line of George Staphos with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Your line is open.
Hi everyone.
Good morning.
Thanks for all of the details.
I guess my two-part question kind of unrelated part you mentioned that you're very pleased with the progress that you're making with Vitro in integrating it.
What one or two things has gone better than expected if you could pinpoint it and how much does the fact that Vitro was a former licensee play into it? The second and related question I think the last quarter at least we took away that pricing trends in Europe should be improving.
There seemed to some stability at least entering your outlook.
It seems from this call perhaps that pressures remain a little bit more persistent.
Could you comment correct change that view in terms of the outlook on pricing as well for Europe? Thank you.
Thank you George.
So when we look at Vitro we are finding that the operations are very well structured.
And when we look at potential upsides in operations we see a significant opportunity there.
This company has very strong processes in place – very strong processes and practices excuse me.
And the fact that it is a former licensee of O-I has created a lot of commonality between our technologies and some of our practices.
So I think this will make a lot easier for us to drive performance up as we continue to take over the operations.
When it comes to pricing we've been experiencing the same pattern and trends over the entire year in pricing in Europe.
And our expectation is that as we go into this quarter and we get into a negotiation season and even going into Q1 we're going to be able to evaluate better what is the strength of the trend going forward if we're – this is going to continue into 2016 or is going to moderate a little bit more.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Perhaps two comments.
Certainly what really went well in the Vitro acquisition is the timing of the effectiveness of the acquisition.
As you know we were looking at a much longer timeframe.
So I think that really has been a very positive surprise.
With regard to the European pricing I don't want you to misinterpret what's happening there.
What we're saying is in comparison to last year the price pressure is still maintained but it is not new pricing action that we're seeing.
In fact if you look at the published reports by quite a few of our competitors they're all lamenting the inability that they have seen to get prices and to recover what they've seen in internal inflation.
And I would hope that what John said with regard to assessing our opportunities for some price adjustments will bear fruit over the next couple of months.
Your next question comes from the line of Lars Kjellberg with Credit Suisse.
Your line is open.
Thank you and good morning.
Just a couple of questions.
First of all China.
Obviously you've resized your system in China and I was expecting to see some moderate growth at least flat volumes coming through in China now if you want to comment on that? And also on the corporate expense line is there any particular reason for why we should expect a step-up in corporate expense versus what we've had in the prior three quarters in the current year? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yes Lars.
I'll have John talk about corporate cost.
With regard to China what we are seeing we have used our facilities in China also to support our sales in Australia and New Zealand and so those sales show up in Australia and New Zealand.
As they are now able to manufacture their own production again for these customers we will most probably see a pickup in local China sales as we go forward.
This is not indicative of demand trends.
But I believe you have all read that also beer in the past three quarters has been suffering a little bit in China as well.
That being of course a major part of the overall market that has a reflection on overall demand.
But I would say long term the trends in China still remain fairly positive.
But of course we are operating from a much more restricted basis than we've had in the past.
We've really focused on very few facilities that serve predominantly multinational or international customers because that's where we can get a satisfactory price level.
John? Yeah.
To address the corporate retained question.
Our normal run rate is about $20 million for corporate expense.
We were $21 million in the first quarter $19 million in the second quarter.
We expect it to return to $20 million or thereabouts in the fourth quarter.
The third quarter was a bit of an aberration being closer to $10 million because of some hedges and some one-time adjustments on things such as incentives and things like that.
So I think $20 million is the number to think about.
Okay.
Your next question comes from the line Tyler Langton with JPMorgan.
Your line is open.
Hi.
Good morning.
Thanks.
I think just in North America you mentioned that you're accelerating some of your engineering activity just to reduce your long-term costs.
Can you talk a little bit I guess what you've been spending and then sort of just the impact you think that can have? Yes.
We've been investing in a couple of things.
First is we are aligning capacity with the growing segments of the market.
And within those segments primarily wine and food.
But we also spent some money on some projects that will improve productivity that we expect to see results going into Q4 and going into 2016.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> As you saw from the charts that we have we have a fairly stable supply/demand picture in North America.
We expect products or segments other than the beer segment to continue to grow in the coming year.
We need to be ready to be able to shift our existing installed base which was predominantly geared towards beer to be more accommodating towards the other applications.
So that is some of the efforts that you have seen.
And John can perhaps give some additional perspective on the magnitude.
Yeah.
I think we are talking about investments and costs in the $3 million to $5 million Zip Code in the particular quarter.
This is also some M&amp;E some costs associated with changing out some equipment things like that.
Your next question comes from the line of Ghansham Panjabi with Robert W.
Baird.
Your line is open.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Hi.
Good morning.
This is actually Matt Krueger sitting in for Ghansham.
How are you guys doing? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> All right.
And you? Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Good.
Good.
I guess my question revolves around customer M&amp;A and consolidation.
Can you guys talk about how customer consolidation and the relocation of customer assets affects how you run your business? And then can you provide some specific examples of how you guys are adjusting to the more dynamic operating environment moving forward? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yes.
So I think with regard to consolidation of course as you have seen over the years an ongoing story and it's getting to be a more concentrated market on the customer side but it's also more concentrated supplier base as you have seen.
Now when we look at our positioning I think we're ideally positioned on a global basis to really deal with those trends because in most cases and of course everybody is aware of the big kahuna that's out there at this point in time.
If you look at that particular situation we are basically represented with both of those companies and each of the regions in which they are active and have a long-term significant supply relation and some cases with long-term contracts still into effect three years or four years hence at this point in time which I believe puts us in an excellent position to benefit from this changing profile of our customer base.
We also see more and more desire on the part of international companies to contract on a global basis which of course also limits the pool of parties that can participate in such bids and in such long-term agreements for an overall global supply which again given our footprint I believe puts us in a very solid and favorable position as we go forward.
Now what we are seeing as well is that many of the large customers are also trying to become more responsive to market trends themselves.
And as you know we have seen now for a couple of years megabeers really suffering in overall demand trends.
And I think even the larger ones are now trying to become much more active in those segments of the markets as well which again requires us to be much more flexible because it means more SKUs it means greater flexibility in our facilities to serve those changing and varying needs.
And I think again with the focus that we have and the focus that we're putting on flexibility in our operations we're very well positioned.
Your next question comes from the line of Debbie Jones with Deutsche Bank.
Your line is open.
Inc.</span></strong> Hi.
Good morning.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Good morning.
Inc.</span></strong> I wanted to focus on Latin America.
Could you just first just talk a little bit more specifically about the volumes by regions versus your expectations? And then specifically on the guidance if I were to take a look at what you did in what was South America last year in the fourth quarter $72 million if I take that on a constant currency basis looking at this year would you expect that to be up if I excluded the Vitro contribution? When we look at volumes in the region we're seeing the Andean countries performing in a very stable way.
They are in line with the prior year in terms of demand.
And when we look at Brazil we're seeing some sub-volumes that they are only in beer.
We're seeing the orange juices in Brazil performing well and we are seeing within beer a significant activity in new product development.
And we're seeing a significant focus on premium products.
In fact the one-way containers for premium are growing quite well within Brazil.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> And I think with regard to the projection for the fourth quarter the only uncertainty is of course the macro conditions in Brazil at this point in time.
I believe that what we have seen in the last two months looks positive from a demand profile.
But it's very difficult at this point in time to project that given all the news that we are following of course and all the economic issues that Brazil is facing.
So we have a little bit of caution in our projections.
And I would say that we're looking at something that's breakeven to maybe down slightly on the legacy business.
It depends on whether the conditions require a little bit of lower production to match the inventory so that we exit the year in the right position or not.
And so those are couple of – that's the key thing in play.
Your next question comes from the line of Scott Gaffner with Barclays.
Your line is open.
Inc.</span></strong> Thanks.
Good morning.
Andres congrats on the official announcement and John it sounds like a new interesting role for you.
So look forward to continue our discussions after the interim CFO role is done.
Thank you.
Inc.</span></strong> If I just look at the Vitro acquisition I guess not to be too nitpicking here but you were at one point $0.30 to $0.40 accretive in year one.
The last update you gave before today was at least $0.30 accretive in year one and now today it's about $0.30 accretive.
And I would have expected with the early close maybe you could have outperformed a little bit on that.
Can you talk a little bit about what's going on there? Maybe it's just the Mexican peso if there's anything as you've gotten in that makes you a little bit more cautious around the near-term accretion.
And then on Europe the asset optimization being essentially done what's the year-over-year benefit we should be expecting from asset optimization as we move into 2016? Thanks.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Okay.
Let me start out with Mexico and Vitro.
Clearly this is a very attractive acquisition and continues to be a significant contributor to the profitability profile of the company going forward.
The variance that you see from the initial announcement that we made in May I believe it was is really that – at that point in time the peso was around MXN 14 to the U.S.
dollars.
Today the pesos – I think the average for the last month was MXN 16.5 or something like that.
We've seen it go over MXN 17 which of course is impacting the conversion.
However what we have seen over the past five years or six years when there was a gradual inflation or deflation of the value of the peso we have seen that the Vitro business was able to really make the adjustments on a regular basis and get to fairly comparable and strong U.S.
dollar results.
I believe we still have that capability as well in the company and the business that we acquired.
However what we have seen is we have seen a very drastic change in currency in a short period of time.
And that leads to some uncertainty.
We've only been in the business now for four weeks or five weeks.
So we still need to do some tire-kicking to understand what the mechanisms are and that is perhaps reflected in some of the caution that you see.
And John? Yeah.
Just specifically on that I mean the original guidance was $0.30 to $0.40.
And as Al mentioned that was that at a time when we were at MXN 14.5 on the peso.
So the recent movements is what has driven us to move it to that $0.30 as Andres mentioned looking for the upside opportunities.
Clearly if you take a look at the September results and the outlook that we have for the fourth quarter for this business from an underlying performance that's well aligned with those types of performance levels and as Andres – I mean as Al said we're kicking the tires we're looking to fine-tune things now.
We're just starting the annual budgeting process.
So we'll look for refinement there.
And as it relates to the asset optimization program on that earlier question is the activities that we've been doing have been very busy very busy.
Also with a high level of engineering projects in Europe with the asset – higher level of asset rebuild that we had this year that has obviously taken a little bit more time and the complexity has a little bit been higher.
So some of the savings that we're looking to achieve this year really are going to start to roll into more next year or so.
I think that's in the neighborhood of $20 million of what we expected incrementally in the portion that's going to roll into next year.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
And if I recall correctly by the end of the fourth quarter of last year we were working at a run rate of $60 million or so.
So it really is still with some couple of months delay with that $20 million it really gets to the original forecast that we had provided.
And as John mentioned this is a complex phase of the asset optimization I would say is the most complex that we needed to implement.
So it had some ripple effects in productivity.
But we're seeing very good signs of improvement.
So our expectation is that we're going to have a positive trend of performance going forward as we conclude the asset optimization.
Your next question comes from the line of Mark Wilde with BMO Capital Markets.
Your line is open.
Good morning.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Hi Mark.
Good morning.
I wondered Andres if it's possible for you to kind of break apart the different moving pieces within that Brazilian beer weakness stretching out the flow which I guess we've seen in past slowdowns versus kind of market shift versus just underlying demand.
And then I'd also wondered if Al could provide just a few thoughts on lessons from the last nine years? When we look at the beer market in Brazil if we look at returnable containers they continued to be very relevant in the market very strong and very stable too.
So as you know when the economies go down these containers become a lot more relevant because those are the ones that facilitate a producer to put the lowest price transaction in the market but it's also the container that provide the most profits to them.
When we look at one-way containers we're seeing a very strong performance in that category.
The activity in the market in Brazil in terms of introducing new premium products beer products has been very very high.
This is something that the consumer is embracing very well a bit distance to go primarily to glass containers.
It's like 70% of the mix is sold in one-way containers.
So we're seeing a good performance within the circumstances of glass.
Now in the last couple of months we're seeing some early signs of better performance overall.
This is something that we're going to monitor closely because as you know uncertainty in this market is very very high.
However that's what we are observing at this point.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Okay.
Mark the question of course that you ask is a loaded question.
So let me try to be as concise as I can.
First of all from going public in the 1990s to 2006 the company had zero to negative free cash flow in total.
From 2006 to now the company has generated close to $2.4 billion $2.5 billion in free cash flow.
We have strengthened our position in Latin America which is the most profitable region for the glass business in the world by the acquisitions of CIV in Northern Brazil and of course most recently in Vitro.
So it really has strengthened the underlying capabilities of this organization tremendously.
We've built management capabilities for several – and several of our global leadership members today have come out of the internal program that we developed and that we created.
And I believe the new focus of the company on innovation and breakthrough technology is in absolute need for us to remain in this position of strength and position of leadership as we go forward.
We weathered one of the deepest and most prolonged global financial and economic roller coaster rides.
And it continues to this day with the exchange rate development.
As you see it has a huge impact on top line and bottom line of the company.
But I would say overall we have a leadership team today that I wish I would have had five years or six years ago.
So that is really the strength of it.
The lesson is China I made a mistake.
I really went too early.
It's not necessarily a bridge too far but it was a bridge too early going into China.
And I believe also one of the things I created was I pushed the operations to really find the limits of sweating the assets and getting the best productivity.
And we found the boundaries.
And that has cost us some interruptions in our operation.
And I think with Andres' background and knowledge in this business that certainly is something that we have learned very good lessons from and that we're applying today.
I hope that answers your question.
Your next question comes from the line of Chip Dillon with Vertical Research.
Your line is open.
Yes.
Thanks very much and Al good luck as you move to your next phase.
Wanted to ask about the future capital needs of the business including restructuring.
I know that you've had sort of a – I think in a zip code of $450 million of a combined number in the past and now that you have the Vitro in the mix and you sort of have obviously some number in mind as you look to get your leverage down to three times at the end of 2018.
What sort of should we expect to see on the CapEx side? And as you answer where do we stand in terms of the furnace rebuild process? Is that something that is happening at the same rate going forward? Or will it speed up or slow down? Thank you.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
John can talk to some details.
Overall the mix is really not going to change that significantly from where we have been in the past.
Of course we have to add the Vitro capital requirements but we talked about that already in the past.
I believe one of the things that really is important for us to keep an eye on because what we are seeing in North America and that includes now the Mexican market for this discussion is a significant increase in capacity and an intent of building capacity on the part of the brewers which are really also driving the demand for glass.
You know from the CBI discussion that we've had that we're going to build three new furnaces on top of the furnace that was just installed two years ago.
We also in Vitro in the O-I Mexico business are building a new furnace at this point in time for glass.
And our several brewers at this point in time talking about building additional capacity for which they need glass supply and glass capacity.
So I think as we go forward we're going to have to see what is the right approach for us to make sure that we get a profitable hold of those opportunities.
And I would say it's too early at this point in time to really make any projections other than the ones we already have talked about and that are in the pipeline.
But with regard to specific numbers and investments and investment profile perhaps John can add a few comments.
Yeah yeah.
Historically we've been talking about the combination of CapEx and restructuring being close to D&amp;A in the full sense.
So that's in the $425 million to $450 million range in that zip code.
Vitro is adding $60 million of their amount to that with the acquisition to give you kind of a baseline.
So a couple of things that will be moving all right.
So we will not be – we're exiting the asset optimization program in Europe.
This is the last year of that.
We have also over the years spent some on internal strategic projects.
Frankly what we're looking for is more of the stability as Andres said.
So I would say that some of the investments in those type of spot projects will decline.
But we'll see that being replaced with more investments in the base operations of the business.
And so those are the moving parts.
And I think we'll frame all this out when we get to our Investor Day next March about the specific dollar amounts but that at least gives you the leverage that we're looking at.
Okay.
Your next question comes from the line of Alex Ovshey with Goldman Sachs.
Your line is open.
Thank you.
Good morning guys.
Good morning.
On the acquisition you gave us in the presentation that it added $61 million to revenue and $14 million to EBIT for one month I think since it closed on the 1st.
So is it reasonable to just annualize those numbers to get a sense for what the annual run rate for revenue and EBIT is before the Monterey furnace comes online? I would caution you from extrapolating to with too much precision there that's just one month.
And obviously there is seasonality of this business.
So what I would say is we're generally pleased with the performance in the month of September and we believe that we can build off of that for the reasons you talked about the CBI activity the synergies that we have to deliver in the future.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> I would tell you in general even looking back over the last nine months including the activities as they were managed under the former ownership it's basically tracking in line with what we had as assumptions for the valuation of this business.
So I don't see any significant variation.
And one last thing I would add is that we will be coming out with a 10-Q later today tonight.
And that does provide a little bit more descriptive activity so that that's a document to reference.
And Brianna if I can just interject now I apologize for those still in the queue but we have time for just one more question.
Okay.
Your final question comes from the line of Adam Josephson with KeyBanc.
Your line is open.
Inc.</span></strong> Thanks.
Good morning everyone.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Good morning.
Inc.</span></strong> In terms of the Vitro business can you talk about your expectations for volume growth there over the next couple of years and why specifically I'm asking because many other Latin American countries have obviously been adversely affected by the global slowdown.
I'm just wondering if you think there is any reason to expect that in Mexico as well given Mexico's sensitivity to oil prices? Thank you.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yes.
The glass growth in Mexico over the last four years has been between 3% and 5% depending on the individual year.
What we are seeing is with taxes increasing on high sugar content beverages we have seen quite a significant shift to glass packaging returnable glass packaging for those customers to still reach the pricing points.
I believe what I said earlier with regard to capacity being built in Mexico for export markets in beer is adding significant upside to the volume profile for Mexico which leads us to believe that the growth rates that we've seen in the past four years or five years are going to continue for quite a while as we go forward.
It's not all consumed in Mexico of course.
You have to add that.
And we will see some trend changes based on economic conditions.
But certainly as far as underlying trends is concerned that's quite different from what we've seen in the United States over the past 10 years.
Thank you everyone.
That concludes our earnings conference call.
Please note that our fourth quarter and full-year 2015 conference call is currently scheduled for Tuesday February 9 2016 at 8:00 AM Eastern Time.
We certainly appreciate your interest in O-I and remember to choose glass it's safe it's pure and it's sustainable.
Thank you very much.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Keith and I'll be your conference operator today.
At this time I'd like to welcome everyone to the O-I's Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers' remarks we will have a question-and-answer session.
Thank you.
I would now like to turn the call over to David Johnson Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Keith.
Welcome everyone to O-I's fourth quarter and 2015 year-end earnings conference call.
Our discussion today will be led by Andres Lopez our CEO; and I'm also pleased to introduce our new Chief Financial Officer Jan Bertsch.
Today we will discuss key business developments review fourth quarter and full year financial results for 2015 and we'll highlight our high-level expectations for 2016.
Following our prepared remarks we'll host a Q&amp;A session.
Presentation materials for this earnings call are available on the company's website at o-i.com.
Please review the Safe Harbor comments and disclosure of our use of non-GAAP financial measures included in those materials.
Unless otherwise noted the financial results we are presenting today relate to adjusted earnings which excludes certain items that management considers not representative of ongoing operations.
A reconciliation of GAAP to non-GAAP earnings can be found in our earnings press release and in the Appendix to this presentation.
Now I'd like to turn the call over to Andres.
Thank you Dave and good morning.
I'm pleased to report that our fourth quarter 2015 results were in line with our expectations.
We delivered earnings and cash flow that were on target while moving aggressively to integrate the operations of the recently completed acquisition of Vitro's food and beverage business in Latin America.
In the fourth quarter we also took steps to begin the process of positioning the company for real strategic change which included the final steps in building out our senior leadership team.
These efforts took place against a backdrop of ongoing macroeconomic and currency headwinds.
While our global leadership team appreciates the efforts our team members around the global have made to achieve these results we are still not satisfied with the overall level of performance and know that we as an organization can do much better.
That is our focus as we begin 2016.
The good news is we closed out 2015 on solid footing.
North America delivered a strong operational performance on the heels of some additional investments in the third quarter.
Our Asia Pacific operations performed very well driven by stronger sales in Australia in the second half of the year.
Europe underperformed for the year.
Prices were lower partially due to concessions for long-term contracts with the strategic customers and also due to competitive pricing dynamics in Southern Europe.
Europe was also impacted by lower manufacturing productivity across the footprint.
Importantly we have made – we have already begun to take actions and we saw some initial signs of stabilization exiting the year.
Lastly Latin America was up in the fourth quarter primarily due to the appreciation that the legacy business turned in fairly solid quarterly performance in light of tough macro conditions in Brazil.
It's also worth mentioning that we are very pleased with business results from the acquisition in the fourth quarter.
They delivered a very strong EBITDA margin of greater than 30% and generated positive free cash flow in the quarter.
Now I'd like to spend some time discussing the global economic landscape and our end markets in a little more detail.
Please turn to slide four.
From a global perspective the key trends we face are consistent and stable.
Consumers' preferences particularly in developed countries are driving increased demand for glass packaging of craft and premium products in both (4:50) wine spirits and beer.
However this more upscale pallet (4:57) comes at the expense of megabeer.
We will continue to adapt and we see the volume gap from megabeer being offset even more so by growth in these other categories.
In fact we have been investing in the fastest growth segment of beer in the U.S.
through the acquisition in Mexico our joint venture with Constellation Brands and long-term supply contracts from the U.S.
In all this kind of growth will help upgrade our product mix and lead to higher overall profitability over the long-term.
In looking at macroeconomics factors impacting the global landscape today we see a mixture of significant cross-currents.
In particular there is a lot of discussion about emerging markets in the financial media these days and much of it is negative.
For us it's more of a mixed picture right now.
In Latin America despite all the negative news related to Brazil we are executing well.
Our diversity throughout the entire region allow us to perform well when one country or another is under pressure.
Currently growth in the Andean countries and Mexico is compensating for weaknesses in Brazil.
From a packaging perspective and for glass in particular we see demand trends has been quite resilient.
In fact more than half of our volume in Brazil is in categories outside of beer and these promising categories continue to grow well.
Let me pause on glass container demand for beer Brazil which to be clear is growing not declining.
For context note that our sales volume for beer in Brazil is about 11% of all Latin American volumes important but not the whole story.
One very interesting development in Brazil beer though is the strength of one-way premium beer which is growing exceptionally well and three quarters of the segment is in glass.
Returnables have contracted modestly driven by a sharp likely temporary drop in on-premise consumption.
However simple math tells the story.
A modest reduction in returnables when factoring in 25 uses to 30 uses and a double-digit increase in one-way premium leads to significant growth for glass containers even if aluminum cans gain share.
In fact for O-I Brazil today more than half of our beer business is for the one-way premium segment and within that one-way premium segment we have the fastest growing packaging in the country in 2015 with double-digit growth.
Sure cans can grow in mainstream and primarily in off-premise yet glass container demand grows as well.
And neither do I nor our key customers are giving up on returnables.
We know that returnables are the most economical package best suited for on-premise consumption and even several customers are now developing better infrastructure to serve retail.
Glass demand is growing in Brazil.
Overall there will continue to be a lot of noise about emerging markets.
But it's important to keep in mind that some of the issues that receive the most attention amount to only a fraction of our business.
Again I feel good about how we are positioned to move forward in this environment.
Turning to slide five I'd like to briefly review some of the key initiatives we are undertaking which in today's uncertain world are things we can control.
The challenges faced by our business are ones we are meeting head-on.
And I'm pleased to report that our initiatives are already beginning to produce results.
We have been active in locking up long-term business which helps stabilize the entire operations.
In fact we now have the highest percentage of European business under long-term contracts and with good results in 2016 as we expect a modest uptick in sales volume in Europe and North America.
Separately we launched a platform of initiatives to improve end-to-end supply chain results.
This is driven by the recently appointed global leaders of manufacturing engineering and supply chain in conjunction with the regional presence.
We have not only set performance targets for all of our plants but the bottom third of our plants have concrete action plans and milestones for accountability.
Our efforts include the creation of plant improvement teams or PITs that focus on our seven lowest performing plants.
We liberated some of the best manufacturing and engineering talent across the globe to concentrate their efforts on improving these plants.
In supply chain the new leadership is helping us retool the organization to deliver gains in procurement inventory and logistics costs.
We are devoting key resources to address real problems.
To be clear in year past we have made – we might have intensified our pressure on the plants but we did so without really providing the proper knowhow and resources.
Today we have much better monitoring systems and analytical tools that provide much greater visibility into performance.
In all this comprehensive program new leadership organizational capabilities knowledge transfer and performance management tools will improve the end-to-end supply chain performance of all of our 80 plants at the same time.
You can see from the chart on the right-hand side of the slide five that North America turned the corner in operations in mid-2015.
In Europe we clearly still have a lot of work to do but we see a lot of similarities to what we needed to change in North America when I briefly led the region 18 months ago.
I can assure you that we know what needs to be done to move from the stabilization we saw exiting 2015 to broad improvement in performance going forward.
Early signs today are very encouraging.
For instance we have devoted global resources to improve our plant in Scotland and we are seeing results.
It moved from a clear underperformer throughout most of 2015 to highest levels for the region presently.
Over these last few months you heard me talk about building greater stability across our organization.
Stability is about consistent execution across all of our geographies and how we work as an enterprise.
We most transform O-I and address legacy issues that have hampered the company for a long time now.
And we can now see more clearly that the operational problems of the past are clear opportunities for improvement going forward.
This will take strong leaders and I believe we've built a great team here now.
Among other steps we have established a strategy and integration function which is being led by John Haudrich.
John is focused on helping every part of the organization work in a more seamless fashion to execute and capitalize on all of our opportunities in a cost effective manner.
As part of that effort we are looking at performance management project management and accountability at every level along with making sure everyone has the right tools to get this done.
We'll be giving more detail on our plans and their financial impact at our upcoming Investor Day in March so I hope all of you will be able to attend or listen in.
With that I'd like to introduce you to one of our important new leaders.
In late November we announced that Jan Bertsch was joining O-I as our new Chief Financial Officer.
Jan has excellent global and industrial experience and we are fortunate to have her.
She has already been exceptionally impactful here at the company.
I'd like her to walk through the financials.
Jan? Thank you Andres.
I'm excited to be joining the O-I leadership team during this period of transition and tremendous opportunity.
Perhaps you have already had a chance to review my background so I'll just give you the short version.
I have a long history of working on the financial side of global manufacturing companies many of which have experienced their own set of challenging circumstances.
However in my short time at O-I I've been impressed by the global presence and depth of knowledge available to be harnessed.
I've spent my career zeroing in on specific cost factors across large manufacturing footprints identifying the actions necessary to achieve best-in-class performance across the global asset base.
This leads directly to higher margins and improved cash flows two of my three key mantras.
The third relates to the capital allocation process which is critical to capital-intensive businesses like O-I.
In fact improving our capital allocation decision-making process and execution will be a primary area of focus as we move forward.
While my time at O-I has just begun I can tell you that I already see a global leadership team where everyone is coming together to effect real change.
I also sense a renewed momentum in the employee base to get behind a focused set of initiatives to impact local performance.
As Andres said we have a lot of work to do together but I'm excited for the impacts we will have on overcoming our current challenges.
Turning to the numbers let's start with slide six where I will briefly review fourth quarter results before discussing the full-year performance.
Fourth quarter sales were $1.6 billion.
While sales for the most recent quarter were up 1% in aggregate versus the prior year period there were several moving parts.
The largest by far was currency which reduced sales by 13% in the quarter.
Within this Latin America was impacted the hardest.
The strength of the U.S.
dollar caused the 28% decline in legacy sales in the region.
We saw a full quarter's worth of sales from the acquisition.
It contributed nearly $200 million of revenue in the fourth quarter.
Overall pricing was flat versus the year ago period.
Gains achieved in Latin America were offset by lower prices in other regions particularly Europe as Andres mentioned earlier.
We achieved higher volumes in all regions except for the legacy business in Latin America which was flat.
Lower shipments in Brazil were offset by higher volumes elsewhere in the region.
Turning to segment operating profit on the right hand side of slide six price and margin on higher volumes more than offset the impact of higher operating costs.
Inflation was about 1% for the company largely driven by currencies impact on U.S.
dollar priced raw materials.
Production volumes were strong in the quarter as we did not face the sharp year-end curtailment as we did in 2014.
The acquisition is growing earnings in a very positive way and contributed about 17% of our EBIT in the fourth quarter on only a 12% contribution to sales.
This is clearly a good high-margin business that will drive future earnings and cash flow.
Turning to slide seven.
You can see the key factors leading to fourth quarter 2015 adjusted EPS on a year-over-year basis.
Segment operating profit that I just discussed added $0.19 plus an additional $0.02 from other items such as the impact from our share buyback in early 2015.
From there you see a few headwinds.
Interest expense was higher due to the incremental debt associated with the acquisition.
Our effective tax rates stepped up to 31% for the quarter again primarily due to the acquisition.
As we guided last quarter the temporarily high tax rate generally offset all of the acquisition's earnings contribution during the quarter.
Overall earnings were about 25% higher than prior year excluding the impact of currency headwinds.
In fact on a constant currency basis these are the highest fourth quarter earnings since the recession began back in 2008.
Let me briefly review our GAAP EPS as reported for the fourth quarter.
In the fourth quarter we reported $263 million of pre-tax charges that were not representative of ongoing operation.
The most significant charge of $225 million stemmed from a change in our estimate related to our accrued liability for asbestos-related costs.
Since this appears at first glance to be a significant step-up in the accrual let me spend a moment on this.
Please turn to slide eight.
In conducting our annual review of asbestos-related liabilities and costs we determined we could reasonably estimate probable future losses for asbestos claims for a period of four years instead of three years which had been used in the prior year.
Therefore the $225 million charge represents an accrual period that is one year longer than in the past.
Think of this as an average annual charge of about $112 million which is substantially lower than $135 million charge we recorded in 2014.
In the end there is no real change in trends with respect to asbestos.
The effective annual charge continues to decline and cash payments for asbestos have declined for eight years in a row and we expect that to continue as we move forward.
Now let's quickly talk about the full year results on slide nine.
Our adjusted EPS for 2015 was $2 per share which was in line with our guidance.
Since the vast majority of earnings are generated outside the U.S.
it is not surprising that currency translation caused a $0.56 headwind.
Please note that in addition to the translation impact there is another $0.15 of higher cost inflation from raw materials that are effectively priced in U.S.
dollar term.
If you back all of that out adjusted EPS was up 4% on a truly currency neutral basis.
Free cash flow came in 5% higher than our guidance at $210 million for the year.
In a clear positive development the acquired business was accretive to cash flow in the fourth quarter despite planned higher than average capital expenditures required to build the new furnace in Monterrey Mexico.
And as a reminder we repurchased $100 million of our common stock in the first half of 2015.
In fact share repurchases for the year had a positive impact contributing $0.05 to EPS.
Let's turn to slide 10 one of my favorite slides given all the green arrows in the 2016 business outlook.
While the global economy has certainly taken a step back recently we are confident that the initiatives that we began in 2015 will position us to deliver better results in 2016 from the legacy business and earnings and free cash flow will also benefit from the full year contribution of the acquired business.
In Europe we expect to achieve solid margin improvement.
We anticipate margin expansion of about 150 basis points driven by improvements in our end-to-end supply chain and some upside in sales volume as well.
The three-year asset optimization program is complete and the last projects are running well and the benefits of our manufacturing initiatives will hit the bottom line this year.
We expect better price volume dynamics in 2016.
However since negotiations of annual contracts is presently in full swing we don't have the absolute clarity into the full impact.
In North America we will see continued benefit from O-I Packaging Solutions the acquired distribution business.
We are projecting an uptick in volume from our legacy business driven by the long-term contract with Constellation Brands and improved product mix from growth in craft and premium products.
We will continue to drive improvement in end-to-end supply chain.
In all this should drive higher overall earnings for the year.
In Latin America we expect continued foreign exchange headwinds on raw materials and energy that is priced in U.S.
dollars.
We are projecting lower volumes for the legacy Latin America business primarily due to ongoing softness in Brazil.
However we believe we can offset much of the impact with cost containment efforts.
Clearly the full year benefit of the acquisition will be much greater than all of these challenges.
Therefore we're expecting a significant improvement in full year operating results for this region on a constant currency basis and including the acquisition.
Turning to Asia Pacific we will see the beneficial effects of a new beer contract that began in the third quarter of 2015 and volumes also stand to benefit from an increase in Australian wine exports.
We do see a headwind from the modest gains in price being more than offset by cost inflation which is impacted by currency.
Overall the 2016 business outlook is quite strong on a constant currency basis with higher operating profit anticipated in every region.
On slide 11 we have an update on the Vitro food and beverage acquisition.
We are pleased that the acquired business is performing well.
Sales are strong.
EBITDA margins greater than 30% are excellent.
The integration is progressing well.
Synergies are being realized and the new furnace in Monterrey is producing quality bottles and we see much longer-term potential.
For instance we are exploring ways to adapt our end-to-end supply chain across the Americas.
So the underlying business of the acquisition is in great shape.
And to-date business performance has gone a long way to overcome currency headwinds.
The Mexican peso devalued considerably in the second half of last year.
About half of the $15 million impact shown here is translation and the other half reflects the impact of U.S.
dollar-based raw material and energy costs.
Separately we will face incrementally higher than anticipated D&amp;A.
Of course this non-cash charge doesn't impact cash flow or real-value generation.
Before the deal closed we performed a benchmark analysis of other packaging transactions to provide a preliminary assessment of the value of intangible assets in our case primarily the value of customer relationships.
Upon completion of the deal third-party experts assisted us in developing the detailed valuation of intangibles.
We knew that Vitro's customer base was highly valuable but expected a rather muted formal valuation since only half of the business is under contract and contracts are generally only a year or two in duration.
However the valuations now yield a significantly higher than expected value of our intangible assets compared with the initial benchmarking analysis.
In turn this leads us to a higher annual D&amp;A.
In total D&amp;A is now expected to be about $130 million.
While this is a positive recognition of the strong and long-standing customer relationship it is nonetheless an approximate $0.08 drag on our expected EPS contribution from the acquisition.
In all the $0.30 accretion we initially expected from the acquisition in 2016 is now projected to be about $0.23 entirely due to the increase in non-cash amortization.
And I must say there is probably some upside potential here given the business performance to-date.
The reality is that five months in we are still integrating the acquisition still learning from each other.
Of course as we gain more visibility into their markets we'll share more insights with you.
Turning to slide 12 we turn to the acquisition's impact on a critical financial metric cash flow generation.
As we already mentioned the acquisition was free cash flow accretive to fourth quarter and full year 2015 results.
We are projecting cash flow contribution of approximately $85 million for 2016 after supporting CapEx higher interest expenses and taxes associated with the acquired business.
The acquisition is still on track to deliver approximately $100 million of free cash flow in 2018.
Again we consider these to be very solid results to date with more to come.
Slide 13 gives you our projections for non-operational items in 2016.
With respect to corporate expense we envision that it will be about $85 million for the year which is 15% lower than it has been on average over the last several years.
To be clear it will increase over prior year as we back out some specific benefits from the prior year and add some benefit from our Mexican joint venture with CBI in the back half of the year.
Interest expense will be higher due to debt related to the acquisition.
Taxes are projected to be in the 26% to 28% range given the effect of the larger Mexican contribution to earnings and the 30% statutory tax rate in the country.
Slide 14 puts all of this together for you visually.
Starting with a base of $2 for 2015 we add in better financial performance from our legacy business and then layer in the accretion from the acquisition of Vitro's food and beverage business including related interests and taxes.
Non-operational costs present a modest drag.
Adding all this up core operational items would have been around $2.50.
This would represent a 25% increase in earnings.
However as we factor in the incremental amortization from the acquisition and the impact of FX on translation and inflation we arrive at our 2016 EPS range of $2.10 to $2.25.
The range allows for reasonable variation in demand and price cost spread.
Now turning to first quarter 2016 guidance please take a look at slide 15.
The previously discussed trends and expectations here are largely similar to those we gave you for the full year.
However the FX impact will be stronger in the first half of the year mainly due to Latin American currencies.
We expect at least a negative impact of about $0.08 on translation and several more cents on cost inflation.
In Europe the previously discussed carryover effect of lower prices and the ramp-up of planned manufacturing improvements will adversely impact first quarter 2016 results.
We expect a solid contribution and continued momentum from the North American legacy business and the acquired distribution business.
In Latin America the legacy business should be fairly flat which is very good outcome given lower volume expectations in Brazil and O-I Mexico and Bolivia will certainly contribute in a healthy way.
While Asia Pacific is operating very well it is likely to be flat to modestly down in the first quarter.
Sales volumes are expected to be higher yet costs will be as well driven by currency.
Manufacturing productivity has been up year-on-year over the past several quarters.
However the first quarter will have a higher production downtime due to extra furnace rebuild activity.
One of these rebuilds was unplanned.
We can expect this to happen from time to time.
However as we elevate the overall operational performance of the company and better manage the integration of sales and operations' decision-making we expect fewer events and with less adverse impact.
The Asia Pacific team is working hard to offset the impact which is similar to any furnace rebuild.
By the second quarter of 2016 we fully expect the region to resume the year-on-year gains it posted in the latter half of 2015.
Overall for the company we project modest improvement in segment operating profit for the first quarter of 2016 on an adjusted basis and measured in constant currency terms.
Factoring higher corporate costs interest and taxes we believe adjusted EPS in the first quarter of 2016 should be in the range of $0.37 to $0.42.
Slide 16 walks through our global free cash flow guidance for 2016.
As you can see we expect to drive significant year-over-year improvement in EBITDA from the operations with the full year benefit of the acquisition and our continuous operational improvement efforts.
Let me pause for a moment on working capital.
Over the past several years working capital has been a significant source of cash flow.
I believe that we are presently stretched thin with respect to AR and AP levels.
In 2016 and going forward we may even modestly replenish these accounts.
Of course this does not detract at all from the very real opportunities for our business teams to reduce inventories.
Still in 2016 we have a different dynamic.
The working capital benefit is really driven by the refund of VAT payments that we made last year related to the acquisition.
The only substantive drags on this improvement are related to the interest and tax costs of the acquisition.
We expect free cash flow for 2016 to be approximately $280 million.
Slide 17 describes our capital structure and associated priorities.
In 2015 our capital structure changed considerably.
In the first half of the year we refinanced high coupon debt that was due in 2016 and we funded our strategic acquisition at very advantageous interest rates.
As we enter 2016 our cash flow generation remains robust and we project that this will improve going forward.
We expect to get back to a balanced approach to capital allocation as soon as possible.
However deleveraging the balance sheet remains our number one priority.
We have clear plans in place to achieve this.
We will continue to invest across all of our businesses to drive innovation position ourselves for long-term growth create efficiencies and to find new creative ways to better control our costs.
With that I'll turn the call back to Andres for a few closing remarks.
Andres? I'd like to conclude by saying how eager I am to lead this company through such an exciting period of change.
We are truly starting anew.
Throughout my long career at O-I I have instituted a great deal of change so I know we have the ability to transform this business.
We have started by getting the right leaders in place; leaders who have the required expertise and are focused on creating a high-performance culture.
We have already began implementing our strategic plans to fully stabilize the business and then to achieve best-in-class performance across our entire global asset base.
We know we have a lot of work ahead of us and look forward to sharing our vision for the future with you at our Investor Day on March 1 in New York City.
And now we will open the lines for your questions.
Our first question comes from the line of George Staphos from Bank of America.
Your line is open.
Hi guys.
Just trying to stay to the one question limit that you've placed so I'll come back.
I want to actually go into asbestos.
So as I understand it you now have visibility to look out four years and the charge you're taking is $225 million.
If I divide that by four years I wind up with a loss per year something north of $50 million.
If I look at last year's charge which was $135 million for three years it equates to something more like $40 million $45 million.
So help me reconcile that if my methodology is correct with your view that there's been no change in underlying trend in asbestos.
Thank you.
Hi George it's Jan.
I think maybe the way that you should look at this – I mean clearly we don't have any estimate past the four years.
So what we're saying is that for 2015 the accrual was $225 million.
For simplicity we said just look at that on average would be $112 million a year but you have seen the decline over time.
So if you interpolate that it's probably a better scenario than taking a simple average number.
So it's two years.
I mean it's two years not one year correct? So we put a third year and a fourth year in front of you and the trend would be going downward is our expectation.
Our next question comes from the line of Lars Kjellberg from Credit Suisse.
Your line is open.
Thank you.
I just have a question on your volumes.
I mean last year you had a steady progression of your volume from significantly negative starting point and ended up with a positive year-on-year in the legacy business.
That was based on various contracts that you had in place.
Can you share with us if you have a similar visibility as you roll out contracts or win contracts in 2016 versus 2015 or do you just see a general market growth that you would participate in? Thank you Lars.
Most of the activities securing long-term contracts took place in 2014 and some of it in 2015.
As we go into 2016 our expectation is that we're going to see a slight growth in volume in North America and Europe.
We are expecting also positive volume in Asia Pacific because of a long-term contract that is kicking in through the year as well as a better than before demand in the wine segment.
The demand in Latin America will be slightly down because we are facing this situation with the economic downturn in Brazil which is partially offset by the strong demand in the Andean countries.
And our next question comes from the line of Tyler Langton from JPMorgan.
Your line is open.
Yeah.
Good morning.
Thanks.
Andres could you just talk about I guess what you think are some of the biggest risks hitting your EPS and free cash flow guidance for the year? I think in the release I mean you seemed to call it European pricing and Brazil as a risk but I just want to see if there's any other factors added to the upside or downside.
Well when we look at the European pricing the situation over there is I will say a bit better if you compare year-on-year.
Now the trends overall they continue.
So the pressure continues.
It will be a better situation comparing 2016 with 2015 that we lived through in 2015 comparing with 2014 that that situation still continues.
Overall we see a very good momentum in all the initiatives that we're putting in place.
And we don't have at this point in time enough visibility to know the magnitude of the impact and the timing of that impact because all of this is just ramping up but we're very pleased with the traction we're gaining and the momentum that is building.
So we tend to see more of a positive scenario.
When we look at Mexico the performance is quite strong and the acquisition overall is very strong when we include O-I PS and Bolivia.
We've had this business for five months now and every one of those months have been quite a very pleasant surprise when we look at the actual results we're getting of this operation.
Again because we are in the transition and we are still integrating processes and systems we don't have enough visibility to reflect what the performance is going to be in the upside for that operation over the year but we will as soon as we continue evolving in our integration.
And we continue to look for synergies of course with the new acquisition and even if those synergies mean that we change the basic O-I way of doing business because we found some very good business practices in the company as well.
And our next question comes from the line of Debbie Jones from Deutsche Bank.
Your line is open.
Inc.</span></strong> Hi.
Good morning.
I think in the past you guys have talked about a combination of CapEx and restructuring in the range of about $450 million per year.
I was just wondering how to think about that going forward with the Vitro acquisition? And then if I could ask also how should we think about the CBI investment going forward as well? Okay Debbie I think from a year-over-year basis you should think that CapEx and restructuring will be relatively flat.
I mean last year we had CapEx a little over $400 million but restructuring was a little over $60 million.
This year we're going to see a different mix of that.
So we'll see more CapEx and less restructuring but the total should be about the same.
And for CBI we're looking at about an $80 million investment this year.
It's consistent with the totals that I think the company has talked about in the past.
The portion this year should be about $80 million.
Our next question comes from the line of Scott Gaffner with Barclays.
Your line is open.
Inc.</span></strong> Thanks.
Good morning.
Just focusing on the free cash flow for a minute because if I heard you correctly you have got $135 million VAT refund built into your free cash flow guidance so year-over-year cash flow actually looks like it would be down if you take the refund out.
Can you talk about – Jan you mentioned AR AP going significantly higher but can you talk about – is it reducing the status is (45:28) an opportunity to change your working capital situation? Maybe if you could just give us a little bit more color on that so we could look at it properly.
Sure.
So when you think about it I think working capital have been contributing close to $100 million in free cash flow over the last several years.
And this year what we're thinking is that we'd like to keep working capital a little more flat and really focus on the things that change the business like focusing on our inventory levels and things like that.
We think this is just a prudent way to plan and a good way to start on this trend considering that the VAT refund is planned to be coming in this year.
When we look at inventories we just mentioned that we appointed a lead for global supply chain.
So we intend to leverage best practices and systems across the world going forward.
And this is going to help us drive inventories down contributing to working capital cash generation if you will.
Our next question comes from the line of Ghansham Panjabi from Robert Baird &amp; Company.
Your line is open.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Hi.
Good morning.
It's actually Mehul Dalia sitting in for Ghansham.
How are you doing? Good.
Thanks.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Great.
Given there is a quite a bit of beverage can capacity being allocated in Mexico and it all seems to be biased towards the same customer how do you view the risk of overcapitalization in the region? Could you elaborate a little bit more in your question? Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Yeah.
It seems like there's a lot of beverage can capacity being allocated towards the same customer in Mexico the same customer that you guys are serving as well.
So I was just wondering how you view the risk of overcapitalization in the region just given all of the capacity additions that is coming online.
Yeah.
We've been investing in our joint venture as well as the new furnace in Monterrey which is all geared towards supporting this customer.
The customer is growing very well in the U.S.
All of this volume is under long-term contracts.
And we're seeing this category of business which is driven by this customer as the fastest growing segment category in beer in the U.S.
Now as it happens in every market there is a natural split between glass and cans.
So a capacity that has been built is just coming together to be able to take care of that share of cans of – share of volume that are in cans as it is in any market.
So that doesn't imply that it's going to reduce volume from our operations or our sales in the – our current investments.
And our next question comes from the line of Chris Manuel from Wells Fargo Securities.
Your line is open.
Good morning.
Just a quick question Andres to help me understand talk a little bit about some of the changes in refillable and one-way containers down in Latin America.
Can you just maybe give us a little color as you sit today what is your mix across several other regions whether it's South America Asia Europe et cetera for one-way versus refillable? And is your kind of thinking about that is that perhaps – as we're seeing that mix increase to one-way in Latin America does that potentially account for a chunk of the degradation perhaps in margin over the last three four five years? I'm presuming that of course refillable carried a higher margin than one-way that I think as you told us over the years? Okay.
Well let me touch on two markets specifically which are the ones that call the most attention.
One is Brazil and the other one is North American mainstream beer.
So when I look at Brazil Brazil beer is 11% of the total volume we sell in Latin America.
Now one-way premium beer is growing at double-digit rates in Brazil.
That's the fastest growing package in the country and that is around 80% glass.
Now returnables which are the most economic package in the country are dropping slightly driven by the channel.
And what that means is on-premise consumption is dropping because of the economic conditions and is moving into off-premise.
And when it happens then some of the demand that will be in returnable containers goes to one-way containers some of it goes to cans some of it goes to glass.
Now that's all driven by the channel not by consumers.
It's just a situation of the economy at this point in time.
Now when we add the growth of one-way glass for premium beer when we add the migration of returnable into one-way glass which is happening when we add the migration of mainstream beer either packaging cans returnable for one-way glass into premium one-way glass glass sales are growing in this country.
Obviously they're impacted by the economic situation right at this very point.
However they've been growing over time.
So even though we hear very often that the share of cans is growing glass volume is growing too.
And I think the most important support point for that is over the last five years O-I sales grew by 2.4 times in the total business and they grew two times in beer.
So that's the areas that the calculations that come out of share not necessarily reflected of the volume in glass.
Now that's not really the driver of margins.
I mean there are many other pressure that are taking place of margins that you highlighted before.
When we look at North America 45% of our business in North America is beer.
Now 25% of our sales are mainstream.
And what that means is 75% of our business in this region is integrated by craft beer premium beer super premium spirits and (52:09) food and wine.
And all of those segments in the 75% are growing.
So if you look at our sales back in 2014 they were flat year-on-year.
In 2015 they were flat year-on-year too.
And in 2016 we are expecting a slight increase in our sales versus 2015.
So I think this will reflect also that the dynamics that are explained around mainstream even though they're there they're not so influential (52:37) in our total volume because it is only 25% of our business while the 75% of our business remaining is growing.
And with that then we can offset the volumes.
As I mentioned before we are expecting a positive scenario in demand in Asia Pacific and Europe is expected to be slightly up also for 2016.
Our next question comes from the line of Philip Ng from Jefferies.
Your line is open.
Hey guys.
FX and D&amp;A was a bigger drag relative to your 3Q guide for Vitro but operationally it looks like things improved.
Can you provide some color on how trends are shaking out and how the integration process has come along? Thanks.
Let me talk about the integration for a moment.
It is progressing really well.
We've been able to get into the operations understand the current state and then put in place the improvement programs that we're expecting to be able to get up to our synergies as planned.
We are in the process of finalizing integration of systems which is important for us to be able to improve the accuracy of our forecasting going forward but we are very pleased with what we've seen in this operation.
It's very well structured.
It has very good technology very good knowhow very good people.
So we are very pleased and we look forward to having better visibility of the actual impact of this operation into the year.
And it's very nice to see that the favorability in the operations has helped a long way to offset the currency drag from the peso.
Our next question comes from the line of Mark Wilde from BMO Capital Markets.
Your line is open.
Thanks and good morning.
Jan I noticed that you changed the debt covenants.
And I wondered if you could tell us a little bit more about that and maybe give us a sense of any cost that was involved there for O-I? Okay.
Sure.
Yes we started working with our banks a short while ago.
We just thought that it was prudent in light of the foreign currency volatility that we experienced last year to address the debt covenant to allow ourselves a little bit more headroom should we continue to experience that in 2016.
The banks are very supportive.
We increased the leverage ratio to five times for the next three quarters and then 4.5 times after that until third quarter of 2017.
And the fees that were involved were actually very minimal and did not include any step-up in pricing if the leverage – if we should increase our leverage ratio.
Our next question comes from the line of Anthony Pettinari from Citi.
Your line is open.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Hi.
Good morning.
I was wondering if you could talk a little bit about the European optimization program.
And specifically how should we reconcile the completion of this major three-year program with operating performance falling through 2014 2015 if I'm reading slide five right? And maybe how does the supply chain improvement efforts you're planning for the future how did those activities differ maybe qualitatively from the optimization you've already completed in Europe? Okay.
We finished the asset optimization program in Europe.
And as we mentioned before we had some issues last year coming from the complexity of those projects which caused a difficulty for start-up and then stabilization but this is behind us at this point in time.
So we expect that once we don't see the negative effect of performance we're going to see I think the positive effect of this program in Europe.
When we talk about supply chain we see important opportunities in procurement in inventories reduction and logistics cost reduction.
Now when we talk about inventories we've got to increase our flexibility in the manufacturing operations first.
We're seeing a very good momentum in that improvement.
And as we do that we will be able to add more flexibility to the factories.
And with that we're going to be able to lower the inventories in the system.
And as we are able to put in place all the processes and practices across the world we are expecting that we're going to get also some improvements out of procurement and logistics cost.
Our next question comes from the line of Adam Josephson with KeyBanc.
Your line is open.
Inc.</span></strong> Thanks.
Good morning everyone.
Jan welcome.
Just one clarification on the tax refund; I know Scott asked you a question but I was a bit confused by your answer.
So you'll get that benefit in 2016 and you're saying it's going to be mostly offset by working capital.
I'm just trying to understand what the bridge from 2016 to 2017 is because that tax refund goes away presumably.
And then what are you saying with respect to working capital 2016 versus thereafter? Okay.
Sure.
Well we do expect to get our tax refund in 2016 calendar year.
So that will be good news for us.
What the point I made about the working capital is that we have had working capital favorability in the last couple of years of about $100 million a year.
And when I look at our accounts payable and receivable levels I think we're pretty stretched at this point and that it makes sense for us to try to really focus on those controllable things that we can focus on in the company to enhance our free cash flow and our working capital.
And so we will be focusing very strongly on the inventory side of the business and Andres mentioned that we have new plans in place and new people in place to help drive that this year.
And also we will be focused very clearly on Vitro and some of their operating practices too so that we can benefit from some of the things that they do very favorably and they can benefit from some of ours.
So that's really our focus for the year is where can we enhance our working capital.
And we have time for one more question today and that question comes from the line of Chip Dillon from Vertical Research.
Your line is open.
Yes.
Hi.
Good morning.
I had a quick question regarding the CBI investment path which you've previously disclosed as you go out to 2017.
I know you mentioned that this year you'd spend the $80 million.
And I guess the question is if I look at your free cash flow guide and take away the investment for this year obviously the minority interest dividends aren't discretionary.
And you assume in 2017 let's just project you don't get the $135 million your free cash flow would be down to about $45 million or less than 1% of your net debt.
So I'm just wondering given the environment is there any thought to maybe slowing down some of that or are there other things that you're planning so that we see the free cash flow net of whatever you put into constellation go up given your debt load? Yeah.
I think the real key here is continuing focus on our inventory levels.
There's a lot of opportunity in this area and I don't think that we've had the strong focus on this in the past and all areas are working on this now to really focus on the performance of the business of the company that will help drive this cash flow.
Obviously we will make investments internally and through organic – and for organic growth for the company but the key is that we really have to generate the cash to be able to do that and we're extremely focused on this area right now.
One thing Keith if you don't mind I would just like to reiterate a comment on asbestos.
I think George you asked a comment earlier and I think it's probably worth repeating because this is a change for the company.
I mean historically each year we added one additional year of asbestos liability.
So for example and that was the third year so in 2014 we added $135 million.
Think of that as for 2017.
Recently we came to the conclusion that we could forecast four years of visibility.
And so our charge was larger.
It was $225 million because it included – it was essentially for 2018 and 2019.
So if you take that $225 million and try to more annualize that it's a much lower number than that $135 million was for a year and it's actually a very nice trend that we continue to see in this area.
So I hope that helps.
So thank you everyone.
That concludes our earnings conference call.
Please have a great day and we'll see you in New York on March 1.
Remember we appreciate your interest and to choose glass.
It's safe it's pure and it's sustainable.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.