Good morning.
My name is Mike and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the First Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Mr.
Jack Jurkoshek you may begin your conference call.
Thank you.
Good morning everybody.
We'd like to thank you for joining us on our 2011 first quarter earnings conference call.
As usual a webcast of this event is being made available through the StreetEvents Network service of Thomson Reuters.
Joining me today are Jay Collins our President and Chief Executive Officer who will be leading the call; Kevin McEvoy our Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer; and Marvin Migura our Chief Financial Officer.
Just as a reminder remarks we make during the course of the call regarding our earnings guidance business strategy plans for future operations and industry conditions are forward-looking statements being made pursuant to the Safe Harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
And I'm now going to turn the call over to Jay.
Thank you Jack.
Good morning and thanks for joining the call.
It's a pleasure to be here with you today to talk about Oceaneering.
Our first quarter EPS of $0.77 was above our guidance of $0.65 to $0.70 as we achieved slightly better-than-anticipated operating-income performance by all our Oilfield business segments and lowered our estimated annual effective tax rate from 34.5% to 31.5%.
Our reduced tax rate reflects our intent to invest in international operations and therefore we are no longer providing for U.S.
taxes on certain of our foreign earnings.
We are well-positioned to participate in the next growth stage of Deepwater activity and our outlook for 2011 remains positive.
We now believe it is highly likely that we will achieve record EPS for the year.
We are raising our 2011 EPS guidance from the range of $3.45 to $3.75 to a range of $3.65 to $3.90 to account for our lower estimated annual effective tax rate first quarter operating results and revised outlooks for Subsea Projects and Subsea Products.
We now forecast Subsea Projects to have lower operating income than previously anticipated.
It appears that our previous projection of demand for our services in the Gulf of Mexico to perform installation projects and inspection maintenance and repair work during the remaining 3 quarters of 2011 was too high.
The extent to which this demand actually materializes is a major factor that will influence our 2011 results.
At this time we're not revising our outlook for ROVs as we anticipate strong international demand will offset weak non-drill support demand in the Gulf.
We now project Subsea Products to perform better on the strength of higher tooling and IWOCS service sales.
As a result we anticipate Subsea Products operating income will be higher in 2011 than 2010.
The resumption of Deepwater drilling permitting in the Gulf since our last earnings call has been encouraging.
8 drilling permits were issued by the end of the quarter and 3 more have been approved since then.
We are still expecting that 20 to 25 Deepwater rigs will be working in the Gulf of Mexico by the end of the year.
This compares to 14 as of yesterday 7 at the end of 2010 and 30 at the end of March 2010.
I'd now like to review our quarterly Subsea Products ROV and Subsea Project results.
Year-over-year our Subsea Products revenue operating income and operating margin increased on the strength of higher umbilical plant throughput and an increase on installation workover and control system service sales.
Operating income improved over 75% or $12 million.
The IWOCS profit improvement was attributable to a large multi-well completion project off West Africa and an increase in plug and abandonment and workover activity in the Gulf of Mexico.
Sequentially Subsea Products revenue increased on higher umbilical plant throughput.
However operating income declined primarily on a reduction in field development hardware sales.
Our Subsea Products backlog at quarter end was $382 million essentially flat with the end of 2010 and up $44 million from the end of March 2010.
Sequentially backlog for tooling and IWOCS services increased while that of umbilicals declined.
Year-over-year the backlog increase was primarily attributable to umbilicals.
We now anticipate that our Subsea Products operating income for the year 2011 will be higher than 2010 due to improved outlook for tooling partially due to the NCAA (sic) [NCA] acquisition and IWOCS service sales.
Margin is expected to be lower due to a change in product mix.
For the first quarter our ROV results were slightly better than we anticipated.
Operating income decreased 12% year-over-year and 3% sequentially.
The year-over-year decline was largely attributable to lower fleet utilization and higher depreciation expense as we have added 21 new vehicles to our fleet over the past 12 months.
The sequential decline was due to lower fleet utilization.
Our fleet-utilization rate during the quarter was 71% down from 75% in the first quarter of 2010 and 73% in the fourth quarter of 2010.
The year-over-year decline was attributable to a much lower activity level in the Gulf of Mexico.
The sequential decline was due to seasonality and less non-drill support demand in the Gulf.
For the balance of 2011 we expect to achieve quarterly fleet utilization in the 75% to 80% range.
Operating margin during the quarter was 29% compared to 34% a year ago 28% last quarter and 32% on average last year.
We continue to anticipate our ROV operating margin for the year 2011 will be slightly lower than that of 2010.
During the quarter we put 4 new ROVs into service and retired 4.
At the end of March we had 260 systems available for operations up from 253 a year ago.
All 4 new ROVs went to work in drill-support service.
Our fleet mix during March was 78% in drill support and 22% in construction and field maintenance compared to 76/24 split in December and March of 2010.
As of our last earnings call in mid-February we were receiving full-day rates for 14 ROVs on 11 rigs partial rates for 7 ROVs and 0 rate for 7 ROVs.
As of yesterday we were on full rate for 20 ROVs on 17 rigs partial rate for 5 ROVs and 0 rate for 2 ROVs.
We believe this is a strong indication of what our customers are thinking about an acceleration of Gulf of Mexico Deepwater new-well permitting in the months ahead.
Since our last call there have been no addition on the assets of Gulf of Mexico floating rigs relocating to other market areas.
There were 27 floaters available for use in this area and at the end of March compared to 36 a year ago.
There has been a recent announcement of 1 floater being brought back to the Gulf from Egypt to drill a well for Statoil and we have the ROV contract on this rig.
Additionally 1 floating drilling rig is still slated to commence drilling operations at the Gulf of Mexico by the end of the year and 2 more are scheduled for 2012.
We anticipate adding 15 to 20 vehicles to our ROV fleet in 2011 11 to 16 during the remaining 3 quarters and we presently have contracts for 8 of these.
6 will work on new rigs and 2 on a vessel.
Year-over-year and sequentially the declines in Subsea Projects quarterly operating income was result of lower demand and pricing for our shallow water diving and Deepwater vessel services in the Gulf of Mexico.
Sequentially Subsea Project operating income was substantially lower.
This was attributable to seasonality and an unusually strong fourth quarter performance in 2010.
During the fourth quarter of 2010 we benefited from performing our own project and an umbilical installation job that we delayed from earlier in the year due to high vessel demand at BP at Macondo.
During the first quarter the lack of new projects and bad weather resulted in low vessel utilization and poor job profit margins.
While we expect an increase in demand for our diving and Deepwater vessel services during the remaining quarters of 2011 our current forecast is for a more challenging market.
Consequently we now anticipate that our Subsea Projects revenue operating income and margin for the year 2011 will be lower than we had previously anticipated.
Our new Ocean Project Dive Support Vessel commenced work on March 12 and worked for 17 days during the month.
We retired and sold the previous 37-year old Ocean Project vessel in February at a small gain.
In summary our first quarter results were above our expectations and we're looking forward to realizing another year of record EPS performance in 2011.
Our focus on providing products and services for Deepwater and Subsea completions positions us to participate in a major secular growth trend in the oilfield services and products industry.
We are very pleased with our cash-flow generation capability as demonstrated by $97 million of EBITDA during the quarter.
Capital expenditure for the quarter totaled about $109 billion of which $30 million was invested in ROVs and $56 million was spent on the NCA acquisition.
At the end of the quarter we had $187 million of cash and no debt.
I'd now like to review our future business outlook.
As I stated earlier for 2011 we are raising our EPS guidance range to $3.65 to $3.90.
Compared to 2010 our forecast assumptions are that we will achieve operating income growth from our ROV Subsea Products and Inspection businesses and experience a profit decline from our Subsea Project operation.
I believe we are well prepared for the challenges we face in 2011 and have the assets in place to take advantage of growing international markets and resumption of activity in the Gulf of Mexico.
For 2011 we anticipate generating an excess of $435 million of EBITDA.
Our liquidity and projected cash flow provide us ample resources to invest in Oceaneering's growth.
Our CapEx estimate for this year is now $220 million to $250 million of which approximately $100 million is anticipated to be spent on upgrading or adding vehicles to our ROV fleet.
About $40 million is for Subsea Projects which includes the completion of the Ocean Patriot renovation and adding a third to our system.
$56 million is for the acquisition of NCA.
For the second quarter of 2011 we are projecting EPS in the range of $0.90 to $1.
Sequentially we anticipate quarterly operating income improvements from all of our Oilfield business segments.
ROVs due to an increase in fleet based on higher [ph] we expect a benefit from a seasonal pickup in demand for construction work and growth in both domestic and international demand for drill-support services Subsea Products on the strength of higher tooling sales and Subsea Project and inspection due to seasonal demand increases.
Looking forward to 2012 and beyond we are convinced that our strategy to focus on providing services and products to facilitate Deepwater exploration and production remains sound.
We believe the oil and gas industry will continue to invest in Deepwater as it remains 1 of the best frontiers for adding large hydrocarbon reserves for higher production floor rates.
Others must share this belief.
At the end of the quarter there were 70 new floating rigs on order and 5 more have been ordered since then.
60 of these are planned to be available by the end of 2013 36 have been contracted long-term for an average of over 7 years.
With all of these rigs on order or placed into service the global floating rig fleet size will go grow nearly 30% to 338 rigs the high-spec fleet consisting of 5th and 6th generation and semis and dynamically positioned drillships which currently totals 89 rigs will grow by almost 85%.
We have the ROV drill support market share of over 80% on the existing high-spec rigs.
As the use of floating rigs grow so will demand for ROVs to support drilling.
We believe it is inevitable that demand for ROVs to support vessel-related construction work and field maintenance activities will follow.
We also believe the use of these additional floating rigs will eventually drive orders for subsea hardware to levels not previously experienced.
Furthermore renewed industry and regulatory emphasis on safe and reliable operations is providing us additional opportunity to demonstrate our capabilities.
With our existing assets we are well-positioned to supply a wide range of the services and product required to support the safe Deepwater efforts of our customers.
We believe Oceaneering's business prospects for the long term remain promising.
Our commanding competitive position technology leadership and strong balance sheet and cash flow enable us to continue to grow the company and we intend to do so.
In summary our results continue to demonstrate our ability to generate excellent earnings and cash flow.
We believe our business strategy is working well on both the short-term and long term.
We like our competitive position in the 2011 oilfield services market.
Our technology gives us the ability to prosper in challenging times.
We are leveraged to what we believe will be an inevitable resumption in the growth of Deepwater and subsea completion activity.
The longer-term market outlook for our Deepwater and subsea service and product offerings remains favorable.
The renewed industry and regulatory emphasis on reliable equipment and redundant safety features of Deepwater operations has caused our customers to be even more focused on risk reduction.
This elevates the importance of the utility and reliability of our ROV services and related product line offerings reinforces the benefit of our value sell.
In 2011 we are now anticipating our EPS performance will likely be higher than 2010 and that we will achieve -- and that we will achieve another record year.
We think this distinguishes Oceaneering from many other oilfield service companies.
Before turning the call over for questions I would like to say farewell as this will be the last earnings call that I lead.
Kevin McEvoy whom I've worked with since I joined Oceaneering over 17 years ago has been designated to succeed me upon my retirement following our annual shareholders meeting on May 6.
I'm confident that the organization will continue to prosper and grow under his leadership.
It's been a pleasure meeting many of you during my tenure as President and CEO this past 5 years.
I plan to continue my affiliation with the company as a member of the Board of Directors.
And now we'd -- I appreciate everyone's interest in Oceaneering and will be happy to take your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Brad Handler from Crédit Suisse.
If you could go over the ROVs -- rigs that have been ordered those with contract those remaining that'll help me start the process.
Sorry to make you go over that again.
Sure.
Well let me do it this way.
There are 70 rigs on order.
36 of those have a contract with the oil company.
17 of those have signed an ROV contract.
So there's 56 opportunities available -- no I'm sorry 53 opportunities available for us going forward.
Does that help you? That's actually very helpful right now.
Very good.
Were there awards in Q1 for ROV contracts? 2 jobs were awarded in Q1.
We won 1 job with Statoil and there was a Russian rig that was awarded that came out who needs -- I'm not sure what happened with that.
We didn't get it.
Okay.
And what's your sense -- I'm sure this slips to the right like everything else but what's your sense as to what gets awarded in 2011? How many ROVs might get awarded this year? I don't know.
I mean [indiscernible].
I'm sure it's hard yes.
Yes it really is.
I mean because we don't know how many of those are contracted.
We've got contracts in hand right now for 8 additional systems right the remainder for vehicles.
Those have already been awarded.
Right.
That's helpful too yes.
And we're chasing -- 3 to 8 is what we've got a contract over the rest of the year in order to meet our guidance in '11 15 to 20 for the year.
And we're confident that we're going to be able to do that.
Understood.
Will you actually build -- do you -- will you build or will you order long-lead items on ROVs that are not under contract? We got a long supply chain.
We always have components coming in so that we have the ability to move our booked programs up and down depending on the demand that we see.
So we're always looking at -- we're really modifying that on a quarterly basis.
Got you.
Yes and I figured as much.
Okay.
I guess just a sort of a non-operating follow-up for me.
I just happened to notice that the D&amp;A line has drifted down the last couple of quarters.
Can you comment on that a little bit Marvin and then give us your D&amp;A outlook for 2011 please? Yes and I look [indiscernible] and so it was a little bit below what is expected in the quarter.
And it was [indiscernible] including corporate.
I think we've [indiscernible].
Did he say G&amp;A? [Technical Difficulty] Did you say D&amp;A or G&amp;A? Depreciation and amortization.
Okay.
I think if you look what [indiscernible] had in Q1 last year we had a $5 million impairment charge.
And right now we are thinking of depreciation and amortization running -- we haven't change that between $145 million and $150 million for the year.
$125 million to $150 million...
$145 million to $150 million.
$145 million.
Got it.
Okay.
That's a pretty tight range.
Okay.
Very Good.
All right guys.
I'll turn it back.
Brad what we expect [indiscernible] on new contracts [indiscernible] we've talked about were placed in service in 2011 because I think there might have been -- just as much to your interest here.
If you take the 27 rigs will be placed in service during 2011 5 were placed in service during the first quarter.
We have an ROV on 1 of those.
Of the 22 that are remaining will be on a contract for 6 more.
6 of those competitors have 6.
That leads to opportunities.
3 of those are going to places where we probably are not going to like to do work.
So we're pursuing the other 7.
So I hope that gives you some breakdown.
It did.
[Technical Difficulty].
Could I ask you to do that again just because it sounded a little choppy for some reason.
[Technical Difficulty].
Okay.
27 rigs will be placed in service during 2011.
5 were put in service the first quarter.
We had an ROV on 1 of those.
The remaining 22 rigs we have contracts for 6 our competitors have contracts for 6.
So at least 10 opportunities.
3 of those we don't think fit us.
And we're pursuing the other 7.
Got it.
And Brad the 3 that don't fit us just for information they're rigs are most likely going to Russia or China or Cuba where we can't work.
Got it.
Okay.
That is really helpful.
Your next question comes from the line of Jim Crandell from Dahlman Rose.
LLC</strong> Jay with the demand outlook for ROV looking like it's improving what is the outlook for pricing in ROVs and what are your thoughts about margins in that business going forward? Well you know margins are depressed a little bit right now because of the Gulf of Mexico situation.
I think the last 2 years we had excellent margins.
So I would think our outlook is to this year we will not get quite where we were before and hopefully by 2012 we will be coming back to those historical margins.
I don't see improving those margins immediately in the near term.
I think they're excellent margins and being able to pass price increases along to our customers would be a good objective for us.
So I think we still have pricing some pricing counter to pass along and all these talk increases that will be happening.
I think getting back to those excellent margins that we had 2009 before pre-Macondo would be our expectation.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And Jay with all the new offshore rig water announcements here could you review with me if you would your capacity to build ROVs at the current time? We've been building in the 20s going 25 a year.
We could easily build 40.
We can expand that almost on a quarterly basis.
So I think we are very flexible.
We can move it up or down.
We can do more retrofits of old systems or we can expand more numerous systems almost on a quarterly or a 6-month basis.
So we're pretty flexible on that.
I think our supply chain has got parts available to it and a relatively small amount of labor to assemble an ROV in our Morgan City facility.
Jim we can keep up with demand whether it comes from vessels or from new rigs we can deliver.
That capacity to add is not going to be a problem.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And Jay if you would maybe add -- try to take me through this.
If we look since October 1 I think there has been 31 new floaters ordered at least according to ODS-Petrodata when would we expect on average to see the ROV contracts given for these batch of floaters that's been ordered from over the last 6 7 months? I'd say that really is an interesting question.
We see some customers working -- major oil companies tend to move further in advance.
When they shut down one of these rigs maybe a year or two in advance they might very well come to us and we might make a deal on the ROV.
Other companies wait until the very last minute so we don't really have a pattern other than some could be as far as 2 years in advance and others could be 6 months 90 days even for some people.
Some wait till after the rig is delivered.
And I think the key date for all these new rig orders Jim is going to be when are they going to get contracts.
When is there going to be an operator identified that we can go chase.
LLC</strong> Right.
Okay.
Usually when that happens there's somebody we can deal with and you would expect their order should be placed a year ahead of time.
But not always.
LLC</strong> Okay.
Got it.
Your next question comes from the line of Jon Donnel from Howard Weil.
I had a question regarding the products.
It sounds like the IWOCS results for the quarter as well as the build in the backlog for that group was a lot better than previous expectations.
I was wondering if you could talk a little bit about where the demand is coming from that if that's better with the Gulf of Mexico and expected if that's more of an international focus.
Yes that has been predominantly the Gulf of Mexico business.
And so I think as all companies have been -- they haven't had permits to drill new wells they have focused on completing some of the wells that they've had.
So I think that has helped our Gulf of Mexico IWOCS business.
But we are in the process of expanding that business internationally.
But I think the movement that we saw this quarter is really due to mostly to the Gulf of Mexico business.
We had a large West Africa job that was in product this quarter in IWOCS and it kind of shifted.
This quarter was a mix where there was a lot of IWOCS rentals related to plug and abandonment activity in the Gulf of Mexico.
So for a time we went through this period where rigs couldn't drill they were doing completions.
And that was like Q4 the early part of Q1 where there was really good utilization of IWOCS.
And then the latter part have shifted to being plug and abandonment.
But there was a large multi-well completion project off West Africa in Q1.
Okay.
That's helpful.
And then I guess that kind of maybe ties in a little bit about the tax rate question.
As you do more international investment with the tax rate coming down in first quarter is that indicative already of that Norse acquisition? Or is that just a different emphasis on where you reinvest the earnings from international operations? No Jon.
I think it has nothing to do with NCA but -- it has something to do with NCA.
But I mean what we've noticed is we've been tax effecting all of our foreign earnings as if they were going to be brought home initially it was to pay back debt.
And then it was to grow the business.
And then it's been obvious to us that most acquisitions have been made in international.
So it's more tax efficient to keep some of that cash overseas and don't tax it to bring it home.
We don't usually bring it home until we actually need it.
But we have been providing taxes as if we would ultimately repatriate it.
So I think with the emphasis of growth in international water and a significant amount of cash flows we can now leave some cash in our foreign subsidiaries and grow there and not have to grow through the U.S.
parent company.
So it really is a change in tax-accounting treatment that says the money that we're going to reinvest from foreign earnings we could just leave over there and not tax effect in the U.S.
Okay.
So that sounds like it pays more on what you've done in the past.
Is there any I guess incremental acquisitions internationally that is sort of baked in to get into the 31% number? Or I guess another would ask that is if we see more international acquisitions could that tax rate come down even further as we go into 2012 maybe? I think we've looked at that tax rate and the answer is it could come down a little bit more.
But it just really depends upon how successful we're going to be.
I mean just to be clear when -- from a tax purpose reinvesting it means just not bringing it home.
If it's put in cash in a foreign bank account and it would be "reinvested" in international operations.
So it's not going to be tied to acquisitions that we make.
However as more and more of our cash is generated internationally it could slightly impact our day rate.
And as more and more ROVs shift from the Gulf of Mexico to international I mean our cash flows are significant internationally and we just thought it was about time that we stopped tax effecting all of our earnings to bring it home.
Okay.
Great.
That's helpful.
Your next question comes from the line of Max Barrett from Tudor Pickering.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</strong> I want to start with Subsea Projects.
I'm curious if you could give us a sense as to the vessel utilization you saw in Q1 versus Q4 and now also could you tell us how many boats are performing work today? We really don't give out those kind of quarterly numbers.
But it was lower definitely lower in Q1 than it was in Q4.
And I really don't know how many of our boats are working today.
It's coming to go out.
It's a call-out kind of business so we're in and out on jobs so frequently that I just don't happen to know that they're all -- all of our vessels are active going out and doing work and then -- and coming back to the dock.
And Max I think Jay did address it in the opening comments about Q4 was unusually strong in projects because of umbilical installation and the pent-up demand for so many vessels being involved in BP Macondo.
And now that's gone away.
The Q1 was a bad weather from offshore as everybody's reporting onshore and there are more vessels competing for work.
And it is a very competitive market out there but we don't give out utilization of our vessel fleets.
Innovative status reports.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</strong> Okay.
So for Q2 in that segment as we kind of think about top line improvement kind of single digits? Again we're just not forecasting those kind of details.
We're rather on seasonal increase but I guess part of the visibility that we see in this market it's just lower than we had thought there would be a quarter ago so we -- as Marvin mentioned it's a competitive market and it's also a volatile market.
This is one of the things where rates swing up and down.
They can go up quickly they can come down quickly.
So we have the double whammy of lower utilization and lower rates and we thought it would be -- we knew that the first quarter would be tough.
We thought it would be -- we'd see a better visibility than we do right now.
But right now it looks like it's going to continue.
We'll have some seasonal improvement but still tough.
I think from the tone of our answers you can tell that where we had earlier reported the biggest swing factor for 2011 was going to be the resumption of drilling activity in the Gulf of Mexico with the permitting and having as many ROVs on full-day rate as we do now.
We hope that will continue and then the big swing factor becomes how much does vessel activity in the Gulf of Mexico pick up.
And that's what we tried to articulate in the press release and these call notes.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</strong> Okay.
Fair enough.
And switching to Subsea Products could you give us an update on the sort of outlook for near-term umbilical awards and then also maybe give us a sense as to the current margin differential between umbilicals and the segment average? Yes really the Umbilical business is pretty much what we -- have worked plain out pretty much as we anticipated and really not much change from a quarter ago.
I think the market is oversupplied with capacity.
It looks like Brazil might be the first market to come into balance if Petrobras continues to grow their demand as they have forecast.
There is quite a bit of quoting activity going on in the North Sea at the moment.
But some of those awards are still pending out there.
But in the U.S.
it's the lowest -- by far the slowest market right now.
Our U.S.
plant is pretty much living off of jobs that are in sort of West Africa and Brazil.
We think that market continues to be the same and we have hopes that it will continue to improve over time.
For us 2011 is better in the Umbilical business than it was in 2010.
And I think next year will likely be better.
But no real change in that market and we just don't give out as I've said information on margins.
Your next question comes from the line of Michael Marino from Stephens.
Question on the Products business how much of that is outside the Gulf of Mexico? I think we just can't answer that.
Don't have that I mean -- maybe...
No in the Umbilical business we have three factories 1 is in the U.S.
and 2 are outside the U.S.
But the 1 in the U.S.
is doing West Africa and Brazil.
The subsea field development in Houston is working no the Tucson and West Africa projects.
IWOCS is split mostly Gulf of Mexico but some international.
So we don't track it that way.
Well how does that -- just kind of help me understand how it's -- I guess because I look at 2011 and you'll do probably about the same top line you did in 2008.
But I would assume that '11 is going to be a better international year versus '08 and the Gulf of Mexico is still kind of relatively depressed because of Macondo.
Is that correct? Well I'll make sure we understand the question.
Are you comparing this to '08? I guess top line in the Products division.
I mean you're already kind of at that run rate.
Give me a clue.
What was our Products revenue in 2008? Mike tell me what it was.
$650 million.
How much? $650 million.
The Umbilical business had a pretty big year I think.
But umbilicals are certainly growing.
But I think it's definite to say that international is stronger relative to domestic in 2011 than it was in 2010 because domestic products in '10 is seriously depressed.
I mean there is no completion activity going on.
There's no installation activity.
It's all related to the construction.
So we are as Jay said pretty much living off of the international market when it comes to product.
We know with the exception of the stuff we do in plug and abandonment but even vessel activity and installation repair -- I'm sorry Inspection Repair and Maintenance activities is all kind of down so -- tooling is down in the Gulf.
So most of this is international.
I think your perception is correct.
Okay.
Well get in that.
And just as a follow-up to that how long does the work in West Africa last? Will that go into 2012? Or is it...
We're not going to try to [indiscernible].
I think it goes on.
I mean...
Our Cameroon now they've been through a whole business -- their whole story is West African project.
So Cameroon is a big customer.
And I think they've got these projects stretching out for years.
I would add [indiscernible] as well.
Okay.
So it's not something you like have to replace in 2012? I mean the market will be there for it? I think jobs specific jobs that we have will have to be replaced.
But I think that outlook for that business is excellent.
It's been one of the fastest-growing pieces of our -- of the Product sector is the field development business and I think its outlook for 2012 is excellent.
Okay.
Great.
And your next question comes from the line of Chris Gleysteen from Simmons &amp; Company.
Quickly on Subsea Products your NCA that flows through in the Products segment going forward? Yes correct.
And how much of your revised outlook for Products is reflective of that acquisition versus organic improvement of IWOCS and tooling? I mean let's make sure -- well yes.
Some of it it is.
There is some of it in there.
But in relative terms -- what did we say in our press release that it had revenues of $50-some-odd million.
$56 million.
That's what we paid for.
Did we have $56 million of revenues? But anyway $50 something million of revenues Chris and so we can have for a whole year.
So it is when you look at it in the scope of our products what we did $550 million last year I mean it's not for 3 quarters it's going to be 10% of our top line numbers because all the other ones are organically growing particularly on the top line with all that much higher umbilical throughput.
I think it's a piece but not the largest piece.
It's a small piece.
And do you perchance can you provide us with either the EBITDA on NCA or the general profitability on that compared to the segment? No.
Okay.
Turning to Subsea Projects understanding that seasonality you get an increase in the second quarter but when you think about Q1 as a seasonal low in terms of activity vessel additions coming into your fleet between the Patriot the Project is it reasonable to assume that Q1 would mark the low point of the year understanding that for the year the assumptions have come down as a whole but from a progression standpoint that Q1 would probably be the low point? I would assume that.
I think that's a reasonable assumption.
Okay.
And that's helpful.
One last one.
What portion of your fleet is on Midwater semis? So 1st through 3rd generation semis ROV fleet.
We don't track that but we do know something about that.
We do have that for the rigs that have contracts expiring in the rest of this year.
Yes that will be helpful.
We can take a look at that and let me see if I can find my notes here.
So for the rest of the year we have 25 ROVs on 57 rigs that have contract expirations.
And of those 57 rigs that have contracts that are expiring...
No 25.
25 that are expiring 3 are 2nd generation and 7 are 3rd generation and 8 are 4rth generation so hopefully that gives you some...
I will look at it another way.
You got 15 of the 25 on 4rth and 5th generation semis for drillships.
So if you go looking at 2nd and 3rd the answer is 10.
Okay.
All right.
That's very helpful.
And your next question comes from the line of Tom Curran from Wells Fargo.
LLC</strong> I'm curious on Subsea Products as -- well what percentage of your revenues outside of multiflex at this point are derived from rental-based services? No.
I think I don't -- we don't know.
And mostly I mean we go through the lines the things that we rent are in ROV tooling and IWOCS.
And then we got service on that side.
IWOCS is really a service.
Really it's the DTS part.
DTS is 1 of 5 businesses in that business and part of it business is tooling so...
But we don't rent umbilicals.
We don't rent subsea development hardware.
We don't rent in Greyloc.
We don't rent in rotator.
So most of these things are -- I mean it's an exception in the Tooling business and in IWOCS where it's a more of a service and rental business than as they say IWOCS is really a service.
So I hope that gives you an answer without -- or give you a flavor without giving you a number because we don't have a number.
It might be a low double-digit number.
But there's probably not a single digit but it's probably not much more than a low double-digit number.
So I had to guess.
I wouldn't even -- I wouldn't -- I have no idea.
So anyway we just don't track it that way.
LLC</strong> Okay.
So it sounds as if we should still expect the vast majority of your new demand to surface in orders to show up in orders from quarter to quarter? I would say the mix will be the same as it has been.
Even in the area where we are renting equipment like in our Subsea ROV Tooling business that is one of the area where we're renting new equipment that's come about as of Macondo.
So that business is growing as well.
So I would say that the mix is likely to continue to be what it has been.
Tom if you're looking for kind of a back-of-the-envelope book-to-bill I mean if you look we had whatever it was $157 million of revenue a lot of that goes in and out of backlog within the quarter.
So it's not the visibility of such is really in umbilicals and Subsea field developments where our backlog is mainly and we've got it in all the other places.
But some of our throughput is booked and build within the same quarter.
So they're short-term turnover.
LLC</strong> Right.
Yes that's -- essentially what I meant is that that mixture isn't meaningfully changing.
Correct.
Correct.
LLC</strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
And then on inspection it often doesn't get as much attention.
And I guess historically there's been good reason for that.
But my impression is it is expected to perform nicely this year internationally.
Could you share some color on why? Where exactly do you expect to see growth? You're right that's a nice steady growing business for us.
And it doesn't get much attention because usually it's overshadowed by projects.
This year it really is going to be very much more relevant.
I think the U.K.
the largest areas for that business are the U.K.
and then the new contract we have with BP in the middle of the Caspian area.
So I think that area -- most of those areas have been growing nicely for us.
U.S.
shipyard -- I mean yard activity where we do some Inspection.
The U.S.
is picking up on fabrication work.
I think the outlook is for a broad base improvement.
Most of it will be coming from international.
But the U.S.
will be improving as well.
LLC</strong> Is there anything about the trends that are driving that improvement that would -- that might potentially make you interested in investing and expanding that business including for acquisitions? Well we continue to look for small and what we find  throughout the world generally small inspection companies and we continue to look for those.
I mean we bought 1 in Australia late last year.
So we will continue looking and continue to expect to find small acquisitions that we add to our business in that area.
Yes we hope so.
LLC</strong> Okay.
That's all I have.
There are no further questions.
All right.
thank you very much.
Take care guys.
Goodbye.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Mike and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the second quarter 2011 earnings conference call.
[Operator Instructions] Mr.
Jack Jurkoshek you may begin your conference call.
Thank you Mike.
Good morning everybody.
We'd like to thank you for joining us on our 2011 second quarter earnings call.
As usual a webcast of the event is being made available through the StreetEvents network service of Thomson Reuters.
Joining me today are Kevin McEvoy our President and Chief Executive Officer who will be leading the call; and Marvin Migura our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Just as a reminder remarks we make during the course of the call regarding our earnings guidance business strategy plans for future operations and industry conditions are forward-looking statements made pursuant to the Safe Harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
And I'm now going to turn the call over to Kevin.
Good morning everyone.
It's a pleasure to be here with you today and to lead my first Oceaneering earnings conference call.
Our second quarter EPS of $0.52 was above our guidance range of $0.45 to $0.50 and the street consensus estimate of $0.48.
As expected we achieved higher sequential quarterly operating results from our ROV Subsea Products and Inspection businesses.
Each of these operations achieved record quarterly operating income.
We are well positioned to participate in the next growth stage of deepwater activity and our outlook for 2011 remains positive.
We now believe we will achieve record EPS for the year and are raising our 2011 EPS guidance range to $1.90 to $1.98 from our previous guidance of $1.83 to $1.95.
Relative to the first half we anticipate our ROV Subsea Projects Inspection and Advanced Technologies business operations will achieve higher operating income results during the second half of 2011.
Compared to 2010 for 2011 we forecast increased operating income from ROV Subsea Products and Inspection.
For 2011 we anticipate generating in excess of $450 million of EBITDA.
Our liquidity and projected cash flow provide us ample resources to invest in Oceaneering's growth.
Our CapEx estimate for this year is $250 million to $275 million of which approximately $100 million is anticipated to be spent on upgrading and adding vehicles to our ROV fleet.
About $55 million is for Subsea Projects which includes the completion of the Ocean Patriot renovation and adding a third SAT system.
$56 million is for the acquisition of NCA which we completed at the end of the first quarter.
I'd now like to review our quarterly oilfield segment results starting with ROVs.
We achieved record quarterly ROV operating income during the second quarter as our days on hire surpassed 18 000 an all-time high.
Year-over-year operating income increased on an increase in days on hire as we added 13 new vehicles to our fleet in the past 12 months.
Establishing a new quarterly operating income record for ROVs is particularly gratifying as demand in the U.S.
Gulf of Mexico was constrained by government regulations.
In addition last year's results included $3.5 million related to an insurance gain for a lost system.
Sequentially operating income improved 23% or $10.7 million on the strength of improved worldwide demand for vessel-based construction and field maintenance services.
This was led by activity increases in Norway and the Gulf of Mexico.
Our fleet utilization rate during the quarter was 76% down from 78% in the second quarter of 2010 and up from 71% in the first quarter of 2011.
The year-over-year decline was attributable to lower activity level in the Gulf of Mexico.
The sequential improvement was largely due to seasonality and an improvement in permitting by the BOEMRE in the Gulf.
For the balance of 2011 we expect to achieve quarterly fleet utilization in the 78% to 80% range.
During the quarter we put 4 new ROVs into service retired 1 and transferred 1 to Advanced Technologies for non-oilfield use.
At the end of June we had 262 systems available for operation up from 249 a year ago.
Three of the new ROVs went to work in drill support service.
Our fleet mix during June was 73% in drill support and 27% in construction and field maintenance.
This compares to a 72-28 split a year ago and a 78-22 split in March of 2011.
At the time of our last earnings call in the U.S.
Gulf of Mexico we were receiving full rates for 20 ROVs on 17 rigs partial rates for 5 ROVs and 0 rate for 2 ROVs.
As of yesterday we were on full rate for 26 ROVs on 23 rigs partial rates for 1 ROV and 0 rate for 1 ROV.
There are presently 29 floating rigs available for use in the U.S.
Gulf of Mexico and we have ROVs on 25 of them.
We anticipate adding 15 to 20 vehicles to our ROV fleet in 2011 7 to 12 during the last half of the year and we currently have contracts for 6 of these for work on 5 new rigs.
We continue to believe that we will achieve record ROV operating income for the eighth consecutive year in 2011 on an increase in international demand for drill support services and the expansion of our fleet.
We expect our average revenue per day on hire and fleet utilization to be slightly higher than in 2010.
We anticipate our ROV margin will be slightly lower due to a change in geographic mix as a result of a reduction in work in the U.S.
Gulf of Mexico.
Now for Subsea Products.
Year-over-year our second quarter Subsea Products operating income improved 40% or $10.4 million on an increase in umbilical plant throughput and higher clamp valve and installation workover and control systems service sales.
Sequentially Subsea Products' operating income rose on profit increases from all of our product lines.
This was led by tooling which included the benefit of our acquisition of Norse Cutting &amp; Abandonment at the end of the last quarter.
Our Subsea Products backlog at quarter end was $405 million up from our March backlog of $382 million and $347 million one year ago.
The backlog increases sequentially and year-over-year were primarily attributable to umbilicals.
We continue to believe that our Subsea Products' operating income for the year 2011 will be higher than 2010 on the strength of higher umbilical plant throughput and an increase in tooling sales partially due to the NCA acquisition.
We expect margins to be lower due to a change in product mix.
For Inspection we also achieved record quarterly operating income during the second quarter.
Year-over-year and sequentially the increases in Inspection quarterly operating results were attributable to an increase in service sales in all of the areas in which we operate.
A particular note was additional work to perform asset integrity management services in North Africa higher activity on refinery and nuclear power plants in the U.K.
and an increase in providing specialist inspection services in the Caspian Sea.
We continue to expect our Inspection operating income for the year 2011 will be higher than in 2010 on a global increase in demand.
Switching to Subsea Projects.
Year-over-year the decline in Subsea Projects' quarterly operating income was a result of lower demand and pricing for our shallow-water diving and deepwater vessel services in the Gulf of Mexico.
Sequentially Subsea Projects' operating income was lower on a reduction in the rental of miscellaneous equipment to perform installation work.
During the second quarter the lack of new projects and bad weather continued to result in low vessel utilization and poor job profit margins.
We do expect an increase in demand for our diving and deepwater vessel services during the remaining quarters of 2011.
We continue to anticipate that Subsea Projects' revenue operating income and margin for 2011 will be less than in 2010.
This is attributable to a completion of the Macondo project work in 2010 and a reduced level of subsea activity in the Gulf of Mexico as a result of additional environmental and safety regulations that have been implemented by the BOEMRE.
In summary our second quarter results were above our expectations and we are looking forward to realizing another year of record EPS performance in 2011.
Our focus on providing products and services for deepwater and subsea completions positions us to participate in a major secular growth trend in the oilfield services and products industry.
We were pleased with our cash flow generation capability as demonstrated by $121 million of EBITDA during the quarter.
Capital expenditures for the quarter totaled about $58 million of which $23 million was invested in ROVs and $20 million was spent in Subsea Projects primarily on the Ocean Project -- sorry Ocean Patriot renovation in a third saturation diving system.
At the end of the quarter we had $151 million of cash and no debt.
For the third quarter of 2011 we are projecting EPS in a range of $0.54 to $0.58.
Sequentially we anticipate quarterly operating income improvements from ROVs due to an increase in fleet days on hire as we expect the benefit from higher demand for international drill support work; Subsea Products on the strength of higher field development hardware and valve sales and a higher profit contribution from tooling due to a change in product mix; Subsea Projects on increased demand for our diving and deepwater vessel services and increased contribution from the Ocean Legend due to revenue associated with its demobilization; and Advanced Technologies due to increased maintenance and installation work on U.S.
Navy submarines.
We expect Inspection operating income to be about the same.
While our second quarter earnings exceeded our expectations and international demand for our services and products continues to improve there is still a risk in our forecast for the last half of 2011 related to the U.S.
Gulf of Mexico.
There are differing industry views regarding the level of activity in the Gulf of Mexico during the rest of the year.
We are not anticipating a slowdown from the current level but have no visibility of any meaningful increase in activity either.
Looking forward to 2012 and beyond we are convinced that our strategy to focus on providing services and products that facilitate deepwater exploration and production remains sound.
We believe the oil and gas industry will continue to invest in deepwater as it remains one of the best frontiers for adding large hydrocarbon reserves with high production flow rates.
Others must share this belief.
At the end of the quarter there were 72 new floating rigs on order.
52 of these are planned to be available by the end of 2013 35 have been contracted long term for an average of over 7 years.
Four more floaters have been ordered since the end of the quarter but 2014 should be our delivery dates.
Two are contracted long term to Statoil.
If all the rigs on order are placed into service the global floating rig fleet size will grow 28% to 346 rigs.
The high-spec fleet consisting of fifth- and sixth-generation semis and dynamically positioned drill ships which currently totals 97 rigs will grow over 75%.
We historically have had a high market share on the high-spec rigs and are currently on 78% of them.
Looking forward we see no reason why we will not continue to be the dominant provider of ROV services on these rigs.
As the use of floating rigs grow so will demand for ROVs to support drilling.
We believe it is inevitable that demand for ROVs to support vessel-related construction work and field maintenance activities will follow.
We also believe the use of these additional floating rigs will eventually drive orders for subsea hardware to levels not previously experienced.
Quest Offshore's latest subsea hardware forecast for the period 2011 to '15 includes a 33% increase in tree orders over the previous 5 years.
In 2012 subsea tree orders are projected to be 538 an all-time high eclipsing the previous record of 462 trees in 2006.
While we don't make trees orders for subsea trees do drive demand for a substantial amount of ancillary subsea production hardware we manufacture.
For example Quest is forecasting a 55% increase in umbilical orders for the 2011 to 2015 period.
Umbilical demand in 2012 is forecast to be about 1 835 kilometers which would be the second-best year behind 2005 for umbilical orders.
Furthermore renewed industry and regulatory emphasis on safe and reliable operations is providing us additional opportunities to demonstrate our capabilities.
With our existing assets we are well positioned to supply a wide range of the services and products required to support the safe deepwater efforts of our customers.
We believe Oceaneering's business prospects for the long term remain promising.
Our commanding competitive position technology leadership and strong balance sheet and cash flow enable us to continue to grow the company and we intend to do so.
In summary our results continue to demonstrate our ability to generate excellent earnings and cash flow.
We believe our business strategy is working well over both the short term and long term.
We like our competitive position in the 2011 oilfield services market.
Our technology gives us the ability to prosper in challenging times.
We are leveraged to what we believe will be an inevitable resumption in the growth of deepwater and subsea completion activity.
The longer-term market outlook for our deepwater and subsea service and product offerings remains favorable.
The renewed industry and regulatory emphasis on reliable equipment and redundant safety features of deepwater operations have caused our customers to be even more focused on risk reduction.
This elevates the importance of the utility and reliability of our ROV services and related product lines and reinforces the benefit of our value sell.
For 2011 we are anticipating that we will achieve another record year of EPS performance.
We think this distinguishes Oceaneering from many other oilfield service companies.
We appreciate everyone's interest in Oceaneering and I will now be happy to take any questions you may have.
[Operator Instructions]  Your first question comes from the line of Jim Crandell from Dahlman Rose.
LLC</strong> Kevin any sense as to how many of the 74 ultra-deepwater rigs under construction have ordered ROVs? Yes I can say that.
We've got that information here and we're just kind of making sure we get it right here.
Here we go.
15 have ROV contracts let on it.
So they're all -- and we were looking at the 72 on order at the end of June and 15 had contracts and we've won 6 of those.
Therefore there are 57 ROV contracting opportunities for new rigs left to pursue.
LLC</strong> Okay.
Kevin do you see -- except for Brazil are there any signs that Subsea 7 is becoming a more aggressive competitor globally in trying to win drill support ROV contracts? Not at this time Jim.
Really outside of Brazil as you say there we are continuing to maintain that high percentage of wins in the other markets on the ultra-deepwater rig.
LLC</strong> And the fact that you've won just 6 out of 15 that have been let so far is that a function that a lot of them came from Brazil? That is correct.
LLC</strong> Okay.
Where are we in the process in Brazil Kevin of Subsea 7 replacing OII Oceaneering on expiring contracts? Jim our total exposure there was 4 and we had replaced last year on one.
And the other exposure was 3 this year and I don't happen to know exactly where we're at.
LLC</strong> But are there still going to be contracts ending from here that you will be replaced on? At some time during this year we were on 3 rigs that we would potentially be replaced on.
That's true.
But whether all those have occurred already or not I'm not quite sure.
LLC</strong> Okay.
Kevin could you also talk a little bit to the subsea umbilical market? I think we've seen results steadily improved in recent quarters.
Where are we now in terms of capacity utilization and bidding? And can we look to with confidence that at this point to the business improving through 2012? We still believe that although there's no really good accurate data on this our belief is that the capacity that exists is only being roughly 50% utilized so there's still significant capacity remaining in this business.
As far as going forward I mean all the data suggests that if orders are let as projected that 2012 should be a big order year although 2011 is down compared to last year.
So this remains a very challenging market to be able to predict in spite of whatever data is put out there by the likes of Quest and others.
It's just been challenging to have a good handle on how operators are actually going to give out these orders.
But generally speaking we believe that starting in 2012 order intake should pick up and that should look very good through the 2015 time frame.
LLC</strong> Has there been any improvement yet Kevin in pricing in subsea umbilicals? Not really no.
LLC</strong> Okay.
Would you expect some in 2012 if demand picks up as you project? Well we would certainly like to hope so.
I mean as that picks up and the factory starts to fill a little bit more you would certainly expect some increased pricing to result from that.
LLC</strong> Okay my last question Kevin is could you talk a little bit about the pricing outlook here in ROVs? And as your contracts end and you're putting the ROVs back to work are you getting improved prices? And if so maybe characterize the nature of the price improvement.
Well we really can't characterize that.
I mean we put out that metric to give people some idea of what's going on and that metric is also affected by geography and by mix of what work is going on.
I'd say you could look at the trend or how that number has been going and continue to expect similar in the future.
[Operator Instructions]  Your next question comes from the line of Brad Handler from Crédit Suisse.
A couple of questions related to your Products orders in the quarter which looked -- hopefully my math is okay it looked like it did strengthen sequentially and maybe was as strong as it's been for the last several quarters or I should say stronger.
Have I got that right? And then maybe can you talk to some of how that -- I mean what contributed to that? Yes your math is right.
And I think as Kevin said in the opening remarks most of it was related to umbilical orders.
Can you tell us roughly where geographically you've got those umbilical orders? Brad I mean what we've got is -- what we've noticed this year is going into the year the biggest risk -- because of our backlog the biggest risk was for our North Sea plant and that's the plant that has turned around the most in bidding activity and order intake.
Brazil is doing very well with Petrobras and other international customers there but mainly Petrobras.
And the whole that we see for '12 is what our own U.S.
government has done to us and what activity levels there are going to be in the Gulf of Mexico.
And sort of beyond that we really don't get into specific orders unless they are the size that we announce.
But I mean I think that's the color of the umbilical market.
I think also I talked to the guys yesterday there is a significant increase in bidding activities that we hope bodes well for -- I mean some of these are budgetary but there is much more interest in umbilical bidding than we have seen in several quarters.
Thanks Marvin I appreciate that color.
If I could still -- hopefully which counts as unrelated follow-up just the unallocated expenses in the quarter can you talk to that a little bit and then give us some guidance for the second half of the year? Let me look at that real quick.
How much did it go up? I mean it's all good cholesterol.
I mean that's where my thought goes.
I guess not really a lot.
I just -- I think.
.
.
Okay.
It went up in -- looking at unallocated expenses the SG&amp;A portion we went from $25 million in Q1 to $27 million about $1.7 million increase.
There is just -- we're doing more things for IT to support our rolling infrastructure.
We've got some other programs going on.
I would expect to forecast something in that similar range of Q2.
Your next question comes from the line of Jon Donnel from Howard Weil.
A couple of other questions on the Products segment here.
I was wondering in terms of the backlog increase.
You talked a lot about the umbilical orders here.
I was wondering if there's any contribution of that from just incorporating the Norse acquisition at the end of the last quarter if that had any effect on the backlog.
It was included in last quarter's backlog and this quarter's.
A sequential change would have been only in the incremental NCA work that they got.
Right.
Okay.
And then did that work increase in the Gulf of Mexico and not with the PNA? I know you talked about that on the last call.
And also the IWOCS work in the Gulf of Mexico was there another sequential increase from there in Products? John in NCA it's really too early to tell.
I don't say -- not significant enough to mention and IWOCS had a very strong quarter.
Relative to the rest of the Product Group in the Gulf of Mexico I'd say NCA is so small.
It's not mentionable and we don't really break all that stuff out anyway.
But there was a contribution from the Gulf of Mexico from the Products Group sequentially.
Okay.
And I presume that the IWOCS work in the Gulf of Mexico is driven a lot by just the lack of the drilling going on.
Were you still seeing that? And is there any risk in the second half that if the drilling work picks up that there could actually be a decrease in the products as a result of less IWOCS work? I think as drilling picks up there will be some reduction in the IWOCS work that we have experienced this year.
I would not say that that would be significant enough to alter the overall Product results.
I think it will damper the growth opportunities in IWOCS for certain because we'll have to fill in with international work because you are absolutely correct that the level of P&amp;A and development work that has been done in the absence of exploration drilling has increased our IWOCS utilization in the Gulf.
Your next question comes from the line of Andrea Sharkey from Gabelli &amp; Company.
Inc.</strong> I was curious if you could tell me how much the Norse acquisition added to your Subsea Products revenue in this quarter because there was that strong incremental sequential increase.
Just curious how much came from the acquisition.
We don't really break out those individual numbers.
Sorry.
Inc.</strong> Okay that's fine.
And then I'm curious if -- this is sort of a maybe out-there question but it seems like there's a lot more interest in FPSOs and those being built.
Are you guys able to participate in that at all and how so? And how are you thinking about potential growth in that market? We are not thinking about further growth in that market.
We're actually exiting the mobile offshore production systems segment.
It's just a totally different business than it was when we started off and we're not going to be participating there.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
I guess what I was thinking was -- and maybe I'm off base but would you put an ROV on an FPSO or anything like that? Would there be some sort of opportunity there? Typically the FPSOs do not have ROVs on them since typically the drilling is already done and there's no reason to have them out there.
That would usually be a field support vessel with an ROV on it that would be doing field maintenance and whatnot.
I think the increased interest in FPSOs is just good news because it just shows how much more offshore production is going to be and the need for umbilicals and as Kevin mentioned support vessels with ROVs but as he said correctly -- I mean because we know internally FPSOs per se don't generate much work for us.
Your next question comes from line of Mike Urban from Deutsche Bank.
I wanted to revisit the pricing question on ROVs and maybe attack it a little bit differently.
You obviously have a tremendous amount of newbuild rigs coming into the market if and this is a big if as you noted if the Gulf of Mexico comes back in a meaningful way.
And then there's also looks it looks like construction activity is picking up.
We don't typically think of ROVs as having a lot of pricing power but it sounds like that would be an awful lot of work and awful lot of demand coming through at the same time maybe in the 2012 2013 time frame.
Would you see that as a potential opportunity to get a little more value for the service you're providing? Well I mean that's certainly possible.
I mean we of course are always looking for opportunities to increase prices.
And it is a -- while we do have a dominant share in at least the ultra-deepwater part of this market there is competition.
There is always somebody with another ROV and so we have to manage that carefully.
And again I think if you look at the historical graph or trend of these prices I think that should give you a good guide for what you should expect in the future.
Okay.
Mike let me just remind you that we are the price leader already in this market so everybody is pricing off of Oceaneering.
So I think you've got some good strong tailwinds expected with all these new rigs in construction picking back up and these are going to be high-spec equipment.
So generally we do a pretty good job in getting good price increases when they're available.
As Kevin said and what we say all the time we -- half the people ask us why do you think you'll be able to expect to retain market share when everybody's being so aggressive and the other half asked why don't you raise prices.
And somewhere in the middle is what we try to do.
We try to maintain market share and raise prices.
Got you.
And you've generally done a good job of that in the past.
Unrelated follow-up question could you give us an update on where you stand in the process in the Gulf of Mexico and globally of reengineering subsea equipments greater redundancy more functionality and interoperability between your BOPs and ROVs.
I know that's been an ongoing process but it seems like we're finally kind of moving on to the prescriptive phase here of this whole process.
I was wondering where you guys stand in that process.
Well primarily our business in that area has been focused on ROV-mounted [ph] to be able to interface with the panels on the BOP stacks at higher pressures and higher flow rates and that business continues to grow.
We continue to have orders and service that part of the market.
The panel part of that market which is the BOP side which is really the interface point for the ROV that business has also been pretty good.
And so those are the primary areas that we had been playing in in that area.
And that's something you're seeing now and manifesting itself in the P&amp;L or is that more on the come? No.
That is manifesting itself within the tooling part of the Products Group and then there is one other product that we have been primarily selling which is a -- we call it a 6-shooter or a 6-pack or something like that but it's a set of accumulated bottles that are independent of the rigs sitting on the seafloor that the ROV can connect that to the panel as another redundancy provision there.
Your next question comes from the line of Victor Marchon from RBC Capital Markets.
LLC</strong> First question I have is just on Projects understanding the demand side and capacity and just wanted to see if what you guys are seeing there is leading to increased discussions or looking further at or harder at other markets where you can maybe take some of your equipment out of the Gulf of Mexico.
Well I would say that we have been pretty consistent in our strategy of focusing on the Gulf of Mexico with our vessel asset.
It's just a whole different business jump to move to another international area.
Having said that we have looked at specific opportunities outside the U.S.
that would fit our risk profile and commercial requirements.
But I'd say generally speaking we're not looking to making a big push to go outside the Gulf of Mexico.
I mean this has been a great business for us in the last several years primarily kick-started by the hurricane work and maintained by that work which is largely over.
So we're now back to a more traditional Gulf of Mexico environment for these services.
Having said that we are also in a very down period right now due to lack of permitting.
It's not just on the exploration drilling side permitting has been very very slow to come for all the other stuff that gets done in the Gulf and that has affected project work as well.
So I do think that that is going to slowly improve and we would expect that once things get running a little bit back to normal that operators will up the pace of their maintenance especially in the deepwater side.
LLC</strong> And the second I have is just on Products and looking at it in the second half of the year.
It seems that expectation's that that business will be down versus the first half.
And given backlog is it fair to assume that the expected decline is coming from margins lower margins due to the mix higher mix of umbilicals relative to the revenue side? Well there's 2 things there.
I think first of all we did say previously that we were somewhat front-end loaded in terms of the umbilical business and the IWOCS business.
And secondly any increase on the umbilical side does have a decrease effect on overall margin for that segment.
Your next question comes from the line of Tom Curran from Wells Fargo.
LLC</strong> Kevin it looks like a fairly seamless transition so far.
So far so good Tom.
LLC</strong> Sticking with the Subsea Products to start with.
Curious looking across the 3 non-Multiflex segments DTS IWOCS and Subsea Field Hardware for any of those 3 are you getting close to a decision point on investing in additional capacity? And if so what metrics are you focusing on? What would be the triggers and where would you make that investment? Well let's start off by talking about tooling.
I mean we just spent $56 million acquiring NCA.
But as far as adding plant -- we bought a little company in Australia.
But as far as adding capacity I think our jobs have adequate capacity to grow considerably in Norway in Houston and Australia and the U.K.
So I don't see -- but I think the opportunities for tooling is in bolt-on acquisitions where we've been pretty focused on the last months.
IWOCS is equipment and I think we're looking and trying to expand geographically.
And then Subsea Field Development I think we've got adequate capacity to grow orders.
That's my take on it and we're expanding trying to produce in other states as well.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And then turning to Subsea Projects have there been any meaningful changes in the competitive landscape since the last destructive hurricane season in '08? And if so what type? And then could you please remind us of the specific services you provide when it comes to the response effort? Well I think there are some vessels that have left the Gulf of Mexico as a result largely of the completion of that work.
Others still remain which is sort of depressing the market at the moment.
The services that we provide are vessel-based ROV and diving and also tooling.
We provide a lot of the cutting equipment.
Generally speaking this is shallow-water work and primarily a diving exercise.
And typically what we've done is incorporate an ROV into that as well so that you can increase the safety factor for the diver in the water and then DTS or the fueling guys provide all the cutting tools and whatnot for that work.
LLC</strong> And is any of that new or had there been any meaningful technologically differentiating products or services added over the last 3 years? I wouldn't say there's any technological advances there no from our side.
Tom let me make sure I understand the question.
You were asking specifically about the scope of services that we can provide when and what situation? Hurricane damage downed platforms and that sort of thing? LLC</strong> Right.
Those first-call immediate-response services.
I think what we provide is really not so much technology as we've got a full package of the products and services necessary to immediately respond to something like that.
And the additional which will be ready in Q4 an additional SAT boat would be increasing capacity but not a change in technology.
Not for downed hurricane platforms or platform inspection.
Your next question comes from the line of John Lawrence from Tudor Pickering.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</strong> Just one more on IWOCS if you don't mind.
Just on the international push I think you've done well in West Africa and the North Sea is an opportunity.
Could you just kind of talk about quantifying the international opportunity on IWOCS for us? Well I mean we are certainly expending some degree of effort to try and push that business outside of the Gulf of Mexico.
As you note we have had some success in West Africa and we have -- we currently have a system down in Brazil and we're building a couple more systems to grow the fleet.
And these things do tend to move around as well so it's kind of hard to pinpoint where they are at any given point in time.
But I'd say from maybe 3 years ago we had 0 systems outside the Gulf of Mexico and today we might have half a dozen.
And I would just add that the North Sea is a very competitive market with low margin so that's not a high priority for us.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</strong> Okay so mostly West Africa I'd assume.
And we hope Australia.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then just on the acquisition market are there any other Norse Cutting acquisitions out there maybe reasonable valuations? Well we would like to hear the other side of the Chinese wall to bring us some but no comment.
Your next question comes from the line of Ed Muztafago from Societe Generale.
I was just wondering if you could talk a little bit -- there's obviously a lot of high-spec rigs coming in and I'm assuming that the ROVs that go on those are higher-margin higher-revenue.
Absent an improvement in ROV pricing is there any reason for us to think that we wouldn't see improvement in margin and revenue per ROV? And then really to that extent with the pricing recovery assuming perhaps the Gulf of Mexico finally gets back to some level of normal activity would you opine that ROV margins possibly go back to the sort of 32% 33% range? First of all I would say that the Gulf of Mexico inactivity has not really affected our pricing.
I mean we just quit working or we were getting paid less because -- kind of a discount on standby sort of thing.
So I think it would be inaccurate to say that the Gulf of Mexico situation has affected our pricing.
In terms of the higher-spec rigs I mean it is true especially for the -- getting into the 4 000-meter capable systems that those ROVs are higher-spec and more costly than others and the price is going to be higher.
Whether the margin is higher is topical with any bid any client.
I don't think you could necessarily assume that margins would perform any differently in terms of growth over time than it again as we've said as it has over the past recent years.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</strong> Sure sure.
I mean I wasn't implying that the Gulf had hampered or hurt pricing but clearly a recovery in the Gulf would materially tighten the market and one would assume that that would lend to a little bit of pricing power.
I think we have a lot more leverage I would say in utilization increases than we do in incremental pricing which tends to be pretty small as a comp and it's just a cumulative thing.
And it's good and we like it and we always try to get it.
But leverage is really in utilization I'd say.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</strong> Sure.
And no opining as to whether you could get back to 32% 33% margin in ROVs? We said when we achieved those that those were pretty lofty accomplishments and we didn't think they were sustainable.
Where you add a lot more high-spec equipment the depreciation component goes up.
I think Kevin has given a very good response to -- in relationship of pricing and utilization.
I think the juice is in the number of days worked.
Right.
And in a really tight market your utilization if it is really high can get you those numbers but that is almost unsustainable except for fairly short periods of time.
I think what we have to see is to get the kind of utilization that guides those sorts of margin is a robust drilling and a robust construction and field maintenance market.
And we haven't seen one of those for quite some time.
So I think we've squeezed as much cost out of it as we can.
And I would expect with higher utilization we'd be seeing more cost pressure on our labor as well.
And so it's a lot of moving pieces and I think the respectable margin of 30.7% is pretty strong.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</strong> Okay fair.
And then just as a second question given what we're seeing in terms of increased offshore activity in Mexico does that present any opportunity for the Products and Projects business -- businesses I should say? I would say that we're always kind of looking at Mexico and it just really hasn't matured to the point where we see it as anything meaningful at this point.
It's still characterized by very shallow-water stuff.
Until they start finding some oil or gas in deeper waters that really plays to our main focus -- but I mean ultimately eventually that is going to happen.
But I'd say it's not going to happen -- I can't see it happening in the next 2 years anyway.
There are no further questions at this time.
Great thank you.
Goodbye everybody.
Thank you very much.
Take care guys.
Have a good day.
Bye-bye.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Christie and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Oceaneering International's Third Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Thank you.
Jack Jurkoshek you may begin your conference.
Thank you.
Good morning everybody.
Thank you for joining us on our 2011 third quarter earnings conference call.
As usual a webcast of this event is being made available through the StreetEvents Network service by Thomson Reuters.
Joining me today are Kevin McEvoy our President and Chief Executive Officer who will be leading the call this morning; Marvin Migura our Executive Vice President; and Cardon Gerner our Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Just as a reminder remarks we make during the course of this call regarding our earnings guidance business strategy plans for future operations and industry conditions are forward-looking statements made pursuant to the Safe Harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
And I'll now going to turn the call over to Kevin.
Good morning and thanks for joining the call.
It's a pleasure to be here with you today.
We are very pleased with our record EPS for the quarter particularly in light of the slow recovery of non-drilling activity in the U.S.
Gulf of Mexico.
Our overall operations performed within expectations and we remain on track to achieve record EPS for the year.
Our third quarter results were highlighted by all-time high quarterly operating income from our ROV and Subsea Products operations.
Given our year-to-date earnings and fourth quarter outlook we are raising our 2011 EPS guidance range to $2.11 to $2.15 from $1.90 to $1.98.
We were initiating 2012 annual EPS guidance with a range of $2.35 to $2.55 as we expect another record earnings year.
For our services and products we anticipate continued international demand growth and a moderate rebound in overall activity in the Gulf of Mexico.
The major determinant of our guidance range spread is the amount of operating income growth we generate from Subsea Projects business.
For Subsea Projects we expect to benefit from a gradual recovery in the Gulf of Mexico during 2012 and a substantial increase in revenue and operating income as a result of an anticipated international expansion for our deepwater vessel project capabilities.
I'll talk more about our 2012 guidance later but first I'd like to review our operations for the third quarter.
As we had anticipated our ROV days on hire and fleet utilization rate improved during the quarter on an increase in demand for international drill support and vessel-based services.
Our days on hire increased to an all-time high of over 19 000 and our fleet utilization was 80% up from 76% last quarter and 73% for the third quarter of 2010.
Segment operating income rose sequentially and year-over-year to a record level.
During the quarter we added 8 systems to our fleet and retired 8.
Our decision to retire such a large number of systems in one quarter was based upon a comprehensive review of the future work prospects of each vehicle and our strategy of operating a modern fleet.
Year-to-date we have added 16 systems to our fleet retired 13 and transferred the use of 1 to ADTECH for non-oilfield use for a net increase of 2 vehicles.
At the end of September we had 262 systems available for operation up 10 from September a year ago.
We now anticipate adding 4 to 6 vehicles in the fourth quarter and expect our year-end fleet size to be 266 to 268 ROVs compared to 260 at the end of 2010.
We do not foresee any retirements in the fourth quarter.
Our fleet mix utilization during September was 75% in drill support and 25% on vessel-based work.
This compares to a 71%-29% mix a year ago and 73% and 27% mix in June of 2011.
At the time of our last earnings call in the U.S.
Gulf of Mexico we were receiving full rates for 26 ROVs on 23 rigs a partial rate for 1 ROV and 0 rate for 1 ROV.
Two of these rigs subsequently left the Gulf one to Egypt the other to Vietnam and we retained the ROV contract to support both of them.
As of yesterday we were on full rate for 25 ROVs on 22 rigs all of which were working at 0 rate for 1 ROV on 1 rig which is not contracted.
There are presently 25 floating rigs available for use in the Gulf of Mexico and we have ROVs on 23 of them.
By the middle of next year there are 5 known additional rigs currently scheduled to come into the Gulf and we have the ROV contracts for all of them.
One is an existing rig and 4 are new builds.
So by mid-2012 we anticipate that there will be at least 30 rigs available for use in the Gulf of Mexico and we expect to have ROVs on 28 of them.
By comparison we had ROVs on 31 of the 36 rigs in the Gulf pre-Macondo.
As permitting becomes more routine we believe additional rigs will be brought into the Gulf.
Just last week there was an announcement of another new build being contracted to work in this area commencing in the fourth quarter of 2012.
We are pursuing the ROV drill support contract for this rig.
Now turning to Subsea Products.
As I indicated earlier we achieved record operating income for this segment during the quarter.
Sequentially operating income rose on profit increases for most of our product lines led by increased sales of valves and Installation and Workover Control Systems or IWOCS services.
Year-over-year the increase in operating was primarily attributable to an increase in umbilical plant throughput and higher valve and tooling sales.
At the end of the quarter our products backlog was $403 million comparable to $405 million at the end of June and $308 million one cents year ago.
The year-over-year increase is attributable to higher backlog for umbilicals tooling and valves.
For Subsea Projects our quarterly results include in gross profit the $18.3 million gain on the sale of the Ocean Legend.
While we appreciate the gain on the sale of the Ocean Legend as a nonrecurring item I personally want to thank the individuals who made this happen.
There are a lot of ways to exit a business line and adding $18.3 million of operating income is one of the best ways I know.
I applaud their effort and the result.
Absent this gain third quarter operating income performance was sequentially slightly higher due to additional diving demand.
Year-over-year Subsea Projects' operating income declined as a result of lower demand and pricing for deepwater vessels and shallow water diving services.
And lastly our other expenses for the quarter was primarily due to foreign currency exchange losses.
In summary our third quarter operating results were in line with our expectations and we are looking forward to realizing another year of record EPS performance in 2011.
Our focus on providing products and services for deepwater and subsea completions positions us to participate in a major secular growth trend in the oilfield services and products industry.
We are pleased with our cash flow generation as demonstrated by $148 million of EBITDA during the quarter.
Capital expenditures for the quarter totaled about $50 million of which $31 million was invested in ROVs and $12 million was spent in Subsea Projects primarily on the Ocean Patriot renovation and the third saturation diving system.
We now expect our CapEx for the year to be around $280 million of which about $54 million is related to acquisitions.
During the quarter we also purchased 500 000 shares of our common stock at a cost of approximately $17.5 million and we paid $16.2 million in cash dividends.
At the end of September we had $166 million of cash and no debt.
Now let's talk about our outlook.
For the fourth quarter of 2011 we are projecting EPS in the range of $0.48 to $0.52 up from $0.44 last year.
With the exception of Subsea Projects we are expecting year-over-year quarterly operating income improvements from the rest of our business segments led by an increase from ROVs.
Subsea Projects results for the fourth quarter are expected to be lower.
This decline is attributable to the current weak market conditions in the Gulf of Mexico and the fact that we benefited last year from unseasonably high demand for our services on projects that have been delayed from the summer due to the Macondo well incident.
Sequentially we expect quarterly operating income improvement from ROVs and operating income declines from the rest of our business segments.
Part of the declines can be attributable to normal seasonality and the Subsea Products decline is mostly due to project timing.
Looking forward to 2012 we are initiating EPS guidance for the range of $2.35 to $2.55 based on an average of 109 million diluted shares and an estimated tax rate of 31.5%.
We have not completed our planning process but the big picture of the annual 2012 versus 2011 changes we envision can be summarized as follows.
ROV operating income is projected to grow on the strength of an increase in days on hire as we benefit from an increase in demand off West Africa and in the Gulf of Mexico and continue to expand our fleet.
We anticipate adding 15 to 20 vehicles in our fleet in 2012 and retiring 4 to 6.
For West Africa we are anticipating an increase in ROV demand for both drill support and vessel-based services in 2012 compared to 2011.
For the Gulf of Mexico we are projecting an increase in ROV demand for drill support services.
We are encouraged by the recent pace of new deepwater well permitting by the BOEM and anticipate this trend will continue.
We are projecting that for 2012 our days on hire will increase and that our fleet utilization rate will improve to 80% or more.
Subsea Products' operating income is forecasted to be higher on the strength of higher tooling sales and increase throughput at our umbilical plants.
We do foresee a very challenging Gulf of Mexico umbilical market for our Panama City plant due to the aftereffect of the drilling moratorium in 2010 and '11.
Subsea Projects' operating profit is expected to improve substantially on international expansion of our deepwater vessel project capabilities.
We are also anticipating a gradual recovery in demand for our shallow water diving and deepwater vessel services in the Gulf of Mexico.
We are in discussions to undertake a multiyear international project that will allow us to expand our deepwater vessel project capabilities outside the Gulf of Mexico.
If we secure this work an appropriate press release detailing the award will be issued after we obtain customer approval.
Given our lack of visibility for 2012 projects in the Gulf of Mexico we are forecasting a gradual recovery in demand for our services in this area.
The recovery we anticipate is particularly for saturation diving projects that may require the use of our new Ocean Patriot vessel.
Whether we win the international services contract or not and the degree to which the Gulf of Mexico activity recovers are major determinants of our EPS guidance range spread.
Our Inspection segment profit contribution is forecast to be slightly higher on increased global service sales.
Advanced Technologies' performance is expected to increase primarily due to improved operating efficiencies and profitability on U.S.
Navy surface vessels overhaul work and higher demand for submarine repairs.
Unallocated expenses are estimated to be slightly higher.
At the midpoint of our guidance range we would expect our overall operating margin in 2012 to be about 16% up from what we are anticipating for 2011 and about the same as it was in 2010.
Based on our preliminary numbers we are not anticipating any big changes in our segment operating margins in 2012 compared to 2011.
During 2012 we anticipate generating at least $525 million of EBITDA.
Our balance sheet and projected cash flow provide us with ample resources to invest in Oceaneering's growth.
Our preliminary CapEx estimate for next year excluding acquisitions is $200 million to $225 million.
Of this amount approximately $125 million is anticipated to be spent on vehicle upgrades and adding systems to our ROV fleet.
About $75 million is for Subsea Products to support our umbilical tooling IWOCS and Houston manufacturing operations.
Our focus in 2012 as it was this year will be on earnings growth and investment opportunities both organically and through acquisitions.
We are not presently going to give more detailed guidance information on 2012 and are not providing quarterly earnings guidance for next year at this time.
For those of you who intend to publish quarterly estimates I'd like to remind you that historically our first quarter is the lowest of the year due to seasonality and that we tend to have higher earnings in the second half of the year as compared to the first half.
Looking forward to 2012 and beyond we are convinced that our strategy to focus on providing services and products to facilitate deepwater exploration and production remains sound.
We believe the oil and gas industry will continue to invest in deepwater as it remains one of the best frontiers for adding large hydrocarbon reserves with high production flow rates at relatively low finding and development costs.
Therefore we anticipate the demand for our deepwater services and products will continue to rise and believe our business prospects for the next several years are promising.
Others must share this belief.
At the end of the quarter there were 74 new floating rigs on order.
59 of these rigs are planned to be available by the end of 2013.
37 have been contracted long term for an average of over 8 years.
Three more floaters have been ordered since then with 2014 shipyard delivery dates.
Of the 37 contracted floating rigs operators have let ROV contracts on 19 and we have won 8.
So that leaves 58 ROV contracting opportunities for new rigs left to be pursued of which 18 have operator contracts and 40 do not.
If all of the rigs on order are placed into service the global floating rig fleet size will grow 28% to 349 rigs.
The high-spec fleet consisting of fifth- and sixth-generation semis and dynamically positioned drill ships which currently totals 104 rigs will grow nearly 75%.
We historically have had a high market share on the high-spec rigs and are currently on 75% of them.
Looking forward we see no reason why we will not continue to be the dominant provider of ROV services on these units.
As the use of floating rigs grows we believe it is inevitable that discoveries will eventually drive orders for subsea hardware to levels not previously experienced and demand for ROVs to support vessel-based activities will follow.
Quest Offshore's latest subsea hardware forecast for the period 2011 to 2015 includes a 33% increase in tree orders over the previous 5 years.
In 2012 subsea tree orders are projected to be 561 an all-time high eclipsing the previous record of 462 trees in 2006.
While we don't make trees orders for subsea trees do drive demand for a substantial amount of ancillary subsea production hardware that we manufacture.
For example Quest is forecasting a 52% increase in umbilical orders for the 2011 to 2015 period.
Furthermore renewed industry and regulatory emphasis on safe and reliable operations is providing us additional opportunities to demonstrate our capabilities.
With our existing assets we are well positioned to supply a wide range of the services and products required to support the safe deepwater efforts of our customers.
We believe Oceaneering's business prospects for the long term remain promising.
Our commanding competitive position technology leadership and strong balance sheet and cash flow enable us to continue to grow the company and we intend to do so.
In summary our results continue to demonstrate our ability to generate excellent earnings and cash flow.
We believe our business strategy is working well for both the short and the long term.
We like our competitive position in the 2011-2012 oilfield services market.
Our technology gives us the ability to prosper in challenging times.
We are leveraged to what we believe will be an inevitable resumption in growth of deepwater and subsea completion activity.
The longer term market outlook for our deepwater and subsea service and product offering remains favorable.
The renewed industry and regulatory emphasis on reliable equipment and redundant safety features of deepwater operations is causing our customers to be even more focused on risk reduction.
This elevates the importance of the utility and reliability of our ROV services and related product lines and reinforces the benefit of our value sell.
For 2011 we are anticipating that we will achieve another record year of EPS performance and that 2012 will be even better.
We think this distinguishes Oceaneering from many other oilfield service company.
We appreciate everyone's interest in Oceaneering.
I'll now be happy to take any questions you may have.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Brad Handler with Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of topics based on your comments please.
I'd love to understand I guess the first thing on that multiyear project potential that you referred to in projects.
Would that relate -- would there be a new build involved if you were to win that work? Or would that be about repositioning assets out of the Gulf? There would not be a new build.
It would be about repositioning an asset from the Gulf of Mexico.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then my follow-up question relates to products.
I guess I'd love a sense from you.
You've had some nice movers in 2011 relating to ROV tooling for example not your only driver of growth I guess but an important one.
Where do you think you are in that process of growth? Is there a -- does it -- do you have enough of your ROV tooling packages on rental already so that there's sort of a -- it starts to flatten out? Or is there continued opportunity to put more into the marketplace? And is that part of the growth driver for '12? Well I think it's an across-the-segment issue here.
I mean there a lot of moving pieces to this but we generally see favorable demand growth compared to what it has been for next year.
And I think it would be hard to pin it on any one piece of that segment particularly.
And I do think that Brad for tooling we will benefit from the full year acquisition of NCA.
Research Division</strong> Sure.
Okay.
All right.
So that's helpful and steering me kind of more broadly.
Presumably it includes IWOCS and further international expansion on that score.
Again is there optimism about actually adding more systems and pushing further into West African market for example? There is optimism about expanding the IWOCS business but I would say that on its own that is not a material driver.
It is something that we're constantly trying to do and over time it does add up.
But in the short term it's probably not a huge needle mover there.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So maybe I should ask it in the reverse.
Acknowledging that it's across the board is there something you would point to as being the most influential piece? Is it the full year of NCA since you point that out for me Marvin? Is that how I should be thinking of it? No I think you should be thinking of it as pretty broad based.
I think as Kevin pointed out we should have more umbilical throughput.
But we do have a very challenged Panama City plan because if you're not drilling and especially if the independents aren't drilling currently then you don't see much homegrown Gulf of Mexico umbilical demand.
And so while we see global demand picking up short-term 2012 Panama City plant is going to be seeking work outside the Gulf of Mexico because of low project visibility.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Fair enough.
Maybe I can steal one more.
Can you give a little color around the ROV margin in the quarter and sort of expectations for how that progresses over the next couple of quarters? Let me look.
I think what we said is we don't expect any change in our -- material change in our margins and we looked at 30% for the operating margin in the third quarter compared to 31% and we've been saying that we think it will be around 30% all year.
So no I think that performed very much in line with our expectations.
Your next question comes from the line of James Crandell with Dahlman Rose.
LLC Research Division</strong> My first question is also about the ROV business.
Could you comment Kevin on the effect of margins on this what seems to be meaningful change in your fleet? You're retiring you've upped your retirements.
You're putting more of your ROVs on sort of ultra-deepwater rigs coming out of the yard.
It would seem that that combination should have a positive effect on margins or no? Yes I mean the ones that we are retiring have not really been contributing in the recent past which is one of the reasons that we're retiring them also in light of the cost that would be involved in trying to upgrade them to make them usable in today's market.
The -- even though we are the price leader there is still constant pressure on pricing from our customers.
We are increasing day rates over time generally consistent with increasing costs of the new capital equipment for deeper water and higher specifications that are coming out.
But I would not say that there has been great opportunity to increase margins.
Jim just to give some color on that.
Of the 8 systems that we retired in the third quarter 5 of them had not worked in the past 12 months and 2 of them had only worked a little bit in the first half of 2011.
LLC Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
If you -- and maybe you gave this number if I missed it.
But what percentage of ROVs have you won this year? What's your -- is your market share in line with historical averages in terms of your win rate in ROV contracts? Well during the quarter 9 jobs were awarded and we won 4.
Of the 5 we did not win one went to Cuba.
One ROV contract was awarded to a local Nigerian company and 3 went to Subsea 7 one for Petrobras and 2 for Statoil.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
So this year as a whole then your market share would be less than what it has been historically.
And why do you think that is? Just a mix of customers that are ordering the ROVs has changed somewhat? Well of the list that I just gave you there I mean you could say mix was partly responsible.
But as I said earlier pricing is still a major issue in all things offshore.
And I think as we are seeing some pricing pressure and some companies are going to ultimately try a lower priced alternative and see how it works out.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just one question about the umbilical business if I could.
I think you mentioned that the international businesses has improved and the Panama City plant suffering from weak activity in the Gulf of Mexico.
I mean are the international businesses up to margins and levels of profitability that you would consider to be adequate right now? I mean this has been sort of the drag on the segment's earnings for maybe the last 3 years or so but it seems to me that umbilical profitability overall has been improving and led by the international side.
Is there -- can that business now be "healthy" and the only real issue is the Panama City plant? Well I think that -- let's talk about the international market first.
I think there are still huge overcapacity in the market.
Pricing is still very tight.
I think that what we've seen is improved execution on our side for one thing.
And secondly I think we've been a little more successful more recently than we have been say 2 3 years ago.
But I mean we are encouraged by the direction the market is heading.
And for example if Petrobras sticks to their procurement plans we could expect 18 24-month time frame to see things tighten up there in terms of local capacity versus Petrobras demand.
They do have a history of inviting others in though when it gets to that point in their supply chain.
So we'll see what happens there but that's the way we would characterize it.
There's still a lot of overcapacity and so pricing is tight.
I mean we are happier today with that business than we were 2 years ago that is for sure.
With regard to the Panama City plant I mean the Gulf of Mexico a reasonable amount of our business in the past has been with independents as Marvin alluded to you earlier and they have pretty much been absent from the drilling scene for sometime now.
And that is really the source of short term single-well tie-back opportunities that benefit our business here.
While there is some optimism regarding larger deeper water developments here right now those are several year lead time ideas.
And so it's not a short-term deal.
LLC Research Division</strong> And then in the quarter that you recorded this morning at least versus my estimates your revenues were quite a bit stronger than what I would have anticipated but your margins were lower.
Is that because of a shift in the mix toward umbilicals in the quarter? I think it was a shift in products in general and yes umbilical specifically.
Yes umbilicals usually drives that.
Your next question comes from the line of Michael Marino with Stephens Inc.
Research Division</strong> If I could just follow up on the Q3 margin question.
I guess products was kind of flat sequentially maybe up a little bit and you guys noted high IWOCS and valve sales.
Is there anything about the IWOCS margins that's changed? Or was it the valve mix maybe and the umbilical mix weighing on the margins of that group? Well there's been no change on IWOCS side.
So I mean it really is a lot of moving pieces in this segment.
And so it's hard to draw any major conclusion other than umbilicals generally have lower margin than the rest of the subsegments there and that will affect that margin.
And Michael we've been saying high teens is what we expect and 19% is about as high as you can get within that range so we're pretty pleased with a 19% margin.
And I mean year-to-date we're at 18% and I think everything in products is really unfolding as we expected or perhaps a little bit better.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Fair enough.
And just as a follow up the international project you all referenced in the guidance of being a swing factor does that have potential pull-through into the products group? And if so is that something you've kind of baked into the guidance? Or is it maybe something that develops later in the project or next year? I think that first of all we have baked into our guidance whatever we see coming from that.
Secondly aside from ROV tooling which generally goes with that kind of work we would not expect to have any other product pull-through.
Your next question comes from the line of Jon Donnel with Howard Weil.
Research Division</strong> Trying to size up a little bit your commentary around sort of the gradual recovery in the Gulf of Mexico on the project side.
I know it's been a number of quarters since we've probably had anything that's resembling normal activity levels there.
But should I be thinking about this that you maybe like a first quarter '10 is something of a normalized state here absent any incremental hurricane work that may come in the future and realizing there's some seasonality obviously between the quarters as well? Jon I mean it's really -- the first part of it it's been a long time since we've seen anything normal.
So it's really hard to gauge that.
Kevin did say that first quarter '10 had and Q4 of -- well let's see '10 still had some hurricane work and into Q1.
Right.
Not significant.
Not significant.
But it's not probably not far off from normal but we haven't looked at it that way.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Well that's helpful at least to just get sort of a general size of it.
And then in terms of the ROV demand in the Gulf of Mexico I thought I heard you say that that was -- the growth in '12 versus '11 was going to be purely drill support and I didn't hear anything about vessel or construction side of that business.
Did I hear that correctly? And I guess is there any thoughts that there could be some recovery on that side of the business as well and maybe help those ROV utilizations as we go forward? And I guess why would that be different for the ROVs versus the projects? Okay.
Well I mean first of all the ROV comment also included West Africa.
We did note that there are going to -- expected to be if the schedules hold 5 additional rigs coming to the Gulf of Mexico.
So that I think is that piece of it.
And I think the vessel-based ROV part really pretty much mirrors our expectations for the projects business.
We just have just little visibility on that at this point in time.
So that's why there is the caution about that.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's fair enough.
I guess I just misconstrued those comments a bit.
And then finally just regarding the share repurchases.
Is this something that was just more opportunistic during the quarter? Is it something you're looking to maybe be more systematic as we go through 2012 given the free cash flow that you all are projecting to be getting into in 2012? It was opportunistic.
Your next question comes from the line of Joe Gibney with Capital One.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of questions on segment-related detail on your '12 guidance.
I was curious about Inspection.
I know you indicated it will be heading slightly higher next year and this segment often kind of gets pushed into the rug a little bit versus the other ones.
But '11 is shaping up very nicely as kind of a plus 20% year-over-year growth in op income.
Just kind of curious how '12 is shaping I mean indicating slightly higher.
Is it continued growth just moderating growth? Can you touch a little bit about some of the drivers of that business? Well it's continuing moderate growth.
I mean this really is a combination of 2 big pieces if you will U.K.
and North Sea activity and then other areas international where there's a focus on topsides inspection activity.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Helpful.
And then just following up on the previous question about Gulf of Mexico the gradual recovery within projects.
On the shallow water side trying to understand are you sort of seeing this more as a function of SAT diving and Ocean Patriot contributing more and sort of gradual underlying improvement elsewhere? Just trying to get a sense of diving pricing now as it stands in 3Q obviously still challenged the permitting outlook getting a little bit better.
But I mean shallow water diving outlook I guess in the next year is it really more a function of your asset mix or are things constructively getting a little bit better? Well I think generally the market has been slowed down because of lack of permitting for non-drilling kind of projects.
We do see that starting to improve.
However at this point in time there's still a lot of capacity in the market and pricing is down.
And so it's a question of how much demand is going to come next year that will allow pricing to tighten up and to get back to some better margins.
We do believe that there's going to be some opportunity for this DP2 saturation diving vessel that will be available for the market for next season.
Your next question comes from the line of Tom Curran with Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just following up on a few of the lines of questioning that have already been started.
Starting with Subsea Projects.
The vessel that you're considering relocating for this opportunity is that a shallow water or deepwater vessel? It would be a deepwater vessel.
LLC Research Division</strong> And how many of those do you have in the Gulf? And of those how many are currently working and how many do you consider eligible for these types of redeployments? Well we have 4 and probably eligible for deployment would be 2.
But there is also the opportunity of providing charter vessels on projects as well.
And so it's not just a solely a question of moving whatever we currently have someplace else.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And those 4 what percentage of 3Q revenues do they account for? We don't give that level of detail.
LLC Research Division</strong> How about just sort of a rough recent run rate utilization wise? We don't give that out either.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
But fair to say that...
It's been low.
It's fair to say that it's been low because we've been talking about a challenged Gulf of Mexico non-drill support market.
LLC Research Division</strong> Right.
Okay.
Fair enough.
Turning to DTS.
Is there any percentage of the post-Macondo BOP stack related spending that was sort of at a temporary high that you're assuming drops off in 2012? From -- compared to 2011? No.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
So the level of the BOP related-spending you're at right now is for the most part expected to be a sustained run rate into 2012? Yes.
As we have said previously the majority of what we are doing in this particular area are rental items and so we're expecting that to be over a longer term deal there.
LLC Research Division</strong> And are any of those assets on the equivalent of term contracts? And if so could you give us an indication of the percentage of the assets? No.
I mean we're really getting into -- really subsegment and one kind of tool rental so equipment rental.
I don't think of much of our equipment at Oceaneering as being on term contracts that you can book as firm backlog.
As you know most of our ROVs have pretty easy termination for convenience.
Yes it really -- this kind of equipment matches the ROV contracts.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
I'll finish with an easy one and I apologize if you've already shared about it but I don't think you have.
Please just update us on how many of the floater new built in the Q have yet to award initial ROV contracts and then your sense of those rigs that haven't -- the percentage that are likely going to Brazil.
We got that.
We're just trying to find it in the remarks here so.
Okay.
As of the end of September there were 74 floating rigs on order and 3 more have been ordered since then.
And we currently estimate...
Keep going with that...
There's 58 ROV we said in our opening remarks 58 that are current opportunities.
I think 40 of them have no operator contract and the remainder do have contracts and we are diligently following up on every one of those.
Your next question comes from the line of Andrea Sharkey with Gabelli &amp; Company.
Inc.</strong> I was just wondering if maybe you could update us on your outlook for potential acquisitions.
You've got net cash on the balance sheet.
I know it's something you guys have always been looking to do but matter of trying to get things at a good price.
Has that market improved at all? And then maybe remind us again what sort of products or product lines you would be most interested in.
Okay.
Well I mean we are always looking for viable acquisition candidates and we can't give too much more color on it other than that.
I mean we in the recent past have been successful in finding fairly small-ish candidates.
I'd say that generally speaking anything in the offshore subsea deepwater market niche is pretty highly valued and priced and that further complicates the opportunity to find something that a fits with what we want to do; and b is economically viable.
So I can't say much more about it other than that but other than that we are constantly looking and hope to continue to be able to make some acquisitions and we'd love to be able to make some larger ones if we could.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
Great.
And then just one more for me on the outlook for the umbilical saying more throughput in those plants and better plant utilization.
Is that based on things that you've already booked and that you know you have? Or is it based on a number of projects that you sort of see coming down the line? And maybe give us a sense of what that split could be.
Well it is based on what we see as opportunities in the marketplace today that we are trying to secure.
And I don't think I could give you a breakdown of backlog versus what we think out there or whatever.
I couldn't do that.
Your next question comes from the line of Victor Marchon with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> First is on the projects and the international contract that you guys are pursuing right now just wanted to get a sense from how you guys are thinking about it.
Is this something that we can think about as being a first step and then more permanent international beachhead versus previously where you've done work with a vessel and then brought it back to the Gulf? Is this something where you could -- where you think that again would be more of a permanent move where we'll see additional work in this area over the next 2 3 4 5 years? Well we hope so.
I mean we did indicate that this would be a several year project to contract.
And I think that this is -- I would think -- think about this as a niche market kind of endeavor.
I mean there's a very broad market out there for vessel-based construction services and that sort of thing.
And I wouldn't go anywhere near that with this.
But we do believe that there are additional opportunities of a like nature that could be available and we're going to be actively pursuing those as they arrive.
LLC Research Division</strong> Great.
And the second one I had just on bidding activity for the umbilical business.
I just want to get a sense given the uncertainty on the macro side the last couple of months just wanted to get your thoughts on the level of bidding activity that you guys have seen since the second quarter call and how you see that progressing as we get into 2012.
Well bidding activity has been very high particularly Brazil and for our site plants which is really geared towards the North Sea and West Africa.
So it has been very high for those particular areas there and we see that continuing into 2012 at the moment.
Your next question comes from the line of Mike Urban with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> I think most of my questions have been answered.
Just want to be clear.
I think you've -- we're pretty clear on this.
I just want to make sure I got this entirely correct.
The potential international project is something that's baked into the high end of the guidance range? That is correct.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then unrelated in Brazil you had kind of a lower market share than you've enjoyed elsewhere in the world and part of that has been kind of getting them to buy into the value proposition.
There was an incident down there where you had a significant amount of downtime on a rig because of an issue with the ROV.
Has that helped at all in your discussions with the customer down there or too early to tell? I would not anticipate any major shift in Petrobras' acquisition policies.
But I mean you can only hope that that would be helpful at some point in time.
But I don't see any major shift coming from Petrobras.
Your final question comes from the line of John Lawrence with Tudor Pickering Holt.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just one more on Brazil just on the product side.
If you exclude umbilicals can you just kind of talk about the opportunity down there? Is it still very competitive? Or it sounds like the body language might be pretty positive.
It is very competitive in Brazil.
And in Petrobras does a pretty good job of pitting every competitor against each other to get the lowest pricing.
In addition they are going through the changes that I guess are more or less expected of an economy like this where they're demanding more and more local content both in terms of personnel which we've always been very good on but also in terms of equipment.
And so if you provide anything supply anything make anything there's a penalty in one way or another if it is not done in Brazil.
Now the problem with that generally is that there's not a lot available of the right quality and whatnot.
So it makes it very challenging and introduces risk into projects just in its own right.
I mean that is slowly changing and of course over time that won't be a big problem.
But in the short term it's a very challenging market.
And they change the rules.
The government changes the rules fairly regularly so you've got to be on your toes all the time ready to change.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just clarifying a housekeeping item here.
Fleet utilization for 2012 you said 80% on the ROV side? 80% or more.
There are no further questions at this time.
All right.
Thanks everybody for your attention.
Appreciate it.
Take care.
Bye-bye.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning my name is Jessica and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the 2011 fourth quarter and annual earnings conference call.
[Operator Instructions] Thank you.
Jack Jurkoshek you may begin your conference.
Thank you Jessica.
Good morning everybody.
Thanks for joining us on our 2011 fourth quarter and year-end earnings call.
As usual a webcast of this event is being made available to the StreetEvents Network service by Thomson Reuters.
Joining me today are Kevin McEvoy our President and Chief Executive Officer who will be leading the call; Marvin Migura our Executive Vice President; and Cardon Gerner our Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Just as a reminder remarks that we make during the course of this call regarding our earnings guidance business strategy plans for future operations and industry conditions are forward-looking statements made pursuant to the Safe Harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
And I'm now going to turn the call over to Kevin.
Good morning and thanks for joining the call.
It is a pleasure to be here today.
But before I get into my customary opening remarks I'd like to summarize 3 key points addressed in our earnings release.
First 2011 was a record earnings year for Oceaneering.
Second we are expecting an even better 2012 and are not changing our previously announced EPS guidance range for the year of $2.45 to $2.65.
And third we are initiating first quarter 2012 EPS guidance of $0.44 to $0.46.
We recognize that may appear a little light to some of you.
At this time of the year we always seem to need to remind the investment community of the seasonality of our business especially in the Gulf of Mexico and the North Sea.
We usually earn about 19% of our net income in the first quarter and 45% in the first half of the year.
Our first quarter guidance is consistent with our historical quarterly earnings distribution.
Now for my opening remarks.
Our 2011 earnings of over $235 million and EPS of $2.16 were the highest in Oceaneering's history.
These were notable accomplishments particularly in light of regulatory-constrained activity the U.S.
Gulf of Mexico.
This performance was largely attributable to our global focus on deepwater and Subsea completion activity.
Our results were highlighted by best-ever operating income from our ROV and Subsea Products segments.
At $484 million our 2011 EBITDA was also a record high.
In May we initiated the regular quarterly dividend of $0.15 per common share to return a portion of our earnings to our shareholders which underscores our confidence in Oceaneering's financial strength and future business prospects.
We believe this will not compromise our ability to pursue organic growth and acquisition opportunities to expand Oceaneering's asset base and earnings capability.
In fact during the year we continue to fund these opportunities at a record-setting pace.
Our 2011 capital expenditures of about $525 million were nearly 2.5x what we invested on average during each of the previous 5 years.
Our investment in acquisitions is at around $290 million was 3x what we spent in total on acquisitions during the 2006 through 2010 period.
In addition to our capital expenditures during 2011 we repurchased 500 000 shares of our common stock for $17.5 million and paid $48.7 million of common stock dividends.
Our balance sheet remained conservatively capitalized.
At year end we had over $100 million of cash $120 million of debt $180 million available under our revolving credit facility and $1.6 billion of equity.
We are forecasting our 2012 EPS to be in the range of $2.45 to $2.65 up 18% at the midpoint over 2011 as we expect another record earnings year.
For our services and products we anticipate continued international demand growth and a moderate rebound in overall activity in the Gulf of Mexico.
The price of Oceaneering stock rose by 25% during 2011.
We believe this was in recognition of our record financial performance actions we took to enhance shareholder value and our future business prospects.
Our share price percentage increase was larger than any of the other companies in the OSX which by comparison declined 12%.
Our annual year end share price change has outperformed the OSX in 8 of the past 10 years.
Over this decade our stock price has increased on average 32% per year twice that of the OSX.
During 2011 our market capitalization reached $5 billion.
This was a great way to start my tenure as President and CEO and I recognize and thank our employees who made this possible.
Their commitment to safely provide high-quality solutions to our customers' needs is the foundation for our continued success.
I'd now like to review our operations for the fourth quarter.
Our overall fourth quarter EPS result was slightly above our guidance range on the strength of higher-than-forecast demand for our diving and deepwater vessel services in the Gulf of Mexico.
EPS of $0.54 for the fourth quarter of 2011 was 23% above that of the fourth quarter of 2010 largely due to improvements in ROV and Subsea Products operating income.
Year-over-year fourth quarter ROV operating income rose by over $10 million or 21% on a 12% increase in days on hire and an 8% increase in operating income per day on hire.
The increase in operating income per day on hire was attributable to a favorable change in geographic mix.
About 75% of the growth in days on hire occurred in the Gulf of Mexico and West Africa both of which are high rate and margin areas of operation.
Our fleet utilization overall improved from 73% to 79%.
We achieved operating income growth in all of the major market areas in which we operate led by an improvement in the Gulf of Mexico.
During the quarter we put 5 vehicles into service.
Our fleet mix usage during the fourth quarter was 79% in drill support and 21% on vessel-based work.
At the time of our last earnings call in the U.S.
Gulf of Mexico we were receiving full rates for 25 ROVs on 22 rigs all of which were working and 0 rate on one ROV on one rig which was not contracted.
As of yesterday we were on full rate for 29 ROVs on 25 rigs all of which were working.
There are presently 26 floating rigs available for use in the Gulf and we have ROVs on all but one of them.
There are 8 known additional rigs currently scheduled to come into the Gulf by the middle of this year and we have the ROV contracts for 6 of the 8.
2 are existing rigs and 6 our new builds.
So by mid-2012 we anticipate there will be 34 rigs available for use in the Gulf of Mexico and we expect to have ROVs on 31 of them.
By comparison we have ROVs on 31 of the 36 rigs in the Gulf pre-Macondo.
There have been announcements of another 2 new build deepwater rigs being contracted to work on this area commencing in the fourth quarter of 2012.
We have secured the ROV drill support contract for one of these rigs and are pursuing the other.
Now turning to Subsea Products.
Year-over-year fourth quarter operating income increased by $5 million or 16% on better umbilical plant throughput higher installation and work over control systems services and growth in demand for our subsea hardware and tooling.
As for the remaining business operations for the fourth quarter year-over-year Asset Integrity operating income improved on higher international demand for our services.
Advanced Technologies operating income rose on higher demand to perform engineering services for the U.S.
Navy and an increase in Department of Defense manufacturing projects.
Subsea Projects operating income declined due to lower demand for our services in the Gulf of Mexico.
In late December we acquired for $220 million AGR Field Operations Holdings a provider of Asset Integrity Maintenance Subsea Engineering and Field Operation Services primarily to the oil and gas industry.
AGR FO will significantly increase our Asset Integrity business particularly in Norway and provides us subsea inspection tooling we can offer in other geographic markets.
As a result of this acquisition we increased our 2012 EPS guidance range by $0.10 per share.
Also in December we secured a 3-year field support vessel services contract from BP for work offshore Angola which commenced on the 1st of February 2012.
Under the contract project management engineering and 2 chartered vessels each equipped with 2 Oceaneering work class ROVs and associated tooling will be supplied.
This contract represents a significant geographic expansion with considerable backlog for our Subsea Projects business.
The expected impact of the work we will be performing under this contact was included in our 2012 EPS guidance at the time of our last earnings call.
While the contract started at the beginning of this month the scope of work performed will expand gradually during the first half of the year.
I'd now like to review our operations for the year.
Our 2011 annual EPS increase was highlighted by record operating income performances from our ROV and Subsea Products businesses.
Year-over-year our ROV operating income rose for the eighth consecutive year to nearly $225 million up $13 million despite lower demand in the Gulf of Mexico for vessel-based services.
This was accomplished by increasing our days on hire to nearly 73 000.
We're quite proud of this accomplishment.
During the year we grew our fleet to 267 vehicles up from 260 at the beginning of the year.
We added 24 vehicles retired 16 older systems and transferred the use of one to our Advanced Technologies business unit for non-oilfield use.
In 2011 29 new floating drilling rigs were placed in service and we had ROVs on 12 of them with 2 on 2 rigs for a total of 14 vehicles.
At year-end we estimate that we continue to be the largest ROV owner with 35% of the industry's world-class vehicles 2/3 more than the size of the next largest ROV fleet.
We remain the primary provider of ROV drill support service with an estimated market share of 60% 3 times that of the second largest supplier.
Operating margin declined at 30% from 32% in 2010 due to a reduction in work in the Gulf of Mexico.
Our Subsea Products operating income increased by nearly $34 million or 37% to a record $142 million.
This was accomplished on better umbilical plant throughput higher installation work over control systems services and growth in demand for our subsea hardware and tooling.
Operating margin declined 18% from 20% in 2010 due to a change in product mix.
Umbilical revenue as a percent of our total products revenue in 2011 was 35% compared to around 30% in 2010.
Our year-end Subsea Products backlog of $382 million was nearly the same as at the end of 2010.
The product line mix of the backlog did change as it now notably includes more tooling and less umbilicals.
While our umbilical backlog declined year-over-year we are confident that we should secure the necessary contracts which are awarded intermittently to meet our 2012 plan for this product outline.
Asset Integrity operating income improved in 2011 on the strength of higher service demand in Europe and Central Asia.
AdTech results were similar to those of 2010 and Subsea Projects profit decreased due to lower demand for our services in the Gulf of Mexico.
In summary we believe our annual 2011 earnings performance and cash generation were excellent particularly in light of the weak market conditions for our non-drill support offerings in the Gulf of Mexico.
During the year we continue to invest for the company's future earnings capability.
Our capital expenditures totaled about $525 million of which around $290 million was for acquisitions including $220 million in December for AGR FO and $50 million in March for Norse Cutting and Abandonment.
Our organic growth investments totaled approximately $235 million which included upgrading and expanding our ROV fleet and completing the conversion of the Ocean Patriot to a dynamically-positioned saturation diving vessel.
We also made investments in ROV tooling Installation and Workover Control Systems equipment and modifications to increase throughput at our Brazil umbilical manufacturing facility.
Now let's talk about our 2012 EPS outlook.
Looking forward we are reaffirming our 2012 EPS guidance with a range of $2.45 to $2.65 based on an average of 109 million diluted shares and an estimated tax rate of 31.5%.
The big picture of the annual 2012 versus 2011 changes we envision occurring could be summarized as follows: ROV operating income is projected to grow on the strength of an increase in days on hire as we benefit from an increase in demand off West Africa and in the Gulf of Mexico and continued to expand our fleet.
We anticipate adding 20 to 25 vehicles to our fleet in 2012 and retiring from 4 to 6.
For West Africa we are anticipating an increase in ROV demand for both drill support and vessel-based services in 2012 compared to 2011.
For the Gulf of Mexico we are projecting an increase in ROV demand for drill support services as more rigs go to work in this area.
We're projecting that for 2012 our days on hire will increase and then our fleet utilization rate will improve to 80% or more.
Subsea Products operating income is forecast to be higher on the strength of higher tooling sales and increased throughput at our umbilical plants.
We do foresee a challenging Gulf of Mexico umbilical market for our Panama City plant due to the aftereffects of the drilling moratorium in 2010 and 2011.
Subsea Projects profit is expected to improve on an international expansion of our deepwater vessel project capabilities to work for BP offshore Angola and a gradual recovery in the Gulf of Mexico.
Our Asset Integrity segment profit contribution is forecast to be significantly higher due to the contribution of the newly-acquired operations and increased use of associated subsea technology and tools.
Advanced Technologies performance is expected to increase mainly due to an increase in entertainment projects and improved execution on U.S.
Navy vessel service work.
Unallocated expenses are estimated to be slightly higher.
At the midpoint of our guidance range we would expect our overall operating margin in 2012 to be about 15% the same as it was in 2011.
We're expecting Subsea Projects margin will substantially decline in 2012 as 2011 results include the $18-plus million gain on the sale of the Ocean Legend.
Excluding this gain we are anticipating Subsea Projects margin in 2012 will improve over that of 2011.
We are not anticipating any big changes in the rest of our segment operating margins in 2012 compared to 2011.
It does seem likely however the ROV margin may improve somewhat as the result of more activity in the Gulf of Mexico and higher fleet utilization overall.
Subsea Products margin may be slightly lower due to expected change in product mix.
For 2012 we anticipate generating over $550 million of EBITDA.
Our balance sheet and projected cash flow provide us with ample resources to invest in Oceaneering's growth.
Our preliminary CapEx estimate for next year excluding acquisitions is $200 million to $225 million.
Of this amount approximately $125 million is anticipated to be spent on vehicle upgrades and adding systems to our fleet about $75 million is for enhancing our Subsea Products' capabilities.
Our focus on 2012 will be on earnings growth and investment opportunities both organically and through acquisitions.
Moving on to our first quarter outlook our EPS guidance range is $0.44 to $0.46.
This is consistent with the fact that our first quarter earnings are customarily lower than the fourth quarter of the previous year.
At the midpoint this would equate to 18% of the $2.55 midpoint of our annual guidance range.
This is within our historical first quarter percentage range.
Over the last 10 years we have averaged 19% of our earnings in the first quarter with the typical band of 17% to 21% for any particular year.
Our first quarter 2012 guidance at the midpoint is up 15% compared to the first quarter of 2011.
We expect all of our business segments to achieve higher operating income led by a strong first quarter profit contribution from ROVs.
Compared to the fourth quarter of 2011 our first quarter guidance is lower based on anticipated reductions in operating income from Subsea Products Subsea Projects and AdTech.
Looking beyond 2012 we remain convinced that our strategy to focus on providing services and products that facilitate deepwater exploration and production remains sound.
We believe the oil and gas industry will continue to invest in deepwater as it remains one of the best frontiers for adding large hydrocarbon reserves with high production flow rates at relatively low finding and development costs.
Our recent industry report forecast total annual worldwide exploration and development spending to grow nearly 50% by 2015 while capital expenditures on deepwater projects are projected to more than double.
Therefore we anticipate that demand for our deepwater services and products will continue to rise and believe our business prospects for the next several years are promising.
At the end of December there were 68 new floating rigs on order.
45 of these are planned to be available by the end of 2013.
28 have been contracted long term for an average of 7 years.
Of the 28 contracted floating rigs operators have let ROV contracts on 14 and we have won 7.
So that leaves 54 ROV contracting opportunities for new rigs left to be pursued of which 14 have operator contracts and 40 do not.
If all the rigs on order are placed into service the global floating rig fleet size will grow 24% to 352 rigs.
The high-spec fleet consisting of fifth- and sixth-generation semis and dynamically positioned drill ships which currently totals 113 rigs will grow 60%.
We historically have had a high market share on the high-spec rigs and are currently on 72% of them.
Looking forward we see no reason why we will not continue to be the dominant provider of ROV services on these rigs.
Each additional floating rig represents an opportunity for us to put another ROV to work and drill support service.
As the use of floating rigs grows we believe it is inevitable that discoveries will eventually drive orders for subsea hardware to levels not previously experienced.
And demand for ROVs to support vessel-based activities will follow.
Quest offshore's latest subsea hardware forecast for the period 2011 to '15 includes a 58% increase in tree orders over the previous 5 years in 2012 subsea tree orders are projected to be 618 an all-time high eclipsing the previous record of 462 trees in 2006.
While we don't make trees orders for subsea trees do drive demand for a substantial amount of the ancillary subsea production hardware that we manufacture.
For example Quest is forecasting a 57% increase in umbilical orders for the 2011 to 2015 period.
Furthermore renewed industry and regulatory emphasis on safe and reliable operations is generating even more interest in our value sell.
With our existing assets we're well positioned to supply a wide range of the services and products required to support the safe deepwater efforts of our customers.
We believe Oceaneering's business prospects for the long term remain promising.
Our commanding competitive position technology leadership and strong balance sheet and cash flow enable us to continue to grow the company and we intend to do so.
In summary our results continue to demonstrate our ability to generate excellent earnings and cash flow.
We believe our business strategy is working well both the long-term and the short-term.
We like our competitive position in the 2012 oilfield services market and are leveraged to what we believe will be the resumption in growth of deepwater and subsea completion activity commencing this year.
The longer-term market outlook for our deepwater and subsea service and product offerings remains favorable.
Renewed industry and regulatory emphasis on reliable equipment and redundant safety features of deepwater operations has caused our customers to be even more focused on risk reduction.
This elevates the importance of the utility and reliability of our ROV services and related product line offerings and reinforces the benefit of our value sell.
For 2012 we're anticipating that we will achieve another record year of EPS performance.
We think this distinguishes Oceaneering for many other oilfield service companies.
In closing we appreciate everyone's interest in Oceaneering.
And I will now be happy to take any questions you may have.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Jim Crandell with Dahlman Rose.
LLC Research Division</strong> Kevin if you look at this rig ordering cycle as a whole which began about maybe 18 months ago has there been any changes in market share by region with the exception of Brazil? Or have you found that compared with prior cycles that if you just eliminate Brazil that your market share is as strong as ever around the world? I think if you eliminate Brazil and also Mexico we believe it is true that our market share is as strong as it has been historically.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay good.
How about the non-rig side Kevin? Any stab or any attempt for manned-ROV market share in the sort of vessel-oriented ROV market? Well the vessel-based part of the market is always been roughly 25% give or take of our overall utilization.
There is over time we believe going to be increasing demand for vessel-based ROV services on field support-type contracts and we are as we always have been focused on trying to get ROVs on vessels.
I think that's a developing and longer-term event that we're very focused on for sure.
LLC Research Division</strong> Can you quantify Kevin about the opportunities out there or how many opportunities were there for manned-ROV work in the vessel-oriented ROV business in 2011? And what percentage you won of the percentage that you went after? I really can't give any details on that.
I mean unfortunately the vessel part of the market as opposed to the rig part is not as clear or as visible all the time and is pretty opportunistic.
And in addition to that a lot of these are seasonal or project-oriented so ROVs are going on and coming off continuously.
So it's pretty difficult to characterize that beyond that.
LLC Research Division</strong> Now is there any trend in the vessel-based business of either more jobs are unmanned and that companies are just selling equipment into that market and that's the majority of the market or no? I'm not sure what you mean by unmanned.
I mean typically we have ROVs on vessels and they are manned.
It may be a call-out type situation where you can go from job to job and there could be gas between jobs.
But we would never and I don't think the industry in general just has ROVs out there with no people on them.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay well I know you always sell your equipment with your trained personnel.
I was just wondering about some of your competition FMC or others who would have more of a fail operation if that was making inroads into that market? No.
I mean FMC with Schilling is definitely not a competitor in our view.
I mean they manufacture and sell ROVs to other service providers and so we don't view them as a competitor.
And you know Schilling will sell ROVs to a service competitor of ours who will put those to work.
But we already talked about our statistics and whatnot so I think that reflects what's going on.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay and then last question I had Kevin I know you indicated in your comments that the Panama City plant was still tough.
What is your sense about improvement in that business over the course of 2012? Well I think 2012 is going to be a very challenging year particularly since there hasn't been a lot of discovery activity in the Gulf that would generate any meaningful business in 2012.
I do think in the longer-term say the next 3 to 5 years there should be an increase in opportunities here as some majors and some larger independents are making discoveries that will eventually end up with development project.
So in the meantime we continue to focus on trying to obtain foreign work for the Panama City plant and such as we have done on occasion with West Africa and Brazil.
LLC Research Division</strong> I mean you would think given the ramp-up in drilling wouldn't you that the Gulf of Mexico market alone at some point in the future would provide a healthy enough activity so that utilization of the Panama City plant could be high or is it always going to be dependent upon now international work to...
I think in the future there could be enough work generated here.
I mean the problem is that at the moment the major operators and their very large independents are the ones who are pursuing the Gulf of Mexico in terms of exploration drilling that will produce some projects.
And these are ultra-deepwater larger projects that take 3 to 5 years from making a discovery to getting into hardware and installations and whatnot.
So I think that's the timeline that we're looking at now.
Your next question comes from the line of Brad Handler with Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Maybe a line of questioning with respect to the Subsea Projects division.
How much of your revenue in 2012 do you expect to be internationally driven now? A fraction if you would.
Brad we're not disclosing how much since we have one job international.
We're not disclosing revenues specifics about the BP Angola work.
And it is going to be dependent upon we're talking about we won't know the run rate of projects until the third quarter because it is going to ramp up in the first half and so we will be able to see the change and it's going to be a mix of some of the Australia contribution that will be in there from our AGR acquisition.
And the BP Angola job and plus a ramp-up as we expect a gradual recovery in the vessel-based activity in the Gulf.
But we're not at this point willing to take a flyer on how much is going to be Gulf and how much is it going to be international.
I know I said only one job.
We do have the Australian work but we're not at all comfortable with making forecast for that company's operations that we've only owned for a couple of months.
Research Division</strong> Okay understood.
Maybe you can still give -- trying to understand as you push more internationally and maybe this is the longer-term question.
How might the nature of the business change how might the predictability of it merit perhaps a lot less for call-out work a lot more kind of here's a certain commitment that's being made for work that will be executed over amount of time.
Is that a relevant but as we think about projects going forward? I think when you talk about outside the Gulf of Mexico I think that is relevant.
I think it is a longer-term view though in order to have some predictability in order to reduce the risk of this type of work outside the Gulf.
We're looking for longer-term contracts and that is a developing aspect of the market as more subsea infrastructure is installed and requires constant maintaining than operators are going to go for year-plus or multiple year contracts in order to support that similar to the BP contract in Angola.
But that is an emerging market trend-right now and pretty hard to predict but obviously if the international work that we're trying to get is longer-term then you would have a lot more visibility of that segment of our projects' business.
And one of the things Brad if we continue to be successful in growing the international fees I would expect lower margins because of the pass-through of the vessel costs.
Research Division</strong> If I may it's sort of still within this topic.
I guess I recognize the sensitivity because we're largely talking about one project.
But to what degree is there -- how large is the range of possible revenue recognition revenues earned in 2012? I mean I see there's some minimal level within your contract.
How much bigger could it be off of that minimum? Well I think what we've contracted for is pretty clear and there's not -- I mean there could be some upside but I would say at this point it would not be material.
I mean the big picture issue here is that it's going to be a relatively slow ramp-up between February 1 when we actually started the contract and probably get into the end of the second quarter will be at full speed for what we are being contracted to do.
At the moment I don't really see any huge upside variability to that.
I mean there always could be but right now it's just too early to make any predictions about that.
Your next question comes from the line of Andrea Sharkey with Gabelli &amp; Company.
Inc.</strong> Now I was looking at the Subsea Projects' margins and if you back out from the third quarter the $18 million gain that you guys had on the sale of the Ocean Legend it looks like there was a pretty big sequential jump in the margins? And I was just curious if there was anything one-off going on there or that's more sort of a sustainable level as you go forward was that partially from the startup of Angola what was driving that? I don't think there's any one-off thing that is of substance and I just do caution that Subsea Projects is a very evolving segment right now with the acquisition of the operation in Australia.
And the startup of the operation for BP in Angola.
We are adopting a wait-and-see kind of attitude as to what our margin run rate is.
I would not take the fourth quarter and extrapolate it.
I think it's really going to be until we get to the second half of the year to truly appreciate what that segment is going to go.
I know that makes modeling difficult and we respect that.
But we're facing the same issues in trying to do our forecast.
Inc.</strong> Sure.
That's understandable.
And then I guess just looking at the range of your EPS guidance.
What's the sort of the swing factor that takes you from the low end to the top end? Is it just how fast Gulf of Mexico comes back or are there other things that are in there? Well I think that certainly securing the BP Angola contract removes a lot of speculative risk out of our forecast.
But there's still a substantial speculative work in the overall company plan.
And so it would be very premature to make too much out of that at this point in time.
And I think one of the things that I mean we think projects and the recovery in the Gulf of Mexico the rate that the BP Angola work ramps up how much of the speculative work that we have for umbilicals and the timing of those awards and how soon they can be prosecuted and be recognized as revenue.
But the main thing I'd like to point out is if you take the midpoint of our guidance range we are saying we've got a 4% upside and a 4% downside.
And 10 months out from the end of the year I don't think 4% is too wide a range.
So there's a lot of moving pieces within our segments and a lot of speculative work that we expect.
So while we're absolutely positive that being awarded the BP work did derisk projects there's still a lot of other assumptions that are not in backlog.
Your next question comes from the line of Jon Donnel with Howard Weil.
Research Division</strong> I was wondering if you could give us a more details on the AGR acquisition and kind of specifically some of the metal offerings that this brings to your inspection of Asset Integrity division now.
I know you talked about the previously about the subsurface inspection tool.
How does that fit in with what you have now? How's it provide new opportunities for markets you're currently working with the Gulf of Mexico? And how might that creates some pull through from your other business segments if any? Well I would start by saying that we've had the business for like 7 or 8 weeks or something so we're still pretty much gone through the organizational integration aspects of this thing.
I think I've mentioned previously that both companies have started down the path of developing some subsea and inspection tooling technology and that is the focus that we're going to have trying to further develop that and then deploy that is just way premature to make any prediction about what that means in money terms I think.
And I think that the other thing I would say is that AGR was a lot more leveraged to the Asset Integrity part of the business as opposed to the NDT part of the business.
The Asset Integrity being higher value higher margin and so we are certainly going to be trying to leverage off of that to increase that portion of our business.
Research Division</strong> Okay so kind of along those lines too.
Given their current basis and their operations in Australia how do you think about that in terms of going forward? I know it's been a pretty small focus for you guys in the past.
Does this give you the opportunity to be bringing in more of your service offerings into that market here? Or is that something longer-term that is going to be less of a focus for the AGR side of the business? Well I think we're going to be very focused on what we can leverage out of AGR's Australia footprint.
I think that our current presence in Australia is also relatively new on the non-AGR side.
I mean we recognize that this is a quickly developing market.
And while we've operated in Australia off and on for probably 40 years we've recently really tried to ramp up.
And we are starting to win contracts and we have very high expectations for the added growth that Australia as a region can provide to us.
And we view the AGR piece as another aspect of that that we'll be trying to combine and leverage.
And our existing operations John were basically based out of Perth.
And we feel like their Darwin logistics base is a good opportunity for us to provide a home for some assets and use as a platform perhaps for callout work for tooling and even maybe vessel-based ROVs.
Your next question comes from the line of Tom Curran with Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> Starting with ROVs two-parter.
First of the incremental ROVs you expect to deploy so the new builds net of retirements that you expect to actually go to work what percent do you expect to be deployed for drill support? And the second part of the question is as you look out over the next several years given the disproportionate portion of the high-spec new builds that will be heading into Brazil what gives you such a high level of confidence that you'll be able to defend your 70%-plus historical market share given some of the uglier pricing-based competition we've seen there recently? Okay the first -- answering the first question we currently have firm contracts for 17 new ROVs that we expect to place into service during 2012 10 are for rigs 4 are for vessels and 1 each are for a spar tension leg platform and a drill barge.
And obviously some of these expected start dates could slip into 2013 but that is as well as we could see at the moment.
We are obviously pursuing opportunities on additional rigs and vessels and believe we may secure more work commitments for additional ROVs to be place into service during the year.
Now your question about Brazil was could you just restate that for me please? LLC Research Division</strong> Sure.
Kevin in your opening remarks you had expressed high level of confidence in being able to defend your current share of 72% on the global high-spec rig fleet.
And as we look out over the next few years of the new builds in the construction queue the majority are going to be heading into Brazil where least recently you have suffered share loss because you haven't felt the pricing required to win reflects the value that you provide.
And so I'm wondering where the confidence comes from that as we see the high-spec the global high-spec fleet as it expands as it shifts ever more heavily towards Brazil how are you going to defend your share? Well I think what we stated was our current percentage of that market and our belief that we see no reason that we shouldn't maintain a dominant share in that segment I don't think we said we were going to keep the 70%.
But specifically with respect to Brazil I mean it is true that that area is pretty challenging commercially.
There no doubt will be another award for a large number of systems there.
And depending on who wins that that will be a further indication of what's in store for us there.
But we do not believe that it is worthwhile for us to pursue low-margin work in Brazil for Petrobras.
It's a very difficult operating environment.
I think the news is full of folks that have stumbled on increased costs and all kinds of other logistical issues and I think we've got a good business there.
We still have I think in the 40 percentile region of market share in Brazil.
And we do continue to win some jobs there at prices that are attractive to us.
So we're going to maintain that strategy.
So I guess to recap I think if you discount Brazil or don't talk about Brazil we certainly believe that we'll maintain the dominant market share that we have enjoyed in the ultra-deepwater fleet.
And Brazil is an evolving deal.
I mean they're making big orders for lots of things.
And my personal observation is that for a place that is really just trying to start up a lot of industry for local content in developing their own economy they're ordering a lot of stuff expecting it in a time frame that I will be very very surprised that if they're able to achieve it.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
Turning to Subsea Products could you quantify for us how much you've improved Multiflex's run rate margin at this point? No we really don't break that out.
There's too many pieces within the whole Subsea Products' basket of companies and things that we do.
It would just be a nightmare.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
Then turning to IWOCS maybe an update there on the current total fleet size and where those assets are deployed by market? We've never really given that out.
I mean it is predominantly Gulf of Mexico.
We do have some reasonable international exposure and we are continuing to try and grow that part of it.
I think the IWOCS business was very strong in 2010 and in 2011.
And we do expect that to decline in 2012 because initially in the Gulf of Mexico when it was difficult to drill an exploration well it was pretty easy to get a permit to do other things that required the IWOCS business.
So I think there was a level of business there that is not sustainable.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay and are those assets readily redeployable? Some are.
I mean it really depends on the region of the world where they go.
I mean some of them are kind of Gulf of Mexico specific in terms of water depth and certifications and whatnot.
But I don't see that -- I don't see the inability to provide a system to some international location as being an impediment to our growing that business.
LLC Research Division</strong> All right.
And then last one for me Marvin how about just an update on the M&amp;A pipeline and in particular the prospects out there internationally? You know we don't have a pipeline that like others we can quantify how many hundreds of millions we're going to spend any given quarter.
Right now we are continuing to look.
You stated it.
Our focus is international and what we're really looking for is something in the Subsea Products segment that has a service component so we don't have to deal with just a manufacturing margin and higher risk of execution as we've read about recently.
So we're focused on continuing doing what we're doing.
We had almost $300 million $290 million of acquisitions in 2011.
We'll just see how well we can keep that rate up that was an extraordinary feat and -- but we're still out there with growth in our operations being our #1 objective and focus primarily on organic being augmented with acquisitions.
Your next question comes from the line of Edward C.
Muztafago with Societe Generale.
I got on the call a little late so pardon me if you've already talked about this a little bit.
But we've kind of heard over the course of 2011 here some of the subsea equipment manufacturers announced delays in shipments and project delays.
And so I was wondering if you could just talk a little bit higher level as to how the risk of further slippage or equipment delivery delays kind of plays into your 2012 outlook and guidance and both specifically with respect to the ROVs and Subsea Products because as you indicated the tree sales are a driver of demand and so they're longer lead time I think than some of your products.
So maybe you could just kind of walk us through your thought process there? Okay there's a couple of pieces there.
I think with respect to the ROV business I don't think there really is too much there really is the rig deliveries and their construction schedules.
And I think there's pretty good visibility that obviously if they slip then a start date for a contract that we may already have is going to slip along with it.
So far that has not been a driving factor in our ability to put ROVs to work because the vessel side of that kind of takes up the slack.
With respect to products it is true that the trees are generally longer lead-time item.
But they're -- I think the difficulties and the issues that some folks have been having are not really reflective of a our business; or b even if we are providing some connection hardware or something to the same project because usually these difficulties end up appearing pretty near the end of the project orders are already in deliveries are made and so far we have been fortunate not to have any significant impacts of our own in terms of inability to deliver.
Okay that's helpful.
And then maybe just as a second question if we can sort of flip back to Brazil a little bit.
There's obviously a fair amount of chatter about subsalt development going horizontal there.
And clearly one of the implications is that they'll ultimately need less rigs to develop the subsalt reserves.
Can you just talk generally speaking as to how that type of a genesis might play out for you and maybe even potentially if rigs go to work elsewhere is that more beneficial than if they were to physically be working in Brazil? Well if they went to work somewhere else outside of Brazil I think that's favorable in our view whether there is any opportunity for Petrobras to reduce the number of drilling rigs they currently think they need to do their development programs or not I really couldn't comment on that I don't know.
But I mean obviously if they can reduce that then that's less ROVs.
But presumably we'd be looking to see whether those rigs can be utilized elsewhere in the world.
Your next question comes from the line of Daniel Burke from Johnson Rice.
L.L.C.
Research Division</strong> I have a question on the Subsea Products.
If we look at Subsea Products and the revenue growth rate you enjoyed excluding umbilicals in 2011 you mentioned IWOCS but what reasons are there to believe that revenue growth rate would overall decelerate here in 2012 given the capital investments you're making in that sector? I don't think there is a reason to believe that the growth rate or the sustainability I think Kevin mentioned about IWOCS not being having a very good year in '10 and a very good year in '11.
And we believe there is some aftereffect that when rigs go back to drilling exploration wells they're not going to be using the IWOCS units as frequently as they had been.
Other than that I think your premise is pretty sound with the investments we've been making.
We think that tooling and Grayloc and rotator valves and all of those specialty items that we provide will continue to grow.
L.L.C.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then switching to products on the margin side.
I guess my presumption I know you've made substantial improvements at Multiflex.
But I guess I assumed in '12 that the Multiflex was probably -- or excuse me '11 that Multiflex was probably towards the lower end of the margin range within products.
I guess what are the dynamics that could allow products' margin to decline in '12 given the healthy growth rate in revenue from the non-umbilicals side? Well it really is a function of mix and the predominance of umbilicals versus the rest of the Subsea Products offerings in that.
And there still is roughly 50% worldwide umbilical plant capacity that is not being used at the moment.
And so that is keeping margins pretty tight.
And so until or unless that significantly changes the margins on the umbilicals side are not going to see any dramatic improvement.
I think maybe our ability to win more work will help us on the volume side in the amount of contributions that umbilicals solutions does provide to that segment.
And Daniel while the non-umbilical side is growing we are expecting the product mix in '12 to continue to shift to higher throughput on umbilicals.
So while Panama City plant has been discussed and is facing a challenging market we're expecting more throughput from our U.K.
facility and our Brazil facility.
So we look at the mix continuing to change being driven by higher throughput.
And Kevin mentioned that while we're not forecasting any significant change in our margins we could see products a little bit lower as the mix of umbilicals continues to strengthen.
Your next question comes from the line of John Lawrence with Tudor Pickering Holt.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just on the 20 to 25 new builds for 2012 could you remind us of your capacity for additions? And then I think you raised it from -- you had 15 to 20 last quarter.
I think you raised that.
Is that correct? And then finally would you consider raising it again if the market is strong enough? We'll build as many as the market will take that's for starters.
I think we have not so far experienced any situation where we have not been able to deliver or provide in ROV even for emerging opportunities that we didn't see from a distance in order to satisfy a contract requirement.
In fact quite the opposite we have won contracts because of our ability to quickly provide a system that probably most others would not be in a position to do because we have such a strong supply chain and we're just able to ramp it up or ramp it down.
So while I don't think we give any particular number as to what our capacity is it's certainly a lot more than 20 to 25.
And unless there was just some dramatic demand coming from someplace that I can't even fantasize I would not see that as a problem for us.
We have said before that we could build 3 a month if we needed to and yes as Kevin said if capacity is not a -- let me add another shift and push more ROVs through.
And these are ROVs being placed in service.
So most of the time we're talking about a delivery that occurred or is going to occur early so that we can get it on if it's going to a new build rig.
And since we said we had 17 contracts we thought there was more upside to -- than adding 15 to 20 when we did change it to 20 to 25.
But -- then I've been asked why didn't you change your guidance? It's because there is a lot of speculation as to the exact date some of these rigs and vessels go to work.
So we still have and we have a lot of spec work in our ROV forecast.
So we did go from 15 to 20 last quarter to 20 to 25 being added during '12.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then just switching gears to the AGR business.
Is that going to see typical North Sea seasonality? I think that -- I mean there certainly is North Sea seasonality.
Whether it is as dramatic as it has been historically I'm not sure because right now I think there is an increased emphasis on collecting data and doing asset integrity.
We see an increase.
That's part of why our 2011 was better than 2010.
And so when demand is coming up like that it tends to overwrite some of the -- what used to be seasonality.
So it's kind of difficult to really peg that too closely there.
Directionally the answer in our forecast is yes.
We will see that kind of seasonality.
Remember in the first quarter -- I mean most of the inspection first of all is in Norway and they are weather challenged in Q1 and most of the activity occurs in the second and third quarter tailing off again in the fourth.
The other thing I might say is that we would expect lower margins in Q1 because we're still going to be incurring some integration costs in Q1 as we sort out how we best run our combined businesses.
There are no further questions at this time.
I'll turn the call back over to the presenters.
Thank you very much.
We appreciate your interest in Oceaneering.
Take care guys.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Melissa and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the 2012 First Quarter Earnings Release Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Thank you.
I would now like to turn the call over to your host Jack Jurkoshek.
You may begin your conference.
Good morning.
I would like to thank you for joining us and our first quarter 2012 earnings conference call.
As usual a webcast of this event is being made available through the StreetEvents Network service by Thomson Reuters.
Joining me today are Kevin McEvoy our President and Chief Executive Officer who will be leading the call; Marvin Migura our Executive Vice President; and Cardon Gerner our Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Just as a reminder remarks we make during the course of the call regarding our earnings guidance business strategy plans for future operations and industry conditions are forward-looking statements made pursuant to the Safe Harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
And I'm now going to turn the call over to Kevin.
Good morning and thanks for joining the call.
I'm happy to be here with you today.
Our record first quarter EPS of $0.47 was above our guidance range of $0.44 to $0.46 and was up over 20% compared to the first quarter of 2011.
Year-over-year all of our business segments achieved higher operating income led by remotely operated vehicles.
We are well-positioned to participate in the next growth stage of Deepwater and subsea completion activity.
And our outlook for 2012 remains very positive.
We are maintaining our 2012 EPS guidance range of $2.45 to $2.65 another record earnings year.
For our services and products we expect continued international demand growth and a moderate rebound in overall activity in the Gulf of Mexico.
Yesterday we announced an increase in our regular quarterly cash dividend to $0.18 from $0.15 a share.
This underscores our confidence in Oceaneering's financial strength and future business prospects.
I'd now like to review our first quarter oilfield segment results.
Year-over-year ROV operating income improved on the strength of higher demand in most areas of the world particularly in the Gulf of Mexico and off West Africa.
Our ROV days on hire increased 17%.
Sequentially operating income declined slightly due to geographic mix changes and normal seasonality.
Our fleet utilization rate during the quarter was 79% up from 71% in the first quarter of 2011 and flat with the fourth quarter of 2011.
We continue to expect that our fleet utilization for the year will be 80% or more.
Operating margin during the quarter was 29% the same as a year ago and last quarter and slightly down from the 30% average last year.
We continue to anticipate our ROV operating margin for the year 2012 may be slightly higher than that of 2011.
During the quarter we put 5 new ROVs into service and retired 2.
At the end of March we had 270 systems available for operation up from 260 a year ago.
Three of the new ROVs went to work on board vessels and 2 went into drill support service on rigs.
Our fleet mix during the quarter was 78% in drill support and 22% on vessel-based work the same as last quarter and about the same as the 79-21 split in the first quarter of 2011.
We still anticipate adding 20 to 25 vehicles to our ROV fleet in 2012 15 to 20 during the remaining 3 quarters and we presently have contracts for 19 of these.
Some of these expected start days could however slip into 2013.
Now turning to Subsea Products.
Year-over-year first quarter operating income increased on higher demand for tooling and our Subsea Hardware.
Primarily due to project timing operating income declined sequentially on lower demand for Subsea Hardware and Installation and Workover Control System or IWOCS services.
Consistent with our expectation products operating margin of 17% for the quarter was less than the 18% result for the first quarter of 2011 21% of last quarter and 18% for all of last year.
For the year 2012 Subsea Products margin may be slightly lower than 2011 due to an anticipated change in mix.
However we continue to expect a record segment operating income for the year.
Our Subsea Products backlog at quarter end was $402 million up from $382 million at the end of both March and December of 2011.
Year-over-year and sequentially the backlog increase was attributable to tooling.
Since the end of the quarter we announced the award of Petrobras' Whales Park Umbilical Contract that added $70 million to our products backlog.
As for our remaining business operations for the first quarter.
Year-over-year and sequentially Subsea Projects operating income was higher due to the commencement of field support vessel services contract with BP offshore Angola.
The improvement was also partially attributable to the addition of the Ocean Patriot to our Gulf of Mexico fleet and our field operations in Australia acquired with the AGR FO in December 2011.
Year-over-year asset integrity operating income improved on higher international service sales.
Sequentially operating income was about the same.
Compared to prior periods asset integrity operating income margin declined.
This was due to a low profit contribution from the operations acquired with AGR FO and poor execution on a project in the U.S.
The low profit contribution from the acquired operations was attributable to seasonality integration costs and operational inefficiencies.
We anticipate this segment's margin will return to the historical double-digit range in the remaining quarters of this year.
When we combine the Subsea Projects and asset integrity contributions made by the operations we acquired with AGR FO the results were slightly below expectation.
Not surprisingly we have hit a few snags as we climb the learning curve on integrating such a diverse operation into Oceaneering.
However we continue to gain confidence that the acquired operations are a good fit and will achieve the expected economic return.
In summary our first quarter results were above our expectations and we look forward to realizing another year of record EPS performance in 2012.
Our focus on providing products and services for Deepwater and Subsea completions positions us to participate in a major secular growth trend in the oilfield services and products industry.
We were pleased with our cash flow generation capability as demonstrated by $116 million of EBITDA during the quarter.
Capital expenditures for the quarter totaled about $93 million of which $62 million was invested in ROVs and $9 million was spent on the acquisition of a U.K.
inspection company.
Now let's talk about our 2012 EPS outlook.
As I stated earlier we are reaffirming our 2012 EPS guidance range of $2.45 to $2.65.
Compared to 2011 we expect all of our operating business segments will achieve higher operating income in 2012; ROVs on greater service demand off West Africa and the Gulf of Mexico; Subsea Products on the strength of higher tooling sales and increased throughput at our Umbilical Plants; Subsea Projects on the international expansion of our deepwater vessel project capabilities working for BP offshore Angola and a gradual demand recovery in the Gulf of Mexico; asset integrity on higher international service sales including the contribution of the operations acquired with AGR FO; and advanced technologies on an increase in entertainment projects and improved execution on U.S.
Navy vessel service work.
I believe we are well prepared for the opportunities we face in 2012 and have the assets in place to take advantage of growing international markets and resumption of non-drill support activity in the Gulf of Mexico.
For 2012 we anticipate generating over $550 million of EBITDA.
Our balance sheet and projected cash flow provide us ample resources to invest in Oceaneering's growth.
Our CapEx estimate for this year excluding acquisitions is $200 million to $225 million.
Of this amount approximately $125 million is anticipated to be spent on vehicle upgrades and adding systems to our fleet.
About $75 million is for enhancing our Subsea Products capabilities.
Our focus in 2012 will be on earnings growth and investment opportunities both organically and through acquisitions.
Moving on to our second quarter outlook.
We are projecting EPS in the range of $0.64 to $0.68.
Sequentially we anticipate quarterly operating income improvements from all of our oilfield business segments: ROVs due to an increase in fleet days on hire seasonable -- seasonal pickup in demand for construction work and growth in both domestic and international demand for drill support services.
Subsea Products on the strength of a higher profit contribution from tooling sales Subsea Projects on an escalation of work for BP offshore Angola and a seasonal demand rise in the Gulf of Mexico and asset integrity due to seasonal demand increase and improved execution.
Looking beyond 2012 we remain convinced that our strategy to focus on providing services and products to facilitate Deepwater exploration and production remains sound.
We believe the oil and gas industry will continue to invest in Deepwater as it remains one of the best frontiers for adding large hydrocarbon reserves with high production flow rates at relatively low finding and development costs.
A late 2011 industry report forecast total annual worldwide exploration and development spending to grow nearly 50% by 2015 while capital expenditures on Deepwater projects are expected to more than double.
Therefore we anticipate demand for our deepwater services and products will continue to rise and believe our business prospects for the next several years are promising.
In the ROV market I am going to focus on opportunities where our value-added service is recognized; for now that means customers other than Petrobras in Brazil.
At the end of the quarter there were a total of 93 new floating rigs on order.
53 of these rigs are not contracted to work for Petrobras in Brazil and we expect all of them will go to work for other operators.
On these 53 rigs 8 ROV contracts have been let and we have won 7 of them leaving 45 ROV contract opportunities left to be pursued outside of Petrobras in Brazil.
At the end of March 91 of the 131 high-spec drilling rigs consisting of dynamically positioned fifth and sixth generation semis and drill ships were not contracted to Petrobras in Brazil.
We had ROV contracts on 69 of these for a market share of 76%.
If all 53 of the non-Petrobras rigs I mentioned are placed into service this fleet of 91 will grow 58% to 144 rigs.
Looking forward we see no reason why we will not continue to be the dominant provider of ROV services on these rigs.
An additional new floating rig has been ordered on spec since the end of the quarter.
So with 54 rigs on order not contracted to Petrobras in Brazil the visibility of the secular growth outlook for this market remains very promising.
Each additional floating rig represents an opportunity for us to put another ROV to work in drill support service.
As the use of floating rigs grows we believe it is inevitable that discoveries will eventually drive orders for Subsea Hardware to levels not previously experienced and demand for ROVs to support vessel-based activities will follow.
Quest Offshore's latest Subsea Hardware forecast for the period 2012 to 2016 includes an 80% increase in tree orders over the previous 5 years.
In 2012 subsea tree orders are projected to be about 560 an all-time high eclipsing the previous record of 462 trees in 2006 by over 20%.
While we don't make trees orders for subsea trees drive demand for a substantial amount of the ancillary equipment that we manufacture.
For example Quest is forecasting nearly a 50% increase in umbilical orders in the 5-year period 2012 to 2016 compared to the prior 5-year period.
Furthermore renewed industry and regulatory emphasis on safe and reliable operations is providing us additional opportunities to demonstrate our capabilities.
With our existing assets we are well positioned to supply a wide range of the services and products required to support the safe deepwater efforts of our customers.
We believe Oceaneering's business prospects for the long term remain promising.
Our commanding competitive position technology leadership and strong balance sheet and cash flow enable us to continue to grow the company and we intend to do so.
In conclusion our results continue to demonstrate our ability to generate excellent earnings and cash flow.
We believe our business strategy is working well over both the short term and the long term.
We like our competitive position in the 2012 oilfield services market and are leveraged to what we believe will to be a resumption of growth of deepwater and subsea completion activity.
The longer-term market outlook for our deepwater and subsea service and product offerings remains favorable.
Renewed industry and regulatory emphasis on reliable equipment and redundant safety features of deepwater operations has caused our customers to be even more focused on risk reduction.
This elevates the importance of the utility and reliability of our ROV services and related product line offerings and reinforces the benefit of our value sell.
For 2012 we are anticipating that we will achieve another record year of EPS performance.
We think this distinguishes Oceaneering from any other oilfield service companies.
We appreciate everyone's interest in Oceaneering.
I will now be happy to take any questions you may have.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Jo (sic) [Jon] Donnell with Howard Weil.
Research Division</strong> I had a question on the project segment.
Clearly a very good quarter for you here.
It came in well above our expectations.
I was wondering if you could maybe break that down a little bit for us.
I know you had the ramp up of the BP Angola project but my understanding was that was going to be more gradual over the course of the year.
Could you kind of just break out how much of the contribution came from that? And kind of where that project stands relative to your expectations when it's fully running? Jon most of the improvement came from the BP Angola contract.
And we do -- I mean in -- it's pretty much on course for what we had expected and we do expect it to ramp up in Q2 and hit full stride in Q3.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And at that point will all the -- will you have all your vessels working for it there that are scheduled for it with all the corresponding ROVs as well? We should have everything in service working by the end of Q2.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
And then I guess sort of related to that too typically we see the seasonal slowdown in Gulf of Mexico in that segment as well.
Was that maybe less impactful this quarter than we've seen in the past? And I know it's a callout market here but could you talk a little bit about how you see that unfolding as we go out into the summer months? I think we did have the seasonal slowdown just exactly as normal.
And the weather was pretty bad but we did have another asset.
So the Ocean Patriot made a contribution and also the operations in Australia acquired from AGR FO.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then -- but your outlook is that that seasonality will reverse itself as is typical here as well just from the best of your limited visibility right now? That is our expectation but as you say it is a callout and visibility is not real strong.
But we do expect it to pick up yes.
Your next question comes from the line of Brian Uhlmer with Global Hunter.
LLC Research Division</strong> I have a question.
You're discussing a moderate uptick and ramp-up in the Gulf of Mexico in '12.
Are we expecting to see some pent-up demand as we move into '13 that would -- should accelerate that a little bit more? Well it's hard to say.
I think that the drilling side is clear is going well.
And that's not an issue.
The other activity is still a little weak.
I think that independence activity is still very very low and I don't see anything that looks -- that will change in the near term.
I think in the longer term it is very good outlook with the larger projects that are in the stream there but that'll be a little ways down the road.
But hopefully it will pick up more than  -- it'll certainly be better than it was last year no question.
And Brian I think it's very important that we underscore what Kevin said.
When we're talking about a gradual recovery in the Gulf of Mexico we're talking about non-drill support activity.
LLC Research Division</strong> On -- so on the project side more so? Projects and products and ROVs and own vessel base.
LLC Research Division</strong> Right right.
Now do you guys have an internal forecast for Gulf of Mexico floaters that you're willing to share that you expect for 2012 and moving into 2013 that kind of drives those estimates? Wait we do have some statistics there.
They're public.
But just again you're just asking -- I mean I just want to be clear on this Brian the floaters are all drill support and then yes so what we -- so what we do have -- yes we've got some good stats.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay fair enough...
Hey Kevin was jumping in.
Yes I mean as of yesterday there were 32 floating rigs under contract in the Gulf and we had the ROV contracts on 31 of them which included 34 systems.
In comparison pre-Macondo we had 31 ROVs on 31 of the 36 rigs working in the Gulf.
So that is as of today and right now the expectation is that 8 more rigs are coming to the Gulf of Mexico during the course of the year and right now we have contracts on 5 of those.
LLC Research Division</strong> For how many ROVs? Are they all one per or you have some...
Yes no.
I think we should just -- yes just consider that.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay good enough.
So there'll be 39 rigs working in the Gulf of Mexico if those all come as currently announced and scheduled and we'll have ROVs on 35 of them.
LLC Research Division</strong> Perfect.
And an unrelated follow-up.
You mentioned integration and acquisition and how that's coming along could you maybe provide a little more detail on some of the initiatives that you have; specifically you've talked about targeting the Australian market previously.
And how those initiatives are coming along? And if we can start to try and model that into our 2013 estimates? Or back path to '12 and into '13? I don't think we're prepared to give any more detail or color on that.
I mean it's a -- it was a large acquisition a lot of moving pieces.
And as we did state we're confident that we will be back on stride in the second third fourth quarters of this year.
And it's really just the normal stuff that goes on in trying to acquire and integrate a large company like that.
Your next question comes from the line of Waqar Syed from Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Just on Petrobras you mentioned low probably market share but is that 30% kind of market share sustainable for new rigs with Petrobras? Or you think going forward it could be much less than that? Jack you got some stats on that.
Yes.
I mean as the Petrobras ROV fleet continues to grow and we're winning these large tranche orders that they're having out there our market share is going to decrease.
No question about that.
What it will ultimately get to I don't know.
I mean because there is another bid on the Street that has been opened and we are third bidder in that.
And as it stands right now we do not expect to win that and now there are 2 others ahead of us.
And so that is anywhere from 12 to 24 but how that all plays out we'll just have to see.
And just to give you some color we were third and the price we offered was about 25% higher than that of a low bidder which was a local Brazilian company that to our knowledge doesn't own any ROVs.
And according to the bid document 11 of the ROVs of that 12 to 24 will be used to replace older vehicles on named existing rigs.
And we happen to be on 4 of those 11.
And our contracts for those 4 expire in the third quarter of 2013 and we don't know the bid was not specific as to: a whether it was 12 or 24; or b what was going to do -- what Petrobras intended to do with the remaining 13 after you account for the 11.
So as long as we're not winning the global tenders because we're not willing to take our price down to where it makes no sense for us I would expect our ROV market share for Petrobras in Brazil and we're being very specific about that.
We love Petrobras outside of Brazil.
We love non-Petrobras operators in Brazil because we think they buy in to the value proposition that we offer.
So we're focused on the -- those opportunities excluding Petrobras in Brazil and that's why we're starting to report on that now.
Research Division</strong> That makes sense.
That's helpful.
The other thing I wanted to address is for the new builds that are coming in the new build deepwater rigs you probably could imagine demand growth about 1 to 1.2 or so on the drill support side.
What incremental -- and can you quantify like what incremental or what the past patterns have been in incremental demand for ROV has been created on the construction side with the new build rigs coming in? It's really hard to draw a correlation.
I mean most of the vessel-based activity goes in to field maintenance and installation support.
That type of light construction or intervention -- subsea intervention.
So I -- we don't have a correlation between new builds rig deliveries and increase in vessel-based activity.
I think it's much later when the rigs find something and there's a field to work on is when they put ROVs on boats.
Research Division</strong> Right.
But if you look at the historical pattern and if you see how the rig count has increased and how the ROV per rig has changed is there a certain number that has happened? Or has it gone from...
I don't think we look at the business that way.
We don't evaluate it that way and don't anticipate it that way.
So I don't think that -- we don't see that as a correlation that we would ever do any kind of business planning on.
We watch the market day by day opportunity by opportunity.
And we build ROVs to match up with those opportunities as they come.
And so guessing about what it might be past that is not helpful to us.
And we really maintain 2 separate lists.
We have a list of new builds and existing rigs that we track who's on it.
And then we have a list of new vessels and vessel tenders for ROVs that are coming out or operator tenders.
And I mean the vessel list is very long.
But it's a much wider open field for ROV providers.
Your next question comes from the line of Tom Curran from Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> So while we're on Brazil I guess 2 questions there.
The first pertains to the ROV's business.
Given Petrobras' expanding weight of incremental demand related to Brazil how much could that constrain potential weighted average pricing power for you with the ROVs? And one of the reasons I'm asking is because over the course of the last up cycle many of us were positively surprised by the pricing power you ended up demonstrating for ROVs globally.
And so I'm curious how much Petrobras in Brazil's increasing weight could potentially limit the pricing power you might see over the balance of this up cycle.
Not much if we're out winning the work right? I mean it really is a different market.
I mean...
Most of that variability is also in the vessel base part of our business where increased utilization and spot market type pricing can contribute to higher margins if you get strong enough continued utilization there because it's shorter-term work.
So that really is something that's totally outside of Brazil in terms of our business.
And if we had taken a different philosophy and said we're going to maintain market share and we're going to go after work for Petrobras and we're going to win and be the low-cost provider and cut our rates 25% and add 12 to 24 ROVs to a fleet of 300 then there really would be an impact.
And that would be noticeable.
But since our philosophy is just the opposite that we will not bid work that's not economic then I don't see how Petrobras is -- wait I think the growing market and that's what we're trying to show today that still more than half of the rigs on order are not going to Petrobras.
And the high-spec fleet that's not with Petrobras we have 76% of it continues to grow and will continue to grow.
So no doubt that PBR in Brazil has increasing but...
Weight.
I don't think that affects anything outside of Brazil if that's where you were going now.
Yes.
I don't think it does.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then turning to the umbilicals market.
Could you provide us an update on #1 in Brazil for pre-salt does it still look as if they're going to attempt to develop much of that with armor wire reinforced thermoplastic as opposed to steel tube? And then #2 on a global basis what are your thoughts and what was your reaction to Aker's latest announced investment in a new plant in Pekan Malaysia? Okay the answer to your first question is yes.
They are sticking with their non-steel tube designs.
There are some different hose elements in there and higher pressures that have to be qualified in terms of the new cross-section.
But they are still holding to their philosophy of high collapse resistant hoses as opposed to steel tube.
On the second question of course since we've been saying for some time that there is twice the capacity in the marketplace as demand it was not a cause for celebration here that there's yet another plant being built somewhere.
And I can only imagine that their strategy is it's closer to Australia and so that is going to help them.
Although it can't be helping them where they have their other plants so I don't know we're wondering why they did buy that.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay helpful.
And then last one for me turning to Subsea Projects could you give us an update just broadly in terms of the slate of international opportunities out there specifically obviously for the 1 DP vessel that's idle and is eligible to redeployed and then perhaps others that might not be readily obvious.
The one that's idle I'm not sure I'm with you.
LLC Research Division</strong> I thought you saw the -- an idle DP vessel in the Gulf of Mexico within Subsea Projects? We have -- we added a DP vessel in the diving side of the business in the Gulf of Mexico.
Our other several vessels are in the callout market.
And in any given day they might be idle but they are working actively in the marketplace all of them.
And it is true that the OI-IV could go international easier than the other intervention 1 and 2.
But right now we continue to look for term work.
And we don't have -- I mean we have a prospect list but we're not going to share with you what specific jobs we're chasing and...
I think the main thing to think about here is that while we are looking for the right opportunities that fit our business model for wanting to work internationally with a vessel I would not be expecting this to be some big growth bang in a short term that's going to affect this business.
We have what we have.
And if we get another job internationally fine but there are few and far between that really fit the model that we are trying to follow here.
Right and we are chasing those few but I really don't think that's something that we should be anticipating.
I mean we're help -- we're -- we want to make sure we execute very well for BP in Angola so that we can build this book of work.
But right now we're looking for the right next job.
LLC Research Division</strong> Sure and that makes sense.
And if BP were to exercise its option it has to expand the scope of that contract what would be the earliest you'd expect them to do that? That's pretty hard to say.
I mean I think our expectation currently is that that would be a 2013 event.
But they've given us no color on that and so that's as good as we know at the moment.
And we don't think that would be one of our boats.
No no no.
It would not be one of our boats more than likely.
But it would be more ROVs and the rest of it so.
Right.
Your next question comes from the line of Ed Muztafago from Societe Generale.
I'm just wondering on the Subsea Project segment obviously the BP project in Angola ramped up it seems like maybe a bit quicker than we expected.
Wondering if you could just kind of help us understand or think about what the potential for margin uplift there is over the next couple quarters as that project kind of gets to its full run rate.
Real hard to -- I mean you got -- it is too many variables and including what's the pickup going to be in the Gulf of Mexico.
So we have it modeled but we're not willing to share that because we're just -- we're not confident enough that we can give guidance on margin.
And we just know it's going be better than last year.
Okay.
Maybe can ask it a little different way.
In terms of the overall cost that you have to absorb from the project do you guys think you -- that you've absorbed more than half of the costs already? Not sure.
Not sure I got that understood but I mean most of the cost that we incur or just job or project related and expensed is part of the work.
And the other cost such as the mobilization that can be deferred over the life of the contract.
And then the CapEx is going to be depreciated over the normal.
So the ROVs that we bill for  -- I mean it's -- I mean the answer is we've incurred way more than half of the cost we needed to to get the project started but it's really not kind of like flowing through at any -- not a normal basis.
And so I can't really go too much further than that.
Okay.
That's helpful.
And then just as kind of a second question.
We obviously have the Central Gulf lease sale now planned for the middle of the year.
And just wondering in your minds if we see a very strong central lease sale how could that potentially change your outlook for the back half of the year? Or is that really more of a 2013 type event for Oceaneering this year? It would not change our outlook for this year at all and I doubt it would change it for 2013.
Because typically once operators get a new lease they're going to spend some period of time: a before they get around to even doing anything with it; and b once they do start doing some drilling and whatnot projects are several years out.
So I wouldn't expect that to impact us at all.
And we really do have a pretty good outlook for Gulf of Mexico drilling if we're going to have 39 rigs drilling at the end of the year.
So I think that's a strong -- and maybe some will slip into '13 but there are 31 here today and 8 more on the way.
And I think the time lag is what it is for these big projects.
I mean the majors seem to be targeting the deeper water parts of the Gulf of Mexico these days and they are making discoveries.
And I mean you know the names of all the ones that are out there and generally we are not participating on the installation of those facilities.
But it offers a building book of potential intervention business for us which is really our core business in the Gulf of Mexico on the ROV vessel-based project work that we do.
So we see that as a very positive sign.
And whenever this really starts up in terms of the Subsea intervention aspect of it it looks like there's going to be a good run of projects out there to keep it going.
That's fair.
And then you obviously get a -- sort of a seasonal decline off the boats in the first quarter on the ROV side of the business.
But given where the field construction and maintenance side of business is in the Gulf was that reasonably de minimis in the first quarter of this year? I mean...
No no.
I mean we had serious as normal seasonality in our vessel-based ROV utilization as normal I mean we...
Okay.
Is that what you were asking? Yes yes just trying to understand I mean obviously the utilization rate was basically flat from quarter to quarter.
But absent that seasonal decline the core utilization rate would've been higher than that.
So that's all I was trying to understand.
Okay.
I think there's a lot of mix going in to the geographic mix in there.
It's not just Gulf of Mexico vessel based.
I wouldn't jump to that conclusion.
Right.
Your next question comes from the line of Josh Jayne from Simmons &amp; Company.
Research Division</strong> Quick one on projects I know we've talked about it a lot but just to ask it a little bit differently.
I just want to understand the revenue side from a seasonality standpoint because we've gone from a business that was predominantly Gulf of Mexico now with a lot more international weighting.
Could you just talk about if we sort of stripped out the BP contract what we would be expecting in a normal year from a seasonality standpoint? No.
We would be then be talking about how much -- there's too much granularity.
If we talk about that we would be talking about exactly how much revenue we're billing BP and we prefer -- and we don't disclose individual contract details.
Sorry about that.
Research Division</strong> Just directionally.
I mean because now there's the AGR component.
I mean could you provide a little bit of color around that differences between Q1 and then how it might progress over the year? Or you guys aren't going to give that out? We're not going to give that.
I think it's -- we're just… We're not going to give it out.
We're going to wait to see how things develop and unfold.
And I know right now there were a lot of moving pieces.
And I appreciate the difficulty to model and it's difficult to project as well.
Research Division</strong> All right.
A quick one on the ROV side.
Could you update us on how many firm contracts you have for the new ROVs that you're going to put in service for the balance of the year? I think Kevin said we have 19.
Of the 15 to 20 that we expect to add but we're...
Some could slip into '13 before they get started though but currently they're -- we're -- they're on schedule for this year.
But that's a moving target as you know.
Your next question comes from the line of John Lawrence from Tudor Pickering Holt.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just to follow up on umbilicals I think Brazil and Scotland are doing a little better.
I'd imagine Panama City is still the weak link.
Could you just kind of talk about the outlook for Panama City and the outlook for more throughput there? Well the Panama City plant is -- the outlook is not great.
There's not exactly a lot of activity in the Gulf of Mexico on umbilical orders at the moment.
We are sized accordingly for that plant.
We are looking for as we always do orders from outside the Gulf of Mexico either Brazil or non-Petrobras operators or West Africa.
But it's a very very challenging market in the Gulf of Mexico right now for the umbilical business.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> So it's still slow.
Would you consider shutting that plant down at all? Or it's just still a long-term asset? Long term.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Long term got it.
Okay and then just one more follow-up on ROVs.
Given the...
And John let me just say something about -- I mean we talked about how drilling ramp up is occurring in Deepwater Gulf of Mexico.
I think the long-term outlook for Deepwater products in the Gulf is just strong.
And so it would be very shortsighted to say why don't we lose all that talent and shutter the plant and then well you're not going to get orders when the orders come to the market if you don't have a plant.
So we are -- I think we've got a really talented group of people who as Kevin said have right sized that operation.
And I think we're doing the -- not only the economic thing but we're keeping it alive and well so that we can do some of the big projects that come along.
We are not thinking about shutting down Panama City at all.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
Makes sense.
And then Kevin just given the visibility you have on the ROV side for '13 just on ROV additions.
I mean very bullish out there would kind of a same addition amount as 2012 be reasonable to assume for '13? It's just too early.
Yes.
Yes it would.
Yes it would.
Your next question comes from the line of Michael Marino from Stephens.
Research Division</strong> Guys has your outlook for the IWOCS business kind of changed beyond 2012 -- I guess 2012 is going to be a down year but beyond that what's your outlook for IWOCS? I guess what I'm trying to get to has the market changed with maybe a bit of a customer shift to bigger boys in the Gulf of Mexico being less likely to use you guys for the IWOCS? Or is 2012 just a function of activity and kind of timing? Well I think if anything 2012 is more of a normal year than we experienced last year where there was very heavy demand when actually a good portion of that we didn't really see coming.
But it was there and we were fortunately able to take advantage of it.
So last year was a particularly good year and we're back to maybe some more normal levels here right now.
So there from our point of view has been no shift in market demand or our place in the market in the Gulf of Mexico.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And you would kind of expect that business to increase with Gulf of Mexico rig count going up and no kind of change to the way you'll track the market.
Well eventually.
But I -- bear in mind that IWOCS units are used for -- in some instances for setting trees but generally the drilling rigs are doing that -- more of that than not.
And then it's an intervention activity.
So it's a question of how much P&amp;A work and/or well intervention work is there going on.
That's really when the IWOCS units are strongest at play.
Research Division</strong> Have you all seen any or had any success outside the Gulf of Mexico? I know you've been trying to ramp that business for a while how is that tracking? Well we continue work on that.
It is a more difficult market outside of the U.S.
We do have a number of units in various locations around the world.
So we have had some success in that over the course of the last couple years.
If we -- we would certainly like to grow that business further and are trying to do that.
And we are adding some systems that have availability to do that.
But it's a kind of a slow process and there aren't -- the opportunities are not as many.
And there's a lot more competition outside the Gulf of Mexico.
[Operator Instructions] Your next question comes from the line of Waqar Syed from Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Just quickly on the Subsea Products business could you provide us with a split -- revenue split between OII OIE and Emeritus? No Waqar we never split all that stuff out.
It would be way way too confusing for all of us if we started doing that.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Just quantitatively versus the last year 2011 fourth quarter and the first one in the split shift -- did the split remain the same? Or is it shift more in one direction or other? We said that umbilical throughput that products for the balance of the year was going to go up because of increased umbilical throughput.
And that margins were likely to go down because of change in mix.
I think those 2 go hand-in-hand.
And there are no further questions in queue at this time.
I turn the call back over to the presenters.
All right thank you very much.
We appreciate everyone's interest in Oceaneering.
Have a great day.
Take care.
Thank you ladies and gentlemen.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Sarah and I'll be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the 2012 Second Quarter Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the call over to Mr.
Jack Jurkoshek.
You may begin your conference.
Good morning everybody.
I would like to thank you for joining us on our 2012 second quarter earnings conference call.
As usual a webcast of this event is being made available through the StreetEvents Network service by Thomson Reuters.
Joining me today are Kevin McEvoy our President and Chief Executive Officer who will be leading the call; Marvin Migura our Executive Vice President; and Cardon Gerner our Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Just as a reminder remarks we make during the course of the call regarding our earnings guidance business strategy plans for future operations and industry conditions are forward-looking statements made pursuant to the Safe Harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
And I'm now going to turn the call over to Kevin.
Good morning and thanks for joining the call.
I'm happy to be here with you today to review our Q2 results and second half outlook.
Our record second quarter EPS of $0.67 was up 43% over the first quarter of this year and up 29% compared to the second quarter of 2011.
As expected operating income margin improved sequentially in each of our operating segments.
We achieved best-ever quarterly ROV and Asset Integrity in operating income.
Year-over-year and sequentially all of our business segments achieved higher operating income led by ROVs Subsea Projects and Asset Integrity.
We are well-positioned to participate in the next growth stage of deepwater and subsea completion activity and our outlook for 2012 remains very positive.
We continue to believe we will achieve record results for the year and are narrowing our 2012 EPS guidance range to $2.55 to $2.65.
Our previous guidance was $2.45 to $2.65.
So the new guidance is up slightly at the midpoint.
Compared to the first half we anticipate achieving higher operating income during the second half of 2012 principally due to the ROV and Subsea Products businesses.
ROV profits are expected to be up on an increasing days on hire in most operating areas notably in the Gulf of Mexico and off Africa and a slightly higher operating margin as we benefit from the additional days work and a favorable change in geographic mix.
For Subsea Products we are forecasting profit improvements for each of our major product lines during the second half of the year led by higher demand for our Subsea Hardware.
For the year we continue to forecast higher operating income for all of our segments relative to 2011.
During the quarter we purchased 400 000 shares of our common stock at a cost of about $19.4 million.
And as announced in April we increased our regular quarterly cash dividend to $0.18 from $0.15 a share.
These actions underscore our confidence in Oceaneering's financial strength and future business prospects.
For 2012 we anticipate generating at least $565 million of EBITDA.
Our balance sheet and projected cash flow provide us ample resources to invest in Oceaneering's growth and we intend to do so.
We are raising our 2012 CapEx range estimate excluding acquisitions by $75 million $50 million of which is for additional ROVs.
Our total year estimate is now $275 million to $300 million.
Of this amount $175 million is anticipated to be spent on adding systems to our ROV fleet and vehicle upgrades and $90 million is for enhancing our Subsea Products' capabilities.
Our focus in 2012 continues to be on earnings growth and investment opportunities both organically and through acquisitions.
I'd now like to review our second quarter oilfield segment results.
Year-over-year and sequentially ROV operating income increased on higher demand for both drilling and vessel-based support services.
The 13% year-over-year improvement in ROV days on hire was on the strength of higher demand in the Gulf of Mexico and off Africa.
Sequentially the 7% increase in days on hire was primarily due to increased demand in the Gulf of Mexico.
Our fleet utilization rate during the quarter was 81% up from 76% in the second quarter of 2011 and up from 79% in the first quarter of 2012.
We continue to expect that our fleet utilization for the year will be 80% or more compared to 77% in 2011.
Operating margin during the quarter was 31% the same as the year ago and up from 29% last quarter.
We continue to anticipate our ROV operating margin for this year will be slightly higher than the 30% we achieved in 2011.
During the quarter we put 13 new ROVs into service and retired 3.
At the end of June we had 280 systems available for operation up from 262 a year ago.
Seven of the new ROVs went into drill support service and 6 went to work on board vessels.
Our fleet mix during the quarter was 75% in drill support and 25% on vessel-based work the same as in the second quarter of 2011 compared to 78% and 22% last quarter.
We now anticipate adding 25 to 30 vehicles to our ROV fleet in 2012 7 to 12 during the remaining half of the year.
During the first half of the year we retired 5 vehicles and currently do not expect to retire anymore during the rest of the year.
Now turning to Subsea Products.
Year-over-year and sequentially second quarter operating income rose on the strength of increased revenue and profitability from tooling.
Products operating margin of 19% for the quarter was the same as the second quarter of 2011 and up from 17% last quarter.
For the year 2012 we now anticipate that Subsea Products margin will be comparable to what we achieved in 2011.
We continue to expect a record segment operating income for the year.
Our Subsea Products backlog at quarter end was $621 million up from $402 million at the end of March and $405 million a year ago.
Sequentially and year-over-year the substantial backlog increase was attributable to 2 large Petrobras available contracts we secured during the quarter that added over $190 million for our products' backlog.
Subsea Projects operating income was higher year-over-year and sequentially due to the field support vessel service contract with BP offshore Angola.
Asset Integrity operating income improved year-over-year and sequentially on higher service sales in all of our major geographic areas we serve most notably in Norway due to the acquisition we made in late 2011.
As anticipated this segment's margin returns to its historical double-digit range and we expect it to remain there in the remaining quarters of this year.
In summary our second quarter results were up significantly both sequentially and year-over-year and we look forward to realizing another year of record EPS performance in 2012.
Our focus on providing products and services for deepwater and subsea completions positions us to participate in a major secular growth trend in the oilfield services and products industry.
We were pleased with our cash flow generation result of $149 million of EBITDA during the quarter.
Capital expenditures for the quarter totaled $68 million of which $43 million was invested in ROVs.
Now looking to the third quarter we are projecting EPS in the range of $0.75 to $0.80.
We expect our third quarter EPS to be up year-over-year on operating income improvements from ROVs Subsea Products and Asset Integrity.
I would like to remind everyone that last year's third quarter results benefited from an $18.3 million pretax gain on the sale of a mobile offshore production system reported in Subsea Projects and the recognition of $4.9 million of tax benefits principally related to prior years.
Sequentially we anticipate quarterly operating income improvements from our ROV and Subsea Products segments: ROVs due to an increase in days on hire in most operating areas notably in the Gulf of Mexico and off Africa and a slightly higher operating margin as we benefit from the additional days worked due to a larger fleet size and a favorable change in geographic mix; and for Subsea Products on higher profit contribution from each of our major product categories led by Subsea Hardware and tooling.
Looking beyond 2012 we remain convinced that our strategy to focus on providing services and products to facilitate deepwater exploration and production remains sound.
We believe the oil and gas industry will continue to invest in deepwater as it remains one of the best frontiers for adding large hydrocarbon reserves with high production flow rates at relatively low finding and development cost.
A late 2011 industry report forecast total annual worldwide exploration and development spending to grow nearly 50% by 2015 while capital expenditures on deepwater projects are projected to more than double.
Therefore we anticipate demand for our deepwater services and products will continue to rise and believe our business prospects for the next several years are promising.
At the end of the quarter there were a total of 92 new floating rigs on order.
57 of these rigs are not contracted to work for Petrobras in Brazil and we expect all of them to go to work for other operators.
On these 57 rigs 11 ROV contracts have been let and we have won 10 of them leaving 46 ROV contracting opportunities left to be pursued outside of Petrobras in Brazil.
At the end of June 94 of the 136 existing high-spec drilling rigs consisting of dynamically positioned fifth- and sixth-generation semis and drill ships were not contracted to Petrobras in Brazil.
We had ROV contracts on 69 of these for a market share of 73%.
If all 57 of the non-Petrobras rigs I mentioned are placed into service this fleet of 94 will grow 61% to 151 rigs.
So the visibility of the secular growth outlook for this market remains very promising.
And looking forward we see no reason why we will not continue to be the dominant provider of ROV services on these rigs.
Each additional floating rig represents an opportunity for us to put another ROV to work in drill support service.
As the use of floating rigs grows we believe it is inevitable that discoveries will eventually drive orders for Subsea Hardware to levels not previously experienced and demand for ROVs to support vessel-based activities will follow.
There is no industry source of information to track vessel-based ROV demand.
However there has been a measurable trend regarding the total size of the ROV fleet with respect to the size of floating rig fleet.
At the end of 2000 the total ROV fleet size as a ratio to floating rigs was 2:1.
Since then the estimated size of the worldwide ROV fleet has doubled while the size of the floating rig fleet has grown only 50%.
Consequently the ROV fleet size relative to floating rig has risen to a ratio of about 3:1.
Given that the number of ROVs to support drilling has remained fairly stable at slightly over 1 per rig the faster rate of ROV supply growth is by default attributable to the increased use of vessels -- vehicles on vessels.
If the recent trend ratio of 3:1 persists and all 90-plus new floating rigs on order are delivered future vessel demand for ROVs may grow by more than 180 vehicles.
We estimate Oceaneering's market share of the global vessel-based ROV fleet at about 20% and see no reason why we would not at least maintain this share in the future.
Quest Offshore's latest Subsea Hardware forecast for the period 2012 to '16 includes an 80% increase in tree orders over the previous 5 years.
In 2012 subsea tree orders are projected to be about 550 an all-time high eclipsing the previous record of 462 trees in 2006 by about 20%.
While we don't make trees orders for subsea trees drive demand for a substantial amount of ancillary subsea production hardware that we manufacture.
For example Quest is forecasting nearly a 60% increase in umbilical orders for the 5-year period 2012 to '16 compared to the previous 5 years.
Furthermore renewed industry and regulatory emphasis on safe and reliable operations is providing additional opportunities for us to demonstrate our capabilities.
With our existing assets we are well-positioned to supply a wide range of the services and products required to support the safe deepwater efforts of our customers.
We believe Oceaneering's business prospects for the long term remain promising.
Our commanding competitive position technology leadership and strong balance sheet and cash flow enable us to continue to grow the company and we intend to do so.
In conclusion our results continue to demonstrate our ability to generate excellent earnings of cash flow.
We believe our business strategy is working well over both the short and long term.
We like our competitive position in the 2012 oilfield services market and are leveraged through a resumption in the growth of deepwater and subsea completion activity that is currently underway.
The longer-term outlook for our deepwater and subsea service and product offerings remains favorable.
Renewed industry and regulatory emphasis on reliable deepwater equipment with redundant safety features has caused our customers to be even more focused on risk reduction.
This elevates the importance of the utility and reliability of our ROV services and related product line offerings and reinforces the benefit of our value sell.
For 2012 we're anticipating that we will achieve another record year of EPS performance.
We think this distinguishes Oceaneering from any other oilfield service companies.
We appreciate everyone's interest in Oceaneering.
I'll now be happy to take any questions you may have.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Jon Donnel from Howard Weil.
Research Division</strong> I have a question regarding the increase in the ROVs you're scheduled to be delivering this year.
Is that driven by the fact that you had the 6 that were delivered for vessel use during the second quarter? Or is there additional vessel opportunities here in the second half of the year? I think it reflects the fact that additional opportunities are coming available that we didn't foresee earlier and it would be primarily on the vessel-based side although there are some existing rigs that we're having some success on as well.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And when these new vehicles are delivered to the vessels do those come under any sort of term contracts? Or are they still essentially just at the -- sort of the call-out market based on when the vessels are going to be working? It's a combination.
I mean it's kind of all over the map depending on where it is and who it's for.
I really couldn't give a definitive answer on that.
It's a combination.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then regarding the product segment obviously huge order rate this quarter with even excluding the Brazil and Belco [ph].
It looks like you're still pretty close to record levels in bookings.
So I was wondering if there had been any mix shift there in terms of maybe some higher demand for the tooling or IWOCS products and services? Or this is still just sort of consistent with what we've been seeing for the last few quarters? I think it's the latter Jon.
I think this is consistent and I think most of it is in umbilicals.
I do not foresee right now a different mix than what we saw and what we talked about last quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay and then just the addition of the umbilical is obviously -- the large orders just will obviously flow through as we go through '13 and impact margins that way.
Your next question comes from the line of Brian Uhlmer from Global Hunter.
LLC Research Division</strong> I just had a couple of quick questions.
Number one with -- on the products order obviously a great quarter.
If I back up the umbilicals is getting $200 million just a standard run rate outside of the large orders? Is that something that we can project moving forward? And number two with the bigger awards how should we look at modeling our backlog revenues our backlog for the product segment? Yes.
I mean if you look at -- if we can stay flat then we have -- this quarter we had $192 million call it $200 million of revenue.
If we didn't have that $190 million we would have stayed pretty flat at around $400 million.
So I would think $200 million of order intake is getting to be pretty good and pretty recurring.
And then think on your second question we really expect the work on the 2 big orders to start in the second half but predominantly in the fourth quarter.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay perfect.
So it's sustainable.
And as we look out into '13 and obviously for your guidance you're roughly flat in Q3 and seasonally down in Q4.
Could we think that 2013 would be up versus 2012? Is it too early to tell on the products? I hope I didn't miss that in your guidance.
No we're just -- we're not going into '13 yet.
But we'll do that next quarter.
We're not going to do it a quarter early.
LLC Research Division</strong> Well I'll call that a semi-question so I'll ask a 2.5 one here.
On the BP project what percent was that ramped up in the quarter? You worked 100% for the last 2 3 weeks of the quarter and how much did that contribute in Q2 and then we're fully ramped up for Q3 and we're not expecting any type of additional vessels or any indications for another option in the third quarter.
Is that correct? Well you kind of asked 2 questions there.
I think first of all we are seeing the run rate now for that contract.
And secondly we see at this point in time no suggestion of any additions there.
Brian the job ramped up earlier than what we thought.
So no it's not the last 2 or 3 weeks of the quarter that we hit our run rate.
I would say the quarterly run rate's indicative of what we expect.
And now the variability in projects is going to come and depend on how the Gulf of Mexico is doing.
And you didn't ask but that's still a pretty soft market for -- it's stronger than it was a year ago for deepwater vessels but it's still soft to very soft for the diving market.
Your next question comes from the line of Kurt Hallead from RBC.
LLC Research Division</strong> So I think we all understand that you get a very strong -- a very long runway out in front of you with respect to what's going on in the offshore market and deepwater in particular.
So I'm just kind of curious here guys you've always taken a measured approach to your pricing dynamics especially in the ROV.
And just kind of curious as to given this small run rate for us whether or not you feel a little bit more confident that you'll be able to push pricing a little bit more than you have in maybe prior cycle periods.
Let me start there.
Okay.
I'd say that we get asked this question a lot.
ROV pricing is pretty sensitive and we I think have done a pretty job of increasing price in order to maintain margin in the face of cost increases that we get around the world in labor and higher-spec equipment higher CapEx cost.
But we do not see any big opportunity to really push pricing to get much higher margins here.
There is some ability to do that on the vessel side of the business on the call-out part when the market gets tight.
And it is improving in that regard as we have been saying in the last couple of quarters here.
And so that is a place where there is some opportunity and that is about it I think.
Kurt I don't think there's an inflection point on the horizon.
LLC Research Division</strong> Couldn't be any more clear than that? I appreciate that.
On the other comment you made about the 3:1 ratio I think it's pretty interesting.
You said it's a little bit more than 1:1 on the freight front and obviously increasing on the vessels.
So in that context I guess I'm just trying to gauge here we got a good visibility on the number of freights that are coming.
How do we get a handle on the number of vessels that are coming? Number one.
And number two I think you gave somewhat of a mixed read here.
You said good for deepwater vessels but not so good for diving.
And how did that play into this the 3:1 ratio whether vessel versus diving.
Okay.
Well the diving comment was strictly a Gulf of Mexico comment so I'll try and address the 3:1 issue first.
I mean the vessel market is -- there really is no place like a Quest or Petrodata that you can go to track this stuff.
And so it's pretty difficult for us to predict that.
The only thing that we have tracked over time is obviously the number of world-class ROVs in the worldwide fleet.
And we know how many rigs there are.
And we know that historically and as we see it currently and moving forward the average number of ROVs on a rig is one in a very small fraction because there's only a few rigs that would have more than one.
So basically 1 for 1.
So that at least starts to give us some idea about how the vessel market is growing and so that's why we have tried to put that out there.
It's the best that we have and we're -- I can assure you that that is an important part of the market for us and we track every opportunity that we become aware of.
And typically it's going to be very short turnaround projects or contracts and so you don't have a long visibility of them like you do with a drilling rig that's under construction.
So that is an attempt to try and get a little more clarity around it.
And unfortunately there is no really good way to track that in order to predict how it's coming.
However I think notionally if the 3:1 ratio stands that suggests that there should be some pretty good opportunity growth out there in the marketplace.
Going to the diving comment I mean there's a lot of -- there's confusion I guess depending on what you're following about the Gulf of Mexico.
Obviously it has strengthened dramatically on the drilling rig side and is by all accounts set to exceed pre-Macondo levels by a fair margin if everything comes to pass.
So that is fine.
Everything's happening well there.
But as far as the non-drilling rig activity in the Gulf it's still a bit slow.
It is better on the ROV vessel support side of that business as Marvin said.
But on the diving side it is still very weak.
And just generally speaking utilization is still a little on the weak side generally so pricing is not where we would like to see it.
But it is improving.
Your next question comes from the line of Ed Muztafago from Societe Generale.
I just wanted to touch base again on the BP contract.
I guess Quest is saying that the second phase of that is likely to be awarded in the second half of this year.
And just really wondering does the current scope of your Block 18 and 31 project include the phase 2? Or does that represent some incremental work opportunities for you all? I think that really relates to hardware orders and the contract that we have is supporting both fields with the 2 vessels that are currently operating.
There is the option as we've said for BP to ask for a third vessel at some time.
But at the moment that is not being considered.
We have not had any discussions about that.
And I think what they're waiting to see is are 2 vessels enough to be able to service the requirements that they have there going forward and will I need a third one.
So there is no second phase if you will for us.
That really is a hardware issue and...
Okay that's very helpful.
I guess the -- you also noted the incremental $90 million of CapEx that's going towards the products business.
Can you talk to us a little bit about is that directed in any specific area per se? Whether it's -- I assume it's not umbilicals but maybe you can give us a little bit more granularity on where that CapEx is going to be directed.
It is.
There is some in umbilicals.
And in fact if I could find my note about 40% of that incremental investment is being made to increase the capability of our umbilical plants particularly in Brazil and Scotland.
In Brazil this is to produce and test umbilicals so there's test equipment being involved to incorporate higher pressure hoses to serve the pre-salt field developments.
And in Scotland there's an evolving customer need for longer and heavier umbilicals with more elements.
So we need some additional storage capacity.
So we're talking about capabilities to improve the type of umbilicals that we're building.
And then another 35% of that incremental amount or of this year's amount is to support our rental tool operations.
Okay okay.
And so I guess what I'm wondering there on the umbilical side since there is a fair amount of that CapEx directed towards it are you starting to see a little bit more optimism in the umbilicals business that maybe things may tighten up in that business maybe going into 2013? I think it really is a capability issue not a capacity issue.
I mean In Brazil for example the pre-salt umbilicals are much larger diameter a lot heavier.
And so we just needed to increase our capability of pulling that stuff through our plant so to speak.
And so it really is to match up with the new cross sections that are being ordered by Petrobras there.
Yes there's product capacity increase CapEx.
Yes yes that was clear.
And that's why I just kind of wanted to vent out what your thoughts were there in terms of where things tightening quicker than maybe you had originally thought.
It clearly sounds like this is more directed at very specific usage or type.
Correct.
Your next question comes from the line of Jim Crandell from Dahlman Rose.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just as in clarification because I either forgot it or I missed it.
But in the project business how long does the work for BP go offshore Angola? That Jim was a 3-year contract and it does have options for 2 1-year extensions.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And the visibility and the work for the Ocean Patriot in the Gulf of Mexico at this point how far does its work go and what is the visibility of that vessel? Well as we said earlier the demand in the Gulf for those for the diving side the shallower water asset is pretty weak.
And so it is working.
Most of our vessels are working.
We have reasonable utilization but pricing is not what it -- what we would like it to be.
That's for sure.
But the vessel is working.
It has been operating pretty consistently since we put it in the field.
And it's not term work.
It is call-out work.
So there's not much visibility to any of our Gulf of Mexico vessel utilization.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then my second question you're 2 big umbilical orders that you said are either of those going to be serviced out of your facility on the Gulf Coast? No.
those are booked out of our Niteroi plant in Brazil.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
Am I right to think about that business as doing well in all regions except for the Gulf of Mexico where you're suffering from sort of low utilization there? That would be correct.
LLC Research Division</strong> And how do you see that -- is there any indication that that can be changing over the next 6 months? Over the next 6 months I wouldn't say so.
But I think we certainly can see a lot of more increased opportunity with these deepwater developments that are happening in the Gulf of Mexico now.
So I think that's a very good sign.
There's been a very pretty good lack of that up until now.
And so the outlook looks good but I think it's a late '13 '14 idea.
But it look -- it would appear that there are enough projects in line there that that could be somewhat of a game changer for our plant in the Gulf here.
Your next question comes from the line of Tom Curran from Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> Subsea Projects in the Gulf of Mexico.
Which historical quarter did Q2 come closest to resembling? Two.
We always say it came pretty close to resembling...
LLC Research Division</strong> Or you could just tell me -- well how about prior to 2012? Or if you could just tell me what the year-over-year changes for revenues and EBIT margin for the Gulf of Mexico for Subsea Projects? I would have to say that year-over-year Q2 Gulf of Mexico projects was pretty flat.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
At both the top line and for EBIT margin? I won't go there.
I'll just talk about the bottom.
I'll talk about [indiscernible] result.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then turning to Subsea Products given the surge we've had here in Multiflex's backlog as well as the run rate you're expecting going forward how has margin come in thus far relative to what you're expecting? And then the second part for Subsea Products would be if orders were to positively surprise over the next -- over the second half of 2012 for any of the other businesses which seems the most likely and why? Well I guess on the umbilicals side there I mean margins are as expected.
I mean capacity is still pretty huge out there and so margins aren't really changing much in that regard.
So really it is a volume throughput business at the moment.
And obviously with these orders and with the backlog that we've been tracking there it has been better.
In terms of increases tooling is really where we see the opportunities for the second half of the year.
If there were orders to surprise.
Yes if there were to surprise.
LLC Research Division</strong> And would that most likely be BOP-related a continuation of the secular uptrend in safety and redundancy-related spending we see post-Macondo or  somewhere else? It's pretty broad-based.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I'm just going to cheat and squeeze one more in here.
For Asset Integrity what's the expectation going forward in terms of the EBIT margin run rate? And should we still see seasonality there? We do expect that there will always be seasonality there.
We expect the run rates in terms of margin percentages to be more consistent with our historical results.
Yes.
So historically Q2 and Q3 are close.
And in Q4 soft.
And Q1 is the weak quarter and the seasonal weakness.
So I would expect within 100 basis points that could be the case.
LLC Research Division</strong> A similar pattern going forward in 100 basis points.
Yes.
Your next question comes from the line of Stephen Gengaro from Sterne Agee.
Research Division</strong> Just as a follow-up on the Subsea Projects side given the vessel utilization for BP how should we think about those margins? I mean should they remain pretty healthy around these levels given the high levels of utilization? Because this is obviously a big step change here.
But how should we sort of think about that going forward? For -- I'm sorry projects right? Research Division</strong> Yes exactly right.
For projects.
I think we're going to see the same seasonality that we always have seen in project margins.
And I mean I think the project margins for Q2 were a little better than what we expected and it's just going to depend upon the level of activity in the Gulf of Mexico to see if that's sustainable.
I think the run rate for BP Angola will be steady.
But as we talk to a lot there's not much visibility in the Gulf of Mexico.
So I expect there to be a considerable amount of variability to our margins depending upon vessel utilization.
And right now we said diving is weak and ROV's vessel-based activity in the Gulf is okay but nothing to write home about.
I hope that helps.
We're not going to give -- I can't get more specific than that because as everybody knows this is our first year with Angola so we're learning as we go.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And as you talked about the big sequential rise first quarter second quarter is that -- that's BP Angola but that's some just seasonality in the Gulf as well there? Absolutely Stephen.
Yes.
I mean that -- and again the activity came early so...
In Angola.
In Angola.
Your next question comes from the line of Darren Gacicia from Guggenheim.
LLC Research Division</strong> I wanted to ask you first when I'm looking at Subsea products obviously umbilicals are flowing through.
Is there any way you can give some kind of color on sort of what -- how sort of umbilical margins play through versus other products and kind of what the mix of other products is within the other elements to that? And what the mix is in the overall with kind of other products and umbilicals? Just to kind of get a sense on how that may progress as those large products start to flow through? Well we really don't give that granularity.
I mean we have said that umbilicals have a lower margin than the other product businesses in general.
And so that mix really does determine what the margin is.
But beyond that we don't really get into that detail.
LLC Research Division</strong> Sure.
Is there any way to kind of get a sense of how the new umbilical awards will actually flow through numbers over the next -- how should we look at them kind of flowing through over the next handful of several quarters? Well nothing -- I mean not much is going to flow through in this year.
I mean very little amount which will probably be indiscernible from the external world.
So those are primarily played out over the next -- through '13 '14 and some into '15.
I think we do expect more umbilicals particularly out of Brazil in Q4.
And -- but I mean just as a -- what we'll do is annually we will disclose continue to disclose what percent umbilicals were of the prior year.
And then as Kevin said umbilicals because of the high input cost of the steel tubes that we incorporate into our umbilicals have the lowest margins.
And then the other ones you could go with IWOCS as being probably the most profitable followed by tooling and then Subsea Hardware.
And the mix doesn't vary that much but it's -- with the increased throughput of umbilicals which is the lowest margin percentage then you have some -- that's why we're always saying that we expected with increased throughput umbilicals to drive down our margin year-over-year for 2012 over '11.
This quarter we said it's going to be comparable.
So we did increase our expectations for profitability of products marginally.
LLC Research Division</strong> Got it.
And so if I'm -- so as I think about the mix and I think about IWOCS for instance if you have an increase in drilling activity especially in the Gulf of Mexico on what kind of timing lag should that increase the IWOCS portion of the mix? It's extremely difficult to gauge because it really depends upon when they start completing how they complete it whether it's -- right now the deepwater is totally driven by majors and they have a different outlook on how they do that compared to independent.
So that is the lead lag factor of products versus drilling is very difficult to forecast or imagine.
LLC Research Division</strong> With kind of hand on the rail would you say it's probably in the uptick or kind of a net flat for '13? Flat for our outlook.
We don't comment on '13.
But it's flat for the last half of the year.
Your next question comes from the line of John Lawrence from Tudor Pickering Holt.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Kevin in the past you've said some positive comments on Australia.
Will this be a meaningful market for you for you over time? Or is it just too early to tell down there? We believe it's going to be a meaningful market over time.
I mean it is evolving obviously and there are -- and there's a lot of big project work right now.
It takes a long time to -- for that to get executed.
The real opportunities for us are on the hardware side and hopefully on the intervention side once all the stuff is installed and has been operating.
So we're still very positive on Australia.
And -- but you're right it is going to be an over time kind of development.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And are there more acquisition targets down there? Or is it just organic growth going forward? We're not going to comment on acquisitions in any specific area likely or not.
What we will say is that our focus is on organic growth and geographical expansion.
And historically that is where the bulk of our growth has come.
Last year if anything was a bit of an anomaly in that regard.
But historically virtually all of our growth has come from just organic growth.
Your next question comes from the line of Joshua Jayne from Simmons and Company.
Research Division</strong> Just one quick one on the ROV side drill-support.
Could you update us on your Gulf of Mexico outlook how many ROVs you had on the rigs working today and then on the rigs to be delivered at the balance of the year? Sure.
We didn't think anybody was going to ask that.
We were kind of wondering.
We got so many variations so okay here we go.
Okay at the time of our last earnings call we were on 31 of 32 rigs under contract in the Gulf of Mexico.
As of yesterday there were 34 of rigs under contract in the Gulf and we had ROV contracts on 31 of them.
Just by comparison we had ROVs on 31 of the 36 rigs that were under contract in the Gulf pre-Macondo.
So 3 more rigs came in and we did not have ROVs on those 3.
A little more there.
There's 5 known additional rigs firmly scheduled to come in to the Gulf by the year end 2 are new rigs and 3 are existing and we have ROV contracts on 4 of them.
So by the year end if all happens as scheduled we anticipate that there's going to be 39 rigs working in the Gulf and we expect to have ROVs on 35 of them.
Your next question comes from the line of Alan Laws from BMO Capital Markets.
I got just a couple of follow-ups here.
You just sort of mentioned that last year was sort of an anomaly for you in the acquisition front and that you were able to close on a few.
Could you maybe talk a little bit about what your pipeline or opportunity set looks like for additional M&amp;A? You've always been pretty good at adding earnings power through this even if it's just a small number.
Nothing's really changed in the pipeline.
I think what makes it why it was an anomaly is because we are able to find one that we thought fit our niche market strategy and we invested $230 million in one deal.
It's still the case that we keep looking for companies that meet our niche strategy and kind of fall under our umbrella.
And right now if anybody has anything that has a word subsea in it or can imagine as being subsea is it's pretty much hoarding it.
So the opportunity set isn't anything that we can say well we've got x number or the -- we don't have a hole in our arsenal that says "We'd really like to have this product and we're going to go out and get it for strategic reasons." So we continue to be opportunistic and we're looking.
But we're not going to comment on it any further.
It's just not a lot of acquisitions that we're interested in that meet those criteria and are accretive.
All right great.
Another follow-up here on the margins and products.
You seem like in a good mood so any of you will answer this.
But what was the magnitude of the difference in margins between umbilicals and tooling? Since you won't give us the exact what I'm sure was is there I guess a 50% more 20% more? We're not in that good of a mood.
But we really don't want to go to subsegment.
I mean it truly is -- all of these things end up fitting together in the greater scheme of things and it really is better to look at products as of segments as opposed to trying to dissect into each product line.
[Operator Instructions] And your next question comes from the line of Ed Muztafago from Societe Generale.
Just had a couple of quick follow-up questions if you don't mind.
Can you maybe help us understand a little bit better how the umbilical or big umbilical awards ship to P&amp;L? Can you tell us did those ship on like a completed contract? Or is that more of a unit completion type basis that you shipped the umbilical dock? It's a percentage of completion accounting.
So it depends upon the cost and the physical flow.
It's not on a shipment basis.
Okay.
So presumably these don't cause a lot of margin volatility from one quarter to the next.
It's somewhat smoothed out over a longer period.
I guess the...
Presumably yes unless something doesn't go the way we expect yes.
That's fair.
And then just when you guys sort of look back over the history of your business for vessel-based work does the strength or weaknesses of the lease sales in particular the shallow water tend to be a good sort of proxy as to where that business may be let's call it 12 24 months down the road? Not really.
I mean much longer term obviously healthy lease sales are good for the industry.
And eventually something's going to come off it.
But typically by the time somebody goes and drills a prospect and then has a discovery and then does something about it I mean several years are going by there.
Yes yes.
Very long lead time I understand.
Yes.
And there are no further questions in queue.
All right.
Thank you very much.
Take care.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Stephanie and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to Oceaneering International's Third Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Thank you.
Jack Jurkoshek you may begin your conference.
Good morning everybody.
I'd like to thank you for joining us on our 2012 third quarter earnings call.
As usual a webcast of this event is being made available through the StreetEvents Network service by Thomson Reuters.
Joining me today are Kevin McEvoy our President and Chief Executive Officer who will be leading the call; Marvin Migura our Executive Vice President; and Cardon Gerner our Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Just as a reminder remarks we make during the course of the call regarding our earnings guidance business strategy plans for future operations and industry conditions are forward-looking statements made pursuant to the Safe Harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
And I'm now going to turn the call to Kevin.
Good morning.
First I'd like to begin by saying that our thoughts and prayers go out to everyone affected by the severe storm named Sandy.
We hope all of you and your families are safe and out of harm's way.
Now turning to Oceaneering's quarterly results.
We are very pleased with our performance which demonstrates the rising demand we are experiencing for our subsea services and products.
Overall our operations performed within expectations and we remain on track to achieve record EPS for the year.
Our third quarter results were highlighted by an all-time high operating income from our ROV and Subsea Products segments.
Given our performance so far this year and our fourth quarter outlook we are narrowing our 2012 EPS guidance range to between $2.60 and $2.65 up slightly at the mid point from our previous range of $2.55 to $2.65.
We are well positioned to participate in the growth of deepwater and subsea completion activities that is currently underway and we are initiating 2013 annual EPS guidance with a range of $3 to $3.25.
This is up nearly 20% at the midpoint over our expectation for 2012.
For our services and products we anticipate continued global demand growth to support deepwater drilling field development and inspection maintenance and repair activities.
This market outlook is supported by industry observations and assessments that deepwater drilling is increasing subsea equipment orders are escalating and backlog to perform offshore construction projects is at a record high level.
Specifically in the U.S.
Gulf of Mexico we are expecting 2013 demand for our service and product lines that support deepwater drilling to surpass the level we experienced before the Macondo incident in April of 2010.
We are also projecting Gulf of Mexico demand for our non-drill support service and product lines to improve but not to the pre-Macondo level.
In our view this level may not be reached for another few years due to the time lag between drilling and subsequent field development activity.
Furthermore we see this time lag lengthening as major and national oil companies now comprise a larger share of the exploration and development activity in the Gulf.
Compared to independent oil companies the majors and NOCs tend to have larger projects that require more time to evaluate and plan from discovery to first production.
For 2012 and 2013 we anticipate generating at least $590 million and $670 million of EBITDA respectively.
Our balance sheet and projected cash flow provide us ample resources to invest in Oceaneering's growth and we intend to continue to do so.
I'll talk more about our 2013 guidance later but first I'd like to review our oilfield operations for the third quarter.
Year-over-year and sequentially ROV operating income increased on higher demand for both drilling and vessel-based support services.
The 12% year-over-year improvement in ROV days on hire was on the strength of higher demand in the Gulf of Mexico and North Africa.
Sequentially the 4% increase in days on hire was spread throughout most of the geographic areas in which we operate.
Our fleet utilization rate and operating income margin during the quarter were 81% and 30% respectively about the same as a year ago.
We continue to expect that our fleet utilization for the full year will be 80% or more compared to 77% in 2011.
And that operating margin will approximate the 30% we achieved in 2011.
During the quarter we put 10 new ROVs into service and retired 5.
At the end of September we had 285 systems in our fleet up from 262 a year ago.
6 of the new ROVs went into drill support service and 4 went to work on board vessels.
Our fleet mix during the quarter was 73% in drill support and 27% on vessel-based work compared to a 75%/25% mix both in the third quarter of 2011 and last quarter.
We now anticipate adding at least 33 new vehicles to our ROV fleet in 2012 5 or more during the fourth quarter.
During the first 3 quarters of this year we have retired 10 vehicles and currently expect to retire 4 or 5 more during the fourth quarter.
I'll address retirements again a little later on in the call.
Now turning to Subsea Products year-over-year third quarter operating income rose on the strength of increased demand for tooling and IWOCS services.
Sequentially each of our major product categories achieved higher operating income led by IWOCS services and Subsea Hardware.
Products' operating margin of 24% for the quarter was a record high up from 19% in both the third quarter of 2011 and last quarter.
The year-over-year margin improvement was attributable to a favorable mix change to more tooling sales and higher IWOCS services.
The sequential margin improvement was attributable to higher profitability on IWOCS services and sales of Subsea Hardware and umbilicals.
IWOCS margin improved on an increase in fleet utilization in the Gulf of Mexico.
Subsea Hardware margin benefited from higher pipeline repair system and clamp sales.
Umbilical margin increased on a favorable mix change to more thermoplastic hose product at our plant in Scotland.
In light of the unprecedented products margin we achieved this quarter we now anticipate that Subsea Products margin for 2012 will be slightly higher than what we achieved in 2011.
We are not however expecting to replicate the quarterly margin performance of the third quarter anytime in the foreseeable future.
Products margin in the fourth quarter of this year is anticipated to be in the high teens similar to that of the second quarter.
We continue to expect a record segment operating income for the year.
Our Subsea Products backlog at quarter end was $619 million comparable to the $621 million at the end of June and up from $403 million a year ago.
Year-over-year the substantial backlog increase was attributable to 2 large Petrobras umbilical contracts we secured during the second quarter of 2012 which added over $190 million to our products backlog.
Product manufacturing for these 2 large Petrobras contracts is not expected to be completed until the third quarter of 2015.
As for our other oilfield business segments Subsea Projects operating income in the third quarter of 2011 included an $18 million gain we realized on the sale of a mobile offshore production system.
Excluding this asset sale gain from the comparison third quarter 2012 operating income improved substantially primarily due to the field support vessel services contract with BP offshore Angola.
Sequentially operating income was higher on increased demand for use of our Ocean Patriot to perform saturation diving services in the Gulf of Mexico and offshore Trinidad.
Asset Integrity operating income improved year-over-year on higher service sales in Africa and in Norway due to the acquisition we made in late 2011.
Sequentially operating income seasonally declined.
The second quarter is usually the more profitable quarter during any given year for our Asset Integrity services due to scheduling of refinery turnarounds and offshore production platform inspections.
In summary our third quarter results were very much in line with our expectations and we look forward to realizing another year of record EPS performance in 2012.
Our focus on providing products and services for deepwater and subsea completions positions us to participate in a major secular growth trend in the oilfield services and products industry.
We were pleased with our cash flow generation result of $169 million of EBITDA during the quarter.
Capital expenditures for the quarter totaled $65 million of which $45 million was invested in ROVs.
Now let's talk about our outlook.
For the fourth quarter of 2012 we are projecting EPS in the range of $0.68 to $0.73.
We expect our fourth quarter EPS to be up year-over-year on operating income improvements from all our oilfield segments led by ROVs and Subsea Products.
Sequentially we anticipate comparable quarterly operating income from ROVs and Subsea Products.
The rest of our business segments are forecast to have operating income declines due to normal seasonality.
Looking forward to 2013 we are initiating EPS guidance with a range of $3 to $3.25 based on an average of approximately 108.5 million diluted shares and an estimated tax rate of 31.5%.
We have not completed our detailed planning process but the big picture changes we envision for 2013 compared to '12 can be summarized as follows: ROV operating income is projected to grow on the strength of an increase in days on hire as we benefit from an increase in demand to support drilling and vessel-based projects and continue to expand our fleet.
We are expecting our fleet utilization rate will improve to 82% or more and anticipate adding 30 to 35 new vehicles to our fleet in 2013.
We intend to retire systems when they reach the end of their useful lives with little or no adverse financial impact and will now report these retirements only after they have occurred.
Given our fleet size its average age and our strategy of operating a modern fleet we expect to retire annually about 4% to 5% of our fleet.
We expect to improve our average revenue per day on hire somewhat at least to cover cost increases and maintain our operating margin.
We remain committed to growing our fleet and securing as many new build floating rig and vessel opportunities as possible with customers that appreciate our value proposition.
Subsea Products operating income is forecast to improve on higher Subsea Hardware and tooling sales and increase throughput at our umbilical plants.
We continue to foresee a very challenging Gulf of Mexico umbilical market for our Panama City plant due to the aftereffect of the drilling moratorium in 2010 and 2011.
Subsea Projects' operating profit is expected to be better on a full year of work on the field support services contract of BP offshore Angola.
During 2013 we expect a modest demand improvement for diving and deepwater intervention services in the Gulf of Mexico.
However the operating profit from our Gulf operation is expected to be about the same as in 2012 due to a reduction in our vessel availability and an increase in drydock expenses.
4 of the 8 vessels we will be operating in the Gulf are scheduled to undergo regulatory inspections and another will be placed in a shipyard for modifications during the year.
Our Asset Integrity segment profit contribution is forecast to be slightly higher on better execution and improved operational efficiency.
Advanced technologies' performance is expected to increase somewhat due to improved operating margin on U.S.
Navy submarine maintenance services and increases in theme park entertainment work and manufacturing projects for the U.S.
Department of Defense.
Unallocated expenses are estimated to increase in line with revenue growth.
At the midpoint of our guidance range we expect our overall operating margin in 2013 to remain approximately the same as anticipated for 2012.
Based on our preliminary numbers we are not anticipating any meaningful changes in our segment operating margins in 2013.
During 2013 we anticipate generating at least $670 million of EBITDA.
Our balance sheet and projected cash flow provide us with ample resources to invest in Oceaneering's growth.
Our preliminary CapEx estimate for next year including -- excluding acquisitions is $275 million to $300 million.
Of this amount approximately $175 million is anticipated to be spent on adding systems to our ROV fleet and vehicle upgrades.
Our focus in 2013 as it was this year will be on earnings growth and investment opportunities both organically and through acquisitions.
At this time we are not providing quarterly earnings guidance for 2013.
For those of you who intend to publish quarterly estimates I'd like to remind you that historically our first quarter is the lowest of the year due to seasonality and typically below that of the fourth quarter of the previous year.
Furthermore we tend to have higher earnings in the second half of the year compared to the first.
Looking forward to 2013 and beyond we remain convinced that our strategy to focus on providing services and products to facilitate deepwater exploration and production remains sound.
We believe the oil and gas industry will continue to invest in deepwater as it remains one of the best frontiers for adding large hydrocarbon reserves with high production flow rates at relatively low finding and development costs.
Therefore we anticipate demand for our deepwater services and products will continue to rise and believe our business prospects for the next several years are promising.
At the end of the quarter there were a total of 95 new floating rigs on order.
62 of these rigs are not contracted to work for Petrobras in Brazil and we expect all of them will go to work for other operators.
On these 62 rigs 11 ROV contracts have been let and we have won 10 of them leaving 51 ROV contracting opportunities left to be pursued outside of Petrobras in Brazil.
At the end of September 96 of the 140 existing high-spec drilling rigs consisting of dynamically positioned fifth- and sixth-generation semis and drillships were not contracted to Petrobras in Brazil.
We had ROV contracts on 72 of these for a market share of 75%.
If all 62 of the non-Petrobras rigs I mentioned are placed into service this fleet of 96 will grow 65% to 158 rigs.
So the visibility of the secular growth outlook for this market remains very promising.
And looking forward we see no reason why we will not continue to be the dominant provider of ROV services on these rigs.
Each additional floating rig represents an opportunity for us to put another ROV to work in drill support service.
As the use of floating rigs grows we believe it is inevitable that discoveries will eventually drive orders for Subsea Hardware to levels not previously experienced and demand for ROVs to support vessel-based activities should follow.
There is no industry source of information to track vessel-based ROV demand.
However there has been a measurable trend over the last decade regarding the total size of the ROV fleet with respect to the size of the floating rig fleet.
Currently this trend ratio is 3:1 with the number of ROVs to support drilling at slightly over 1 per rig.
The existence of the other ROVs is by default attributable to market demand for vehicles to support vessel-based work.
If this trend ratio of 3:1 persists and all 90-plus new floating rigs on order are delivered future vessel demand for ROVs may grow by more than 180 vehicles.
We estimate Oceaneering's market share of the global vessel-based ROV fleet at about 20% and see no reason we would not at least maintain this share in the future.
Quest Offshore's latest subsea hardware forecast for the period 2012 to '16 includes an increase in tree orders of more than 75% over the previous 5 years.
In 2012 subsea tree orders are projected to be about 570 an all-time high eclipsing the previous record of 462 trees in 2006 by over 20%.
In 2013 tree orders are projected to rise to 640.
While we don't make trees orders for subsea trees drive demand for a substantial amount of the ancillary subsea production hardware that we manufacture.
For example Quest is forecasting a nearly 50% increase in umbilical orders for the 5-year period 2012 to '16 compared to the previous 5 years.
Furthermore renewed industry and regulatory emphasis on safe and reliable operations is providing additional opportunities for us to demonstrate our capabilities.
With our existing assets we are well positioned to supply a wide range of the services and products required to support the safe deepwater efforts of our customers.
We believe Oceaneering's business prospects for the long term remain promising.
Our commanding competitive position technology leadership and strong balance sheet and cash flow enable us to continue to grow the company and we intend to do so.
In conclusion our results continue to demonstrate our ability to generate excellent earnings and cash flow.
We believe our business strategy is working well over both the short and long term.
We like our position in the oilfield services market and we are leveraged to the growth of deepwater and subsea completion activity that is currently underway.
The longer-term market outlook for our deepwater and subsea service and product offerings remains promising.
Renewed industry and regulatory emphasis on reliable deepwater equipment with redundant safety features has caused our customers to be even more focused on risk reduction.
This elevates the importance of the utility and reliability of our ROV services and related product line offerings and reinforces the benefit of our value sell.
For 2012 we are anticipating that we will achieve another record year of EPS performance and that 2013 will be even better.
We think this distinguishes Oceaneering from many other oilfield service companies.
We appreciate everyone's interest in Oceaneering and I'll now be happy to take any questions you may have.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from Justin Sander with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just a few questions here on the utilization front and the outlook for '13.
So continues to be real solid at 81% though below the mid 80s achieved in 2006 to 2008 period.
Can you just talk about some of the critical factors that we should keep an eye on to drive utilization higher and towards that 80% average in the coming quarters? And then also maybe some of the gating factors whether its labor or anything else that may keep you from getting back to the mid 80% range beyond 2013? I think the primary driver to that utilization really is the vessel-based activity.
And so as you see a strengthening in that market bigger backlogs on the construction installation companies is probably a good proxy for what will follow thereafter.
And so that really is the primary driver and we see that strengthening next year as it did this year compared to last.
And we don't see labor supply as being a negating issue.
We are spending considerable amount of money on training new crews and recruiting new technicians.
So I mean it is a continuing challenge but we do not see that as a negating factor that limit our utilization or growth.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
So then if you kind of break it out for the 82% number in '13.
You were probably talking about drilling support utilization fairly static and then improving on the vessel side to drive the progression going forward.
Correct.
Correct.
And we have taken into consideration the new rig deliveries that are forecasted for the rigs that are expected to go to work.
We have not forecasted a significant change in the utilization rate of the existing fleet.
LLC Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then just a clarification on the ROV operating margins here.
So if I understood the guidance correctly it sounds like operating income in the fourth quarter is looking like the third quarter level.
So we should see operating margins downtick a little bit as a result from the 29.7% in the third quarter? And then I assume going throughout the course of '13 we kind of see that pick up as the utilization picks up.
Is that a fair way to think about it? Justin I m trying to understand why if we are expecting margins to be about 30% for the year why you would be saying that we'd be having a downtick of the 29.7% from Q3.
We're looking -- I think the comment was that we're going to have a Q4 for ROVs that is comparable to Q3.
And that we're going to stay at around the same as '11 for '12 on a year-over-year margin basis.
LLC Research Division</strong> Got it.
I wasn't clear if that guidance was related to the margin or the actual operating income.
And your next question comes from Mike Urban with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> As you see the shift in mix in the ROV side from drill support to a little more activity on the vessel side and presumably construction-based activity as well and of course you have the new builds coming in as well that would seem to create a tightening of the market that we haven't traditionally thought of the ROV business as one that gets a lot of pricing power but as you've often said most of your competitors are in the construction side.
Do you see an opportunity to potentially change that dynamic a bit? It just seems like there's an awful lot of activity out there.
Well there is but I really wouldn't see that as a driver to increase prices in that sector.
Generally in the past when that's occurred there has not been -- it's not been in a growth part of the business and so there weren't a lot of new ROVs being produced and entering into the market as there are now.
And so I think that sort of mitigates against raising prices from that perspective.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So we should continue to think of it as more of a volume-based growth story.
Yes.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then kind of unrelated shifting over to the product side you cited the Panama City facility as being a bit of a challenge as it has been for a while.
Do you get to a point where you have to make a decision there on whether to continue with that facility or at some point just given all the activity that is prospectively out there in the Gulf of Mexico do you just kind of hang on and minimize your costs there and hopefully the volumes pick up as the Gulf of Mexico shifts more from exploration into well construction development mode? Good question.
We are committed to keeping that facility.
We are keeping it busy enough to tick over if you will.
And there certainly is visibility to some Gulf of Mexico ordering in the next 2 years or so depending on what the schedule is for major operators and discoveries that have already been made and how that will go.
And we are continuing to focus on foreign projects in order to put through that plant to keep it going but we think it's going to be a good thing to keep and we're planning to do so.
Okay.
Absolutely Mike.
I think what we've got is a challenge but I mean definitely a contributor.
We have done -- the guys have done a great job in reducing our cost and chasing international work and winning international work.
Your next question comes from Stephen Gengaro with Sterne Agee.
Research Division</strong> Two questions.
One pretty simply.
Did you say the -- you ended the quarter with 285 ROVs? I just wanted to make sure I had that number right.
Correct.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Great.
And then second when I look at your balance sheet and obviously you're in a great position from both a balance sheet but also a prospective cash flow position over the next several years.
How do you prioritize use of the cash and how aggressively will you look at giving cash back to shareholders maybe even more aggressively than you already are versus growth opportunity? How do you look at that and actually think about that? Okay well our #1 objective is to grow as it has been.
And the priority has been internal organic growth investment represented primarily by ROVs and then in tooling.
And then secondary -- secondly looking at acquisitions which unfortunately are few and far between you know in the space that we're really interested in.
Thirdly dividends as you pointed out we just increased that last time at the year anniversary.
So we think that's already kind of a little bit aggressive anyway.
And lastly would be share repurchases which we have no schedule fixed for doing so but we do have an authorization out there which we could exercise if we think the market is right.
And we did buy 400 000 shares in the second quarter and I think directly to dividends we have no specific plan to increase.
But as Kevin said it's been just since May when we increased the quarterly dividend by 20%.
So I think we're going to keep the focus that Kevin said.
And right now there is no plan to be more aggressive but we'll revisit that sort of when it's more prudent to do that.
And we think it's more prudent to do it on an annual basis.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then just as one follow-up to that.
When you -- is there anything product line-wise and you may not want to get into so much of that that you don't own that is sort of directly complementary to what you're doing or are they sort of more sort of smaller niche-y acquisitions that you'd be looking at? I guess a way to answer that is that while we're not always looking for things that are complementary we don't see anything that is so strategic that we feel like we're missing something or have to go after something really aggressively.
So we're looking for things that are complementary ideally a product with a service component to it.
More than likely that would be something outside the U.S.
but not necessarily so.
So that's what really what we're looking for.
And Steve I think our focus is as it has been to grow geographically with some of our product lines and expand existing product lines geographically to grow the business as opposed to necessarily adding a complementary product through acquisition.
But we keep looking.
Research Division</strong> No you've done it well over the last couple of -- that does make sense.
Your next question comes from Jon Donnel with Howard Weil.
Research Division</strong> I had a question regarding the products operating margins and whether there was any contribution from those large Petrobras awards on the top line to 3Q and if that was any of the help on the margin uptick that we saw during the quarter.
No.
I mean that -- that project both of those projects are kind of long term as we've tried to indicate and really haven't even started to get into the financials yet.
Research Division</strong> Do you expect that there will be some top line hitting in 4Q? And did I hear correctly that you’d expect the op margins to be relatively flat sequentially here and is that perhaps a contributor to that? No.
Jon.
We do expect production in Q4 to have some top line growth but we did not say that margins sequentially would be flat.
We said margins would get back to mid teens -- I mean high teens.
Research Division</strong> I'm sorry I might have said margins but I meant op income being flat.
Okay.
That makes sense then.
Yes op inc is correct.
Yes sir.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Great.
And then I guess regarding the CapEx outlook for next year it looks like there may be a little bit more going to the non-ROV businesses than what we have seen in the past.
Could you maybe give us a breakdown a little bit of where you expect that CapEx spend to be coming from? And I guess is any of that specifically related to the Ocean Alliance upgrade that you all had mentioned earlier during the quarter? Jon I'm sure there's a little bit in for the Ocean Alliance but we're not going to go ahead and go much beyond -- we don't have a detailed CapEx plan.
What we did is you can see from the numbers exactly the same amount of CapEx as we expect to spend in 2012.
And with the ROV adds we're saying we're going to roll another one out very similar to 2012.
We don't have any more detail of that.
We just expect it to be spread among the other segments.
But yes a little bit.
I mean it's not a big modification that's going in for the Ocean Alliance when you look at the magnitude of our CapEx; it's not a needle-moving event.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Great.
And then finally from me.
Regarding the AGR acquisition you all had mentioned at the time of that announcement that you had expected it to add about $10 million of op income during 2012.
I'm just wondering if we can kind of get an update on how that's progressing from that standpoint.
Is there anything specifically that you've seen either to the good or bad of that acquisition and how we should maybe think about that going forward relative to kind of the prior expectations that you all laid out there? I think everything is going pretty much as expected.
And I'm kind of thinking of what we talked about when we did the press release in December.
I mean we're seeing the growth through Asset Integrity and a little bit of activity in projects.
I mean projects as you know is being overwhelmed in 2012 in a good way by the BP Angola project but I don't see any significant change year-over-year coming up because of any changes in AGR.
Your next question comes from Ian Macpherson with Simmons.
Research Division</strong> I had a question on the ROV unit growth outlook.
Is there anything to pull through from the second BOPs that are becoming more common on new build orders for floaters that would relate to more than one drilling support ROV on those rigs? No we don't see that.
I mean there could be a onesie twosie kind of thing where somebody decides for other reasons that they want to have a second ROV.
But we don't see that as a trend developing at all.
Research Division</strong> Okay good.
You mentioned for growth geographic growth in existing product lines one geography that stands out.
It’s not one; I guess it's many that are similar in terms of the North Atlantic and the North Sea Norway the harsh environment domain generally.
Is that specifically an area that you would like to have more exposure and can you do that organically or is that something that would be more inorganic if you wanted to do it? For products in the North Sea? Research Division</strong> Be it for ROV expansion or products.
Well I mean ROV expansion pretty much follows wherever the drill rigs are going and so that is really not focused on a geography as much as it is on the rig and the operator.
As far as products are concerned we're pretty well represented in the North Sea already.
We're really looking to push products more out into Australia for example West Africa East Africa those sorts of areas that there's not as much of a concentration now.
Research Division</strong> Very good.
And just last quickly with respect to your guidance for next year in general are there any aspects that we should look at as being more sensitive to the high end or the low end of your earnings range? And are there other areas that are more set in stone at this point? No.
I wouldn't say so.
No.
We've got a narrow range where we picked the mid point.
We're plus or minus 4%.
A lot of things can happen that move the needle that much.
So there's not any contingent situation that causes us to be on the high end or the low end.
I think it's just a good mix.
Your next question comes from Darren Gacicia with Guggenheim.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just wanted to flesh out a little bit.
You're talking about kind of business mix next year on the products side when you look at company IOC customers versus kind of energy majors.
When you think about sort of an added planning time what is that telling you? Is that saying that you probably have more activity in '14? How does that delay work and what's the difference? Could you just expand on that? Well I think -- first of all just to remind everybody that comment was really directed at the Gulf of Mexico.
And I think before Macondo there was a fair amount of let's say smaller independents that were operating in the Gulf of Mexico and they would typically have relatively fast turnaround single or double well projects where they would get -- they would -- from discovery to production might be 2 years or something on that order.
Whereas today we see very little of that activity and it's much more predominantly the majors who are operating in ultra-deepwater where you've got multiple wells and a complex production scenario to work through and develop and that planning process and the procurement for floating production equipment and all the rest of it has a much longer timeline and so that's typically a 5-year idea from discovery to development.
It could be as long as 7.
But I think for the Gulf it would probably more closer to the 5-year range.
So that really is what we're talking about.
And given that people have just started drilling let's say a year ago and finding these prospects.
It could be 4 or more years before it really starts happening.
We just recently bought an -- update our market forecast for the Gulf of Mexico only by Quest.
And according to what they gave us they said subsea tree installations in the Gulf are not expected to reach the prior peak level of 2008 until 2016.
LLC Research Division</strong> Got you.
So you're sort of still on a slight -- what it seems to tell me I'm sure you're not putting more IWOCS than the rest that your margins should extend over the next couple of years as those start to come through? As that starts to happen...
LLC Research Division</strong> At least just a positive part of mix anyway.
Absolutely.
Yes.
We do see good growth opportunity in the Gulf of Mexico once those projects start taking hold yes.
Right.
And what we're trying to differentiate is we see it in the drill support activities right now.
And we're just trying to say that it's only in the drill support activities now but we believe it will have a great follow-through in later years when we get to that development stage.
That's the point of differentiating between drill support and non-drill support.
LLC Research Division</strong> Got you.
And kind of next question just to make sure I heard you correctly so you say you're going to be net up the 30 to 35 vehicles next year? No.
We said we were going to be adding 30 to 35 vehicles and we will announce retirements as and when they occur.
And that 4% to 5% would be normal per year.
LLC Research Division</strong> Got you.
And is that a function of what's already won or is there some kind of -- some of those being built in expectation of wins? We only have 13 contracts in hand for the 30 to 35 at this moment in time.
And every year when we going into this we include throughout all of our segments an incredible amount of speculative work that we feel we're going to win where the projects are not yet identified.
So no it is not on a 1 basis it is on a projected outlook.
LLC Research Division</strong> Well given the dominant market share I mean I can understand how you can plan ahead.
My last question if you don't mind is it strikes me that in you're going to be kind of in a net cash position as you go into next year.
I know somebody has asked kind of capital budgeting and returning capital to shareholders but the one aspect that you said that that was an annual planning process.
Does that mean there's kind of a meeting of the board at the beginning of next year where that kind of gets decided and is there a thought process to an optimal capitalization level and a kind of net debt to capital level that we should be thinking about as we build in our models? No.
I think when you look at Oceaneering's history I mean we've been in a net positive net cash position for a lot of it.
We'd like to grow and growth is our #1 priority as Kevin said and returning cash to shareholders is a secondary one.
And yes we will look at it.
We did -- after 4 quarterly payments the board chose to increase our dividend by about 20% to $0.18 a share per quarter.
And I'm sure that is going to be on the agenda and it gets discussed a lot.
We just think that it's more prudent to have a consistent dividend policy as opposed to doing a special for example.
Any of that could change.
It's always up to the board.
But right now I see us staying in a net cash position unless we can find a substantial acquisition.
And we've been looking and we continue to look.
But it has to be sort of within our space so we don't do a wild step out.
But there is no optimal capital structure Darren that we are striving for.
It really is -- we try to make the best of what's available and continue to grow.
Your next question comes from Brian Uhlmer whose company name was not gathered.
We know he's with GHS.
LLC Research Division</strong> Most of my questions have been answered.
So I just wanted to ask more of a philosophical question as you're quoting some of the Quest forecast and you guys normally have a more tempered approach to your outlook and you discussed kind of the timing of projects getting kind of pushed out to the right on the decision tree.
How do you look at -- when you look out in '13 and '14 kind of handicapping what those forecasts are versus what your expectations are? Dang how do we answer that? I mean we already told you that the outlook for the Gulf for our non-drill support next year while we expect some improvement it's not going to get back to pre-Macondo level.
I think -- our belief...
LLC Research Division</strong> I'm thinking more of worldwide here.
I mean you're talking subsea tree number that never happens right? I know.
But we think Quest is directionally -- I mean we think they are directionally correct.
We never try to pick what 12-month period they're going to be right or wrong in.
But let's go back to the number of new drilling rigs that are being added to the fleet the number of holes that are being poked into the ground.
And if you just assume the exact same success rate you're going to have more development activity over time.
So we subscribe to the Quest growth trajectory for the 5-year over 5-year period.
And I think it really is a strong story and we talk about first it comes in the exploration side with drill support activities and then it comes in development side and then it's in the infrastructure Asset Integrity side.
So we really like that aspect and we really believe that a lot of stars are aligning now for a continued growth of subsea and deepwater.
So -- is it going to be 640 in '13? We don't really take a position on that; we just sort of report it.
And we believe directionally our beliefs and philosophies are very consistent with Quest's outlook.
Kind of unfolding as they had predicted.
Yes.
And '12 is kind of pretty close to what they thought.
Your next question comes from Joe Gibney with Capital One.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I just have one quick modeling question on the projects side.
The reference to the 4 of 8 vessels in regulatory inspection.
I was curious if that was going to be front-half weighted in the seasonally slower period in 1Q 2Q just to -- appreciate some timing color associated with that.
I don't know Jack; do you? I've got it.
Joe if you'll call me later I can give you...
No no I think the answer is yes -- what we've got to do is we have to do them on the anniversary date.
And we always try to do more in the slow seasonal period than not.
But I can't recall the details.
I would say that directionally we are -- as Kevin said the message here is we continue to see strengthening of Gulf of Mexico shallow and deepwater.
However due to our drydockings it's going to reduce the available days and it's going to increase the operating expenses.
So when you model it quarterly we haven't done that.
So we've looked at the full year we haven't done quarter-by-quarter but I know we know what days those are scheduled in a quarter basis.
So I'd really hate to kind of get into that right now.
So I'm just saying you got to do the modeling for on a quarter-by-quarter basis and we haven't done it yet.
That will be part of our next detailed planning process.
[Operator Instructions] Your next question comes from Joe Hill with Tudor Putter Tickering (sic) [Tudor Pickering Holt &amp; Co.].
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Tudor Pickering.
Just had a couple of questions.
I just wanted to understand the business a little bit better.
So when you guys use an ROV to do a subsea install whether you're hooking up flying leads or jumpers or whatever is that revenue dollar flowing through the non-drill support ROV segment or is it flowing through projects? ROVs.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> ROVs okay.
Right.
And if we're using one of our boats that's flowing through projects.
We take the ROV aspect and run it through ROVs regardless of what type of service it's doing whether our vessel -- our vessel is involved or not.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then just the other point I was trying to understand.
Are IWOCS sales coincident with an installation or do they lead a tree installation by a fair amount? They do not lead the tree installation; they're part of the tree installation.
And they're also involved in a lot of workovers as well.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So just kind of getting back to maybe a point you guys were emphasizing earlier.
The customer mix in the Gulf of Mexico has changed.
We've got some delays in the non-drill support ROV work it sounds like is a function of that mix change.
But IWOCS is picking up it sounds like.
So I'm just trying to get a sense as to when we actually get the handoff from the installation business into the IRM construction et cetera down the road it sounds like it's at least a couple years which surprised me a bit.
Joe IWOCS is picking up.
It really picked up in Q3.
But the other thing we have going on is a shift from a predominantly Gulf of Mexico business to having a substantial element of international work in our IWOCS business.
So it's not as Gulf of Mexico dependent as it once was and that's what we talk about when we got geographic expansion opportunities.
IWOCS and subsea field development and tooling those things are very relevant.
Just to repeat what Kevin said though our op inc outlook for '13 on products is not predicated on an increase in profit contribution from IWOCS.
It's not.
It's from tooling Subsea Hardware and umbilicals.
But not IWOCS.
Your next question comes from Ole Slorer with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> But as we look a your ROV business there you have a very high market share but clearly some favorable trends with more units potentially added per rig and tied to maybe growth in the rig count plus a little bit and you compare that with the Subsea Products.
Over the next 2 years which one of these 2 divisions do you think will show the strongest growth so not to 2013 per se but if you look a little bit longer term? There's a lot of favorable trend of more step outs and further distances on umbilical side is that a big driver or is it competition there is still pretty cutthroat? So how these see that opportunity on a 2-year view relative to the ROV business which I would imagine be a lot more steady? I think your observation is correct.
ROV business is more steady.
There is more volume opportunity on the product side maybe 2 years and out I would say.
Of course that is top line growth with historical margins that we have been able to achieve in that segment.
So I think that it will be more growth on the product side than on the ROV side over time.
Research Division</strong> And how much of that organic versus -- I would imagine I mean you are sitting now with quite a lot of cash you could add product through infrastructure but also if you consider the competition from the Akers the Technips of this world? Well I mean we invest in organic products in areas that we have a market niche.
You think of hydrate remediation activity acid injection and things like that that we are moving into as well as our traditional stuff that we've been doing.
And when we see the opportunity we do it.
We don't just build a bunch of stuff and then send it around the world and hope for a job.
There's usually some indications of demand out there per customer and then we invest the money and produce another unit and send it where it needs to go.
And I think our focus continues to be products -- as Kevin just alluded to is products with a service component.
I think that -- and that way we really don't compete with some of the other players that you mentioned.
We do own an umbilical with Aker but we're not getting into the tree manufacturing business.
And I think there's enough ancillary equipment around the tree for us to keep our focus and try to broaden our scope that way particularly if it has a service component.
Research Division</strong> So to so you're not terribly troubled by the competitive backdrop.
You see the opportunity as outweighing the behavior of competitors? So far yes.
I think we all know that there's way more umbilical capacity in the world than we need and we know that Aker is adding a plant that will come at the end -- should come into production by the end of 2013.
But I mean we've got to pick and choose wisely and we think we have capability of doing that and improving our throughput and margins over time.
[Operator Instructions] All right.
Thank you guys very much.
I think we're going to end the call.
And y’all have a good day.
Thank you.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good afternoon ladies and gentlemen.
My name is Allan and I'll be your conference operator today.
At this time I'd like to welcome everyone to the Oceaneering 2012 Q4 Earnings Call.
[Operator Instructions] I'd now like to turn the call over to Mr.
Jack Jurkoshek Director of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead sir.
Good morning everybody.
We'd like to thank you for joining us on our 2012 fourth quarter and year end earnings conference call.
As usual a webcast of this event is being made available through to the StreetEvents Network service by Thomson Reuters.
Joining me today are Kevin McEvoy our President and Chief Executive Officer who will be leading the call; Marvin Migura our Executive Vice President; and Cardon Gerner our Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Just as a reminder remarks we make during the course of this call regarding our earnings guidance business strategy plans for future operations and industry conditions are forward-looking statements made pursuant to the Safe Harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
And I'm now going to turn the call over to Kevin.
Good morning and thanks for joining the call.
Before I get into my customary review of our fourth quarter results I would like to address 3 key points in our earnings release.
First 2012 was a record earnings year for Oceaneering.
Earnings per share increased 23% over 2011.
Second we are expecting an even better 2013 and confirm our previously announced EPS guidance range for the year of $3 to $3.25.
Our longer-term outlook remains very positive.
And third we are initiating first quarter 2013 EPS guidance of $0.55 to $0.60.
I would like to remind the investment community of the seasonality of our business especially in the Gulf of Mexico and the North Sea.
Usually we are in 18% or 19% of our net income in the first quarter and about 45% in the first half of the year.
Our first quarter guidance is consistent with our historical quarterly earnings distribution.
Additionally I would like to address our fourth quarter operating margins for ROVs and Asset Integrity.
ROV margin of 27% was lower than it has been for several years due to unanticipated expenses we incurred during the quarter.
These were largely higher than normal ROV umbilical repair and maintenance expenses and a U.K.
pension plan expense adjustment based on revised actuarial assumptions.
This pension adjustment also affected our Asset Integrity results.
Absent these expenses our ROV margin would have been 28% for the quarter and 30% for the year.
We continue to anticipate a 30% annual margin for ROVs in 2013.
As has historically been the case we do expect some quarterly variations.
Asset Integrity margin was unusually low due to costs we incurred associated with closing an unprofitable operation in Sweden acquired with our December 2011 acquisition and the U.K.
pension plan expense adjustment.
Without these expenses our Asset Integrity margin would have been 11% for the year.
We continue to anticipate our Asset Integrity operating margin in 2013 will be in the range of 11% to 12% as it has been for several years prior to 2012.
I'd now like to review our operations for the fourth quarter.
Earnings per share of $0.74 for the fourth quarter 2012 was 37% above that of the fourth quarter 2011 on income improvements from all of our operating business segments led by Subsea Products and Subsea Projects.
Subsea Products' operating income rose year-over-year by more than $17 million or 47% on increased demand for tooling and higher throughput at our umbilical plants.
Operating margin of 22% for the quarter was 3% higher than in 2011.
This was attributable to a favorable product mix to more tooling and an improvement in umbilical margin due to increased volume and a favorable mix change to higher-margin thermoplastic hose product.
Year-over-year fourth quarter Subsea Projects' operating income increased by over $15 million or 16% due to the services contract offshore Angola which commenced in February of 2012 and some improvement in Gulf of Mexico deepwater activity.
Year-over-year ROV operating income increased on a 10% increase in days on hire notably in the Gulf of Mexico.
During the quarter we put 9 vehicles into service and retired 5.
Our fleet mix usage during the quarter was 75% in drill support and 25% on vessel-based work.
This compares to a fleet mix usage of 79% and 21% a year ago and 73% and 27% last quarter.
Our overall fourth quarter EPS result was slightly above our guidance range on better-than-forecast results for our deepwater vessel operations and a higher margin on Subsea Products sales.
Our deepwater business in the Gulf of Mexico benefited from unexpected work and lower-than-forecast drydock expenses.
The unexpected work included a job for 2 vessels to provide ROV support on a drilling operation.
This was required to address a problem with the connection between a lower marine riser package and the BOP.
We expect to see an increase in call-out business for our vessels ROVs and tooling as deepwater drilling in the Gulf of Mexico continues to be closely scrutinized.
Subsea Products margin was higher as our sales mix had more tooling and IWOCS services than we had forecast.
Moving onto our total year 2012 operations.
Our earnings of $289 million and earnings per share of $2.66 were the highest in Oceaneering's history and were largely attributable to our global focus on deepwater and subsea completion activity.
For 2012 each of our 5 operating business segments achieved higher income.
We achieved record operating income from our ROV Subsea Products Asset Integrity and Advanced Technologies businesses.
ROV operating income rose for the ninth consecutive year an accomplishment we are quite proud of.
This was attributable to higher demand notably off Africa and the U.S.
Gulf of Mexico to provide both drill support and vessel-based services.
We increased our days on hire by more than 9 000 to over 82 000 days.
Our fleet utilization rose to 80% from 77% in 2011.
During the year we grew our fleet to 289 vehicles up from 267 at the beginning of the year.
We added 37 vehicles and retired 15 older systems.
In 2012 14 new floating drilling rigs were placed in service for operations other than Petrobras -- for operators other than Petrobras in Brazil and we had ROVs on 10 of them with 2 on 1 rig for a total of 11 vehicles.
For the first time since 2008 we experienced growing demand in 2012 for ROVs to support vessel projects.
In response to this demand growth 16 of our new ROVs were placed into service onboard vessels.
This equaled the total number of new ROVs we placed into service on vessels during the prior 3 years.
At year end we estimate that we continue to be the largest ROV owner with 36% of the industry's world-class vehicles with a fleet size 75% bigger than the next largest ROV fleet.
We remain the primary provider of ROV drill support service with an estimated market share of 56% more than twice that of the second largest supplier.
Moving to Subsea Products.
Operating income increased primarily on higher demand for tooling to support deepwater drilling operations and IMR or inspection maintenance and repair projects.
Tooling to support our drilling included ROV accumulator reservoir skids to perform tests on VOPs VOP panels and well containment spill response hardware.
Tooling to support IMR projects featured use of our flowline remediation system to eliminate hydrates in large diameter or long offset flow lines and our asset injection systems to perform well stimulations.
Operating margin increased to 21% from 18% in 2011 due to a change in product mix and local [ph] revenue as a percent of our total products revenue in 2012 was 28% compared to 35% in 2011.
Our year-end Subsea Products backlog was $681 million up 78% from $382 million at the end of 2011.
This backlog growth was largely attributable to 3 large umbilical contracts we secured which in total added nearly $245 million to our backlog.
One of these the largest umbilical order in Oceaneering's history is for Petrobras' first large pre-salt project.
Regarding Subsea Projects operating income increased in 2012 due to recovering demand for our deepwater services in the Gulf of Mexico and commencement of the field support vessel services contract offshore Angola.
Under the services contract we supply project management engineering and 2 chartered vessels each equipped with 2 Oceaneering ROVs and associated tooling.
This contract enabled us to achieve a meaningful international expansion of our deepwater vessel project capabilities.
Asset Integrity operating income improved on higher service sales in most of the major geographic areas we serve markedly in Norway due to the acquisition we completed in December of 2011.
Operating margin was lower largely as a result of costs we incurred in assimilating the acquisition.
Advanced Technologies profits were up on engineering and vessel maintenance work for the U.S.
Navy and theme park project activity.
Our 2012 capital expenditures were about $310 million of which $198 million was spent on expanding and upgrading our ROV fleet.
We added 37 new ROVs to our fleet the most since 2004 when we added 49 vehicles largely with 2 acquisitions.
We invested $68 million in our Subsea Products business largely to increase the capabilities of our umbilical plants in Brazil and Scotland and to expand our suite of subsea rental tooling.
In addition to our capital expenditures we repurchased 400 000 shares of our common stock for $19 million and paid $75 million of common stock dividends during 2012.
At slightly over $600 million our 2012 EBITDA was also a record high.
At year end our balance sheet remained conservatively capitalized with $121 million of cash $94 million of debt and $1.8 billion of equity.
In summary we believe our annual 2012 earnings performance and cash generation were excellent.
The price of Oceaneering's stock rose by nearly 17% during 2012.
We believe this was in recognition of our financial performance actions we took to enhance shareholder value and our future business prospects.
Our share price percentage increase was greater than all but one of the other companies in the Oil Service Sector Index or OSX which by comparison rose only about 2%.
Oceaneering is thriving.
I recognize and thank our employees who made this possible.
Their commitment to safely provide high-quality solutions to our customers' needs is the foundation for our continued success.
Now let's talk about our 2013 EPS outlook.
Looking forward we are reaffirming our 2013 EPS guidance with a range of $3 to $3.25 based on an average of 108.5 million diluted shares and an estimated tax rate of 31.5%.
The detailed business segment outlooks that I reviewed on our last earnings call in late October 2012 are fundamentally unchanged.
We continue to expect each of our operating business segments will achieve higher income in 2013.
We do have more information to offer on operating margins.
At the midpoint of our guidance range we expect our total margin in 2013 will be flat to up compared to the 15% we achieved in 2012.
We are anticipating some margin improvements in 2013 from ROVs and Asset Integrity for the reasons I previously stated.
Subsea Products' margin is expected to be lower due to a change in product sales mix having more umbilical revenue.
Subsea Projects' margin is also expected to be lower from a reduction in our Gulf of Mexico vessel availability due to regulatory inspections and associated expenses.
Advanced Technologies' margin is forecasted to be slightly higher due to a change in contract mix.
During 2013 we anticipate generating at least $675 million of EBITDA.
Our balance sheet and projected cash flow provides us with ample resources to invest in Oceaneering's growth.
Our CapEx estimate for 2013 excluding acquisitions is $300 million to $325 million.
Of this amount we expect $175 million to be spent on adding systems to our ROV fleet and vehicle upgrades.
About $100 million is for enhancing our Subsea Products capabilities.
Our focus in 2013 as it was in 2012 will be on earnings growth and investment opportunities both organically and through acquisitions.
Moving onto our first quarter 2013 outlook.
As I stated earlier our EPS guidance range is $0.55 to $0.60.
This is consistent with the fact that our first quarter earnings are customarily lower than the fourth quarter of the previous year.
At the midpoint this would equate to 18% of our annual guidance range which is within our historical first quarter percentage range.
Over the last 10 years we have averaged 19% of our earnings in the first quarter with a typical band of 17% to 21% for any particular year.
Our first quarter 2013 guidance at the midpoint is up 22% compared to the first quarter of 2012 as we expect all of our business segments to achieve higher operating income led by Subsea Products.
Compared to the fourth quarter 2012 our first quarter guidance is lower based on anticipated reductions in operating income from Subsea Products and AdTech due to project timing and Subsea Projects and Asset Integrity due to seasonality.
Looking beyond 2013 we remain convinced that our strategy to focus on providing services and products to facilitate deepwater exploration and production remains sound.
We believe the oil and gas industry will continue to invest in deepwater as it remains one of the best frontiers for adding large hydrocarbon reserves with high production flow rates and relatively low finding and development costs.
Therefore we anticipate the demand for our deepwater services and products will continue to rise and believe our business prospects for the next several years are promising.
At the end of 2012 there were a total of 93 new floating rigs on order.
64 of these rigs are not contracted to work for Petrobras in Brazil and we expect all of them will go to work for other operators.
On these 64 rigs 17 ROV contracts have been led and we have won 13 of them leaving 47 ROV contracting opportunities left to be pursued with customers other than Petrobras in Brazil.
At the end of December 99 of the 142 existing high-spec drilling rigs consisting of dynamically positioned fifth- and sixth-generation semis and drillships were contracted to operators other than Petrobras in Brazil.
We had ROV contracts on 73 of these for a market share of 74%.
If all 64 of the non-Petrobras rigs I mentioned are placed into service this fleet of 99 will grow 65% to 163 rigs.
So the visibility of the secular growth outlook for this market remains very promising.
And looking forward we see no reason why we will not continue to be the dominant provider of ROV services on these rigs.
Each additional floating rig represents an opportunity for us to put another ROV to work in drill support service.
As the use of floating rigs grows we believe it is inevitable that discoveries will eventually drive orders for subsea hardware to levels not previously experienced and demand for ROVs to support vessel-based activities should follow.
Quest Offshore's latest subsea hardware forecast for the period 2012 to 2016 includes an increase in tree orders of about 65% over the previous 5 years.
In 2012 subsea tree orders are estimated at 504 an all-time high eclipsing the previous record of 426 trees in 2006 by 18%.
In 2013 tree orders are projected to rise over 20% to 620.
While we don't make trees orders for subsea trees drive demand for a substantial amount of the ancillary subsea production hardware that we manufacture.
For example Quest is forecasting nearly a 40% increase in umbilical orders for the 5-year period 2012 to '16 compared to the previous 5 years.
Umbilical orders in 2013 are forecast to rise to about 1 900 kilometers up 65% from the estimated 1 150-kilometer level in 2012.
Furthermore renewed industry and regulatory emphasis on safe and reliable operations is providing additional opportunities for us to demonstrate our capabilities.
With our existing assets we are well positioned to supply a wide range of the services and products required to safely support the deepwater efforts of our customers.
We believe Oceaneering's business prospects for the long term remain promising.
Our commanding competitive position technology leadership and strong balance sheet and cash flow enable us to continue to grow the company and we intend to do so.
In conclusion our results continue to demonstrate our ability to generate excellent earnings and cash flow.
We believe our business strategy is working well over both the short and long term.
We like our position in the oil field services market and are leveraged to the growth of deepwater and subsea completion activity that is currently underway.
The longer-term market for our deepwater and subsea service and product offerings remains promising.
Renewed industry and regulatory emphasis on reliable deepwater equipment with redundant safety features has caused our customers to be even more focused on risk reduction.
This elevates the importance of the utility and reliability of our ROV services and related product line offerings and reinforces the benefit of our value sell.
We achieved another record year of EPS performance in 2012 and expect that 2013 will be even better.
We believe this distinguishes Oceaneering from many other oil field service companies.
We appreciate everyone's interest in Oceaneering.
I will now be happy to take any questions you may have.
[Operator Instructions] And your first question comes from the line of Ian Macpherson.
Research Division</strong> I was curious about your recent award for the tree control systems for Transocean and wonder if you could comment on the outlook there.
If there is somewhat of an inflection with regard to those types of units or if you see that order within the course of your expected steady growth rate for that part of the business? I wouldn't expect any inflection there.
I think that Transocean is changing some systems to conform to the API 53 standards.
But at present no one in the regulatory side or the operator side has really said that they're going to adhere to that standard and this could vary widely between the Gulf of Mexico and other areas of the world.
So it's pretty difficult to say at this point what that would mean in the future.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
You also commented there towards the end of your remarks on -- you have the strong volume growth for -- from umbilicals demand.
It would appear that even with that we probably stand to be significantly oversupplied for the foreseeable timeframe at least this year.
How do you see over the next year or 2 the margins evolving for umbilicals just based on volumes and absorption even without pricing? I think that you are absolutely correct that there still is far more capacity in the marketplace than there is demand.
I would expect that margins on a per job bid basis aren't really moving very much.
However volume is contributing to absorption for us and that is benefiting our business.
Yes.
And I think also as -- as you mentioned it really depends upon the mix of thermoplastic and steel tube that has substantial impact.
So I think there's a lot of moving pieces.
But as you implied the greater volume allows for more efficient absorption of our fixed costs.
So I mean that is a very favorable thing in a market that is plagued with overcapacity.
Research Division</strong> Yes absolutely.
Is there any way that you could take a rough stab in quantifying some of that absorption benefit? No not really.
I mean it will depend on how the years will play out and we really do not give margin information on subsegment guidelines.
Next in queue we have the line of Ole Slorer.
Research Division</strong> Just to clarify again.
On the ROV margins that came down sequentially you highlighted the U.K.
pension.
But there was -- was there anything operationally that sort of changed the trend here? Or is it something that -- or we should expect margins to normalize again as we look out a few quarters? We do expect margins to normalize in 2013 yes.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
Secondly on the subsea equipment companies that have reported so far subsea processing has been a big sea menace.
As this kind of increases the complexity of seabed systems how does that impact you the most? Will it be from the monitoring side on the ROVs are the biggest opportunity or is just the increased demand for umbilicals or projects? Have you thought about this at all? Yes we have.
And I think that there will be some increased demand for umbilicals power cables and whatnot to hook all the stuff up.
And additionally I think that requirement for ROV tooling to interface with this subsea hardware will grow as a result and ROVs with that.
Research Division</strong> So if -- does this need any new projects or any new capabilities that you're going to acquire through M&amp;A? Or do you have everything in-house what you need? I don't really see anything changing dramatically in terms of what would be needed.
I mean it really is the same sort of interface hardware issues that you have with anything.
And we might have to design some tooling or whatever but that's a normal part of our business so I don't see anything dramatically changing in that regard.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Just finally you ticked up your CapEx just a tiny bit from a normal run rate.
What was the main reason for that? Where do you see -- where did your channel increase? Ole I think we said -- yes we did kick it up a bit when we got our detailed plans and the outline that Kevin gave was a $300 million to $325 million.
Yes.
Yes.
So I just think it's -- we're spending probably a little more on enhancing our Subsea Products capabilities than what we had originally expected.
Next in queue we have the line of Jim Wicklund.
Research Division</strong> Speaking of umbilicals and -- Marvin you were talking about mix.
What's the best thing you can sell? I mean if you could have an -- and I know this is unrealistic so we're being hypothetical.
But if you could sell 100% of x out of your umbilical business this year or in '14 will be and it's the biggest home run what would you sell? What would it be? All thermoplastic.
And the reason -- let's just kind of go just a little bit further down why that is -- because what you start with in raw materials of the thermoplastic umbilical is boxes full of plastic pellets and wire and Kevlar and armor -- or armoring wire.
And when you start with steel tubes you start with reels of steel tubes.
So basically a steel tube umbilical consists of bundling and thermoplastic consists of manufacturing.
You start with extruding [ph] you do the -- it is a real complex value-added -- turning raw materials into a functioning umbilical as opposed to bundling steel tubes and adding other capabilities like fiber optics and things like that to them.
But there's higher input costs with steel tube and more value-added to thermoplastic.
Research Division</strong> And realistically what will be the mix between those 2 this year or next year? We really don't know.
I mean it's an operator thing.
I mean I think you tend to get more thermoplastic hose in the North Sea where it's shallower.
And you don't have some technical issues involved with the ultra-deepwater although Petrobras is stuck with thermoplastic or a variance of thermoplastic for their needs down there.
But otherwise it's generally a steel tube idea.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's very helpful.
And the second question if I could.
SIPAM [ph] of course made some announcements in the last couple of weeks and spooked everybody in terms of offshore construction.
Your vessel call-out business in the Gulf of Mexico has been -- saw some issues following Macondo.
Can you specifically talk about the global offshore construction market that relates to you and how it's changed in the last month or so the outlook? I don't really think so.
I mean we're -- I mean as you know we're not really involved in the construction market but we think that the activity in the construction market is an indicator of what is to come i.e.
more stuff on a seabed means more opportunity in the future for ROV tooling and ROV intervention.
But apart from that we're not engaged directly in it so...
Research Division</strong> I understand that but your vessel call-out work in the Gulf of Mexico has been impacted by the work and then lack of work in the Gulf of Mexico.
I'm just curious as to whether any of that -- and your answer is obviously no.
But if any of that has any impact on your outlook for the business? Jim let me give you...
Research Division</strong> Your non-rig vessel business? Let me go ahead and give you just what -- repeat what Kevin said.
For the first time since 2008 in 2012 we experienced growing demand for ROVs in vessel base.
We added -- 16 of our new ROVs were placed into service onboard vessels.
So I think that...
Research Division</strong> That's a positive outlook.
That is a positive outlook.
Will it continue into '13? I mean it is -- we see more vessel work on the horizon.
We see more ROVs in the total fleet compared to the number of ROVs servicing drilling rigs.
Research Division</strong> How many ROVs are you planning on adding this year to that business? Well we plan on adding 30 to 35 ROVs and the mix will determine -- as the...
And typically -- the vessel opportunities are a lot more shortsighted than the rig opportunities obviously for first-bid [ph] visibility though.
So that's why it's hard to predict for us what's coming [ph] because we usually find out right about when they need them.
I think from a construction standpoint while we don't participate in it the fact that the construction industry as a whole has more backlog -- I mean more -- yes more backlog this year than earlier years speaks well for that business.
Albeit as SIPAM [ph] noted it might be at lower margins but we just see an increase in activity.
And if you see an increase in drilling activity and increase in construction activity there ought to be an increase in IMR and installation hookup work that we do participate in.
So we are not bearish at all on our vessel-based business and it just depends upon how bullish we want to get depends upon how many times the phone rings that day.
So as Kevin said it is a shorter-term call-out business.
Your next question in queue comes from the line of Justin Sander.
LLC Research Division</strong> I just had a -- one follow-up on the last comment there.
Looking at the utilization outlook for the ROV fleet in 2013 I think where you guys are are somewhere around 82% utilization growing from 80% in 2012.
Would that -- does that occur with the mix of fleet -- the mix of vessels that -- or ROVs that are on vessels versus drill support does that mix stay static in 2013 more it was in '12 to get you 200 basis points in utilization improvement? It basically is a reflection of better utilization on the vessel-based ROV systems.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
Okay.
Okay so stepping away from that I had a question on the Subsea Product margins as well.
So for the second quarter now it was running higher than what we were expecting and you mentioned obviously heading back down in 2013 primarily from umbilicals increasing in the mix.
But on the other hand with higher tooling and higher IWOCS I'm just wondering if this business could be a better margin business than the high teens margin that we've kind of looked at in the past? We really think that the high teens is really the best expectation to have there.
And the -- I mean you get better visibility or we get better visibility on the umbilical side because they're longer lead time whereas on the tooling side can be a lot shorter cycle and sometimes that surprises and you get more volume there and that offsets the umbilicals and sometimes you don't.
So our best view at the moment is what we just said.
We are expecting more on the umbilicals side as a percentage of that total than we experienced in 2012.
Although we didn't predict all that because it just kind of happens on a tooling side.
So it is what it is.
We thought that we would characterize the second half of product margin in 2012 as a very pleasant surprise as opposed to a trend.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And do we have -- so what's the visibility like on the tooling side? Is it really limited to the next quarter out and that's about it? Or can you see that being a higher percentage of the mix well into the first half of 2013? No that's a much shorter cycle and it's more of a quarter-to-quarter thing that it is anything else.
And Justin a lot of it is call-out work depending upon how many problems an operator incurs such as a plugged flow line that needs remediation or something like that.
So the visibility really is short term.
Next in queue we have from the line of Mike Urban.
Research Division</strong> So you mentioned a couple of times in your comments about the ongoing and increased scrutiny and focus on safety which is global really but in particular in the Gulf of Mexico.
We know about the story for new builds that pertains to ROVs and that's been a great story and should continue to be.
But we've been seeing a lot of these new builds have start up issues and it seems like that will continue.
Is that something that could help some of the other parts of your business like projects? I mean it sounds like you saw a little bit of that already.
Is that part of the story that's maybe underappreciated? I think the delays in rigs getting accepted because of shake-down issues and whatnot from the shipyard does not really help us.
I mean it just delays us going on higher in our business stream [ph] so that is not helpful and there's no other business that would come in as a result of that.
I mean the note that we made about our projects business being a little up from what we had thought it might be in the fourth quarter was a problem that a rig was having but it had been accepted and it had been drilling and whatever so that was just something that happens.
So I wouldn't -- that's a by-incident [ph] sort of thing.
I wouldn't read anything into that.
Yes I don't think it's a needle mover but I do think that we expect -- I mean I know we expect that to be -- the reason we highlighted it was because it was vessel-based activity to support drilling rig.
Usually the drill rig support is the -- provided by the ROV that is on the rig.
But in a problem situation there was a call-out for a vessel with an ROV too to come out and help with this connection between the Lower Marine Riser package and the BOP.
So I mean I think the increased scrutiny of when there is a problem operators will respond with extra support.
And that we don't know if that's a trend or it's just a per-incident basis.
And that's what we've highlighted.
Research Division</strong> Okay got you.
So the traditional reason it's more rigs it's more ROVs it's more subsea work all of which is good for [indiscernible].
Right.
Right.
Research Division</strong> And then you characterized the products margins as a pleasant surprise and -- but at the same time I mean the -- just anecdotally -- I know you don't have a lot of visibility.
But anecdotally activity is continuing to improve.
Subsea work is continuing to improve.
I've got to believe demand and the ability to extract pricing has got to be improving.
So I guess other than the mix issues associated with more umbilicals running [indiscernible] why wouldn't there be upward pressure on margins over time? Well we still -- we believe that there is twice the capacity for manufacturing as there is demand so it's pretty hard to -- I mean everyone else can always do another job so you're bidding on that basis.
And it's pretty hard to move margins in that kind of environment.
I think it is primarily the mix.
I mean the large increase in our products backlog is associated with 3 large umbilicals.
So we expect that mix -- and as you know it's -- some of it and most of it is with Petrobras.
So therefore they're not the highest margin customer that we have.
And so if you're looking at a change in mix being umbilicals and a lot of it being in Brazil I mean that is the curveball that you address.
And so I think that keeps our -- the mix is what keeps our margins at a healthy high-teens level with some variation from quarter-to-quarter.
But on the whole products segment I mean as we said earlier the non-umbilical part of the business can surprise.
We don't have the visibility of that and we expect it to continue to be good which is why we're saying that that whole segment is going to be better in '13 than it was in '12 so...
Right.
Research Division</strong> Right.
And that's really what I was trying to isolate.
I get the -- I get why margins on a mix adjusted basis or on a reported basis come down for umbilicals.
But separating that out it's -- I don't see why the improvement that you saw in the second half would necessarily be surprising.
I mean you saw a lot of work and it was clearly good margins.
But everything is kind of pointing in the direction of more demand presumably more pricing more margin and then we just have to adjust for that mix [ph].
Is that a reasonable way to look at it? Yes but let's go back.
If it wouldn't be for the strong market that we're talking about in these other areas with the increased mix towards umbilicals we would be predicting margins to be going down.
And so what we've got working for us is increased throughput to -- as we addressed earlier about the cost absorption so we're getting more efficient in our operations because we have a more steady throughput and because of increased other work that is non-umbilicals that is helping us to sustain our margins at that high-teen level.
Otherwise we would be talking about margins going down.
Research Division</strong> Right.
So again x umbilicals though your margins are not going down? No.
No.
Correct.
Next in queue you have the line of Brad Handler.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> If I could focus I guess on the projects side of the business maybe just first to clarify it for me is -- I think you've just answered it but I'll ask it more directly.
Is the inspection of H4 bolts globally that is now expected does that have an impact on your business? No it does not.
That's entirely with the drilling companies and their suppliers and whatnot and it doesn't really impact us.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> So there's no ROV inspection opportunity or there's no vessel beast [ph]? No no.
And this is a top side event when they get everything back on deck again.
And if they need to change them out they change them out assuming they get a spare set available.
If there is an issue with the connection while at subsea then your answer would be yes.
But that is a rare occurrence and we don't expect that.
We expect all of it as Kevin said to be done topside.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Right pulling in.
Okay fair enough.
Okay.
More broadly I think I'm not sure I followed the guidance you mentioned but I think you mentioned lower projects margin because of a little less Gulf of Mexico availability.
Is that simply by -- is that simply year-on-year because you've moved vessels to West Africa? No I mean it really is -- I mean what we're trying to characterize is that we do see as a market the Gulf of Mexico in that segment should be better in '13 than it was in '12.
However offsetting that for us is the unavailability of several vessels as they go through regulatory inspections and associated expenses.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Oh I'm sorry.
I only half-caught that.
I understand.
Okay got it.
If -- aside from the regulatory inspection is there a way for you to characterize kind of capacity utilization in the Gulf in '12 of the vessels? Is there a way for us to think about how much more work you could have done on a call-out basis? We don't really give -- and there's just very little visibility on a call-out basis.
I mean it really is how much IMR there's going to be.
And one other thing in addition to the drydock we've got the first quarter availability of a chartered vessel the -- to be renamed the Ocean...
Alliance.
Alliance that is going to be out for the first quarter as we're going through some upgrade.
The vessel is going through some upgrade so that -- before it starts a long-term charter with us.
So it really is vessel availability and drydocking as Kevin said and it's really too hard to predict what the call-out market is going to be because that has the least visible aspect of our segment lines.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
If I may still just one more in the same area.
Maybe what would it take for you to -- what kind of contract or commitment or opportunity would it take for you to consider adding a vessel whether it's in the U.S.
or Virgin West Africa or somewhere else? A long-term contract.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Fair enough.
If it were to be in Angola for example would it need to be 5 years 10 years I mean a very significant duration? No I mean I think we -- I mean what we're -- for a long-term contract somebody would need to commit to the vessel for at least a year which would be practical in the Gulf of Mexico.
If it was going to be an international deal you would expect it would be more like a 3-year contract with maybe some options.
And Brad when we're talking about adding a vessel we're not necessarily talking about building one and buying one and owning one.
We're talking about -- I mean we would look at the economics at the time.
But every time that we have recently looked at the economics of lease versus buy we have chartered.
So we're talking about it would take a long-term contract for us to enter into a matching charter arrangement.
What it would take for us to build a boat would have to be a specific need that we would want to see longer-term type of visibility on.
Next in queue you have the line of Ed Muztafago.
I just wanted to follow up on the BOP control system question a little bit and I just want to make sure I heard you guys right.
Are you seeing any increased inquiries from customers on control systems due to the constraints among some of the other OEM manufacturers? We are not.
Okay.
How should we think -- maybe these are the only orders you get or maybe you get some more but how should we think about the margins on these? I mean are these better than sort of average segment margins? I mean they're probably $10 million to $15 million each so they do move the bottom line.
It's really hard to get -- I mean with 1 customer and 1 contract it would be inappropriate for us to talk about how profitable that contract is.
So we don't think it's going to move the needle of our -- and we've given that indication that that's what we expect for our goal for our products segment.
And so we really do refrain from talking about profitability of specific contracts.
Okay that's fair.
And I guess secondly this is also sort of a follow-up on umbilicals maybe just to try to help us understand a little bit better.
You've got volume-based margin improvement.
You have what were admittedly Petrobras awards but thermoplastics which carry I think a higher margin due to the manufacturing component.
So are we getting closer to the point where umbilicals are non-dilutive or can we get there with more volume and a better mix of thermoplastic or do we have to have pricing improvement? I'd say we have to have pricing improvement.
And there's easy reason for that: because umbilicals doesn't have a service component.
And the other ones that have higher margins have a service component associated with it.
And so when you're sending out a piece of kit with the technician and you get a higher margin for providing that service.
If you're delivering something to the dock that gets picked up that's usually going to be -- you got to have pricing improvement to help move that margin.
Okay.
So I guess generally speaking as we sort of think about products we can think about anything that carries the service components as being higher up in the margin tier? Absolutely.
Next in queue we have Jon Donnel.
Research Division</strong> I have another follow-up question on the projects side of the business.
Really the significant sequential increase from 3Q to 4Q clearly you mentioned some increased demand year-over-year in the Gulf of Mexico.
So I'm wondering if you could just kind of help us with how much of that was just a continual ramp-up of the BP project.
And as you've gotten about 1 year into that contract here are there additional revenue opportunities from the projects side that you're seeing? Or is there going to be some variability around that quarter-to-quarter as we go through the year? I'm just trying to think of how we work of modeling that through 2013.
I suspect there's going to less seasonality overall in the business there.
But I was wondering if you could just kind of help us out with kind of breaking up those pieces for us a little bit.
Well on the Angola side I mean we've been experiencing the run rate of that for the last 2 quarters and so we don't really see that changing dramatically into this year unless BP should decide to exercise an option to add another boat which we don't see on the horizon at the minute.
So basically that is at the run rate that it has been for the last 2 quarters.
So the variability that you would be seeing is the Gulf of Mexico and it is still very difficult to predict how that's going to go.
I think that we did have this one-off 2-vessel utilization in the fourth quarter that normally -- we wouldn't have expected that to happen.
It's usually a lot quieter in the fourth quarter.
But if there's a problem then you get out there.
So that was kind of a one-off event.
But I think we do expect the Gulf to keep picking up in terms of demand for vessel services for the deepwater side.
But -- and diving was very weak last year.
And we believe that there was still a lot of difficulty in operators getting permits to do the things that they wanted to do and that had an effect on the business.
And we are hoping that that will be picking up this year as well.
And Jon it's the most difficult segment to model internally and externally because of the variability of the Gulf of Mexico vessel utilization.
And as Kevin pointed out there's 2 pieces of it.
It's the deepwater and the diving and we need strengthening in that area and more activity for us to become more predictable in our run rate.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
But there won't be any of that seasonality impact coming from Angola than it sounds like.
So that's helpful.
And then in terms of just the drydocking schedule on those vessels for the Gulf of Mexico is that going to be concentrated more in 1Q? Is that a big driver of the sequential declines there? They are actually being spread out throughout the year for a variety of reasons and we're not going to preannounce when they're going to happen or how long or how much we're spending on it.
But the answer is no it's not.
They're spread out -- more spread out than I actually would've thought because it is dictated by the time that your certificate expires.
So it is more spread out than concentrated.
Next in queue we have the line of Tom Curran.
LLC Research Division</strong> So I'm sorry if I missed this.
You've always provided it in the past.
What was Multiflex as a percentage of Subsea Products total revenues for the full year 2012? 28%.
28%.
28%.
LLC Research Division</strong> 28%.
Terrific.
And then I doubt I'm going to win the Sherlock Holmes award for this but I'm going to go out on a limb and assume that the capability enhancements you made there in Scotland and Brazil based on your exchange with Jim were entirely on the thermoplastic side? No.
No.
No.
LLC Research Division</strong> No? Okay.
So could you share some color then given how much you've continued to pound the table on the remaining overhang of capacity out there? What was the nature of the investment you made? Well let's start within Brazil when Petrobras said we need to be able to handle larger diameter umbilicals and we need to put them on different size reels.
We had to reequip the plant to handle larger diameter.
We had to increase the size of the reels and increase the material handling capability which included reinforcing the dock and a lot of things associated with handling larger reels.
They went to a standard -- they changed the standard of how they want to accept materials umbilicals to be the same as...
Flexible pipe.
Flexible pipe.
And so that required modification to be able to meet that demand.
And in Rosyth we added capabilities to introduce an integrated umbilical which would include a MEG injection line down the middle of it welding capability and carousel capability storage capability.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And so within Subsea Products across your other lines on a geographic basis -- it seems like we all struggle with Subsea Products that you occasionally get these one-off spikes in demand that are sort of opportunistic or project specific.
But you also have these ongoing secular uptrends in demand just based on the expanding amount of infrastructure out there.
So when it comes to your other Subsea Products businesses geographically in 2012 what surprised you to the upside the most that you expect to be sustainable and what disappointed you the most? Oh that is a hard question.
That's a hard question.
What surprised us the most to the good was IWOCS work in West Africa.
And whether it's sustainable or not is what makes it a difficult question.
And flow line remediation jobs.
And the flow line remediation jobs in the Gulf were the other things.
What has been sustainable is the -- on the tooling side the BOP reservoir skids that have been -- we've grown that size of the fleet and that is sustainable.
The well-containment part of it.
And the well-containment support.
So it is a mixed bag but it is really hard to pick a couple of things that we say move the needle and will continue to keep it.
And what disappointed...
We don't talk about disappointing [ph].
LLC Research Division</strong> Nothing is disappointing is the answer.
If it was too predictable it would just really be boring.
I don't know what else we could say.
LLC Research Division</strong> You're not going to tell us which one.
Just trying to model Subsea Projects.
Yes well I guess what was disappointing is -- what was predictably disappointing I guess is the lack of umbilical orders for the Gulf of Mexico.
But we saw that kind of coming and so that's been kind of -- we wait for the day when -- and we see it coming with all this exploration activity in the Gulf we actually see a day when the Panama City plant is going to have increasing backlog to support Gulf of Mexico and we'll stop chasing international projects to add throughput there.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
Thank you for such a thorough candid answer there.
I -- last one for me.
On the Subsea Products again how much of the 2013 CapEx range is going to be allocated to Subsea Products? And then what's the rough percentage of that that's strictly going to be for rental tooling inventory maintenance? Well first off the guidance is around $100 million on products and we're not going to give a breakout.
LLC Research Division</strong> But is it -- would it be fair to assume that the maintenance spending for the inventory or rental tooling assets is going to see the strongest growth rate? Some.
I mean the maintenance for inventory as tooling is expensed.
You're talking about the growth of how...
LLC Research Division</strong> I guess just replenishing the asset inventory given the growth you're seeing there.
Okay so growth.
Okay so we're talking about the growth and we're really not giving out subsegment allocation of CapEx.
I mean we spent what did we say $68 million on products in 2012 and...
Maybe you think it's going to be $100 million.
$130 [ph] million this year.
Right.
And that includes a wide range of product lines within the segment.
The segment.
Right.
Next in queue we have the line of Darren Garcias (sic) [Gacicia].
LLC Research Division</strong> I'm trying to triangulate on a few things here.
It seems to me when you're talking about ROV adds this year the balance of what's going towards the vessels is increasing versus what's maybe going towards rigs.
So if I think about that you've had a lower kind of market share on the vessels side of that.
But if I understand it correctly you split that with the remainder or the vast majority being kind of more the E&amp;C companies.
If volumes are going to increase on -- in terms of the amount of work needed do you find yourself gaining share on the vessels side and maybe being co-opted more by the E&amp;C companies in order to meet their own demand? How does that business look from that perspective? I don't -- we don't really see market share growth there.
I mean that segment of the market is growing.
And if we continue to pick up vessels there I don't think that really changes our overall market share very much.
There are a lot of boats out there that are available.
There's a lot more under construction kind of like the drilling business only many more.
And so there is really no constraint for the construction companies or the survey companies to pick up a boat put an ROV on it and go to work.
So we don't really see any tightening there or anything that would increase our market share as a whole for that segment.
We're not taking any work away from them and they are not giving us any work.
Yes.
Yes so it is the fleet.
The ROV vessel fleet is growing on independent fleet ownership basis and we're getting vessels and ROVs on those vessels.
LLC Research Division</strong> Got it.
And does that have a geographic concentration within that kind of independent grouping? Well on the construction side I mean those vessels are mobile and go wherever the jobs are so that really doesn't matter.
I think that the 2 biggest areas still are the Gulf of Mexico and the North Sea and the call-out markets.
And so...
I mean we -- on our website on vessel-based -- we do disclose the distribution of our vessel-based ROVs and as you will see what -- it'll support exactly what Kevin said.
The Gulf of Mexico Norway with the North Sea and now you've got West Africa because of the 4 [ph] that we have on Angola and other boats in field maintenance-type contracts.
So I mean those are the 3 main areas.
And every now and then we'll pick up an odd job from -- on a boat.
And we've got a couple ROVs on a boat in Australia in a long-term contract and we'll get some in Southeast Asia on periodic basis but...
We have a couple in Brazil.
And we have some in Brazil.
But I mean the geographic concentration is the 3 that we mentioned: the North Sea Gulf of Mexico and West Africa.
LLC Research Division</strong> Got you.
And I know everybody's kind of picked around the products side.
But it would strike me that you usually get a pretty good pull-through on products when they're working on these vessels.
Is there -- can you kind of outline maybe the top 3 that we should think about that are kind of contributing to the guidance possibly in terms of what you may pull-through when you're doing vessel work on the tooling side? I'm sorry I think you maybe answered your own question.
The only thing that we really get pull-through on from vessel-based ROV is tooling.
ROV tooling.
ROV tooling.
And I mean it's really hard to predict which tools they're going to want for which specific IMR job or installation job.
So I would just leave it generically with tooling.
LLC Research Division</strong> And one last just a follow-up.
Is it -- so would you say that the CapEx that you're spending on kind of the tooling side is more in the traditional markets or expanding into new markets and maybe some of the ones that seem to be kind of more on the growth path? I wouldn't go there.
No I -- we don't have -- I mean let me just kind of give a little bit more color.
When we come up with a CapEx plan for -- that we announced and we gave guidance and it is not so specific as for us to be able to categorize and characterize everything that we're going to spend during 2013.
A lot of the tooling stuff particularly is short cycle.
It doesn't have a long lead time so it really is dependent upon perceived or real need and that's where we're going to be putting it.
We are trying to expand our tooling geographically and we've added tools in various locations.
But it is impossible for me to answer that question any better because I don't know.
[Operator Instructions] Your next question comes from the line of Brian Uhlmer.
LLC Research Division</strong> I'll ask a real quick one on the ROVs.
If -- I was just kind of curious how we quantify ROV strike when your guidance is that we're going to add less ROVs this year than we did in 2012 and kind of what are the cause of that.
I apologize if you already discussed that because I hopped on a couple of minutes late.
No we didn't discuss that.
But when you talk about characterizing the difference between 30 to 35 and 37 you're getting pretty particular there right? So I'm going to say that I don't -- I mean it looks like we're going to [indiscernible] much like the other one so -- I mean we add based on the demand so we're not manufacturing it in advance and having them sitting around.
So I mean there are a lot of opportunities particularly on the vessel side that come up in the short term that we don't see in the beginning of the year.
So this is our best estimate of kind of a run rate and this could go up could go down a couple.
We just don't know [ph].
Yes I mean we just think it's really early to tell whether it's going to be 30 to 35 or 29 to 36.
I mean...
LLC Research Division</strong> I was hoping for point estimate at the beginning of the year so...
We were too.
Presenters at this time there are no further questions in queue.
I turn the call back over to you.
Thank you.
Okay great.
Since there are no more questions I'd like to wrap up by thanking everyone for joining the call.
We're very pleased with our record results for 2012 including our ninth consecutive year of record ROV operating income and anticipate producing another record year of EPS for 2013.
We are anticipating a strong first quarter start in 2013 with EPS between $0.55 and $0.60 which at the midpoint will be at 22% over the first quarter of 2012.
This concludes our fourth quarter and year-end 2012 conference call.
Thanks and have a great day.
And ladies and gentlemen thank you for your participation on today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning My name is Rob and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the 2013 Q1 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] I will now turn the call over to Mr.
Jack Jurkoshek.
Sir please go ahead.
Good morning everybody and we'd like to thank you for joining us on our 2013 First Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
As usual a webcast of this event is being made available through the StreetEvents Network service by Thomson Reuters.
Joining me today are Kevin McEvoy our President and Chief Executive Officer who will be leading the call; Marvin Migura our Executive Vice President; and Cardon Gerner our Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Just as a reminder remarks we make during the course of the call regarding our earnings guidance business strategy plans for future operations and industry conditions are forward-looking statements made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
And I'm now going to turn the call over to Kevin.
Good morning and thanks for joining the call.
I'm happy to be here with you today.
Our record first quarter EPS of $0.69 was above our guidance range of $0.55 to $0.60 and was up 47% compared to the first quarter of 2012.
Year-over-year all of our operating business segments achieved higher income led by Remotely Operated Vehicles and Subsea Products.
We are well positioned to participate in the growth of deepwater and subsea completion activity currently underway and our outlook for 2013 remains very positive.
Given this outlook and our first quarter earnings performance we are raising our annual 2013 EPS guidance.
Our new guidance range is $3.10 to $3.30.
2013 is expected to be another record earnings year.
We continue to anticipate global demand growth for our services and products to support deepwater drilling field development and inspection maintenance and repair or IMR activities.
Based on our historical seasonal quarterly earnings distribution you might think that given our exemplary first quarter performance we should be raising our EPS guidance range even more.
There are 2 reasons we are not.
First our above-guidance first quarter performance was to a large extent attributable to an acceleration of the timing of forecasted work in our Asset Integrity and Advanced Technologies business segments.
And second our earnings forecast as is customary for this time of the year includes a significant amount of unbooked or speculative work.
As always our guidance range is consistent with our internal forecast.
We simply have no basis to be more aggressive as our view of the 2013 has not changed much since our last quarter.
Of course we will revisit our earnings guidance after our second quarter results have been recorded and as second half of 2013 is underway.
At the top of our guidance range we are contemplating a growth in earnings of over 50% in just 2 years.
And as you may recall 2011 was also a record earnings year.
Yesterday we announced a 22% increase in our regular quarterly cash dividend to $0.22 from $0.18 per share.
This underscores our confidence in Oceaneering's financial strength and future business prospects.
I'd now like to review our first quarter oilfield segment results.
Year-over-year ROV operating income improved 16% on the strength of higher demand to provide drill support and vessel-based services particularly in the Gulf of Mexico and offshore Africa.
Our ROV days on hire increased 13% to the approximately 21 700 days.
We also benefited from a 5% increase in average revenue per day on hire which was driven by an escalation in vessel-based work.
Sequentially operating income improved on an increase in days on hire and an improvement in margin.
The margin improvement was as expected due to unanticipated fourth quarter 2012 expenses related to our U.K.
pension plan adjustment and vehicle umbilical repair and maintenance cost.
Our fleet utilization rate during the quarter was 83% up from 79% both sequentially and year-over-year.
We expect that our fleet utilization for 2013 will remain about the same as that of the first quarter worth 83%.
Operating margin during the quarter was 29% the same as 1 year ago and up from 27% last quarter.
We continue to anticipate a 30% annual margin for ROVs in 2013.
During the quarter we put 6 new ROVs into service and retired 1.
At the end of March we had 294 systems available for operation up from 270 1 year ago.
3 of the new ROVs went to work onboard vessels and 3 went into drill support service.
Our fleet mix during the quarter was 74% drill support and 26% on vessel-based work.
This compares to a mix last quarter of 75-25 and a 78-22 percent split in the first quarter of 2012.
We were experiencing a trend of growing demand to perform vessel-based work.
Year-over-year over half of our increase in days on hire was attributable to this activity.
We still anticipate adding 30 to 35 vehicles to our ROV fleet in 2013 24 to 29 during the remaining 3 quarters.
Now turning to Subsea Products.
Year-over-year first quarter operating income improved 45% on a 24% increase in revenue due to higher demand for all of our major product lines.
Margin improved 3% principally due to the fact that additional support cost we have incurred to grow the business were spread over a larger revenue base.
As anticipated sequential operating income declined due to project timing.
The 21% decrease on a 14% drop in revenue was due to reduced sales of tooling in Subsea Hardware and lower umbilical plant throughput.
Margin consequently declined 2%.
For the year 2013 we continue to forecast that Subsea Products margin will likely be lower than the 21% of 2012 due to the anticipated change in sales mix featuring a higher percentage of umbilical revenue.
However we still expect record segment operating income for the year.
Our Subsea Products backlog at quarter-end was $776 million compared to $402 million at the end of March 2012 and $681 million at the end of December 2012.
Year-over-year and sequentially the backlog increase was largely attributable to umbilical awards and the BOP control system contracts we announced during the first quarter of 2013.
As for our remaining business operations for the first quarter Subsea Projects' operating income was higher year-over-year on a full quarter of work on a field support vessel services contract offshore Angola that commenced in February 2012.
Sequentially as expected operating income declined due to seasonality in the U.S.
Gulf of Mexico.
Near the end of March our 5-year vessel charter for use of the Ocean Alliance commenced upon completion of its shipyard modifications.
We immediately put this vessel to work on an IMR job in the Gulf of Mexico.
Asset Integrity operating income improved year-over-year on higher service demand in most of the geographic areas in which we operate.
Furthermore during the first quarter of 2012 this segment's results were adversely impacted by a low profit contribution from operations we acquired in December 2011 and for execution of a job in the U.S.
Sequentially operating income increased somewhat due to better job execution and a favorable service mix.
Additionally Asset Integrity's results during the fourth quarter of 2012 included cost we incurred associated with closing a nonprofitable operation in Sweden and a U.K.
pension plan adjustment.
Compared to prior periods Asset Integrity operating income margin improved as we expect it to its normal double-digit range.
Advanced Technologies achieved record operating income on the timing of completion of navy vessel and submarine repair and maintenance work contract award fees and improved execution.
In summary our first quarter results were above our expectations and we look forward to realizing another year of record EPS performance in 2013.
Our focus on providing products and services for deepwater and subsea completions positions us to participate in a major secular growth trend in the oilfield service and products industry.
We were pleased with our cash flow generation capability as demonstrated by $160 million of EBITDA during the quarter.
Capital expenditures for the quarter totaled about $94 million of which $70 million was invested in ROVs and $14 million was spent on Subsea Products.
Now let's talk about our 2013 EPS outlook.
As I've stated earlier we have raised our 2013 EPS guidance range to between $3.10 to $3.30.
Compared to 2012 we expect all of our operating business segments will achieve higher income in 2013 notably ROVs on greater service demand to support drilling and vessel-based projects Subsea Products on higher demand for all of our major product lines led by Subsea Hardware and Subsea Projects on a full year of work offshore Angola.
I believe we are well prepared for the opportunities we face in 2013 and have the assets in place to take advantage of growing demand for our services and products.
For 2013 we anticipate generating over $690 million of EBITDA.
Our balance sheet and projected cash flow provide us ample resources to invest in Oceaneering's growth.
Our CapEx estimate for this year excluding acquisitions is $300 million to $325 million.
Of this amount approximately $175 million is anticipated to be spent on vehicle upgrades and adding systems to our ROV fleet about $100 million is for enhancing our Subsea Products' capabilities.
Our focus in 2013 will be on earnings growth and investment opportunities for both organically and through acquisitions.
Moving on to our second quarter outlook.
We are projecting EPS in the range of $0.81 to $0.86.
Sequentially we anticipate quarterly operating income improvements from all of our oilfield business segments: ROVs due to an increase in fleet days on hire and some margin improvement Subsea Products on the strength of higher demand for tooling in Subsea Hardware Subsea Projects on a seasonal demand rise in Gulf of Mexico activity and Asset Integrity due to the normal seasonal increase in activity led by refinery maintenance and offshore production platform inspections in the North Sea.
We are however forecasting this segment's operating income in quarter 2 to decline year-over-year.
This is attributable to the acceleration of work into the first quarter of 2013 and an anticipated reduction in the amount of production platform work we performed during the second quarter of 2012 offshore Norway which was at an unusually high level.
Looking beyond 2013 we remain convinced that our strategy to focus on providing services and products to facilitate deepwater exploration and production remains sound.
We believe the oil and gas industry will continue to invest in deepwater as it remains one of the best frontiers for adding large hydrocarbon reserves with high production flow rates at relatively low finding and development costs.
Therefore we anticipate the demand for our deepwater services and products will continue to rise and believe our business prospects for the next several years remain promising.
At the end of March 2013 there were a total of 94 new floating rigs on order.
65 of these rigs are not contracted to work for Petrobras in Brazil and we expect all of them will go to work for other operators.
On these 65 rigs 20 ROV contracts have been let and we have won 16 or 80% of them leaving 45 contract opportunities left to be pursued outside of Petrobras in Brazil.
At the end of March 99 of the 142 existing high-spec drillships and fifth and sixth generation semis were contracted to operators other than Petrobras in Brazil.
We had ROV contracts on 75 of these for a market share of 76%.
If all 65 of the non-Petrobras rigs I mentioned are placed into service this fleet of 99 will grow 65% to 164 rigs.
So the visibility of the secular growth outlook for this market remains very promising and looking forward we see no reason why we will not continue to be the dominant provider of ROV services on these rigs.
Each additional floating rig represents an opportunity for us to put another ROV to work in drill support service.
As the use of floating rigs grows we believe it is inevitable that discoveries will eventually drive orders for Subsea Hardware to levels not previously experienced and demand for ROVs to support vessel-based activities should follow.
If the trend of 3 vehicles in the global ROV fleet for every floating rig continues we estimate that future demand growth for ROVs to support vessel work may exceed 180 vehicles at some point following the new rig in-service days.
We estimate Oceaneering's market share of the vessel-based ROV fleet at about 20% and see no reason we will not at least maintain this share in the future.
To meet visible growing rig in vessel service requirements we are forecasting future demand growth for ROVs will be approximately 275 vehicles.
So we anticipate the fleet will grow about 35% over the next several years.
We expect to capture roughly 30% of this market demand growth or about 80 incremental vehicles.
45 to 50 of these will likely be in support of drilling operations all of which we anticipate will be in service by 2016.
The in-service timing of the remaining vehicles for vessel-based work is indeterminate but will likely lag those required to support drilling.
Quest Offshore's latest Subsea Hardware forecast for the period 2013 to 2017 includes an increase in tree orders of about 55% over the previous 5 years.
In 2013 tree orders are projected to rise over 2012 by more than 25% to 523 an all-time high eclipsing the previous record of 426 trees in 2006.
While we don't make trees orders for subsea trees drive demand for a substantial amount of the ancillary subsea production hardware that we manufacture.
For example Quest is forecasting nearly a 40% increase in umbilical orders for the 5-year period 2013 to 2017 compared to the previous 5 years.
Umbilical orders in 2013 are forecast to rise to about 1 800 kilometers up over 60% from the 1 115-kilometer level in 2012.
Furthermore renewed industry and regulatory emphasis on safe and reliable operations is providing additional opportunities for us to demonstrate our capabilities.
With our existing assets we are well positioned to supply a wide range of the services and products required to safely support the deepwater efforts of our customers.
We believe Oceaneering's business prospects for the long-term remain promising.
Our commanding competitive position technology leadership and strong balance sheet and cash flow enable us to continue to grow the company and we intend to do so.
In conclusion our results continue to demonstrate our ability to generate excellent earnings and cash flow.
We believe our business strategy is working well over both the short- and long-term.
We like our position in the oilfield services market and are leveraged to the growth of deepwater and subsea completion activity that is currently underway.
The longer-term market outlook for our deepwater and subsea service and product offerings remains promising.
Renewed industry and regulatory emphasis on reliable equipment and redundant safety features of deepwater operations has caused our customers to be even more focused on risk reduction.
This elevates the importance of the utility and reliability of our ROV services and related product offerings and reinforces the benefit of our value sell.
For 2013 we are anticipating that we will achieve another record year of EPS performance.
We believe this distinguishes Oceaneering from any other oilfield service companies.
We appreciate everyone's interest in Oceaneering.
I will now be happy to take any questions that you may have.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Ryan Fitzgibbon.
LLC Research Division</strong> First question on the ROV side of the business.
Kevin I believe you mentioned day rates were -- increased about 5% sequentially.
What was the reason for that? Is that just cost escalation or are you seeing some improvement in pricing? It's mainly vessel-based increase in activity where on vessel-based it usually requires a larger crew than it does in drill support and so day rates are consequently higher because of the additional crew for vessel activity.
LLC Research Division</strong> And it's safe to assume that's higher-margin work or is that similar margin work? It's similar.
I mean it's just really the addition of the extra personnel required to operate a system on a 24-hour a day basis.
I think you get higher margin when the vessel works but you have more gaps in utilization than you do on drill support.
So overall we're pretty indifferent over the longer haul as to whether or not it works in vessel service mode or drill support.
LLC Research Division</strong> Got it.
That's helpful.
And then maybe Kevin a bigger picture question.
You've -- you walked us through the ROV growth story and Subsea Products growth story on the umbilical side.
You've grown your business 20% to 30% over the last 2 years.
Is this kind of growth rate sustainable when you look out to '14 and 15? Or are there M&amp;A opportunities you're looking at now? And if so are there specific product lines we should be focused on? Well we certainly can't comment on M&amp;A activity as you can look historically or backwards for the last couple of years.
It's been somewhat sparked -- sparse apart from the larger acquisition we did at the end of 2011.
Opportunities are kind of few and far between in our space and what ones we do come across are usually very highly valued.
But in terms of the demand growth that we see certainly if you look at the rig building that is going on through 2016 which is a similar pattern to the last couple of years we would anticipate the ability for similar growth at least in those couple of years going forward.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay maybe if I phrase it a different way.
When you look at capital allocation strategy how would you rank either your M&amp;A dividends or buy backs at your current share price? I think we first rank organic CapEx as our #1 focus and priority.
And I think we have plenty of opportunities as Kevin mentioned to not only participate in the growth that's going on.
And -- but as Kevin mentioned the drilling rigs is a start of the exploration cycle then we hope to follow up with just the increased number of rigs drilling.
To have increased number of completion and development activities it really has pulled through for our ROE vessel-based service and particularly our Subsea Products and then later as the infrastructure is being assembled and being maintained it also improves our asset integrity outlook and vessel-based project business.
So we see secular growth going on in the offshore deepwater in almost every area and we hope to be able to expand our coverage into new areas such as now we don't talk only about West Africa we also talk about -- or we just talk about all of Africa.
So #1 is organic growth #2 is acquisitions.
We don't have a product line hole that we're trying to fill but we do look for something that is very consistent with our existing products and services and particularly we'd like to find a product that has a service component.
And so growth is the #1 priority and then we've got an ongoing dividend program that we just announced.
We increased by 22% so that takes about on an annual run rate it would be about $95 million a year.
And then we'd like to buy enough shares back to at least maintain our EPS denominator over time and we have a lot approved by the board to do but we have no current ongoing plan that we execute quarterly.
And your next question comes from the line of Ole Slorer.
Research Division</strong> This is actually Igor filling in for Ole.
So it looks like your ROV utilization picked up sequentially and despite the first quarter typically being seasonally impacted by a lower vessel activity in the Gulf.
And I think this is actually the first time in 6 years we've seen the first quarter utilization for ROVs up sequentially.
So I mean is vessel activity that strong that it's more than offsetting the seasonality? I was just hoping you could address that.
Yes.
I think certainly for this quarter that is the case.
Research Division</strong> Wow.
So does -- what is the read-through here then for the vessels in your Project segment in the Gulf of Mexico and demand there? Ask that again? Yes.
Research Division</strong> So with increased vessel utilization on the ROV side and those vessels working more what is -- what are the kind of prospects for your vessels in your Project segment in the Gulf of Mexico? The Gulf of Mexico has been pretty weak.
No not pretty weak it has been weak in Q1.
I mean the vessel-based work was outside of the Gulf of Mexico.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So that was mainly -- all of that was -- which markets will you say that mainly came from? I would say it was increased -- Norway had a little uptick earlier than normal and then West Africa and Southeast Asia.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then my last question is when should we expect those large umbilical projects in the Subsea Products backlog to start coming out where that will have some impact on margins? Is that mostly -- most of that in 2014 or what's the rough timeline of that? For the year -- and we've said that we expect our margin to be lower than last year and the reason our higher percentage of umbilical revenue in '13.
It just didn't kick in as we want.
So it starts later this year but it definitely impacts this year.
Right.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then in '14 as well is that -- that's probably coming out.
Yes right.
I mean the big Petrobras order is a 3-year project.
Your next question comes from the line of Stephen Gengaro.
Research Division</strong> Two questions.
The first one is a follow-up on the prior question.
When he mentioned 2014 and the margins with the bigger mix of umbilicals within Subsea Products would that be a similar type mix to '13 or does it get incrementally worse in '14? Well Stephen we're really not going to go there.
No.
We don't have a '14 outlook that we're going to talk about.
I would hazard a guess about what all is going to happen between now and the beginning of '14 that will influence our product margin mix.
It really -- right.
It depends on the non-umbilical part of the business which we don't really have an outlook on for '14 at this moment in time.
Research Division</strong> Got you that makes sense.
I just figured I'd ask as a follow-up since you left it hanging there.
The other part of the question on the umbilical side you've obviously -- you've seen orders you've seen so better volume flowing through.
Has there been any inklings of a price momentum anywhere yet or is it still sort of wait and see on that? I don't think there's been any change in pricing momentum.
I think people are starting to see that big oil is still looking for low prices in their development projects and there is still excess capacity in the umbilical side.
So...
A lot of excess capacity.
Yes.
And so we're -- we don't see pricing leverage.
And your next question comes from the line of Ian Macpherson.
Research Division</strong> Just kind of flogging a dead horse here on the margin expression for ROVs and I apologize but when you look at your results this quarter your utilization was up and your rates were up nicely versus the first quarter of last year.
Your margins were down just a whisker versus the same period.
And I think that you basically said that the margins are ambivalent between field support and vessel support with the caveat that utilization is more variable for vessel support and I get that.
But are we still basically independent of the mix shift expecting the run rate margin for ROVs to be in that 30% low 30% range throughout the rest of this year? And should that be our framework in '14 even as your mix evolves? I think that's a good point.
Yes.
Yes good point.
Maintaining the margin at a 30% rate would be a good thing.
Kind of a lofty goal but that's what we're trying to do.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then you provided I think very helpful indicators with regards to the seasonality or the Q2 look and expectations for Asset Integrity.
And then when we think of Advanced Technologies which also had a nice step-up in Q1 is there anything that we should think about with regards to the sequential progression of profits through the rest of this year or shall it be fairly linear? With Advanced -- I mean you mentioned...
Research Division</strong> Yes with Advanced Technologies.
Advanced Technologies is going to be lower because they brought work forward that was forecasted not to occur until second quarter.
So it's not like there was more business it just came earlier than we thought.
And I think the government funding is really going to start to have some impact on that.
So we're expecting no change in our outlook we're hoping to hold forecast.
But there's more downward force pressure on our outlook in the government-related work.
It was just a timing issue that the Navy brought somewhere forward that we had in subsequent quarters.
So do not -- definitely do not project that as a run rate.
Right.
Your next question comes from the line of Jon Donnell.
Research Division</strong> I had a question regarding the ROVs.
In terms of the remainder that are scheduled to be delivered here for the rest of the year how many of those are specifically earmarked now for vessels as opposed to the drill support? It sounds like -- and this is part of the business really picking up a lot here.
I'm just wondered if there -- we'll get a little more information on that.
Yes the answer to that is based on what we know right now it's only a handful.
The majority of them are going in -- or are scheduled to go into drilling.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And for these new ROVs that end up on the vessels do they come with an initial contract that helps out that utilization right out of the gates? Is that somewhat what we saw in the first quarter for that? Or is it still more of just the shorter-term more or less call-out work that would be associated with those vehicles? They do come with contracts in place.
It's a combination of both Jon.
I mean some of them come with field maintenance contracts in place and others in areas such as Norway where they get a new boat and a new call-out work it'll come with more of a call-out basis.
So we try to manage that and we look for the field maintenance contracts but we're willing to put a new ROV on a boat if the outlook is good for its call-out business.
The mix is still far more on the call-out part of the market than it is on the long-term part of the market.
Yes.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just regarding the seasonality in the Asset Integrity business as we look over the last say 4 quarters first on the top line it looks like basically the results are very flat.
You don't see a lot of seasonality there.
I know there have been a lot of moving pieces.
But can you help us just sort of maybe understand as we look forward here what a more typical run rate in that segment ought to look like at least from a top line perspective? Hang on a second let me see if we're going to have a comment on that or not.
I think you really hit the nail on the head that there's so many moving pieces that...
So many moving pieces.
We talked about the outlook for the second quarter and the amount of work that we pull forward plus Norway was unusually high last year.
But I think there's not much variation in our outlook for the remaining 3 quarters.
I mean it does go up and down the third quarter should be the peak.
But I think we'll just have to see how that unfolds as well as you do.
And your next question comes from the line of Justin Sander.
LLC Research Division</strong> I have a follow-up question on the ROV utilization outlook.
So 83% very strong for the first quarter.
And it sounds like your outlook for the full year of 2013 implies utilization kind of generally in that range for the rest of the year even though it usually peaked -- a bit of a pickup in the mid part of the year.
I was just wondering if you can help maybe provide a little bit more color on what's behind the progression here that drives you to think of an 83% number for the full year 2013? Well I think the first quarter was unseasonably high for us and from what we can see with a lot of -- particularly the vessel-based part of the business still being largely call-out it's pretty hard to call anything higher than that at the moment.
So that's what we're anticipating for the rest of the year.
We just had a better-than-normal first quarter in that regard.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
So you're expecting that to normalize throughout the rest of the year than in keeping utilization at that level? Yes.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And so my follow-up on that is I think in the past if you go back to 2007 2008 we saw vessel mix as a percentage of the ROV fleet somewhere in the mid-30% range.
Just curious to get your thoughts on how we can think about the vessel work progressing here over the next few quarters and if we can see something return towards that type of a mix here in the near-term.
I don't think so.
I mean I think that time period that you referenced really was the height of the hurricane damage repair activity in the Gulf of Mexico and there was an unusually large number of ROVs dedicated to cleaning up that mess over a several-year period there.
So that was a spike in demand that we don't see reoccurring.
So much of that Justin was in shallow water as they were just assisting in the down platform removal and some repair.
So I think with the growth in the drilling rig fleet I mean it's going to take some time for us to slowly move that needle if the vessel-based activities come up to -- a lot like we did in Q1 was a little bit better than Q4 and the year-ago.
So -- but I don't see a major shift like what we had back then.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay I see.
And just one other follow-up if I can.
So I think Marvin you were going through a priority of capital allocation earlier and it sounded like heavy-weighting on organic CapEx.
Obviously a lot of room to work with with the balance sheet.
I just want to clarify does it -- is it more of building out the same type of product offering in different geographic markets? That's what it sounded like it was the case to me.
I just want to confirm if that's the biggest driver you think of as far as organic growth.
I think it's both.
I think it is increasing capacity in existing markets and building out new markets as they grow.
And your next question comes from the line of Tom Curran.
LLC Research Division</strong> Returning to ROVs on the drill support side have you seen any indications however slight of specific large customers or markets beginning to move in the same direction as Petrobras in Brazil in starting to emphasize price more over value or conversely beginning to stretch value even more? Either scenario any examples of that? And then could you please just refresh us in general what percentage of your existing fleet on contract tends to renew each year? Okay.
I'll answer the first part.
I mean really there's no big change that we see happening there.
I mean in terms of the market Petrobras remains the only major customer that does not seem to take into account the value proposition of uptime and that sort of thing.
And so we don't see any change in that with regard to other operators.
I think that our market position demonstrates that the rest of the world does value that.
And when we have the market share we do as a result.
Right.
And I think regards to the other side the value sell being more readily accepted it's a dogfight for every ROV contract that comes up.
Our competitors are trying to cut the price enough to negate the value sell so I wouldn't say that the pendulum is swinging the other way as well.
And on your question about what percent of our ROVs roll over we don't know.
We do not track that.
We track what percent of the rigs that we are on have contracts that are rolling over.
And I think that's a very broadly known -- and I don't have the statistics but I mean what we look for is what's the opportunity for a rig that is coming up? And what's the mid-water depth rig's going to do? That's what seems to be the attention it's getting.
But we haven't seen any change in our outlook as the -- right now new rigs seem to be incremental demand as opposed to replacement.
So we don't follow that because a lot of our contracts have 60- 90- 30-day cancellation for convenience clause.
So looking at the rollover rate contract date doesn't matter match.
If the rig's working our ROV is going to be working if we're on it.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
So it doesn't sound like there's been any changes there in the nature of how you deploy the ROVs on contract on the drill support side? No.
No.
LLC Research Division</strong> Great.
Then on the -- turning to Subsea Products.
The Subsea anti surge control package you've developed with Mokveld in which Oceaneering provides the actuator and Mokveld the rest of the system.
That package just won an award for Asgard and has also been bid on the Ormen Lange commercial phase correct? I believe that's correct.
LLC Research Division</strong> And any sense on the timing for the Ormen Lange award? I know you guys also won the pilot phase of that project for this system.
Right we did and I really don't have that information off the top of my head.
But I mean -- but I think these contracts while they're interesting because of the new technology involved they're certainly not needle movers for our business.
And I guess over time that electric market in general and actuators to go with that will steadily increase but I think it's more associated with these subsea processing-type activities which -- they're going to be slow to come on but I think they're definitely coming on.
Yes.
They're much talk about but we don't see a ramp-up that is meaningful in the short-term.
LLC Research Division</strong> I completely understand how de minimis it remains on the financial side.
But I do think you guys have proven to be sort of a stealth cutting-edge technology player.
And so -- and definitely trying to stay on top of what all you're involved in out there whether it's the Marine Well Containment Company or wet gas -- subsea wet gas compression.
I have noticed that recently in industry media trade magazines and other periodicals you have been highlighting your leadership in subsea electrification.
More broadly when it comes to subsea electrification are there any other projects or opportunities out there that you're focusing on this year as sort of a potential catalyst or milestone that Oceaneering is or could become involved with? You mean outside of the electrical stuff you were mentioning? LLC Research Division</strong> Just -- yes outside of the anti-surge -- the subsea anti-surge control package with Mokveld any other projects or offerings? On the -- as far as electric actuators no.
As far as other things that we're trying to do subsea yes there are some things that we are working on.
And if we talk about them too much they wouldn't be stealth anymore.
But we are providing flow line remediation services have been for quite some time.
These are basically hydrate remediations and we have some pretty good equipment for doing that.
We're also doing some subsea chemical injection work which we have developed some operating systems for.
That's a low end of that sort of business from a volume point of view but there are some applications that that is effective.
And I mean we're always looking for these kind of niche areas technology areas.
There's also the subsea inspection area that we've mentioned a few times in the past that the company that we bought in Norway at the end of 2011 had some technology in that area mainly ultrasonics in phased array and we have on our own in conjunction with 2 other companies been developing some subsea direct radiography capability.
So I mean we're always looking at those sorts of things but when they start off they're -- none of them are needle movers and you would -- we would create some false sense of expectation if we talk about every little thing that we try because sometimes it's hard to know whether it is a project type of activity or whether it really is going to be an ongoing business line that we can develop.
LLC Research Division</strong> Right.
And we do appreciate your conscientiousness on that front.
But thank you for your comprehensive overview.
That was helpful.
All right.
Your next question comes from the line of Jim Wicklund.
Research Division</strong> It's actually Jonathan.
Kevin I wanted to ask you -- I think you are at NORWEA last week and you'll be good voice on this.
There's been some pretty high-profile project postponements as of late in the media and other publications.
Is there anything that we as the investor -- investment community should be reading into about your Products business in the long-term slowdown in orders or anything like that? Well I would say that so far there are a couple of data points as you mentioned.
I think that some of them are for reasons of what really is in the reservoir not being what they thought it was and so that has caused maybe 1 or 2 to fall off the chart for the time being.
And there are 1 or 2 that I've heard about I don't know if they're in -- published so I won't mention the names.
But -- where the CapEx is coming in at the stage gate for approval process was a lot more than what the original AFE expectation was and so they're putting the brakes on for that reason.
But I would say that obviously if this sort of activity continues to increase and you start -- we start seeing a lot of data points of this happening then that will obviously have some implications for the industry in general and us accordingly.
But so far I would not characterize it as significant enough to say the sky is about to fall.
Research Division</strong> Appreciate that.
And then secondarily if I could cue in on something you said on the onset of the call what would make you more aggressive about your view in 2013 if you can walk us through that? A blowout second and third quarter.
Research Division</strong> So calm seas and winds out of the south? Not really.
No.
I was going to tell him don't use that word blowout.
Yes.
But a really good -- I think the Gulf of Mexico probably more than anything could be a mover in that regard if the non-drill support segment of that market really picks up more than what we are currently expecting it to then that will obviously have a pretty positive effect and push us towards the upper end of the range.
Research Division</strong> Now you guys mentioned the Gulf are there any other regions of the world that could be a tailwind that we're -- that you're just being conservative with which I understand is your nature but are there other regions? I wouldn't say so.
I mean I think that the other regions are maybe a bit more predictable in their run rates right now compared to the Gulf of Mexico.
I think our visibility 1 quarter out is pretty good.
Sometimes we get surprised like timing of Asset Integrity and 	AdTech this quarter but I would say that even though we are "conservative" where we have pretty good visibility in what -- I think the point is with 38 rigs working in the Gulf of Mexico the timing of the follow-up work in the Projects business in the vessel-based business and the Products business is where we're looking for some upside.
But it is all call-out.
And right now there's nothing booked that we could say could move forward.
So I think it's a pretty reasonable forecast.
Yes.
And your next question comes from the line of Joe Gibney.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just one quick one for me.
Just on the Projects side just a clarification.
You referenced the commencement of the charter the Alliance getting the work on an IMR job in the Gulf of Mexico.
I know within your Projects forecast previously you'd indicated Gulf of Mexico ops flat year-over-year given some of the regulatory dry docks in your existing fleet.
Has that forecast changed at all? Is it generally a flat expectation embedded in sort of your GOM portion of your Projects business? It is still the expectation.
I mean we had that vessel on short-term charter at the of 2012 and decided to put it on a long -- longer-term charter to have that available to us.
At the end of the quarter it did go to work immediately on a project.
But again this is a call-out business and we don't have a long-term contract on it.
It is project-by-project sort of business and our outlook is pretty much the same as we've indicated previously.
Your next question comes from the line of Darren Gacicia.
LLC Research Division</strong> I'm kind of referencing one of the prior questions.
You'd mentioned kind of the build-out on a geographic basis.
Is there a sense -- I mean obviously you're going to kind of follow the rigs but is there a sense of kind of where you may need to build that geographically and kind of a sense within the CapEx context but also within OpEx context of what we may have to expect there? I think that's a great question regarding the OpEx context because when you go to East Africa there is no infrastructure and you can't support the East from the West.
So what you've got to see -- and the same about North -- what we are looking at is increasing in our indirect costs associated with shore-based activities.
We're trying to do that as efficiently as you can.
But I think you're right we'll follow the rigs and we'll build out appropriately in leased space but it does take some facilities there.
And regarding CapEx I think what we look for is to build more equipment to support that and we may have to open a warehouse facility somewhere or an assembly place somewhere and that's the kind of products support AFEs or CapEx that we talk about when we say what we're spending our money on.
It's just enhancing our capabilities in various local areas ranging from Norway to North Sea to Angola and beyond.
And East Africa.
And Australia.
Yes.
So...
LLC Research Division</strong> Now so when I think about then -- and I kind of look to bucket sort of base costs if you will since it's -- I'm assuming that that's not going to show up in kind of the corporate like that's going to show up in ROVs Subsea Products is there -- does it get kind of -- how does that get attributed just so I can understand how to think about things in a modeling basis? It shows up in all the operating oilfield segments depending upon what the facilities are being used to support.
And I think that's when we say things like we're going to try to maintain a 30% margin in ROVs.
I mean that's all taken into consideration in our margin guidance.
And as you alluded to earlier in your question I mean it does all follow the ROV and so you end up starting off someplace with ROVs on a rig and if it looks like there is going to be continuing operations there then the next thing you get is a small footprint in the area to house technicians and have repair parts and whatnot.
And then tooling follows after that and then it just kind of builds depending on what the longevity is of the operating outlook for a particular area.
And hopefully IWOCS follows...
Right.
And things and then products so -- but we're not building a new umbilical plant somewhere to...
That would be something else.
Support anyplace else so -- but other than that we're trying to enhance our capabilities to respond to growing demand globally.
LLC Research Division</strong> Got you.
If I could switch gears one -- kind of one more follow-up here.
Guidance towards 83% utilization is definitely above kind of recent kind of quarters over the last couple of years' run rate.
And it seems like that's definitely a function of increased number of rigs coming on et cetera as you're getting some absorption on the fleet.
What do you think kind of the -- if we're kind of looking at a run rate range if you will rather than just kind of a direct kind of guidance line where do you think -- if things go well where do you think that that utilization can go? If one quarter's a little slower so to speak what's sort of the bottom end of the range especially given the fact that there's always been some seasonality in the business? What's the boundary we should be thinking as we forecast from here? Well I think -- I mean usually we get asked what is the maximum utilization that you can sustain? And we generally say it's around 85%.
Yes.
I think that -- and we're close to that mark obviously at the moment.
But I think the driver behind that number or that percentage really is the call-out nature of the work that we participate in and projects stopping starting some ROVs being demode and remode and whatnot.
So I'd say 83% is pretty high on a sustained basis and we feel pretty good about it.
[Operator Instructions] Your next question comes from the line of Ed Muztafago.
I was wondering if we could just sort of get a little bit of thoughts on your EPS progression throughout the year.
You did $0.69 in the first quarter.
Presumably if we take kind of the midpoint in your guidance and then look historically when you go from 2Q to 3Q you all tend to have about sort of the mid- to high-teens increase in EPS on average which would kind of imply something that's a pretty steep falloff in the fourth quarter.
And I'm not sure if perhaps maybe we -- we're just not looking at the typical sort of second to third quarter EPS progression.
Or is there something you're thinking about there just in terms of the way EPS plays out in the back half of the year? Well I think if you take as a given that our first quarter over performance if you will was really attributable to stuff moving forward and the first quarter is traditionally the lowest EPS quarter of the year followed by the fourth quarter I think that we're -- barring -- aside from what we managed in the first quarter I think you would expect to see similar comparatives in 2 3 and 4.
At least that's what we're expecting now.
Okay.
Yes I just kind of just looking historically if it kind of follow the normal pattern where fourth quarter was sort of in the range of second quarter it just seems like it would put you above the high end of the guidance and I just wanted to understand your thoughts there.
I guess as an unrelated follow up -- and I know we've talked on past calls about opportunity for putting sort of second ROVs on rigs.
But just -- maybe we've asked this and I just don't remember we've had something on the order of about 24 drillships that were dual BOP at least capable if not equipped in like the last 18 months.
Did those rigs present sort of the -- an atypical opportunity to put a second ROV on the rig or is that not really applicable to a dual BOP rig any more than it is a single BOP-equipped rig? Well the drillships were certainly designed with the capacity to take 2 ROVs but we had not really seen that be a trend in the marketplace so far.
Right.
And so I'm guessing in your negotiations to equip the dual BOP equipped drillships it's still a single ROV in the discussions for the most part? Yes.
Very much for the most part.
Every now and then we'll get a rig operator an oil company that wants to and we provide.
I can tell you this.
We have a list of all the new rigs that we expect to go into service this year and there's 3 of them that have requirements for 2 ROVs.
Okay.
And are you far along in the discussions for the 2014 rig deliveries which effectively would be the -- at least the start of the dual BOP-equipped rig deliveries? Well we've already got several contracts in hand for '14.
Yes.
The answer to your question is yes.
And there are no further questions at this time.
And I'll turn the call back to your presenters.
Okay.
So since there are no more questions I'd like to wrap up by thanking everyone for joining the call.
We are very pleased with our record first quarter results and anticipate producing another record year of EPS for 2013.
This concludes our first quarter 2013 conference call.
Thanks and have a great day.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for your participation.
This concludes today's conference call and you may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Tatum and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I like to welcome everyone to the Oceaneering Q2 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Thank you.
Mr.
Jurkoshek you may begin your conference.
Thank you Tatum.
Good morning everybody.
We'd like to -- I'd like to thank you for joining us on our 2013 second quarter earnings conference call.
As usual a webcast of this event is being made available through the StreetEvents Network service by Thomson Reuters.
Joining me today are Kevin McEvoy our President and Chief Executive Officer who will be leading the call; Marvin Migura our Executive Vice President; and Cardon Gerner our Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Just as a reminder the remarks we make during the course of the call regarding our earnings guidance business strategy plans for future operations and industry conditions are forward-looking statements made pursuant to the Safe Harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
And I'm now going to call -- turn the call over to Kevin.
Good morning and thanks for joining the call.
I'm very pleased to be here with you today.
Our record quarterly EPS of $0.91 was above our guidance range of $0.81 to $0.86 and was up 32% over the first quarter of this year and up 36% compared to the second quarter of 2012.
Our above guidance performance was attributable to sales in subsea hardware demand for asset integrity services offshore Norway and early completion of a theme park project.
Year-over-year and sequentially quarterly EPS increased as all our business segments achieved higher operating income led by Subsea Products and Subsea Projects.
We achieved record quarterly operating income from ROVs Subsea Products Asset Integrity and Advanced Technologies.
Our outlook for the second half of this year remains very positive and essentially unchanged from last quarter.
We continue to believe we will achieve record results for the year and our new 2013 EPS guidance range is $3.20 to $3.35.
Our previous guidance was $3.10 to $3.30.
Compared to 2012 we continue to forecast income growth for all of our operating segments in 2013.
Relative to the first half of 2013 we expect to generate higher operating income during the second half led by ROV and Subsea Projects.
ROV profits are expected to be up on an increase in days on hire as we place approximately 20 new vehicles into service and a slightly higher operating margin as we benefit from additional days worked and a favorable change in geographic mix to more work off Africa and in the Gulf of Mexico.
For Subsea Projects we are forecasting higher contributions from our Gulf of Mexico and Angolan operations.
Due to project timing we anticipate that Advanced Technologies will have considerably less results during the second half of 2013 relative to the first half.
For 2013 we anticipate generating at least $710 million of EBITDA.
Our balance sheet and projected cash flow could provide us ample resources to continue to invest in Oceaneering's growth and we intend to do so.
We are increasing our 2013 CapEx range estimate excluding acquisitions to $325 million to $350 million.
Of this amount approximately $200 million is anticipated to be spent on adding systems to our ROV fleet and vehicle upgrades.
About $100 million is for enhancing our Subsea Products capabilities.
Our focus in 2013 continues to be on earnings growth and investment opportunities both organically and through acquisitions.
I'd now like to review our second quarter segment results.
Year-over-year second quarter Subsea Products operating income improved nearly 70% on a 35% increase in revenue due to higher demand for all of our major product lines.
Operating margin improved 5% principally due to indirect support costs being spread over a larger revenue base and a slightly favorable change in product mix due to increased Subsea Hardware sales.
Sequentially operating income rose 45% on a 21% increase of revenue on the strength of higher demand for tooling and subsea hardware.
Operating margin consequently increased 4%.
For the second half of 2013 we continue to forecast Subsea Products operating margin will be lower than the 22% of the first half.
This is due to an anticipated change in sales mix featuring a higher percentage of umbilical revenue.
Our Subsea Products backlog at quarter end was a record $902 million compared to $621 million at the end of June 2012 and $776 million at the end of March of this year.
Year-over-year and sequentially the backlog increases were predominantly attributable to umbilical awards.
During the quarter we announced 2 large umbilical contracts 1 for offshore Egypt and 1 for the U.S.
Gulf of Mexico.
Now turning to Subsea Projects.
Segment operating income was 50% higher year-over-year on an improvement in international operations which included a subsea well stimulation service project completed in the second quarter offshore Ghana utilizing a customer-provided vessel and an escalation of work on our field support vessel services contract offshore Angola.
The increase in work offshore Angola included provision of another chartered vessel the Maersk Attender for half the quarter the supply of 2 crew boats 2 tugs and a cargo barge to support the operations in the chartered vessels and a full quarter contribution of the Ocean Intervention III which commenced work in the middle of April 2012.
The charter term on the Maersk Attender runs through September of this year followed by 2 45-day renewal options subject to our customer's work program.
The charters on the crew boats tugs and cargo barge are also short-term and will continue to be supplied on an as-needed basis at the discretion of our customer.
Sequentially Subsea Projects operating income increased 35% due to a seasonal uptick in the Gulf of Mexico demand for deepwater intervention and the increase in work offshore Angola that I just described.
During the quarter we entered into a 3-year charter for use of a multi-service subsea support vessel the Normand Flower.
The charter term is now expected to commence in mid-December 2013 and the vessel is anticipated to go to work in the Gulf of Mexico in early 2014.
This charter reflects our belief that the deepwater subsea intervention market has a promising and sustainable future.
As for our remaining business operations in the second quarter year-over-year ROV operating income improved on higher demand to provide drill support and vessel-based services.
Our ROV days on hire increased 9% to approximately 22 400 days.
Sequentially operating income improved on higher demand for drill support services and an increase in average revenue per day-on-hire.
Our fleet utilization rate during the quarter was 83% flat sequentially and up from 81% year-over-year.
We still expect that our fleet utilization for the year 2013 will be at about the 83% level.
Operating margin during the quarter was 29% flat sequentially and down from 31% a year ago.
The margin decline from a year ago was attributable to higher operating costs including associated with establishing new foreign areas of operation.
During the second half of this year we should benefit from more new systems being placed into service with a favorable geographic mix to more work off Africa and in the Gulf of Mexico.
As a result we anticipate quarterly operating margins to return to 30% or perhaps slightly higher.
During the quarter we put 4 new ROVs into service and retired 2.
At the end of June we had 296 systems available for operation up from 280 a year ago.
3 of the new ROVs went into drill support service and 1 went to work on board a vessel.
Our fleet mix during the quarter was 74% of drill support and 26% on vessel-based work the same as last quarter.
This compares to a 75%-25% mix in the second quarter of 2012.
We expect to add about 30 vehicles to our fleet in 2013 approximately 20 during the remaining half of the year.
Year-over-year Asset Integrity operating income was about the same as last year.
Sequentially operating income increased on higher service sales in most of the geographic areas we serve.
Advanced Technologies operating income improved year-over-year and sequentially on increased activity and operating margin on theme park projects.
The operating margin improvement was attributable to incentive fees for meeting scheduled completion dates.
In summary our second quarter results were above our expectations and up appreciably both sequentially and year-over-year.
We look forward to realizing another year of record EPS performance in 2013.
Our focus on providing products and services for deepwater and subsea completions positions us to participate in a major secular growth trend in the oilfield service and products industry.
We were pleased with our cash flow generation capability as demonstrated by $170 million of EBITDA during the quarter.
Capital expenditures for the quarter totaled about $81 million of which $56 million was invested in ROVs and $21 million was spent on Subsea Products.
Moving on to our third quarter outlook.
We are projecting EPS in the range of $0.90 to $0.95.
Sequentially we anticipate quarterly operating income improvements from ROVs due to increase in fleet days on hire and some margin improvement and Subsea Projects on a seasonal demand increase in the Gulf of Mexico for deepwater intervention and shallow water diving services and additional vessel activity offshore Angola.
Due to project timing we are anticipating that Subsea Products and Advanced Technologies will have lower results.
Looking beyond 2013 we remain convinced that our strategy to focus on providing services and products that facilitate deepwater exploration and production remains sound.
We believe the oil and gas industry will continue to invest in deepwater as it remains one of the best frontiers for adding large hydrocarbon reserves with high production flow rates at relatively low finding and development costs.
In early 2013 an industry report by Douglas-Westwood forecast global capital expenditure spending on deepwater oil and gas projects will double over the next 5 years.
We anticipate the demand for our deepwater services and products will continue to rise and believe our business prospects for the next several years remain promising.
At the end of June 2013 there were a total of 99 new floating rigs on order.
70 of these rigs are not contracted to work for Petrobras in Brazil and we expect all of them will go to work for other operators.
On these 70 rigs 20 ROV contracts have been let and we have won 17 or 85% of them leaving 50 non-Petrobras ROV contracting opportunities to be pursued.
So the visibility of the secular growth outlook for this market remains very promising and looking forward we see no reason why we will not continue to be the dominant provider of ROV services on these rigs.
At the end of June 102 of the 145 existing high-spec drillships and fifth and sixth generation semis were contracted to operators other than Petrobras in Brazil.
We had ROV contracts on 78 of these for a market share of 76%.
If all 70 of the non-Petrobras rigs I mentioned are placed into service this fleet of 102 will grow nearly 70% to 172 rigs and our ROV fleets supporting the rig market should grow by 50 to 55 vehicles.
As the use of floating rigs grow we believe it is inevitable that discoveries will eventually drive orders for Subsea Hardware to levels not previously experienced and demand for ROVs to support vessel-based activities should follow.
The current trend indicates that there will be approximately 2 vessel-based ROVs for every floating rig in operation.
So the 99 rigs under construction should represent incremental demand for approximately 200 ROVs on vessels.
We estimate Oceaneering's market share of the vessel-based ROV fleet at 20% and see no reason we will not at least maintain a share in the future.
This incremental demand should result in our ROV fleet supporting the vessel market growing by some 40 vehicles.
In summary by maintaining our current market share of the visible growing rig and vessel service requirements we are forecasting we will add 90 to 95 incremental ROVs to our fleet.
We anticipate the ROVs to support the rigs on order will be in service by 2017.
The in-service timing for the vessel-based ROVs cannot be predicted at this time but will likely lag those required to support drilling.
Quest Offshore's latest Subsea Hardware forecast for the period 2013 to '17 includes an increase in tree orders of about 60% over the previous 5 years.
In 2013 tree orders are projected to rise over 2012 by more than 25% to 531 an all-time high eclipsing the previous record of 426 trees in 2006.
While we don't make trees orders for subsea trees drive demand for a substantial amount of the ancillary subsea production hardware that we manufacture.
For example Quest is forecasting more than 35% increase in umbilical orders for the 5-year period 2013 to '17 compared to the previous 5 years.
Umbilical orders in 2013 are forecasted to rise to about 1 635 kilometers up over 40% from the 1 140-kilometer level of 2012.
Based on our subsea tree order forecast Quest Offshore is projecting average annual subsea tree installations over the 5-year period 2013 to '17 will increase by 140 or about 45% from the previous 5 years.
The number of subsea completions in service compared to 2012 is projected to increase by 1/3 by the end of 2017.
We believe that projected lines in tree installations and the growing level of subsea completions in service will act as catalyst for further growth in our Subsea Products and Subsea Projects operations and profits.
Furthermore industry and regulatory emphasis on safe and reliable deepwater operations is providing additional opportunities for us to demonstrate our capabilities.
With our existing assets we are well-positioned to supply a wide range of the services and products required to safely support the deepwater efforts of our customers.
We believe Oceaneering's business prospects for the long term remain promising.
Our commanding competitive position technology leadership and strong balance sheet and cash flow enable us to continue to grow the company and we intend to do so.
In conclusion our results continue to demonstrate our ability to generate excellent earnings and cash flow.
We believe our business strategy is working well over both the short and long term.
We like our position in the oilfield services market and our leverage to the growth of deepwater and subsea completion activity that is currently underway.
The longer-term market outlook for our deepwater and subsea service and product offerings remains promising.
Industry and regulatory emphasis on reliable equipment and redundant safety features of deepwater operations elevates the importance of the utility and reliability of our ROV services and related product line offerings and reinforces the benefit of our value sell.
For 2013 we are anticipating that we will achieve another record year of EPS performance.
We believe this distinguishes Oceaneering from many other oilfield service companies.
We appreciate everyone's interest in Oceaneering and I will now be happy to take any questions you may have.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Edward Muztafago.
I was wondering if you could just talk a little bit about the -- I was particularly intrigued by the -- your indication in the number of ROVs that you might add to the fleet in the coming future.
And I was wondering if we think about just the drilling support side through 2015 if you might hazard a guess as to potentially how many ROVs you might add to the fleet through that time frame.
Well no 50 to 55 through '17 when most of the rigs get delivered.
To separate that into the time frame of 2015 we don't have that with us.
Right now it would really depend on -- I mean we've got rigs going toward deliveries and going toward scheduled out but I don't think it's very accurate year-by-year.
So what we did is we took a look as Kevin explained to the 70 non-Petrobras rigs under construction and said "We'll get our 76% share of that." Right.
So there may be on the order of 40-some through that time frame offhand.
I don't know how many of those might be going to Petrobras or not.
So -- but that's fair.
I mean presumably the bulk of those rigs are coming by the end of 2015.
I think -- my thought process was that that would just represent the bulk of the ROV adds with the tail ends sort of being a little bit more de minimis.
Can you also talk about with respect to the projects margin in the quarter? I know you certainly aren't going to give us any granularity that's very specific in terms of how things impact it but could you just sort of rank order Angola the well stimulation contract Gulf of Mexico sort of how those things impacted the margin increase in the quarter? I think you got the order right.
Okay.
And sort of any thought process as to -- is the preponderance of it Angola and the rest more de minimis? Or...
We're not going to go there.
Your next question comes from the line of Ian Macpherson.
Research Division</strong> My question was along a similar vein.
I was wondering if the expanded scope of the project in Angola has had a material bearing on you raising your guidance and whether we should contemplate the exercise of the options on that additional vessel in Q4 as also being potentially accretive to the outlook as you've updated it with these results.
Ian let me start off by directly addressing our guidance raise.
Our guidance raise was based on the first half year performance.
Kevin emphasized that our outlook for the second half was essentially unchanged and remains very positive.
And so I don't think the Angola short-term charter for the Maersk vessel and this other spot work is very relevant to our second half otherwise we would have changed our outlook for the second half.
And if you can tell as you do the numbers you'll see that we basically left our second half guidance intact.
So I guess to clarify one point that may not be clear I mean the Maersk Attender while that happens to be the third vessel that is working in Angola on that contract it is not really the third long-term vessel that there is an option for under the contract.
So we are viewing that at this point in time as a short-term idea just catching up work for the customer.
Obviously the customer is in control with that and we'll just have to wait and see how that plays out.
But right now we are not considering that the third long-term potential vessel under charter under that contract.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's clear.
And then as a follow-up I know you had exceptional results from the products segment in Q2 and you've indicated an expected downtick in Q3 and probably a structurally lower margin as the umbilical mix rises.
But notwithstanding those adjustments is it fair to say that you were seeing -- well I guess the question is are you seeing the underlying business -- the sales apart from umbilicals developing in line with your expectations for the year? Or do the Q2 results reflect something a little bit better than what you were expecting as you came into the year? Pretty much in line.
I mean a little better.
I mean the results are better but I'm talking about from a pricing standpoint.
I mean I think the activity levels are good.
From a pricing standpoint I would say it's as expected I think volume has surprised us a little to the upside.
And I guess when you think about the total backlog for that segment and think that the non-umbilical part of that is much shorter-term visibility and shorter-term throughput in terms of execution.
So that's why that segment is always a little bit harder to predict what's going to happen in the future because we just don't have the same kind of visibility.
Your next question comes from the line of Ryan Fitzgibbon.
LLC Research Division</strong> Maybe just a follow-up on Ian's question on the Subsea Products business.
That $900 million that you have in backlog can you give us a sense as to how much is umbilical and how much is tooling? We don't segment that on a quarterly basis.
Yes we don't give that detail out.
I mean we did say that the large umbilical awards that we announced in the quarter and previously is driving our backlogs.
So I mean it is -- a lot of the other work when you look into tooling and IWOCS may or may not ever make it it can be converted -- ordered and converted into revenue within a quarter.
So most of the other stuff is not as long term as the umbilicals.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
I appreciate that Marvin.
And as we think of that backlog can you give us a sense as to what normalized margins may be as we forecast numbers going forward into 2014 et cetera? I don't know.
The mix really drives it.
And what we said over time is we didn't think we'd be able to do the same margin that we did in '12 in products and now we're running ahead of that.
But we're not expecting to -- we're still maintaining our forecast of what we said for the second half.
It's going to be substantially -- it's going to be lower and substantially lower from the 24% achieved this quarter.
But no I mean I think normal margins if we look at high-teens we're pretty comfortable with that.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's what I thought.
And then my second question relates to the Subsea Projects business.
Can you talk about what you're seeing in the deepwater subsea intervention market here in the Gulf of Mexico and potentially expand on what that vessel could mean on maybe a revenue basis in 2014 for modeling purposes? Well I'll speak to the market.
I think that we see a fair amount of project work in 2014 2015 which is why we have chartered the vessel.
But again the Gulf of Mexico as we always like to remind people is a spot market and there is really no long-term backlog there.
This is just our view of the market for projects that we see out there in '14 and '15 that caused us to want to increase our asset base to take advantage of that.
We're not going to give any revenue forecast for '14 and '15 for a specific vessel or for anything.
Your next question comes from the line of Mike Urban.
Research Division</strong> So your results would certainly suggest this but I think we're seeing this in some of the other subsea-related businesses and companies out there.
These projects are notorious for sliding to the right but it does seem like some of the stuff both in the relative near term but also longer term as evidenced by some of these tree areas [ph] coming out does seem to be beginning to shake loose.
As you talk to your customers is that the sense you're getting? Or is it still kind of the pattern that we've been in for the last few years here where everything just continues to delay? I think it's kind of a mixed thing.
When you look at I guess some of the reasons that things are sliding to the right some of it is cost some of it is regulatory and just trying to get through the bureaucracy of foreign governments in particular to get things approved some of it has been that the oil quality or quantity wasn't what they expected so they need to go back to the drawing board and figure out another scenario for production.
So I mean it's hard for me to say from what I read and hear that there's some systemic industry-wide slowdown because of anything.
Research Division</strong> I guess maybe another way to put it is these things always have a tendency to slide because of the things that you highlighted but we had other concerns out there whether it's macro the oil price geopolitics whatever.
But again maybe this is just anecdotal or maybe just wishful thinking.
But it seems like those kind of things might be easing a little bit I don't know.
Again even anecdotally or gut feel there was kind of a change and sense of urgency on the part of your customers.
Well Mike I think -- we've been talking about it's déjà vu all over again with a number of project delays.
I mean they get different names but it continues to occur.
And it has been occurring maybe different reasons slightly different reasons about the complexity of the geological formation all that kind of stuff.
But all in all I mean we see our products growing substantially '13 over '12.
And part of it is market part of it is winning more work part of it is better execution.
So I mean we see a -- we look at EPC contractor backlogs and we see our backlog their backlog rising for a better '13 '14 and '15.
So I'm saying that even with project delays just the number of projects are going to be continuing to increase over time.
And I think most of the focus on delay just seems to be on tree orders and whatnot which is a much longer horizon than we're talking about here for stuff that we're seeing coming into the Gulf of Mexico.
So that's another aspect of it I'd say.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Got you.
And then more of a housekeeping question.
I apologize if I missed it.
I think the guidance is pretty clear on everything.
I don't know if you have anything out there or if I missed it on Asset Integrity both kind of Q3 and second half.
No I think it was still us-- you didn't miss it it wasn't mentioned.
It's not going to move one way or the other.
We think it's just going to be a pretty much in line quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So fairly flattish over the balance of the year? Nothing noteworthy.
I'm talking about sequentially 2 to 3 and then you would expect a fourth quarter substantial drop as seasonality starts to kick in and then a lower Q1.
I mean that's just the normal seasonal pattern.
What we're saying is 2 and 3 should be similar.
Your next question comes from the line of Byron Pope.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just 1 question for me and it relates to the Subsea Projects segment.
And I'm thinking in a high level conceptually about you're looking at an environment in the Gulf over the next couple of years of increasing deepwater activities.
So I guess my question is from a mix perspective I'm assuming that the opportunities that you see in the Gulf are probably going to be more skewed towards the deepwater versus the shelf.
And so again in a conceptual level is it fair to think about that as having positive margin implications in terms of Gulf of Mexico mix for Subsea Projects as we think out over the next couple of years? We would hope so.
Yes.
All right.
That was good.
Thank you.
I think just to follow up on it I mean we would say that the shelf work the diving work in the Gulf of Mexico is still extremely challenged.
So that would very much translate into if the mix shift to more deepwater that would help our margins.
Your next question comes from the line of Waqar Syed.
My question relates to ROV retirements.
Could you provide us some guidance on what your plan is for retirements for the remainder of the year? We really have stopped predicting retirements and we report them quarterly as they occur because it's just getting too difficult to do that.
And so we don't really have any further guidance on that.
Remember Waqar what we said is 4% to 5% annually over time.
And so that would be...
Which could vary from year-to-year.
No no.
Right.
I feel over time.
Right right right.
We may not hit 12 to 15 every year.
Okay.
And secondly like if you look back in the past around 2007 I believe ROV utilization had gone up to about 87% 88%.
Is there anything structurally different this time around? Or can we still go up to that 87% 88% utilization at least for some portion of the year? I think there is something structurally different now versus that period of time when we had all the unforeseen work surrounding the hurricane damage that was in the Gulf of Mexico.
And there was a huge demand that allowed for pricing increases in that couple of years that that occurred.
That is not the case.
In today's world there's pretty good visibility of additional systems coming to market to support the rigs and the vessels.
And whether we would get to that kind of utilization again I mean I don't see that in the near term.
83% to 85% is what we normally consider to be about as high a utilization factor as you can manage given the stops and starts of some projects and that sort of thing.
So that's what I would say about that.
2007 was an anomaly because we had a lot of ROVs working in shallow water on balance last March [ph] in the Gulf.
Yes.
Okay good.
And then finally in your Subsea Products in your non-umbilical business do you -- are you aware of anything that would lead you to say that the revenues in that part of the business would be lower or flat or would be lower in the third quarter versus second quarter in just that part of the business Subsea Products? There's moving pieces.
I don't know the -- I mean we expect just for some color that the IWOCS business had a phenomenal first half and there's not work for -- at that level in the second half.
So that's going down.
But tooling and other service line -- product lines are expected to go up.
So I really can't give you any more granularity and quantify it right now.
I just don't have that information in front of me.
And I don't know if we'll give it out below the segment line anyway.
But just directionally I know what you're asking the basis is going to continue to run.
And we think it is the pickup in umbilicals.
But there is some other mix items going on notably IWOCS.
Okay.
And is IWOCS your highest margin product and service line within the products business? Yes as a percentage margin basis because of the service component in it.
Your next question comes from the line of Jon Donnel.
Research Division</strong> I sort of would just maybe dig deeper into the sequential guidance for the second half of the year.
Just kind of given the third quarter numbers that are out there it presumes a pretty big ramp-down in 4Q.
And I know there's traditionally the seasonal elements from Gulf of Mexico weather et cetera which hits most of the main product lines.
But it seems that there's a lot of mitigation from additional ROVs being added to the fleet the products backlog which I presume is more of a percentage of completion with the larger umbilicals as well as the BP Angola project for the project segment.
So could you help us with just what's kind of driving that rather large ramp-down in 4Q versus 3Q kind of compared to what we've seen over the last couple of years from that seasonality? I think it's the other 3 segments that you didn't mention.
I think -- I mean while it is -- products is on a percentage of completion directionally you're correct.
I mean there is other volume activity that associates it and project timing is really key because there's a lot of products that we do not do on a percentage of completion mainly it's umbilicals that we do.
But I think Projects you start to get seasonality in the Gulf.
And Asset Integrity seasonality hits pretty hard.
And in AdTech it was all project timing that moved the theme park work into the first half and came out of the second half.
So I mean yes ROVs should mitigate -- the additional ROVs should mitigate any seasonality in the vessel-based work.
But I mean there are other segments that we're expecting to come down.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And so I presume that the recent large umbilical awards are those -- especially the [indiscernible] one that will be recognized on a percentage-of-completion basis? Yes.
Yes.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And is the same true for the power cables versus the umbilicals within that award? Almost all of our umbilical contracts are on a percentage-of-completion accounting basis.
Your next question comes from the line of Tom Curran.
LLC Research Division</strong> I had to hop on and off the call so apologies if this has been clarified.
But I want to make sure I'm clear.
Marvin if the 2 remaining 45-day renewal options on the Maersk Attender were exercised that would or would not be incremental to your existing second half assumptions? I don't know what the forecast has in it.
I mean I know we have made some assumptions.
We have enough speculative work in the forecast that I don't think -- we don't want to advertise whether we've assumed the options are going to be [indiscernible].
Right.
I think the answer is it might be but again it might just be replacing speculative work that we have in the rest of our projects business.
I think Kevin gave the exact right answer.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
Helpful.
And then looking at the work you're doing for BP what is the maximum potential scope there? I understand that the Attender is sort of just a shorter-term solution while BP I guess decides whether or not it wants to commit to the long-term true third vessel.
But beyond just this contract just how big could the scope of your work there potentially get? And then have you seen any indications yet of other similar opportunities be it with BP or another customer? Well first of all the Angola contract I think we've articulated what the scope of that is and what we expect.
And the only thing that's really kind of out there undefined at the moment is when or if in fact they will take a long-term third boat for that.
Right now they are still doing construction activity if you will tree setting jumpers and that sort of thing.
And depending on how long that carries on and how much inspection and maintenance work that they have that really is going to determine whether they take the long-term vessel or not.
So I think that contract has been well-articulated in terms of scope of work and what one could expect.
The only big variable is going to be that long-term third vessel if they decide to take it and we don't know.
As far as other similar opportunities elsewhere I mean we're always looking but we don't have anything at this moment in time.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
Kevin I was struck by -- within your remarks in the press release your reassertion of how firm your commitment remains to pursuing acquisition opportunities.
Could you give us an update on the M&amp;A pipeline and just how it's evolved over the last few months here? Well we never really discussed the pipeline.
And what we have continued to say and still say is that we're always looking at the opportunities that a fit our business direction and strategy and b the economic price that one has to pay for very highly valued subsea and deepwater companies.
It just means that there are very few that you can actually end up bringing home.
Your next question comes from the line of Brad Handler.
Research Division</strong> Maybe just one last quick one for me.
Are you still working in Ghana? No.
No the project -- well the answer is yes.
We're still working in Ghana but not that project.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So that specific project has run its course.
So you are still doing some other project-related work in Ghana? [indiscernible] support in Ghana which is what we have been on.
So we have ROV work there.
We have some drilling work associated with that.
And this was just a specific project campaign and it's over.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Understood.
Maybe just a point of clarification.
It's probably obvious but I'm not sure.
So you expect to have work for the Attender through September.
In other words the charter of the vessel ties with how much work and revenue opportunities for you distinctly.
Correct.
Yes.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And the renewal option is obviously only related to BP saying "Please go -- please stay with us for another 45 days or 90 days." Correct.
[indiscernible] with those other tugs and barges and whatnot.
Your next question comes from the line of Michael Marino.
Research Division</strong> A quick one to clarify.
Kevin the 20 ROV units you expect to add in the back half of the year that's a gross number? Correct.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then one just kind of bigger picture.
If you look out I don't know 18 24 months and you continue to book umbilical awards and maybe the industry does as well is there any chance that that business maybe isn't margin-dilutive to products looking out long-term? Not as we see it right now.
I mean there's still such a large amount of available capacity in the market that we just don't see that happening.
And those high input costs to manufacture of a steel tube umbilical or a power umbilical that your percent of materials is such a large percent relative to our other products and services within our products segment.
So I think it will be dilutive in a very good umbilical market.
We have a follow-up question from the line of Ian Macpherson.
Research Division</strong> This might strike you as being completely out of left field.
It's not a deepwater question but a Gulf of Mexico question.
There has been a rig with a blowout that's burning on the shelf right now.
And I wonder if you could just sort of say on a scale of 1 to 10 how concerned you are with this incident and what it might mean with regard to [indiscernible] becoming once again more circumspect with regard to safety standards and what this could or may not mean with regard to permits across the Gulf of Mexico.
That's 1 part of it.
And then do you think that you Oceaneering have you been contacted to play any role in the remediation of this? And do you see it having any bearing on your quarter? Well as far as what effect this might have on permitting and the rest of that I'd be totally speculating.
I mean I don't think enough is known about the cause of this at this point in time.
Obviously it is a plus for the industry that it's not oil.
So we don't have at least a huge environmental thing.
It's a huge plus that everybody was safely evacuated and there was no loss of life or as far as I had read anyway no injuries either no severe injuries.
So those are good things.
But I think it's a little premature to speculate how that could affect permitting or whatever.
I mean the shelf is one particular area deepwater is another particular area.
And -- but I mean obviously another incident is not a good thing for the industry and there could be additional oversight or whatever I don't know.
People will push their own agendas until there are more facts [indiscernible].
Yes.
And I mean it is shallow water.
I mean there's nothing to be done until the only -- probably the only way to turn the gas off is to drill a relief well.
And so there really is no part that we would play in a situation like this in a couple of hundred feet of water and sort of this tree on a burning jack-up.
You have another follow-up question from the line of Edward Muztafago.
Just one quick one for me.
I wanted to kind of pick your brain a little bit on the products business again.
And if we sort of look back to last year's products in terms of backlog kind of a new run rate if you would in the second quarter and it kind of looks like we're there again this year in terms of a new run rate.
I just want to think about are we potentially looking at another year where the products business can continue to build revenue even through the fourth quarter despite the seasonality? I mean that's possible.
Yes.
I mean I think what we talked about was increasing revenue for the year with -- going into it with the base of umbilical backlog that we have.
And yes I look for a larger throughput in the second half that was -- if I understood your question.
Yes yes.
That's fair.
I mean presumably second half and I guess potentially even through the fourth quarter was really I guess a key point of the question.
But it sounds like you're saying that's certainly possible.
That's possible.
There are no further questions at this time.
Okay.
Since there are no more questions I'd like to wrap up by thanking everyone for joining the call.
We are very pleased with our best-ever quarterly results and anticipate producing another record year of EPS for 2013.
This concludes our second quarter 2013 conference call.
Thanks.
And have a great day.
Bye-bye.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Megan and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the 2013 Q3 earnings conference call.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn your call over to Jack Jurkoshek.
You may begin your conference.
Good morning everybody.
I would like to thank you for joining us on our 2013 third quarter earnings conference call.
As usual a webcast of this event is being made available through the StreetEvents Network Service at Thomson Reuters.
Joining me today are Kevin McEvoy our President and CEO who will be leading the call; Marvin Migura our Executive Vice President; and Cardon Gerner our Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Just as a reminder remarks we make during the course of the call regarding our earnings guidance business strategy plans for future operations and industry conditions are forward-looking statements made pursuant to the Safe Harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
And I'm now going to turn the call over to Kevin.
Good morning and thanks for joining the call.
I'm very pleased to be here with you today.
We achieved record EPS for the quarter reflecting the high level of demand we continue to experience for our subsea services and products.
Our third quarter results were highlighted by all-time high operating income from our ROV segment and better-than-anticipated Subsea Products operating margin.
Overall we remain on track to achieve record EPS for 2013 which we now believe will be up more than 25% over 2012.
Given our third quarter results and an improved fourth quarter outlook for Subsea Products and Subsea Projects we are raising our 2013 EPS guidance range to between $3.35 to $3.40 up from our previous range of $3.20 to $3.35.
We are well positioned to participate in the growth of deepwater and subsea completion activity that is currently underway and we are initiating 2014 annual EPS guidance to the range of $3.90 to $4.10.
This is up 19% at the midpoint over our forecast for 2013.
We anticipate continued global demand growth for our services and products to support deepwater drilling field development and inspection maintenance and repair activity.
This market outlook is supported by industry observation and assessments that deepwater drilling is increasing subsea equipment orders are growing and backlog to perform offshore construction projects is at a record high level.
For 2013 and '14 we anticipate generating at least $735 million and $845 million of EBITDA respectively.
Our balance sheet and projected cash flow provide us ample resources to invest in Oceaneering's growth and we intend to continue doing so.
I'll talk more about our 2014 guidance later.
But first I'd like to review our operations for the third quarter.
Year-over-year and sequentially ROV operating income increased on higher demand for both drilling and vessel-based support services notably in the Gulf of Mexico and off Africa.
Our ROV days on hire for the quarter increased to a record high of nearly 23 700 and our fleet utilization rate rose to 86%.
This was up from 83% last quarter and 81% year-over-year.
We expect 2013 utilization to be 84%.
Sequentially operating margin increased about 70 basis points but not enough to round up to the 30% level we had hoped for.
We continue our efforts to raise prices and control costs to achieve margin improvement.
During the quarter we put 7 new ROVs into service and transferred 1 system to Advanced Technologies for non-oilfield use.
At the end of September we had 302 systems in our fleet up from 285 a year ago.
All of the new ROVs went into drill support.
Our fleet mix during the quarter was 73% drill support and 27% on vessel-based work the same as in the third quarter of 2012.
We had a 74%-26% mix last quarter.
We continue to anticipate adding about 30 new vehicles to our ROV fleet in 2013 approximately 13 during the fourth quarter.
Now turning to Subsea Projects.
Year-over-year and sequentially operating income rose due to increased demand for deepwater intervention and shallow water diving services in the U.S.
Gulf of Mexico and additional vessel activity offshore Angola.
Year-over-year operating margin increased to 21% from 17% and this was largely due to a favorable change in Gulf of Mexico deepwater job mix to include more installation work.
At $30.7 million quarterly operating income was second only to the $31.6 million we achieved in the third quarter of 2007 at the height of the hurricane damage repair work being performed in the U.S.
Gulf of Mexico.
This was accomplished due to our international expansion in Angola and the Gulf of Mexico deepwater mix previously mentioned.
During the quarter we commissioned the construction of a Jones Act-compliant subsea support vessel with an expected delivery by the end of the first quarter of 2016.
This vessel will allow us to maintain our competitive position to meet what we believe will be growing demand and more rigorous technical requirements for ultra-deepwater Subsea Project services in the Gulf of Mexico.
Of note this vessel will have a 250-ton heave compensated crane 100 tons greater capacity than any other vessels we currently operate.
This will increase our capability to safely handle heavier subsea payloads for our customers in deeper water depths.
As for our other business segments year-over-year Subsea Products operating income improved on higher demand for tooling and Subsea Hardware.
Sequentially operating income did not decline as we had anticipated as our operating income margin benefited from a higher contribution from tooling.
Our Subsea Products backlog at quarter end was $857 million down 5% from $902 million at the end of June but up 38% from $619 million a year ago.
Year-over-year the substantial backlog increase was largely attributable to umbilical awards and contracts we secured for Subsea Hardware.
The 5% sequential decline in Products backlog was primarily in umbilicals.
Given the episodic nature of umbilical awards and their relatively large value compared to our other product offerings we expect our quarterly products backlog to fluctuate depending on the timing of major umbilical contracts.
Asset Integrity operating income improved year-over-year on higher service sales in Africa.
Sequentially operating income was unchanged.
Advanced Technologies operating income increased year-over-year on additional vessel maintenance work for the U.S.
Navy.
Sequentially operating income declined as we had expected on a lower level of activity and operating margin on theme park projects.
In summary our third quarter results were exceptional and we look forward to realizing another year of record EPS performance in 2013.
Our focus on providing products and services for deepwater and subsea completion positions us to participate in a major secular growth trend in the oilfield services and products industry.
We were pleased with our EBITDA generation of $204 million during the quarter.
Capital expenditures for the quarter totaled $105 million of which $53 million was invested in ROVs and $33 million was invested in Subsea Products.
We are raising our CapEx estimate for this year to between $400 million and $425 million.
The $75 million increase over our previous guidance is to accommodate the expenditures for the new vessel we are having built and additional investments to enhance our Subsea Products capabilities.
Now let's talk about our year-end outlook.
For the fourth quarter of 2013 we are projecting EPS in a range of $0.80 to $0.85.
We expect our fourth quarter EPS to be up year-over-year on operating improvements from ROVs Subsea Products and Asset Integrity.
Sequentially we anticipate a quarterly operating income increase from ROVs as we put additional new vehicles into service.
We also project ROV operating margin to show some improvement in the fourth quarter.
The rest of our oilfield business segments are forecast to have operating income and margin declines due to normal seasonality of project timing.
Advanced Technologies operating income is forecast to drop precipitously.
This is attributable to projects having been pulled forward into earlier quarters this year and the uncertainty of U.S.
government funding for the services we provide for the U.S.
Navy.
Looking forward to 2014 we are initiating EPS guidance with a range of $3.90 to $4.10 based on an average of approximately 109 million diluted shares.
We believe our upcoming year guidance is a bit more aggressive than in years past as our market drivers are transitioning from ROVs to our other oilfield business operations for which we have less annual visibility.
Demand for these other operations is tied to secular growth and field development and inspection maintenance and repair activities which is occurring but the exact timing of this work is more uncertain and outside of umbilicals and our Angola project the work is very short cycled with little visible backlog.
We have not completed our detailed planning process but the big picture changes we envision for 2014 compared to '13 can be summarized as follows: ROV operating income is projected to grow on the strength of greater service demand to support drilling and vessel-based projects led by increased activity off Africa.
We are projecting that our fleet utilization rate will improve to 85% and anticipate adding 30 to 35 new vehicles to our fleet in 2014.
We intend to retire systems when they reach the end of their useful lives and will continue to report these only after they have occurred.
Given our fleet size its average age and our strategy of operating a modern fleet we expect to retire annually about 4% to 5% of our fleet.
We expect to improve our average revenue per day on hire somewhat at least to cover cost increases and maintain our operating margin in the range of 29% to 30%.
We remain committed to growing our fleet and securing as many new build floating rig and vessel opportunities as possible with customers that appreciate our value proposition.
Subsea Products operating income is forecast to improve on higher demand for each of our major product lines.
Products operating margin is expected to be in the range of 19% to 21%.
Subsea Projects operating profit is expected to be better on growth in deepwater intervention activity in the Gulf of Mexico and additional work offshore Angola.
Projects operating margin is expected to show a slight improvement over 2013.
During 2014 the operating process of our Gulf of Mexico operations is expected to benefit from the addition of another chartered multiservice subsea support vessel the Normand Flower to our Gulf fleet.
We also anticipate an increase in other vessel availability and a decrease in drydock expenses.
Our Asset Integrity segment profit contribution is forecast to be higher on increased service sales in most of the geographic areas in which we operate.
Asset Integrity operating margin is expected to show a slight improvement over 2013.
Advanced Technologies performance is expected to be about the same.
Unallocated expenses are estimated to increase at a rate slightly less than revenue growth.
At the midpoint of our guidance we expect our overall operating margin in 2014 to remain approximately the same as the 17% we anticipate for 2013.
During 2014 we anticipate generating at least $845 million of EBITDA.
Our balance sheet and projected cash flow provide us with ample resources to invest in Oceaneering's growth.
Our preliminary CapEx estimate for next year is that it will be similar to 2013 or around $400 million.
Our focus in 2014 as it was this year will be on earnings growth and investment opportunities both organically and through acquisitions.
At this time we are not providing quarterly earnings guidance for 2014.
For those of you who intend to publish quarterly estimates I'd like to remind you that historically our first quarter is the lowest of the year due to seasonality.
On a macro basis we remain convinced that our strategy to focus on providing services and products to facilitate deepwater exploration and production remain sound.
We believe the oil and gas industry will increase its investment in deepwater as it remains one of the best frontiers for adding large hydrocarbon reserves with high production flow rates at relatively low finding and development costs.
An early 2013 industry report by Douglas-Westwood forecast global capital expenditures spending in deepwater oil and gas projects will double over the next 5 years.
We anticipate demand for our deepwater services and products will continue to rise and believe our business prospects for the next several years are promising.
At the end of September 103 of the 150 existing high-spec drillships in 5th and 6th generation semis were contracted to operators other than Petrobras in Brazil.
We had ROV contracts on 82 of these for a market share of 80%.
At the end of the quarter there were a total of 101 new floating rigs on order.
72 of these rigs are not contracted to work for Petrobras in Brazil and we expect all of them will go to work for other operators.
On these 72 rigs 26 ROV contracts have been let and we have 123 or 88% of them leaving 46 non-Petrobras ROV contracting opportunities left to be pursued.
If all 72 of the non-Petrobras rigs I mentioned are placed into the service we believe our ROV fleet supporting the rig market should grow by at least 55 to 60 vehicles.
So the visibility of the secular growth outlook for this market remains very promising.
And looking forward we see no reason why we will not continue to be the dominant provider of ROV services on these rigs.
As the use of floating rigs grow we believe that it is inevitable that discoveries will eventually drive orders for Subsea Hardware to levels not previously experienced and demand for ROVs to support vessel-based activities should follow.
The current trend indicates that there will be approximately 2 vessel-based ROVs for every floating rig in operation.
So the 101 rigs under construction should represent incremental demand for approximately 200 ROVs on vessels.
We estimate Oceaneering's market share of the global vessel-based ROV fleet at about 20% and see no reason we would not at least maintain this share in the future.
This incremental demand would result in our ROV fleet supporting vessel market activity growing by some 40 vehicles.
In summary by maintaining our current market share under visible growing rig and vessel service requirements we are forecasting we will add 95 to 100 incremental ROVs to our fleet.
We anticipate the ROVs to support the rigs on order will be in service by 2017.
The in-service timing for the vessel-based ROVs cannot be predicted at this time but will most likely lag those required to support drilling.
Quest Offshore's latest Subsea Hardware forecast for the period 2013 to '17 includes an increase in tree orders of more than 60% over the previous 5 years.
In 2013 subsea tree orders are projected to grow to 556 an all-time high eclipsing the previous record of 462 trees of 2006 by 20%.
In 2014 tree orders are projected to be about the same at 551.
While we don't make trees orders for subsea trees drive demand for a substantial amount of the ancillary subsea production hardware that we manufacture.
For example Quest is forecasting a 32% increase in umbilical orders for the 5-year period 2013 through '17 compared to the previous 5 years.
Umbilical orders in 2013 are forecast to rise to about 1 685 kilometers up over 45% from 2012.
In 2014 umbilical orders were projected to increase 15% to the 1 945-kilometer level.
Based under subsea tree order forecast Quest Offshore is projecting average annual subsea tree installations over the 5-year period 2013 through '17 will increase by 140 or about 45% from the previous 5 years.
The number of subsea completions in-service compared to 2012 is projected to increase by 35% by the end of 2017.
We believe the projected rise in tree installations and the growing number of subsea completions in service will act as catalysts for further growth in our Subsea Products and Subsea Projects operations and profits.
Furthermore industry and regulatory emphasis on safe and reliable operations is providing additional opportunities for us to demonstrate our capabilities.
With our existing assets we are well positioned to supply a wide range of the services and products required to support the safe deepwater efforts of our customers.
We believe Oceaneering's business prospects for the long-term remain promising.
Our commanding and competitive position technology leadership and strong balance sheet and cash flow enable us to continue to grow the company and we intend to do so.
In conclusion our results continue to demonstrate our ability to generate excellent earnings and cash flow.
We believe our business strategy is working well over both the short and long term.
We like our position in the oilfield services market and our leverage to the growth of deepwater and subsea completion activities that is currently underway.
The longer-term market outlook for our deepwater and subsea service and product offerings remains promising.
Industry and regulatory emphasis on reliable equipment and redundant safety features of deepwater operations elevates the importance of the utility and reliability of our ROV services and related product offerings and reinforces the benefit of our value sell.
For 2013 we anticipate that we will achieve another record year of EPS performance and that 2014 will even be better.
We think this distinguishes Oceaneering from many other oilfield service companies.
We appreciate everyone's interest in Oceaneering and I will now be happy to take any questions you may have.
Megan we're ready for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Ryan Fitzgibbon with Global Hunter Securities.
LLC Research Division</strong> Question on the '14 guidance.
Can you maybe help us a bit as to how we should think about the 3 oilfield segments ROV products and projects? Which would grow the fastest in your expectation if you could kind of rank order those for us? On a percentage basis? On a dollar basis? Which are you asking Ryan? LLC Research Division</strong> Let's go percentage year-over-year on the EBIT level.
I don't know.
Jack you got that? I would say that products and projects would be pretty close neck and neck followed by ROVs.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay okay.
And then I guess in your guidance in the press release you've talked about Angola actually being up year-over-year for projects.
Have you guys gotten the third vessel contracted with BP? Or where do you guys stand on the scale of that project right now? What's your expectation for '14? We have a temporary third vessel if you will that's been there for probably close to 5 months now that is going to go away eventually.
BP is still extending it weekly but we do anticipate a third permanent vessel will be in place at some point during 2014.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
So they have exercised the 245-day options at this point? Yes they did.
And we expect to stay on until kind of the middle or end of December -- end of December.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
Second question for me is also on the project side of the business.
Can you talk about what the contracting environment is like for the Gulf of Mexico on the deepwater intervention side? I know specifically it's generally been a spot market kind of business.
But for the Normand Flower are you seeing any contracts and opportunities to date? And the same thing for the new build.
I know that's coming out quite a bit but just trying to get your sense as to whether that market's changing at all.
Well I think that market is strengthening.
There is more activity on the horizon for 2014 and I think in 2015 in particular.
And so we do see opportunities for the Normand Flower prior to its arrival here.
And as far as the new build vessel we do -- we will have the flexibility if needed to get rid of one of the charter boats if the market dictates that but we're at this moment in time expecting that that will just add to the fleet and continue the expansion there.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then on the new vessel can you disclose what the CapEx requirement is there and what are your expectations for a return? No not at this time.
Your next question comes from the line of Kurt Hallead with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> I just -- I think we're all pretty much aware of the secular growth dynamics that play as you guys outlined.
Looks like some of the growth rates percentages are in excess of potentially what you guys may be expecting to achieve just on the back of the envelope process right? So let me ask you this when you look out over the next 3 4 5-year periods and you take some of these top line kind of growth rate dynamics how do you think that translates to an earnings per share growth rate for Oceaneering over time? Kurt we're the first ones out with '14 and you're asking us beyond that? Hey...
LLC Research Division</strong> I'm just trying to get a -- I'm just actually trying to get a long -- longer-term dynamics.
We're not going to -- I'm not asking for specifics but I'm just generally speaking when you look at the market dynamic...
If you look and just kind of correlate the secular growth with our track record I would think that we would continue to participate in the way that we have and the way that we project for '14.
I mean I think our whole Investor Relations presentation is based on that 5-year look of continuing growth in drilling in development in IMR.
And I think what we're saying is it gets a little bit more difficult to project the future as you transition from something that is so exploration based as our ROV field support has been with really great visibility to more inspection maintenance and repair-type production support activity as we see the next 5 years becoming.
So it's really hard for us to have that crystal ball with a lot of visibility right now but we see it as being all good.
I mean really it's the short cycle time related to those other businesses that make it hard to go too far out on the limb and say "What's going to happen?" LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's fair enough.
I mean when you look at the Subsea Products elements vis-à-vis the ROV element if you compare and contrast the 2 which one of those do you think would experience a higher growth rate from here? I mean I think where we're headed is the more production bays you go to you have pull through of some ROV work.
But as we said our vessel base were -- is kind of mid-20s number 23% 24% 26-kind-of percent of our vessel use -- I mean of our ROV utilization.
But I think what you see is great opportunities for tooling and deepwater work systems for our flow remediation that type of stuff production support and also integrating with our products with our vessel-based operations.
I mean if you've got 300 ROVs in your fleet and we said roughly and we said we'd hope to add another 100 right? Over time.
Over time I mean you can do the math.
I mean that isn't going to get you 25% annual compounded rate of growth.
But if we add 30 or 35 next year and we retire some you can see that it's not keeping up with our projected growth rate of operating income growth overall.
LLC Research Division</strong> So tooling -- by definition products and tooling hardware become a higher growth dynamic than ROVs over time? We think so from here.
Your next question comes from the line of Stephen Gengaro with Sterne Agee.
Research Division</strong> So when I think about the margin profile going forward obviously ROV has been an easier -- a little bit easier business to think about on a forward basis.
The margins in Products and Projects specifically can you just give us some sense for the primary drivers of them both in general terms and also seasonally so we could -- just to help us better understand what the drivers are of those margins so we can begin to have a little bit better shot at giving the model more accurate going forward.
Well Stephen my quick answer is just going to be very helpful.
I think it's mix and geography.
It really is.
I mean that's almost an impossible question to ask.
But I mean when you look at Products it really has a lot to do with mix.
And the more IWOCS and tooling that we can sell the better our margin is going to be.
And the more umbilicals we can sell the more money we're going to make but it should tend to bring down the percentage of our operating income our margin.
And on Projects that's really the hardest one because the difference between any IMR or if we got seasonality and we have location in between Angola and the Gulf of Mexico it's just...
And the mix of work within that Gulf of Mexico vessel-based work it varies dramatically between whether you're doing an installation of something or just an IMR project.
So it really is all over the board.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's about what I thought you would tell me but when you think of Products right now how does the backlog look on the umbilical side versus other work relative to where you were a year ago? Well we've got much higher umbilical backlog than we ever had and it's way more than any other Projects.
I mean the key thing here I think is that the other Product work is much shorter cycle time from order to delivery.
Sometimes it doesn't even show up.
I mean it's cleared out within a quarter.
You get the award you finish the job it's in a quarter and it makes it hard to really to predict relative to maybe the heavier backlog businesses like the big 3 companies and whatnot.
And so that's why quarter-to-quarter sometimes we get a better result than we were expecting from the tooling and IWOCS sales that we didn't see when we gave the last guidance.
And I do want to remind you that we gave pretty specific guidance in Kevin's opening remarks about our operating margins.
And what we said was that Products would come in between 19% and 21% next year.
So we've got 23% year-to-date.
So we expect to come down a little bit in Q4 as we said and then next year to be a lot like this year but a little bit different mix.
Your next question comes from the line of Bryan Pope (sic) [Byron Pope] with Tudor Pickering Holt.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just one quick question for me relating to the ROV segment.
With regard to the 2014 guidance and thinking about the margin profile I think you've got more of your ROVs in the Gulf of Mexico and Africa than any of the other regions.
And I think of those 2 geographic regions as being accretive to the overall ROV fleet average margin.
And so even if you weren't able to pass through and get increased revenues per day is it fair to think that if those 2 geographic regions drive the growth next year that you can get to that let's say close to 30% of margin range even without increasing your average revenue per day on hire? That is a hard thing to do.
I mean you could maybe imagine that for the Gulf of Mexico where operations are pretty concentrated.
But when we say Africa we're not just talking about Angola or Ghana.
We're talking about north east west south the whole continent.
And so we are spread out all over the place.
And there is cost involved in trying to support those activities and whatnot particularly in 1 or 2 ROV operations like we have in the east coast of Africa in Mozambique and Tanzania and such.
And so Africa is just a whole new different deal when you got units spread out all over the place very remotely and your opportunity to lower cost is just really limited.
I think what we're trying to do is trying to frame that we should be within 29% to 30% for next year which isn't a bad place to be.
Your next question comes from the line of Jon Donnel with Howard Weil.
Research Division</strong> I had a question for you on the Subsea Products and with the discussion here about the ROV tooling and IWOCS potentially driving that growth here as we think about longer-term.
I know from the umbilicals side we always think about there being a lot of extra capacity there.
Would this growth on the tooling side create any labor or supply chain issues for you going forward here or is that something that's on your radar screen? We believe we've got plenty of capacity in all of our product line businesses to match up to the growth that we hope is coming.
I mean competition for labor and engineers and technicians is intense but it always -- it has been for -- so we don't see any new challenge there.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then In terms of the Angola work for next year is the third vessel already in place or is that one that you could use the existing one that's under the options right now to do that work? Or is there the potential that you might need to bring in a different vessel and maybe some incremental capital cost come along with that? It really is we're working with BP on that and they're working towards a solution.
I mean it's a mutual agreement maybe more driven by their side on the vessel that they want to have for the third vessel all around both cost and utility for what they want it to be doing.
But -- so I don't -- I would not say -- I would not expect that we would move another one of our vessels from the Gulf of Mexico to Angola if that was part of your question.
And I think one of the things that we need to keep in mind is that we're not going from 2 to 3 vessels.
We've have the Maersk Attender there for quite a bit of time this year so maybe we're going from 2.5 to 3 depending upon the timing of when the third one gets there.
So it may be -- I mean all these things kind of factored in to what we try to pick a range.
But there's a lot of unknowns.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
But it may need to be a separate vessel from the Maersk Attender to do the work in 2014 [indiscernible]? It may.
Most likely will be a different vessel.
Your next question comes from the line of Brad Handler with Jefferies.
Research Division</strong> I guess a couple of Projects-related questions for me too maybe starting with Angola just picking up where you left off.
You're obviously more -- you're speaking more confidently about having the work in 2014 with BP or at least it sounds more confident.
Has a renewal contract beyond February been signed? An extension has not been signed.
It was a 3-year contract so we're about 1.5 years plus into that.
We'll be going into year 3.
Research Division</strong> Oh I misunderstood.
I'm sorry.
I thought it was actually coming up so I didn't realize -- got you.
February 15.
So we have -- I'm glad we're coming [ph] [indiscernible] so...
Research Division</strong> Makes sense.
It's February 15.
Yes.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So this discussion is purely around the use of the third vessel for '14 and settling in on what vessel and all that.
Correct yes.
Correct.
Research Division</strong> Presumably that would be sort of -- that would link in or integrate with the current contract.
So perhaps you'd set a third vessel up through February 15 and then you have a full rollover potential is that logical? I think there's a lot of different options.
But yes that would be the intent.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
If I try to overthink the Gulf of Mexico commentary a little too you mentioned less drydock time in '14.
Can you calibrate for us how much drydock time there was in '13 or there will be overall in '13? Well we could but we're not going to get into all that detail.
I mean that's just really a year-to-year timing issue on when regulatory inspections are required and we just happen to have less next year than we have had this year.
How material that is I wouldn't -- I mean that's nothing I would tweak your model over that's for sure.
We compare that in the guidance.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Let me just -- I understand.
I think that makes sense.
Just a question around that though.
Have you been limited in your ability to catch work in '13 because of the drydock time? Well obviously when a boat is in drydock if you have an opportunity you have to forgo it.
Research Division</strong> Sure.
But I don't know how much idle time you've had that -- so that there hasn't necessarily been an opportunity cost.
Brad I mean let me comment at it in a different way.
We think we have additional demand in the Gulf of Mexico otherwise we wouldn't be bringing in the Normand Flower.
Research Division</strong> Of course.
So I mean...
That's not really a drydock issue as much as a market issue.
We think the market for deepwater IMR and installation is improving and we want to be here to -- with available boats to capture that work.
Your next question comes from the line of Mike Urban with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> The only question I had left was on the decision to build a new vessel and I apologize if this was answered earlier.
But you've had a mix of both leased and owned vessels but had a preference for leasing in the past.
The decision to go ahead with a presumably owned new build here is that a function of a tighter market that you see coming or just the specialized capabilities this vessel has are limited or might you do a sale and leaseback at some point? Just interested in your thinking there.
Well I think first and I want to talk about our preference it's basically been on economics.
And what lease versus buy has always been a preference to what's being offered on the lease market versus the capital cost of buying.
So most of the time when we've done that analysis it's come out with -- it's more economic to lease the vessel as opposed to buy it.
And now I'll let Kevin talk about the other aspects.
There are limited Jones Act-qualified vessels in the Gulf of Mexico at the size and capabilities that we are really interested in here and so the lease versus buy didn't work under that scenario.
There's just very few to choose from.
And in fact our view was that there were none to choose from that were really the type of vessel that we really wanted.
So that drove us to the buy side on this time this evaluation.
And we do think that having a Jones Act versus a foreign flag vessel will be more valuable in the far offshore ultra-deepwater work that's being done.
There are occasions when if you have a foreign vessel you've got to have a U.S.
flag carried out to you whatever it is you're going to install if it's a jumper or something like that.
And so this alleviates that concern and reduces operational risks and we think that this will be something that operators will want to take advantage of.
And let's remind everybody that that boat doesn't come available until 2016.
Right.
Your next question comes from Darren Gacicia with Guggenheim Securities.
LLC Research Division</strong> I wanted to ask -- when I was thinking about ROV guidance the 85% utilization for next year is definitely kind of higher than the recent run rate.
I'm imagining that's because the mix is mainly geared towards drilling-centric versus vessel-centric work.
But there's also some conversation about maybe gaining a little of the share in the vessel market and having that kind of be a bigger growth component at some point going forward.
Can you help balance that out and help me think about kind of what's normalized utilization and how I should think about that going forward? Well normalized utilization would be around 85% mark with stops and starts in Projects and whatnot.
That's probably a reasonable top end for sustained operating.
With regard to what really is driving that I mean the drilling rig part of that equation really is -- helps to drive the top end.
But I guess on the vessel side it is a function of how hot is the market how much utilization are your vessels getting because we have very few that are on long-term contract.
It is all call out.
So that percentage really is an indication of market activity primarily between the Gulf of Mexico and the North Sea.
And we're really projecting -- I 'm sorry.
We're not projecting a major shift.
I mean we -- last quarter we're at 73% drill support 27% and the second quarter was 74%-26%.
I don't expect a significant shift.
I would say at the end of the year drill support will be in the 70%s and vessel-based work will be in the 20%s.
But...
Until they stop delivering all these new floating drilling rigs I think maybe within a few percentage points it may change.
But it's going to be plus or minus what it historically has been.
Right.
LLC Research Division</strong> Well it sounds like though if you're 2:1 on vessel-driven ROVs relative to rigs and I imagine the vessel type -- the vessel ROVs come afterward then the mix shifts back at some point in the game.
I don't know whether that happens when -- from a numeric standpoint it's a matter of math.
Does it happen in '15 or '16? But I'm also imagining that that may change the normalized utilization as well no? It could and it is a longer-term deal.
I mean it follows.
As we say we can't really predict when those will get added.
But certainly we expect it'll happen sometime but it's not within 1 or 2 years of the rig fleet growth I don't think.
Really you're looking at when is the subsea field the hardware all installed and operating that's going to drive the number of vessels that are going to be required and I think that's still happening in '15 '16 '17.
But when you do your math and you take 70-plus percent of drill support of 1 and you use 20% of 2 on vessel basis on market share you don't see a significant shift occurring.
But directionally I agree with you that we always say that after these fields are discovered and put into production there will be more vessel-based activity going on.
Right.
I mean from a historical perspective I mean our fleet utilization rate peaked in 2007 at 87% and then dropped to 75% and now we're back up to mid 84% level.
The rebound -- the major things that's caused the rebound from 75% back to 84% has been the uptick in demand for ROVs on boats.
Which is the Gulf of Mexico and the North Sea.
Your next question will come from the line of Wyad Syed (sic) [Waqar Syed] with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> I guess it's me Waqar.
So couple of on ROVs I think we discussed that but if you not provided can you provide us with the split between drill support and construction support in the third quarter? We said 73%-27%.
Let me double check that.
73% drill support 27% vessel-based.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just question on Brazil.
It's been -- Petrobras has changed some of its plans and I just wanted to see what you see over the next -- in '14 and '15 for your Products side in terms of sales and new awards? I think every day is a new day with Petrobras in terms of what their plan is.
I don't -- I'm not sure I can really answer that question definitively.
I think what we can say is that '14 is substantially secured by backlog in Brazil.
And that what new orders get awarded and how is the timing is a question for '15.
For '15 right.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
You had expanded your capacity at the plant in Rio.
So is that now running at full capacity or there's still availability there? Well we really didn't expand our capacity.
We expanded our capability in order to be able to handle the much larger heavier umbilical cross-section that Petrobras is using for their pre-salt projects.
And so it really wasn't a capacity issue so much as a capability issue.
And we are I think pretty well sold out of capacity for this year into '14 and the real question mark is what is Petrobras going to do that would fill a plan for '15 at this point.
We don't have any visibility on that.
Research Division</strong> And in terms of the capability enhancements are you building pre-salt umbilicals there or is that from more for the traditional right now? We are building the pre-salt umbilicals for Petrobras in our Niteroi plant.
Your next question comes from the line of Jim Wicklund with Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> From an ROV perspective I understand you carving out Brazil and I don't blame you but it is one of the biggest markets.
Is Brazil from an ROV perspective ever really going to be a market for you guys and why not? Well I mean first of all it is a market for us.
We continue to operate there.
We have -- how many Jack? 40? We'll tell you how many vehicles.
We have a number of vehicles there and there are a few others that are more -- that are non-Petrobras as well.
Research Division</strong> Yes but if you wouldn't be carving it out if it was your best business.
So no.
I mean there's 2 things Jim.
Number one Petrobras it's always been a lower margin business than almost anywhere else in the world.
And number two when Petrobras went to their procurement strategy 2.5 years ago to order ROVs in lots of 20 and 30 over time and to get the lowest possible pricing that they could get those awards were going for single-digit return and operating income margins and we just weren't disposed to going after that business under those circumstances.
So there were 2 orders that went under that scenario.
The first one was awarded Subsea 7 won that order and it was 30 ROVs.
The second one was awarded I don't know 6 months ago give or take.
That was for 20 to 24 ROVs or somewhere in that neighborhood.
And ultimately the company that won that was disqualified -- the contract never got sign.
They were not capable of performing the contract.
We suspect it's because they -- before they bid they'd never owned an ROV before never operated one.
That could be the reason.
We're not sure.
But anyway so Petrobras has not come out with another procurement at this point and we don't know whether they're going to try and change their strategy as a result of this last go around or not.
But in the meantime we have been able to extend a couple of our systems down there that were due to be replaced by this new order that hasn't happened.
So it's a total question mark as to where they go in the future here with that.
Research Division</strong> And the Subsea 7 said that they've gotten killed in that market and aren't going to be as aggressive anymore.
I mean could we -- I don't want to put this in the numbers or anything but should we get more optimistic about them changing that in the future with one player disqualified the other saying they're aren't going to do it anymore? Just theoretically.
No no.
No.
I don't know that Subsea 7 -- I'm not sure that that's what Subsea 7 have said.
I think that they have said really on the construction side of the business that they're not going to take contracts where they have a lot of risks at the time that they did by not knowing not knowing all the details of the contract.
I think that is what has hurt them.
They're not taking those contracts anymore.
So I think that there will still be competition for the drill rig support part of the Petrobras business there.
[indiscernible] Research Division</strong> And my follow-up you had commented before on revenues out of backlog for Products in '13 75% of the backlog.
Do you have a projection for 2014 just for modeling purposes on what revenue out of backlog for Products might be? No.
Jim let me just end that with we have 35 ROVs in Brazil and we have 32% market share 21 out of 66 Petrobras rigs.
And of the 21 that we're on 16 of those are their high-spec rigs.
So if you look at that -- and then we've got 7 on non -- or 9 on non-Petrobras rigs and then we've got 7 on vessels in FPSO.
So I mean if you have a third market share somewhere you're not exactly out of that business.
But I don't see the dynamics changing if somebody else goes -- if somebody says "We're not going to do that anymore." They've still got a long-term commitment there to be there to operate those that they bid.
And I don't think Petrobras is ever going to pay the kind of margins that we're looking for on brand-new equipment.
[Operator Instructions] Your next question comes from the line of Darren Gacicia with Guggenheim Securities.
LLC Research Division</strong> I think I already managed to get into the queue.
But if I could with one follow-up just in the ROV forecast do you have any equation for any rig retirements over the few years because I know that that's something that seems to be an emerging issue with maybe some of the older rigs getting cold stacked in the rest.
Yes.
We think in consideration of that.
Jack did a whole detailed analysis here.
You can finally go ahead.
Here is the status.
We have a definition of high-spec and low-spec rigs.
At the end of September we had ROVs on 63 low-spec rigs and 22 of those have contract end dates by the end of '14.
And we scrubbed that list down and based on conversations we've had with the operators and rig owners we're expecting 4 of these to be idle and possibly retired by the end of next year.
And we've taken that in account into our financial forecast for ROVs.
There are no further questions at this time.
Very good.
Since there are no more questions I'd like to wrap up by thanking everyone for joining the call.
We're very pleased with our best-ever quarterly results and anticipate producing record EPS for both 2013 and 2014.
This concludes the third quarter 2013 conference call.
Thanks everyone and have a great day and holiday season.
Bye-bye.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning or afternoon.
My name is Jake and I'll be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the 2013 Annual Q4 Earnings Call.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers' remarks there will be a question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions).
Thank you.
Mr.
Jack Jurkoshek you may begin your conference.
Good morning everybody.
We'd like to thank you for joining us on our 2013 fourth quarter and year-end earnings conference call.
As usual a webcast for this event is being made available through the StreetEvents Network Service by Thomson Reuters.
Joining me today are Kevin McEvoy our President and Chief Executive Officer who will be leading the call; Marvin Migura our Executive Vice President; and Cardon Gerner our Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Just as a reminder remarks we make during the course of the call regarding our earnings guidance business strategy plans for future operations and industry condition are forward-looking statements made pursuant to the Safe Harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
And I'm now going to turn the call over to Kevin.
Good morning and thanks for joining the call.
Before I get into my customary review of the quarterly results I would like to address four key points in our earnings release.
First 2013 is a record earnings year for Oceaneering.
Earnings per share increased for the fourth consecutive year and 29% over 2012.
Second we're expecting an even better 2014 and reaffirm our previously announced EPS guidance range for the year of $3.90 to $4.10.
We are aware of recent 2014 market reports raising concerns about softening demands for older and less technically capable floating drilling rigs a slowdown in the overall rate of growth in E&amp;P capital spending by our customers deepwater field development project deferral and cost overruns on field development projects currently underway.
At this time we believe our guidance range already accounts for these concerns and reflects the potential impact to our 2014 results for the deepwater services and products that we offer.
The softening of rig demand in 2014 won't to the greatest extent impact our ROV operation.
During 2013 ROVs generated 41% of our operating income and approximately 75% of our days on hire were in drill support.
At year-end we had vehicles on 160 floating drilling rigs or 57% of the contracted fleet.
Of the 160 rigs 103 were higher specification rigs which we define dynamically-positioned fifth and sixth generation semis and drill ships and 57 were lower specification rigs.
So our drill support ROVs were split 64% on high spec rigs and 36% on lower spec rigs.
Of the 57 lower spec rigs 17 had contracts expiring during 2014 with an average contracted period of 175 days.
So basically our ROV contract exposure to this class of rigs is 8.5 rig years out of a total of 160 rig years or 5% before you consider new coming into the fleet.
We still expect to add 30 to 35 new vehicles to our ROV fleet in 2014 and currently have firm contracts in hand till 2018.
Consequently within the framework of our overall company plan for 2014 our business exposure to softening demand for lower spec floating drilling rigs is significant enough to warrant to our EPS guidance range at this time.
Third our long term outlook remains very positive as deepwater should continue to be one of the best secular growth prospects in the industry.
Industry reports forecast that the largest source of future incremental oil supply by 2020 will come from subsea development and that our customers will increase their deepwater investments to make this happen.
According to a study by Douglas-Westwood released just last month global CapEx on deepwater oil and gas projects will more than double over the next five years.
And finally we are initiating first quarter 2014 EPS guidance of $0.75 to $0.80 which is consistent with our historical seasonal quarterly earnings pattern.
At the midpoints of over 2014 guidance ranges first quarter EPS would be 19% of our EPS for the year.
I'd now like to review our operations for the fourth quarter.
EPS of $0.86 for the fourth quarter of 2013 was 16% above that of the fourth quarter of 2012 on income improvements from all of our oilfield business operations led by ROVs and subsea products.
ROV operating income improved 18% on a 13% increase in days on hire primarily in the Gulf of Mexico and an improvement in operating margin.
During the quarter we have put nine vehicles into service and retired seven.
Our fleet mix usage during the quarter was 75% in drill support and 25% on vessel based work the same as in the fourth quarter of 2012.
It was 73% 27% last quarter.
ROV operating income margin for the quarter was 28%.
It would have been higher if not for the $3.3 million charge related to our OGX receivable.
In the fourth quarter of 2012 ROV operating margin was 27%.
Subsea Products operating income rose 20% to a record high on increased demand of subsea hardware and higher throughput at our umbilical plant.
Operating margin of 22% for the quarter was the same as in the fourth quarter of 2012.
Subsea Projects operating income increased by 24% due to increased deepwater vessel service activity.
Asset Integrity operating income improved 29% on higher service sales in most of the major geographic areas we serve particularly Africa.
Advance Technologies' operating results declined as we had anticipated.
This was attributable to project that had been moved forward into earlier quarters of the year and delays the new awards in current year funding by the U.S.
Government for the services we provide to the US Navy.
Our overall fourth quarter EPS results was slightly above our guidance range on better than anticipated results on our Subsea Projects and Subsea Products operations.
With regard to Subsea Projects in Angola our customers extended their use of the Maersk Attender and various smaller support vessels.
In the Gulf of Mexico certain diving work lasted longer than we had expected.
One particular job is on a PLP that involved tendons and oil piping installation another was on a floating semi production platform to perform oil piping with (inaudible) repairs.
Subsea Products margin was higher than we had expected as our revenue mix had more tooling and less umbilicals than we had anticipated.
Moving onto review our total year 2013 operations we achieved record earnings of $372 million and EPS of $3.42.
This was largely attributable to global focus on deepwater and subsea completion activity the business expansion strategy we have in place and our solid operational execution.
Overall operating income margin was the second highest in our history.
For 2013 each of our operating segments obtained higher income.
Four of five segments achieved record operating income although not a record subsea projects' operating income increased 48%.
ROV operating income rose for the 10th consecutive year an accomplishment we are very proud of.
This was attributable to higher global demand to provide both drill support and vessel based services and the expansion of our fleet.
In addition to higher demand in the U.S.
Gulf of Mexico and offshore Africa we also experienced significant activity increase in offshore India Canada and Australia.
We increased our days on hire by more than 9 000 to over 91 000 days.
Our fleet utilization rose to 85% from 80% in 2012.
During the year we grew our fleet to 304 vehicles up from 289 at the beginning of the year.
We added 26 vehicles retired 10 older systems and transferred one system to Advance Technologies for non-oilfield use.
In 2013 14 new floating drilling rigs were placed in service and we had new ROV on 10 of them.
At year-end we estimate that we will continue to be the largest ROV owner with 35% of the industry's work class vehicles with a fleet size about 75% bigger than the next largest ROV fleet.
We remain the primary provider of ROV drill support service with an estimated market share of 57% almost three times that of the second largest supplier.
Subsea Products' operating income increased on higher demand for each of our major product line led by Subsea Hardware.
The higher demand for subsea hardware included flying leads junction plates and the umbilical termination assemblies for offshore field development and plant connector systems for processed piping notably for the construction of the new offshore gas facility.
Operating margin increased slightly with 22% from 21% in 2012.
Umbilical revenue as a percent of our total products revenue in 2013 due to 29% from 28%in 2012.
Our year-end subsea products backlog was an all time high of $906 million up 33% from $681 million at the end of 2012.
This backlog growth was primarily attributable to four umbilical contracts which added about $170 million to our backlog.
These umbilicals are for use in the Gulf of Mexico West of Shetland and offshore Egypt.
Product manufacturing on these contracts will ramp up during 2014 and we anticipate completions in the third quarter of 2015.
Regarding Subsea Projects operating income grew in 2013 primarily on increased deepwater vessel activity.
Asset Integrity operating income improved on higher service sales in most of the major geographic areas we serve particularly Africa and Australia.
Advanced Technologies profits were up on higher activity and improved execution of theme park projects and vessel maintenance work for the U.S.
Navy.
Our 2013 capital expenditures were $394 million of which $226 million were spent on expanding and upgrading our ROV fleet.
We invested $103 million in our subsea products business mainly to increase the capabilities of umbilical plans in the U.S.
and Scotland and expand our rental and service tooling hardware offering.
We also paid $91 million in (inaudible) stock dividend and paid our revolver down $94 million during 2013.
At $746 million our 2013 EBITDA was also a record high.
At year-end our balance sheet reflected $91 million of cash no debt and $2 billion of equity.
In summary we believe our annual 2013 earnings performance and cash generation were excellent.
We are committed to our customer success and our results reflect their recognition of our ability to provide value.
The price of Oceaneering stock rose 47% during 2013.
We believe this was in recognition of our financial performance and our future business prospects.
Our share price percentage increase was greater than the Oil Service Sector Index or OSX which by comparison rose 28%.
Now let's talk about our 2014 EPS outlook.
We are reaffirming our 2014 EPS guidance for the range of $3.90 to $4.10 based on an average of approximately 109 million diluted shares and an estimated tax rate of 31.3% comparable to the 31.5% of 2013.
The detailed business segment outlook that I reviewed on our last earnings call in late October 2013 are fundamentally unchanged.
We continue to expect each of our oilfield business segments will achieve higher income in 2014.
We are anticipating sustained global demand growth for our services and products to support deepwater drilling field development and inspection maintenance and repair activities.
In 2014 we expect 29 new floating drilling rigs to be placed in the service.
ROV contracts have been let on 19 of these and we have won 16.
During 2014 we anticipate generating at least $850 million of EBITDA.
Our balance sheet and projected cash flow provide us with ample resources to invest in Oceaneering's growth.
Our organic CapEx estimate for 2014 is around $450 million.
Of this amount we expect approximately $225 million to be spent on adding systems to our ROV fleet and vehicle upgrade.
About $120 million is to enhance our subsea products capabilities particularly to expand our (inaudible) and tooling/rental and service hardware offering and about $55 million is for subsea projects largely to fund the construction progress payment for a new subsea support vessel schedule to be delivered by the end of the first quarter of 2016.
Our focus in 2014 as it was in 2013 would be on earnings growth and investment opportunity.
Moving to our first quarter 2014 outlook as I stated earlier our EPS guidance range is $0.75 to $0.80.
This is consistent with the fact that our first quarter earnings are customarily lower than the fourth quarter of a previous year.
Our first quarter 2014 guidance at the midpoint is up compared to the first quarter 2013 as we expect all of our oilfield segments to achieve higher operating income led by subsea products.
Compared to the fourth quarter of 2013 our first quarter guidance is lower based on anticipating deductions in operating income from subsea products due to project timing from subsea projects due to the release of the Maersk Attender in Angola which occurred earlier this month a normal seasonality in the Gulf of Mexico.
At the request of our customer we are going to Maersk Attender in the second quarter with another vessel The Bourbon Evolution 803 for a term through the end of August 2014 with multiple extension options.
On a macro basis we remain convinced that our strategy to focus on providing services and products to facilitate deepwater exploration and production remain sound.
We believe the oil and gas industry will increase its investment in deepwater as it remains one of the best frontiers for adding large hydrocarbon reserves with high production flow rates at relatively low finding and development costs.
Therefore we anticipate the demand for our deepwater services and products will continue to rise and believe our business prospects for the next several years remain promising.
At the end of 2013 109 of the 155 existing high-spec drillships in 5th and 6th generation semis were contracted to operators other than Petrobras in Brazil.
We had ROV contracts on 87 of these for a market share of 80%.
At year-end they were a total of 102 new floating rigs on order 73 of these rigs are not contracted to work for Petrobras in Brazil and we expect all of them will go to work for other operators.
Of these 73 rigs 21 ROV contracts have been let and we have 118 of them leaving 52 ROV contracting opportunities left to be pursued outside of Petrobras in Brazil.
So the visibility of growth for this market remains promising and looking forward we see no reason why we will not continue to be the dominant provider of ROV services on these rigs.
As the use of floating rigs grow we believe that it is inevitable that discoveries will eventually drive orders for Subsea Hardware to levels not previously experienced and demand for ROVs to support vessel-based activities should follow.
Quest Offshore's latest Subsea Hardware forecast for the period 2013 to '17 includes an increase in tree orders of about 65% over the previous five years.
For 2013 they were 553 subsea tree orders an all-time high eclipsing the previous record of 426 trees in 2006 by 20%.
In 2014 tree orders are projected to be decline somewhat due to lower orders by Petrobras the tree installations are forecasted to continue increasing to an all-time high for about 410 25% over 2013.
Tree installations drive demand for a substantial amount of the ancillary subsea production hardware that we manufacture.
For example umbilical orders in 2014 are forecast to rise to about 1750 kilometers up 35% from the estimated 1300 kilometers level in 2013.
Quest is forecasting a 37% increase in umbilical orders for the five-year period 2013 to 2017 compared to the previous five years.
Based under subsea tree order forecast Quest Offshore is projecting average annual subsea tree installations over the five-year period 2013 through 2017 will increase by 150 or about 50% from the previous five years.
The number of subsea completions in-service compared to 2012 is projected to increase by 35% by the end of 2017.
We believe the projected rise in tree installations and the growing number of subsea completions in service will act as catalysts for further growth in our subsea products and subsea projects operations and profits.
Furthermore industry and regulatory emphasis on safe and reliable operations is providing additional opportunities for us to demonstrate our capabilities.
With our existing assets we are well-positioned to supply a wide range of the services and products required to safely support the safe deepwater efforts of our customers.
We believe Oceaneering's business prospects for the long-term remain promising.
Our commanding competitive position technology leadership and strong balance sheet and cash flow enable us to continue to grow the company and we intend to do so.
In conclusion our results continue to demonstrate our ability to generate excellent earnings and cash flow.
We believe our business strategy is working well over both the short and long term.
We like our position in the oilfield services market and are leveraged to the growth of deepwater and subsea completion activities that is currently underway.
The longer-term market outlook for our deepwater and subsea service and product offerings remains promising.
Industry and regulatory emphasis on reliable equipment and redundant safety features of deepwater operations elevates the importance of the utility and reliability of our ROV services and related product line offerings and reinforces the benefit of our value sell.
We achieved another record year of EPS performance in 2013 and expect that 2014 will be even better.
We believe this distinguishes Oceaneering from many other oilfield service companies.
Oceaneering is flourishing.
I recognize and thank our over 12 000 employees who are making this happen through their commitment to safety quality and creativity all within the framework of our core value.
We appreciate everyone's interest in Oceaneering.
I'll now be happy to take any questions you may have.
(Operator Instructions).
Your first question comes from Kurt Hallead from RBC Capital Markets.
Your line is open.
It was a great opening commentary and summary to addressing all the issues that have been dogging Oceaneering stock here recently so kudos I guess for dressing an upfront.
In that context you guys referenced factoring in a lot of these issues into the guide points for 2014.
The number of questions that I've been getting over the last few weeks is what is the exposure in terms of rig for Oceaneering rig downtime and if you can may be just give some indication to maybe how many rates you expect to go down you mentioned 17 for contract renewal kind of in the lower spec dynamic if you give some parameters around how you're risk assessing 2014 I think that'll probably be helpful as well.
Well I think our comments that we're looking at 8.5 rig years out of a total of 160 puts us into perspective.
I don’t think we necessarily know anymore than anyone else as to whether these 17 will continue on or not but we believe that the uncertainty that might exist here is within a limit what we'll opt for our guidance.
I would surmise predicated on the commentary about subsea tree installations going into next year another primary concern that some investors have voice was the revenue mix shift go into products projects and is "being much visible" but predicted on the data set that you provided it doesn't look like there is any really less visibility in product and project opportunities than there is for ROV.
Can comment on that?  I think the visibility is that the analyst community doesn't follow and there is not a well publicized source of tree installation.
So like there is rig contracts.
So I mean we feel the same way as you indicated that with a growing subsea installation base and the increase in the rate of installation it plays well to one of our strengths in products and projects and we don't see that much softening I mean no one is talking about a decrease ion the number of drilling rates they're only talking about perhaps temporarily slow down in the growth rate.
So I think it may not be as visible but we feel it still as real.
You guys referenced 30 to 35 ROVs is that a gross number or a net number for the year? That's the gross number.
As we've stated previously we are just going to report on requirement as they occur quarterly.
And we also said about 4% to 5% per year of the fleet so that somewhere between 12% and 15% would be kind of a normal year but we will just see how it goes.
Okay.
And then use of cash for free cash flow thought process between share repurchase dividend increases what's the mind set there? No we haven't really changed our position there.
Our first priority is organic growth second is acquisitions and we stated many times that those are more difficult to come up with.
Of course dividend payments are there and we have not -- we do have an authorization for continued share repurchase but we do that on an episodic basis.
And we address our dividend increased annually basically in the spring.
Your next question comes from Jim Wicklund from Credit Suisse.
Your line is open.
You beat me good job.
The question I want to talk about Quest tree orders and installations and according to Quest 40% of the trees that are going to be installed over the next several years are all in Brazil.
I know you guys don't do much rig work in Brazil but can you talk about how much tree installation business you have in Brazil? We don't have any tree installation in Brazil.
We don't do that there.
I mean that really is more a indication of umbilical orders in our Brazilian market as far as trees there.
Okay.
Can you talk about -- you talked about mix in umbilical revenues margins went up which is good congratulations.
As the umbilical orders go through and finish in sometimes second half of '15 can you kind of walk us through what the mix should do to products margins this year just so we kind of on the progression? Jim we have given the answer we said that the margin for products is going to be between 19% and 21%.
Okay.
And that excludes that the mix that we foresee and so that's kind of the answer.
Okay.
And last question if I could you guys said on the third quarter conference call you are going to try and raise prices to offset inflationary pressures to try and keep 30% operating margins.
Do you still think you can get pricing? Well that relates to the ROV business obviously and that is it was not a new thing that we said at the third quarter; we've been saying that forever and that's something that we were constantly trying to do across are continually going up and we are doing our best to try and raise revenue in order to maintain the margin.
And it is not a easy thing to do but that's our strategy that's our objective.
Okay.
Let me put it this way.
Do you think the market with a net addition of rigs is strong enough to be able to prices in ROVs over the next year or two? Well we're really pretty decoupled from the rig pricing with our ROVs since we work directly for the operators but -- I'm just talking about the net rig additions.
Sorry? Land apart? Sorry say that again Jim.
Well I'm just saying that you are talking about the net addition of the rigs I'm just thinking the demand for ROV is going to go up and I'm just wondering how much pricing potentially you might have over the next two years as demand for ROVs and more rigs go out and demand which you have increased.
Well; I mean we could see it on every one of the contracts visibility is so good on these that there is no supply demand imbalance that everybody knows these are coming.
So it is a contract by contract negotiation to try and maintain levels and of course operators on the other side are trying to hold the line if not decrease.
And so that's a dynamic that we live with every day.
While we are decoupled from rig pricing per se it would be a tougher environment we trying to get increases with rig rates are going down there's no question about that.
Your next question comes from Jeff Spittel from Clarkson Capital Market.
Your line is open.
May be if we think about the products business if I heard you correctly I think you said your revenue mix in terms of umbilicals in 2013 was relatively stable year-on-year yet the margins were up 200 basis points.
That would lead me to infer that the margins were moving higher and I watch tooling.
If that is inaccurate assessment can you help us kind of understand a) if that is sustainable and b) how that plays into the guidance with the mix shift going on in the products business in '14?  Well obviously how this stuff plays in how we figure out what our guidance is going to be.
And I think within the non-umbilical part of our products business we have some pieces that are more profitable than others and I think we just enjoy a mix of the more profitable elements of that and that explains that.
But it is short visibility to a large extent and so it just makes it more challenging to try and predict but we have taken all of this in our judgment into account and given the guidance range that we have for that segment.
All right.
And I think it is very satisfying to have 100 basis point improvement in our product margins because we always used to guide to the high teen and two years in a row we came in at the low 20s.
And so as we get more umbilical input and you got your cost covered you do get a slight up tick in contribution there and so -- as you also indicated with higher margins growing almost propositionally with umbilical group at least through '13.
I mean that is what gave us the confidence to set as a high teens.
Last quarter we did 19 to 21.
That makes sense.
I appreciate it.
And then may be if we think about if some of the operators might be inclined to defer some capital spending on development projects would you foresee them shifting some of their spending maybe a little bit more to less capital intensive stuff i.e.
deepwater intervention work this year?  I do not think that's the way it goes.
I mean deepwater intervention work happens as it occurs a need be done.
So it is not something they necessarily plan from that context but your guess is as good as mine on what they are going to do with their money.
I think that maybe they would be more particular about what they pull the trigger on to go forward with perhaps and they are having up to now I do not know.
But I still believe with all of the drilling and the prospects that are there there could be plenty of opportunity for development that we can participate in.
I think its too early tell how the Capex is going to come down.
But that Douglas-Westwood report that we cited I thought very interesting because it was just issued in January and they had an earlier report out but they increased their deepwater CapEx in beginning of 2014 for this five-year look.
When they had an opportunity they hold it flat or take it down with everybody with a speculation we understand that the IOCs and NOCs are going to cut back they reportedly going to cut back on CapEx but it does not seem to be occurring or projected to occur in deepwater and that is encouraging.
Your next question comes from Ian Macpherson from Simmons.
Your line is open.
Hey thanks.
The one thing that stood out a little bit was the -- in the fourth quarter your ROV fleet size and your revenues were flat sequentially.
I wonder how -- if that has had any bearing on the growth trajectory that you envision for ROVs in '14 or if you expect some -- may be if you can just remind us of the cadences that expansion that you are thinking about for this year?  I will start I think we indicated we are going to add 30 to 35 ROVs gross and retire a few.
And we added how many Jack 20 -- For the year? For the year 26.
So I think that those trajectory for '14 is really timing of when rigs go to work when project start but we added 26 gross in '13 and we are saying in light of all the market conditions 30 to 35 in '14.
Yes and just reiterate we have firm contracts in hand for 28 of those.
Right yes.
That is pretty solid outlook I'd say.
So the flat revenue between third and fourth quarter didn't go in and affect as much or does not affect our growth trajectory.
Okay.
The build up in the fleet this year while its dependent on the timing of rigs is it more smooth or do you think it might be more lumpy from quarter-to-quarter?  I do not know.
Takes a while --  Just I mean --  You'll find out on a quarter to quarter --  You will know when we -- just shortly after we do I think directionally it is more smooth.
Okay.
Would you be willing yet to share more of your CapEx plans for your new installation vessel beyond the $65 million that you are planning to spend this year?  No.
We think we can.
We do not want to for market reason I mean it is -- we talked about the progress statements just so you will have a sense of what our CapEx is going to be but I mean when you looked in the grand scheme of things $3 billion balance sheet and $450 million of projected CapEx no one particular boat is going to cost -- it's not going to change economics that much.
I know.
I'm just curious if this is a $160 million asset or $400 million asset.
Okay.
Let me answer that.
Without any other comic it is not $400 million asset.
We're not building a construction boat here.
(Operator Instructions).
Your first question comes from the line of Jon Donnel from Howard Weil.
Your line is now open.
I have a question regarding the products backlog.
You've mentioned the four large bulk awards but I think this happened during the first half of the year.
Can you give us a little more color on the orders you saw during the second half of the year and specifically Q4 which I think came in well over $300 million and whether or not there were any umbilical awards in there or this order of $250 million plus per quarter base level orders are sustainable here in your mind absolutely umbilical awards? We just have one large umbilical order in Q4.
(inaudible).
I think that because umbilical awards tend to be large and they're pretty episodic you can't really plan on a run rate on that part of our product business it just happens when it happens.
Sure.
That's why I was wondering if that kind of $250 million range per quarter is kind of the base level we should expect from more of just the hardware and (inaudible) and the tooling kind of operating that segment.
I think you might remember -- you are well aware that most of our other product offerings are of much more short cycle than umbilicals.
And now that we've got umbilical backlog it would be very normal when we talked about being episodic or lumpy it would be not alarming to see borrowing some of this backlog and we're not going to be so focused on the book to bill because it is episodic.
So I wouldn’t get too much involved in the book to bill or order rate.
I think we're going to look for is can we deliver that 19% to 21% and products continue to be our fastest growing segment.
Okay.
And then on the project side I was just wondering if you could maybe give us little more details around the kind of margins during fourth quarter revenues it sounds like you have a couple of expansions on projects in Gulf of Mexico and some installation deepwater work but outside the cost picked up and even in excess of that I wonder if you could kind of describe what were some of the drivers of that and projecting similar occurrences here as you have some of the vessel turnover in Angola through the first half of the year.
I think what we said in the last quarter is that we expect to show a slight improvement in operating margin for the year and it comes from a range of things.
It is additional (inaudible) in the Gulf of Mexico and decrease in dry docking expenses all for '14.
And project is really large to look at on a quarter by quarter basis especially after you go through the two summer quarters we do expect a lower margin in Q4 and again a lower one in Q1.
On an annual basis I mean we've talked about the 100 basis improvement in products we have 100 basis improvement in projects and asset integrity and got it all the down the line.
We did pretty good.
And I think projects is now has to produce steady run rate but a lot depends on the timing of the projects and the follow up in with a project market and particularly the seasonality aspect of (inaudible) in the fourth and the first quarters.
Okay.
I was just wondering I mean we didn't really see the top line seasonality in 4Q so I was just wondering if there were specific costs at one end there is more maybe one-time in nature or how we should think about is we have the transfer of the vessels.
I understand have a larger perspective in the year.
No I just -- I don’t have a clear answer on why revenues went up and operating income margin came down.
It really had to do probably more with mix within the projects segment of the jobs and the shifting of the vessels.
So it wasn’t enough for me to do an analysis on that.
There are no more telephone questions at this time.
Okay.
Since there are no more questions I'd like to wrap up by thanking everyone for joining the call.
We're very pleased with our results for 2013 including our 10th consecutive record of the operating income performance.
2014 marks our 50th year in business and I look forward to leading Oceaneering to another record performance.
We're anticipating a good first quarter start for 2014 with EPS between $0.75 and $0.80.
This concludes our fourth quarter year-end 2013 conference call.
Have a great day.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Beth and I will be your conference operator.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to our 2014 First Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Jack Jurkoshek you may begin your conference.
Good morning everybody.
Thank you for joining us on our call.
As usual a webcast of this event is being made available through the StreetEvents Network service by Thomson Reuters.
Joining me today are Kevin McEvoy our President Chief Executive Officer who will be leading the call this morning; Marvin Migura our Executive Vice President; and Cardon Gerner our Senior Vice President Chief Financial Officer.
Just as a reminder remarks we make during the course of the call regarding our earnings guidance business strategy plans for future operations and industry conditions are forward-looking statements made pursuant to the Safe Harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
And I'm now going to turn the call over to Kevin.
Good morning and thanks for joining the call.
I'm pleased to be with you here today.
Our record first quarter EPS of $0.84 was above our guidance and was up 22% compared to the first quarter of 2013.
All of our business segments performed well relative to our forecast.
Year-over-year all of our oilfield business operations achieved higher operating income.
Our outlook for 2014 remains positive.
We continue to anticipate global demand growth for our services and products to support deepwater drilling; field development; and inspection maintenance and repair activities.
Given this outlook and our first quarter earnings performance we are reaffirming our previously announced EPS guidance range for the year of $3.90 to $4.10.
During the quarter we purchased 500 000 shares of our common stock at a cost of about $35 million.
And yesterday we announced a 23% increase in our regular quarterly dividend to $0.27 from $0.22 per share.
These actions underscore our confidence in Oceaneering's financial strength and future business prospects.
I'd now like to review our operations for the first quarter.
Year-over-year ROV operating income improved 17% on an increase in days on hire largely to provide drill support services and an improvement in operating margin.
Our ROV days on hire increased 10% to approximately 23 900 days notably on increased demand in the U.S.
Gulf of Mexico and offshore Africa and Southeast Asia.
Sequentially although ROV days on hire were flat operating income increased.
This was primarily due to the $3.3 million charge we recorded in the fourth quarter of 2013 to establish an allowance for doubtful accounts related to Brazilian receivables from OGX.
Our fleet utilization rate during the quarter was 86% compared to 83% a year ago and 87% last quarter.
We are still projecting that our fleet utilization for 2014 will be around 85% but recognize there is risk to this predominantly due to our exposure on floating rigs willing [ph] off contract during the remainder of this year.
However we have possible upside on vessel work so we will see how all this plays out.
We still expect to achieve record ROV segment operating income for the 11th consecutive year.
Operating margin during the quarter was 30% up from 29% a year ago and 28% last quarter.
We continue to anticipate a 29% to 30% annual margin for ROVs in 2014.
During the quarter we put 14 new ROVs into service and retired 4.
At the end of March we had 314 systems available for operation up from 294 a year ago; 9 of the new ROVs went to work in drill support service and 5 on board vessels.
At the end of the quarter we had ROVs on 167 or 59% of the 283 floating rigs under contract.
Notably during the quarter the number of net floating rigs under contract went up by 1 and the number of rigs we had ROVs on went up by 7.
During the quarter 7 new floaters were added to the global fleet all had contracts and we had the ROV work on 5 of them.
We also picked up ROV work on 2 additional rigs.
Year-over-year the contracts and rig count increased by 12 and the number of rigs we had ROVs on increased by 14.
Our fleet mix during the quarter was 75% drill support and 25% on vessel-based work the same as last quarter and about the same as the 74/26 split in the first quarter of 2013.
We still anticipate adding 30 to 35 vehicles to our ROV fleet in 2014 16 to 21 during the remaining 3 quarters.
We have firm contracts in hand for all of these.
Of course the timing of some of these contracted ROVs being placed into service is dependent upon new rig deliveries occurring as currently projected during the balance of this year.
Now turning to Subsea Products year-over-year first quarter operating income improved 27% due to higher demand for Subsea Hardware and increased throughput in our umbilical plants.
As anticipated operating income declined sequentially from a record high in the fourth quarter of 2013 due to project timing which reduced demand for tooling in Subsea Hardware and lower umbilical plant throughput.
For the year 2014 we continue to forecast Subsea Products margin will likely be in the range of 19% to 21% lower than the 22% of 2013 due to an anticipated change in sales mix featuring a higher percentage of umbilical revenue.
However we still expect record segment operating income for the year.
Our Subsea Products backlog at quarter end was $894 million compared to $776 million at the end of March 2013 and $906 million at the end of December 2013.
Year-over-year the backlog increase was attributable to increases in each of our 4 major product lines led by umbilical and tooling awards.
As for the remaining business operations for the first quarter Subsea Projects operating income improved year-over-year on higher deepwater vessel activity in the U.S.
Gulf of Mexico and offshore Angola.
In the Gulf of Mexico we benefited from an increase in installation activity the use of the Normand Flower which we added to our chartered vessel fleet in December of 2013 and increased use of the Ocean Alliance which was in a shipyard being retrofitted for most of the first quarter in 2013.
Offshore Angola we benefited from the use of the Maersk Attender that was released in early February and higher demand for support tugs barges and utility vessels.
The Bourbon Evolution 803 which we contracted to work offshore Angola as a replacement vessel for the Maersk Attender went on hire at the end of March.
Sequentially operating income declined as expected but it was better than we had anticipated due to work we secured to perform Subsea Hardware installations in the Gulf of Mexico.
Asset Integrity operating income improved year-over-year on higher service demand in the Middle East and the Caspian Sea area.
Sequentially operating income increased due to additional expense recognized in the fourth quarter of 2013 for asset writeoffs and to accrue for former AGR employee past service obligations.
Advanced Technologies operating income was lower year-over-year on reductions and theme park project work and U.S.
Navy submarine maintenance and engineering service activity.
Sequentially operating income improved on increases in U.S.
Navy and NASA work and better execution on entertainment projects relative to the fourth quarter of 2013.
In summary our first quarter results were above our expectations and we look forward to realizing a fifth consecutive year of record EPS in 2014.
Our focus on providing services and products for deepwater and subsea completions positions us to participate in the continuation of a secular growth trend in the oilfield services and products industry.
We were pleased with our flat -- cash flow generation of $186 million of EBITDA during the quarter.
Capital expenditures for the quarter totaled about $104 million of which $57 million was invested in ROVs and $30 million was spent on Subsea Products.
Now let's talk about our 2014 EPS outlook.
You might ask since we've exceeded our Q1 guidance why are we not raising our 2014 annual guidance.
Let me remind you that our earnings estimates contain a considerable amount of uncontracted or speculative work and there are 9 more months left in the year.
While we feel more confident with our annual earnings guidance with a good Q1 in the record books we believe it would not be prudent to adjust our annual earnings expectations 3 months into the year.
So we are simply reaffirming our 2014 EPS guidance with a range of $3.90 to $4.10.
Compared to 2013 we continue to expect each of our oilfield business segments will achieve higher income in 2014.
ROVs on greater service demand to support drilling and vessel-based projects; Subsea Products on higher demand for each of our major product lines; subsea Projects are in growth in deepwater service activity; and Asset Integrity on increased demand for our services.
I believe we are well-prepared for the opportunity of challenges we face in 2014 and we have both the assets in place and the investment capacity to take advantage of growing demand for our services and products.
In 2014 we expect 29 new floating rigs may be placed into service; 6 of these occurred in the first quarter and we have the ROV work on 4.
Of the remaining 23 12 ROV contracts have been let and we have won 11 leaving 11 opportunities to pursue.
However only 1 of these 11 rigs has a signed operator contract.
For 2014 we anticipate generating at least $850 million of EBITDA.
Our balance sheet and projected cash flow provide us with ample resources to invest in Oceaneering's growth.
Our organic CapEx estimate for this year is around $450 million.
Of this amount we expect $225 million for adding systems to our ROV fleet and vehicle upgrades; $120 million for enhancing our Subsea Products capabilities particularly to expand our IWOCS and tooling rental and service hardware offerings; and $65 million for Subsea Projects largely to fund the construction progress payments for a new Subsea support vessel scheduled to be delivered by the end of the first quarter of 2016.
Our focus in 2014 as it was in 2013 will be on earnings growth and investment opportunities.
Moving on to our second quarter outlook we are projecting EPS in a range of $0.97 to $1.01.
Sequentially we anticipate quarterly operating income improvements from all of our business segments led by Subsea Products on the strength of increased demand for tooling and subsea work systems.
We are also expecting year-over-year second quarter operating profit increases for each of our business segments with the exception of Advanced Technologies.
AdTech operating income is expected to be lower due to a reduction in entertainment project work and incentive fees and a reduction in U.S.
Navy engineering services and purchasing activity due to government funding challenges.
On a macro basis we remain convinced that our strategy to focus on providing services and products to facilitate deepwater exploration and production remain sound.
We believe the oil and gas industry will continue its investment in deepwater as it remains one of the best frontiers for adding large hydrocarbon reserves with high production flow rates and relatively low finding and development costs.
We anticipate that demand for our deepwater services and products will continue to rise and believe our business prospects for the next several years remain promising.
At the end of March 2014 116 of the 162 existing high-spec drillships and fifth- and sixth-generation semis were contracted to operators other than Petrobras in Brazil.
We had ROV contracts on 92 of these for a market share of 79%.
There were a total of 100 new floating rigs on order.
And we expect 72 of these will go to work for operators other than Petrobras in Brazil.
On these 19 ROV contracts have been let and we have won 17 of them leaving 53 contracting opportunities to be pursued.
So the visibility of growth for this market remains promising despite the fact that some of these new rigs will likely be used to displace existing less-technically capable rigs.
And looking forward we see no reason why we will not continue to be the dominant provider of ROV services on high-spec rigs working for operators other than Petrobras in Brazil.
The outlook for floating rig demand in the Gulf of Mexico remains encouraging.
There were 48 rigs under contract in this area at the end of the first quarter up 10 from a year ago and up 3 from last quarter.
We have the ROV work on 42 of them.
Furthermore there are 6 additional floaters scheduled to commence working in the area during the rest of the year and we have the ROV work on all of them.
So even with the possible release on some of the 48 rigs currently under contract there should be a good level of rig activity for the balance of this year.
As the use of floating rigs grows we believe that it is inevitable that discoveries will eventually drive orders for Subsea Hardware to levels not previously experienced and demand for ROV to support vessel-based activities should follow.
Quest Offshore's latest Subsea Hardware forecast for the period 2014 to '18 includes an increase in tree orders of about 60% over the previous 5 years.
Although tree orders are projected to decline somewhat in 2014 due to lower demand by Petrobras tree installations are forecast to continue increasing to an all-time high of about 350 up 8% over 2013 and grow to 420 in 2015 a 20% annual increase.
In addition Quest is forecasting a 48% increase in umbilical orders for the 5-year period of 2014 to '18 compared to the previous 5 years.
While subsea tree orders are a leading indicator of future field development activity it is subsea tree installations outside of Brazil that matter most to Oceaneering.
Based on their subsea tree order forecast Quest Offshore is projecting average annual subsea tree installations of 370 outside of Brazil over the 5-year period 2014 to '18 an increase of over 55% from the previous 5 years.
The number of subsea completions in service compared to 2013 is projected to increase by around 1 000 trees more than 30% by the end of 2018 in spite of the fact that about 800 wells are forecast to be removed from service.
We believe that projected rise in tree installations and the growing number of subsea completions in service will lead to umbilical and connection hardware sales demand for IWOCS services and vessel-based ROV and tooling demand.
Furthermore industry and regulatory emphasis on safe and reliable operations is providing additional opportunities for us to demonstrate our capabilities.
We are well positioned to supply a wide range of the services and products required to safely support the deepwater efforts of our customers.
We believe Oceaneering's business prospects for the long term remain promising.
Our commanding competitive position technology leadership and strong balance sheet and cash flow enable us to continue to grow the company and we intend to do so.
In conclusion for 2014 we are anticipating that we will achieve another record year of EPS performance.
We believe this distinguishes Oceaneering from many other oilfield service companies.
We appreciate everyone's interest in Oceaneering and I will now be happy to take any questions you may have.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes the line of Jim Crandell from Cowen.
LLC Research Division</strong> Kevin kind of a 2-part question on ROVs.
I guess nobody doubts that you have firm contracts for this -- these new equipment but several observers think that a number of the older floaters could go idle.
I guess do you think there is risk in your overall utilization number at this point from a fairly meaningful number of old floaters going idle over the course of 2014-15? Jim I want to clarify some before we answer that.
When you're talking old floaters if we're talking the non-fifth- and sixth-generation ones of the lower spec ones we quantified that.
So I think what we're seeing is that there is more risk being talked about on the fifth-generation rigs which we had -- fifth and sixth generation rigs which we have an almost 80% market share outside of Petrobras in Brazil.
So yes to the effect that those rigs stack or that they have idle time between contracts we do have exposure there more so than we do on the lower-spec rigs.
LLC Research Division</strong> And would you expect at this point that generation rigs similar to the Horizon and that vintage would go idle here over the course of this year and next year? I don't think we really have any visibility on that.
I mean so far we're all reading the same stuff so we'll see it as it unfolds.
There is some potential softness there.
We'll just have to see how it plays out.
LLC Research Division</strong> And are you seeing any increased pricing pressure on either new contracts or renewals on ROVs? I know there's extreme emphasis on price out there in the oilfield.
Is that having an effect on your ROV pricing? Not particularly.
Your next question comes from the line of Jon Donnel Howard Weil.
Research Division</strong> A little bit of a follow-up question on the ROV and just kind of the utilization expectations.
When you think -- because as we look over the past couple of quarters here you probably exceeded the expectations at least from our side of the Street and as we get into the spring and summer months we typically see a pickup in that [ph] utilization.
Is that -- is the continuation the sort of the lower overall full-year utilization just a reflection of your thoughts on the risk on the fifth and sixth gen side or is there more to it that we should be thinking about? No there's really not anymore to it.
I mean we are sort of handicapped the lower end of the older rigs as Marvin stated earlier and we really have not tried to guess anything about fifth and sixth gen rigs at this point in time.
So as we said we'll just have to see how that plays out.
Research Division</strong> So there are already meaningful change to that -- your exposure for those fourth gen and older rigs compared to what you'd given us on the last call or is it still -- should we be thinking about that in the same order of magnitude? Same order of magnitude as far as we could see at this point.
Research Division</strong> Okay and then regarding the capital structure here with the debt addition and then also the share repurchases here it looks like there may be a little bit more room for additional share repurchases just kind of comparing those 2 numbers.
What's your thoughts in terms of uses of cash here going forward and as our additional share repurchases some of it that's still kind of at the forefront here for you guys? Well our cash usage is -- our priorities have not changed it is organic growth followed by acquisitions.
Dividend payment is set for what we plan to do there and last is repurchase of shares and I think we have always said that's pretty opportunistic.
Our main goal is to maintain a fairly constant level of shares outstanding.
And beyond that it would have to be different changes in the market to -- so I wouldn't expect the continuation of that.
Your next question comes from the line of Ian Macpherson Simmons.
Research Division</strong> Kevin I wonder if you could help me just understand the mechanics if we get a say a bad case scenario with fifth gen and sixth gen utilization.
Can you explain what -- how that works mechanically for your -- how your idleness unfolds when if rigs go -- say a fifth gen rig goes idle for 2 or 3 months but a lot of its spread [ph] costs stay on it.
How does that impact your revenue stream? Do you have [indiscernible] can separate it fully with the rig and do you have to mobilize everything off the rig at that time and how sticky are your units on the rigs [indiscernible] contract gaps? Typically what happens is if the operator is no longer paying for a rig then we would be off hire.
And we have the choice of taking our equipment off and being reimbursed for that by the operator or leaving it on and hoping that the rig will be picked up.
Typically unless it is just a really old rig with very few prospects or it's going to cold stack unless those conditions are there we leave our equipment on and go with the expectation that they will be recontracted.
And our crews Ian go to the beach and go home go off payroll and we close up the ROV control vans and leave it in the secure place on the rig.
So the main prospect continues as appreciation...
So the revenue stops and depreciation is essentially the only thing that continues.
Your next question comes from the line of Brad Handler Jefferies.
Research Division</strong> Could we -- let's move away from ROVs please and talk about Products and Projects.
I guess I'm curious if you guys have ever allocated revenues in those 2 divisions between life of field and installation? No.
Research Division</strong> And know what the mix is.
No.
We've never done that.
I mean we -- our primary focus is on for the projects business now.
The primary focus is IMR.
We do get involved in installation activities with what I would call the lower end of the spectrum there below the level of pipe installations and heavy stuff that the big contractors do.
For example flying leads and connection hardware and that sort of thing trees we do we can install trees and do a fair number of those.
But we don't separate those out.
But the majority of what we do you could think about in terms of IMR.
The Projects.
Research Division</strong> The Projects exactly.
And then in Products I guess it's more of an emerging area right? But some of the -- whether its acid injection or some of the life of field stuff you talked about in tooling.
Is that I don't know -- I don't know if you can make a rough allocation for us and think about how that might grow? I really can't make an allocation on it.
I think if you look at the product sales part of the business that's all obviously on the construction side of the ledger there.
A significant part of the tooling business that whole group there is more focused towards life of field and IWOCS could be either.
You're next question comes from the line of Jim Wicklund from Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Can we talk about the umbilical market for a little bit? How's that going? I know you had gotten some big orders last year.
Can we just give a rundown of that market? Well the market really has not changed materially.
I mean we -- the market conditions are still the same in terms of overcapacity relative to demand.
But we do see demand increasing with the forecasts that are out there with Quest and we're continuing to pursue that business.
We're expecting as we stated earlier to have a better result in the whole Product segment this year than we had last year.
We also -- I mean we're just pursuing the market as we have been and we're expecting more business from that particular segment the umbilical part of it this year than we had last year.
And I think the good news Jim is we had $260 million of product revenue and backlog didn't go down but 12 and I think we had expected and we do expect through the year to work off some of those large umbilical awards that you mentioned that we achieved last year.
But in Q1 we were able to replace most of that with another umbilical award.
So the thing that I want to remind everybody is umbilical awards are very lumpy and our quarterly backlog number may vary substantially depending upon timing of those awards.
Research Division</strong> Okay and this is probably a softball question but I would assume that your umbilicals are as world class as anyone else's? Absolutely.
Maybe better.
Your next question comes from the line of Ed Muztafago Societe Generale.
Maybe just wanted to kind of stay on the Products business a little bit and coming -- going back to some of the comments from a couple of the other subsea equipment companies.
They kind of highlighted the first quarter as being atypically strong in the Gulf of Mexico on the services side.
And I'm just wondering if you could kind of comment on how you sort of viewed it on a relative basis and what that mean -- might mean for the improvement in 2Q? And then just sort of secondarily to that how -- what does it actually take to keep the products business at kind of the high end of your expected margin range? Well the I mean margin range as we articulated pretty consistently is really all about the mix and how much we have coming from IWOCS and tooling and the higher-margin components of the Products group relative to umbilicals and typically due to the seasonality aspect of those businesses you expect second and third quarters to be better margin months.
Again bearing in mind whatever the volume of the umbilicals business there is at that time.
From the Gulf of Mexico standpoint where was nothing notable in our Products segment that would spike out of the Gulf of Mexico as being particularly good or bad.
It was pretty much as expected and I think there are no implications for Q2 related to how good Q1 was I mean it we...
I think that's related more to how many trees and things got installed in the first quarter which have service components associated with them and that's just a timing thing for them.
Okay.
So presumably it's kind of the normal uptick in terms of the seasonal pattern in 2Q into 3Q.
So and then as a second question I just wanted to try and think on the Products business we had the Maersk vessel come off and the Bourbon vessel come back on late in the quarter.
I'm not sure how much slack or downtime there was between them.
So just trying to think with respect to the Projects business as we kind of go to 2Q and 3Q can we get back to that 20% 21% margin level that you guys hit in the middle of last year? Well we said margin is going to be slightly improved year-over-year for the entire year notwithstanding quarterly timings.
And we indicated that the Maersk Attender went off in middle of Feb.
and the Bourbon Evolution 803 came on at the end of March and we really mean the end.
So there was a little bit of spread [ph] there.
Your next question comes from the line of Ole Slorer Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> I wonder whether you could just help us think of -- understand how you view the opportunity around kind of subsea processing and boosting and there seems to be some signs that are quite encouraging in terms of Projects coming forward there although of course also things like Ormen Lange going back on the backburner again but I think we all can understand the opportunity around the drilling rigs.
If that slow [ph] started 3% or 4% you maintain market share.
That's kind of obvious.
But as the industry changes and you're hearing increasingly that you referenced that trees for example but you're seeing really that the subsea -- the technology players are now starting to book a lot more revenue per tree because of the things going on as well.
So how do you view this opportunity? Let's say in an -- what I'm trying to get at is if the industry let's say slows down to a 3% 4% growth rate on the drillings side rather than the high single digits how should we think about -- or how do you think about your growth opportunity as you layer in these other opportunities? Well I think the life of field or the production cycle is a huge focus for us and I think that stuff goes on for 20 30 years however long it goes.
With regard to the subsea processing part we think that is very interesting.
We believe that that would present a lot more opportunities for our tooling and ROV interface activity for life of field IMR.
But having said that I think that it is going to happen gradually over time.
So I wouldn't see any inflection point there.
But I think it's logical to think that that would provide a lot more opportunities for our businesses just like the relatively dumb iron [ph] stuff that's down there now does.
Research Division</strong> Are you having any discussions with oil company customers in terms of technology challenges that they need to solve and tools -- dedicated tools and products that you need to develop to talk about organic opportunities is that part of it? Well we're always looking at such organic opportunities I mean the challenges that the oil companies have some of them are pretty large like moving to a 20 000 PSI operating system to generic problems that are becoming more and more prevalent like hydro remediation and that sort of thing.
And so we're talking to them about those specific things.
Obviously its a whole industry effort to try to get to the 20 000 PSI level.
[Operator Instructions] Your next question comes from the line of Jim Crandell Cowen.
LLC Research Division</strong> I wanted to follow up with a question about ROVs.
If you take your non-rig-related ROV business can you give us some sense of the relative importance of the different markets for that like x percent goes to seismic vessel x percent to OSVs et cetera? Okay well 25% of our fleet is engaged in vessel-based activities and primarily these are on ROV intervention vessels whether working directly for us which is only a few or working for other folks.
And some of that activity is construction-related but that would be probably the smaller share of it all primarily directed to intervention activities outside the wellbore on the seabed.
I don't know if we had any in seismic.
No there's nothing in seismic.
Yes and we really don't have anything in survey either.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
My follow-up question is that coming back to umbilicals if we're in for a long subsea cycle here then we go on -- if we go on another let's say 3 to 4 years on the upside is the state of supply/demand in umbilical such then getting better pricing is a likely and b is it a high priority for you as you think about the business to try to get better pricing on umbilicals? We -- there's so much capacity in the marketplace that we don't really see any big opportunity to increase pricing.
I think things seem to be getting more technically challenging with cross-section designs.
And so we think that favors our high focus on the engineering and the technical side of that business but unfortunately with so many opportunities for operators to shop around and they're keeping the pricing downs.
So I really would not expect any big movements in pricing in that.
But Jim if we are -- that's really short term.
If we are talking about 4 years of up cycle and more subsea completions with the technical complexity of the umbilicals I think we will continue to do better as we have over the last 3 years in getting our share of the market.
LLC Research Division</strong> So you can improve your margins in umbilicals from here without pricing primarily because of the increased complexity of the projects? Well it's hard to separate pricing and cost.
I mean when you get to a more complex umbilical you're going to have a higher cost and a higher price associated with it.
So I think there's a lot of things moving in the correct direction in umbilicals.
But our overriding concern remains just the excess capacity where it's 2x.
It's really hard to push pricing.
But volume definitely helps and we are seeing steady increases in volume year-to-year at least as far as our business is concerned.
Your next question comes from the line of Daniel Burke Johnson Rice.
L.L.C.
Research Division</strong> On the Projects business it seems like you all stayed pretty active through the Q4 Q1 period which can have some seasonal impacts.
I guess I was just curious when we look to the step-up in Q2 what portion of that is driven by Angola and the full contribution or a near full contribution for the Bourbon vessel more activity there versus the ability to ramp up more on the Gulf of Mexico side? I think you're going to see more impact on the Gulf of Mexico between Q1 and Q2 just basically because of seasonality.
We said Q1 was a little better than we had expected because we picked up some installation work.
So the typical ramp like you saw last year I would not -- I would encourage you to not expect that again next year because last year we had a lot of ramp-up in Angola between Q1 and Q2.
But this year Angola's going full bore with that minor window when the Maersk Attender went off and the Evolution -- Bourbon Evolution came on.
So I would say that the seasonality impact between Q1 and Q2 is going to be in the Gulf.
L.L.C.
Research Division</strong> Okay Marvin.
And then I guess my second question will be a little bit more high level.
I just noticed in the press release that you guys had referred to opportunities to add new assets.
I don't remember that language having been there in the past.
I guess I was just curious if that was signaling anything or referencing organic or M&amp;A opportunities that that you guys feel could be more imminent? Daniel thank you for reading our press release all the way to the end.
Sometimes attention spans wane when you get near that point.
But after so many quarters of using the same phrase we had an enlightening thought or question.
If we can meet demand with our existing assets why are we investing $450 million in CapEx.
So we added a meaningful phrase.
We believe we have great opportunity to continue to grow primarily through organic growth and hopefully some bolt-on acquisitions.
We've done this successfully in the past and we expect to continue.
That is the full meaning of that new phrase opportunity add new assets.
It just didn't make as much sense to us when we read it again and said if we got existing assets that serve demand that's not the story.
Our story is about sustainable growth and that's what we talked about at all the conferences and that's why we just added that phrase in there.
And I'm glad you read it.
Thank you.
We usually try not to be so subtle.
L.L.C.
Research Division</strong> Well look there was a part of me that was hoping there were some signal in there but I'll settle for the more reading comprehension-focused answer.
Your next question a follow-up question from the line of Ed Muztafago Societe Generale.
Just wondering maybe if you could just kind of on the acquisition topic talk a little bit -- one of the ways that you've grown your business on the ROV side is through occasional acquisition and if we do have slightly lower-than-expected project activity near term from some of the IOCs pushing CapEx to the right and potentially lower utilization rates on floaters.
Can you talk to how you see the acquisition market specifically on the ROV side of the business over maybe the next 12 to 18 months? I don't think we really see any opportunities in the ROV world for acquisitions.
Most of the other operators of ROVs have got a core business that they are focused on.
Subsea 7 for construction.
Technique [ph] for construction.
Fugro primarily surveys some IMR and then there's a scattering of others.
So there really is nobody that would be obvious to buy.
So we're not really anticipating that that would be in the frame.
And why buy when you can build? I mean what we got is a standard fleet.
We use our ROVs.
They're fungible.
Our technicians can run on whether they're in Angola Brazil Norway or the Gulf of Mexico and Southeast Asia.
If we add others' ROVs they won't have been built by Oceaneering and then you start getting separate crews that can run a 4 [indiscernible] versus a SMV or Schilling.
So we really see no advantages -- I mean if there is a fire sale which we do not foresee and -- but our focus is not on ROV acquisitions when we can build them and keep our standard framework for ROVs.
Specially since there aren't really any opportunities.
Right.
There are no further questions at this time I'll turn the call back to our presenters.
Excuse me we do have another question from the line of Jim Wicklund a follow-up.
Research Division</strong> We talked -- you talked about CapEx for this year.
You got the big boat coming in.
Do you have any ideas will CapEx you think be higher or lower in '15? Is there any reason to think you wouldn't keep growing and building and ramping up CapEx as you go? We're expecting to be able to continue to grow along with the market demand.
And so -- I mean we hadn't really thought about what that number would be for '15 but certainly directionally we think as long as the market continues in the direction that it appears to be going that we'll have plenty of opportunities to continue to grow organically and hopefully pick up some acquisitions along the way as well.
Research Division</strong> Perfect.
And a follow-up if I could as you just raised your dividend everybody's doing that do you have a yield in mind? No.
Research Division</strong> Do you have a goal of raising the dividend every year? No.
Research Division</strong> What's the dividend plan? Dividend plan is -- it's been pretty consistent.
We look at it but we have no stated payout or no stated yield objectives or metrics that we are following.
But you can look at it and you'd see pretty consistently we've been consistent on both.
But I mean we're not a -- we have no stated dividend policy.
We review it annually and last 3 years in a row we've increased it substantially.
But our past performance should not be indicative of the future.
Research Division</strong> I've heard that before.
[indiscernible].
No further questions.
I'll turn the call back to our presenters for closing remarks.
Okay.
Since there are no more questions I'd like to wrap up by thanking everyone for joining the call.
We are very pleased with our record first quarter results and anticipate producing a fifth consecutive year of record EPS for 2014.
This concludes our first quarter 2014 conference call.
Thanks and have a great day.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Thank you.
Good morning.
My name is Kelly and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the 2014 Q2 earnings conference call.
[Operator Instructions] Thank you.
Jack Jurkoshek you may begin your conference.
Good morning everybody.
We'd like to thank you for joining us on our 2014 second quarter earnings conference call.
As usual a webcast of this event is being made available through the StreetEvents Network service by Thomson Reuters.
Joining me today are Kevin McEvoy our President and Chief Executive Officer who will be leading the call; Marvin Migura our Executive Vice President; and Cardon Gerner our Senior Vice President Chief Financial Officer.
Just as a reminder the remarks we make during the course of the call regarding our earnings guidance business strategy plans for future operations and industry conditions are forward-looking statements made pursuant to the Safe Harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
And I'm now going to turn the call over to Kevin.
Good morning and thanks for joining the call.
I'm pleased to be here with you today to discuss our 2014 second quarter earnings results.
Our record quarterly EPS of $1.02 was slightly above our guidance and was up 21% over the first quarter of this year and up 12% compared to the second quarter of 2013.
Year-over-year quarterly EPS increased on profit improvements by Subsea Products ROVs and Subsea Projects.
Sequentially quarterly EPS rose on higher operating income principally from Subsea Products and Subsea Projects.
We achieved record quarterly operating income from Subsea Products which was up 23% over the previous record set just 2 quarters ago in the fourth quarter of 2013.
And for the first time quarterly profit from Subsea Products exceeded that of ROVs.
Our outlook for the second half of this year remains positive and unchanged overall from last quarter.
We still believe we will achieve record results for the year and are narrowing our 2014 EPS guidance to a range of $3.95 to $4.05 from $3.90 to $4.10.
Compared to 2013 we continue to forecast income growth for all of our oilfield operating segments in 2014.
Compared to the first half of 2014 we expect to generate higher income during the second half from each of our operating segments led by ROVs and Subsea Projects.
ROV profits are expected to be up on an increase in days on hire and a slightly higher operating margin as we benefit from the additional days worked a favorable change in geographic mix to more work off Africa and the Gulf of Mexico and improved execution on our new ROV startup operations.
For Subsea Projects we are forecasting a higher contribution primarily from our deep water vessel service and diving operations in the U.S.
Gulf of Mexico.
We also anticipate that Advanced Technologies will have considerably better results during the second half of 2014 due to expected better job execution and increased activity on work for the U.S.
Navy and theme park activity.
For 2014 we anticipate generating at least $855 million of EBITDA.
Our balance sheet and projected cash flow provide us ample resources to continue to invest in Oceaneering's growth and we intend to do so.
Our focus in 2014 continues to be on earnings growth and investment opportunities both organically and through acquisitions.
I'd now like to review our second quarter segment results.
Year-over-year second quarter Subsea Products' operating income improved 28% on a 27% increase in revenue due to a higher demand for all of our major product lines.
Operating margin was flat.
Sequentially operating income rose 46% on the strength of higher revenue and increased profitability from fueling and Subsea Hardware resulting in a 3% increase in operating margin.
Our Subsea Products backlog in quarter end was $850 million compared to our March backlog of $894 million and $902 million 1 year ago.
During the quarter we announced one large umbilical contract for offshore Indonesia.
Year-over-year and sequentially the backlog decline was primarily attributable to umbilicals the market for which we continue to note can be quite lumpy.
Year-to-date our Subsea Products operating margin has been 23%.
And given our outlook for the second half of 2014 we are now forecasting that Subsea Products' operating margin for the year will likely be around 21% the high end of our previous guidance range.
Now turning to ROVs.
Year-over-year ROV operating income improved on higher demand to provide drill support and vessel-based services.
Our ROV days on hire increased 10% to approximately 24 500 days.
Sequentially operating income was essentially flat as operating margins declined due to higher repair and maintenance expenses unanticipated costs associated with placing new systems in service and slightly lower fleet utilization.
Revenue grew on increases in days on hire and revenue per day on hire.
Our fleet utilization during the quarter was 84% compared to 86% sequentially and 83% in the second quarter of 2013.
Year-to-date our fleet utilization has been 85%.
And we are now projecting that our fleet utilization for the year will be around 84% which takes into consideration our exposure on floating rigs rolling off contract during the remainder of this year.
We still expect to achieve record ROV segment operating income for the 11th consecutive year.
Operating margin during the quarter was 28% compared to 30% in the first quarter and 29% a year ago.
During the second half of this year we should benefit from an increase in days on hire with a favorable geographic mix to more work off Africa and in the Gulf of Mexico.
Compared to the second quarter we anticipate quarterly operating margin will be slightly higher in the third and fourth quarters.
During the quarter we put 13 new ROVs into service and retired 4 for a net addition of 9 systems.
At the end of June we had 323 systems available for operations up from 296 a year ago.
9 of the new ROVs went into vessel support service and 4 into drill support.
At the end of the quarter we had ROVs on 170 or 60% of the 284 floating rigs under contract.
Sequentially the contracted rig count increased by 1 and the number of rigs we had ROVs on increased by 3.
Year-over-year the contracted rig count increased by 7 and the number of rigs we had ROVs on increased by 10.
Our fleet mix during the quarter was 71% in drill support and 29% on vessel-based work.
This compares to a 72-28 mix last quarter and a 73-27 mix in the second quarter of 2013.
During the second half of this year we expect to place at least 13 new ROVs into service; and we have contracts for all of these.
When these new vehicles are placed into service depends upon the actual commencement dates of each new drilling rig and vessel project work.
On a gross basis we now anticipate adding 40 or more new systems to our ROV fleet in 2014.
Looking at Subsea Projects.
Segment operating income was higher year-over-year as a result of adding the Bourbon Evolution 803 to our Field Support Vessels Services contract with BP offshore Angola and the Normand Flower to our U.S.
Gulf of Mexico fleet.
The increase from operating these 2 vessels was partially offset by the fact that last year's second quarter results benefited from a subsea well stimulation service project offshore Ghana utilizing a customer-provided vessel.
Sequentially Subsea Projects' operating income increased largely as a result of adding the Bourbon Evolution 803 and a higher profit contribution from the Ocean Alliance in the U.S.
Gulf of Mexico.
The Ocean Alliance was out of service for much of the first quarter undergoing a regulatory drydock inspection.
Our overall Gulf of Mexico results did not seasonally improve as we benefited from Subsea Hardware installation work during the first quarter of 2014 which was an unusual occurrence for that time of year.
We have not yet received an official contract extension from BP on our Field Support Vessel Services contract.
Discussions to extend this contract should conclude during August and we continue to expect a favorable outcome.
As for our remaining business operations for the second quarter Asset Integrity operating income declined year-over-year on a lower level of work in Africa.
Sequentially operating income improved slightly due to a seasonal increase in activity in Europe and the Caspian Sea area.
Advanced Technologies' operating income was lower both sequentially and year-over-year.
Sequentially the decline was attributable to execution issues including slow progress on scheduled navy submarine work and industrial project engineering design problems that caused increased costs associated with rework and schedule delays.
In addition to these execution issues the decline year-over-year was attributable to decreased activity on theme park projects the U.S.
Navy submarine repairs and engineering services.
Furthermore operating income in the second quarter of 2013 included an incentive bonus from meeting theme park schedule completion dates.
In summary our second quarter results were slightly above our expectations and we were pleased with our cash flow generation of $217 million of EBITDA during the quarter.
Capital expenditures for the quarter totaled about $157 million of which $60 million was invested in ROVs; $29 million was spent on Subsea Projects; $26 million on Subsea Products; and $40 million in the announced acquisitions of AIRSIS to enhance the asset tracking service we offer on offshore drilling rigs and vessels engaged in subsea activities; and Spectrum Sales &amp; Service to add subsea pipeline inspection capability based on the use of Electromagnetic Acoustic Transducer technology.
AIRSIS' financial results are included in our Subsea Projects segment and Spectrum's in our Asset Integrity segment.
Moving on to our third quarter outlook.
We are projecting EPS in the range of $1.10 to $1.15.
Sequentially we anticipate quarterly income improvements from all of our operating segments led by ROVs.
We are also expecting year-over-year third quarter profit increases for each of our business operations led by Subsea Products.
On a macro basis we remain convinced that our strategy to focus on providing services and products to facilitate deepwater exploration and production remains sound.
We believe the oil and gas industry will continue its investment in deepwater as it remains one of the best frontiers for adding large hydrocarbon reserves with high production flow rates at relatively low finding and development costs.
We anticipate that demand for our deepwater services and products will continue to rise and believe our business prospects for the next several years remain promising.
At the end of June 2014 119 of the 165 existing high spec drillships and 56 generation semis were contracted to operators other than Petrobras in Brazil.
We had ROV contracts on 95 of these for a market share of 80%.
There were a total of 97 new floating rigs on order.
And we expect 68 of these will go to work for operators other than Petrobras in Brazil.
Of these 21 ROV contracts have been led and we have won 19 of them.
42 of the remaining 47 contracting opportunities do not have announced drilling contracts.
Looking forward we see no reason why we will not continue to be the dominant provider of ROV services on high spec rigs working for operators other than Petrobras in Brazil.
We are however anticipating that some of these new rigs will likely be used to displace existing less technically capable rigs and that this will partially offset the gains we achieve on the newer rigs.
The outlook for floating rigs demand in the U.S.
Gulf of Mexico remains encouraging.
There were 49 rigs under contract in this area at the end of the second quarter up 9 from a year ago and up 1 from last quarter.
We had the ROV work on 43 of them.
Furthermore there are 5 additional floaters scheduled to commence working in the area during the rest of the year and we have the ROV work on all of them.
So even with the possible release of some of the rigs currently under contract there should be a good level of rig activity for the balance of this year.
At the end of 2013 there were more than 500 discoveries in deepwater that have not yet been developed.
We expect that many of these will eventually be put into production and consequently it is likely that orders for Subsea Hardware will grow to levels not previously experienced.
And demand for ROVs to support vessel-based activities should follow.
Quest Offshore's latest Subsea Hardware forecast for the period 2014 to '18 includes an increase in tree orders of about 55% and a 44% increase in umbilical orders over the previous 5 years.
While subsea tree orders are a leading indicator of future field development activity it is subsea tree installations and trees in service outside of Brazil that matter most to Oceaneering.
Based on their subsea tree order forecast Quest Offshore is projecting average annual subsea tree installations of 365 outside of Brazil over the 5-year period 2014 through 2018 an increase of approximately 60% over the previous 5 years.
The number of subsea completions in service compared to 2013 is projected to increase by around 1 000 trees more than 30% by the end of 2018 in spite of the fact that about 800 wells are forecast to be removed from service.
The projected rise in tree installations and the growing number of subsea completions in service should lead to umbilical and connection hardware sales demand for IWOCS services and vessel-based ROV and tooling demand.
Furthermore industry and regulatory emphasis on safe and reliable operations is providing additional opportunities for us to demonstrate our capabilities.
We are well positioned to supply a wide range of the services and products required to safely support the deepwater efforts of our customers.
We believe Oceaneering's business prospects for the long term remain promising.
Our commanding competitive position technology leadership and strong balance sheet and cash flow enable us to continue to grow the company and we intend to do so.
In conclusion we are anticipating that we will achieve another record year of EPS performance in 2014.
We appreciate everyone's interest in Oceaneering.
I will now be happy to take any questions you may have.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Jim Wicklund of Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Subsea Products is rocking and rolling.
When we came down to the tooling Analyst Day it was exceptionally impressive.
There are a number of pieces that we saw that you're going to add to that provides significant growth rates.
Is ROV going to -- income going to be eclipsed permanently by the Subsea Products business? Did you say permanently Jim? Research Division</strong> Well you know I mean if -- they beat you this quarter and ROV is going to grow.
But this thing's growing a whole lot faster it would seem.
I'm just wondering how big this thing can get.
It can get pretty big.
I would not extrapolate 1 quarter into the full year.
I think with the number of ROVs that we are adding and the contribution they are making they are still going to remain dominant for a while longer.
Research Division</strong> Okay okay.
That's still not a bad up-and-comer though.
No.
We think it's great to have something else working on our behalf.
Research Division</strong> Absolutely.
If they don't like the short heavy guy at least you got big feet.
In the ROV business you are adding more ROVs net this year than had previously been expected.
Is that market opportunity? Is that just accelerating growth because you've got the capital? I mean I realize that you have a dominant market share anyway.
But what's driving that? Well first of all Jim I think we intentionally said that we're adding 40 gross systems to the fleet.
Research Division</strong> Oops I'm sorry.
I didn't mean to say that.
40 gross right.
Right.
And so I mean it remains to be seen a how many we end up retiring between now and the rest of the year which they will play out over the next 2 quarters and we record those at the quarter end.
I think the question a lot of people are grappling with is why if utilization is falling are we adding new vehicles? And I think the answer to that is pretty clear.
It's when the customer demands new vehicles to go on new rigs or vessels being -- that we get contracts on.
We're doing that to meet customer demand.
And we've always taken a look at our idle fleet and retiring those that are not market-ready or cannot be made market-ready in an economic way.
So I think the fact that we are increasing our gross adds was a pleasant -- a positive news from the ROV group.
I mean that they think the market continues to grow.
And yet the big question is how many of these new rigs that could be placed into service in the second half of the year are going to be replacing old rigs already in service that we are on? But just as a data point I wouldn't extrapolate that either.
But it is good to know that the net working fleet increased by 1 and our ROVs and drill support increased by 3.
Research Division</strong> I agree.
I think that's impressive.
Increased demand is always a good thing.
Last question if I could.
In terms of tooling and subsea products what's your best most popular product these days? That's like looking at a Chinese menu and asking which one is the most popular.
Research Division</strong> Well I'm not asking for the revenues of it.
I know you won't answer that.
But I'm just wondering what subsegment -- what use what particular service is most in demand these days? I mean I think general ROV interface drilling still is the bulk of what we do.
The things that have the most leverage are the specialty subsea work system tools some of which you saw at that Analyst Day presentation.
But you can't predict something that clients aren't even planning for because they don't know about it until it breaks.
So it makes it really hard to do a trend line of something like that.
But having that capability is very very important and powerful to us.
We noted the Ghana job offshore that gave us a nice bump in the quarter that happened and I mean that's the kind of leverage you get.
But they're just kind of one-off projects is the only thing about it.
Rather have them than not.
Your next question comes from the line of Jon Donnel of Howard Weil.
Research Division</strong> If we could drill down a little bit more on that ROV question in terms of the incremental demand that you guys are seeing.
Is there a call -- the original plans for the ROV additions were based off of contracted.
And it sounds like the rest of the ones that you have for the remainder of the year are also under contract.
Can you give us a breakdown of you -- compared to your original expectations how many of those new contracts are for drill support work versus vessel-based work? Not really no.
I mean when we had the list of opportunities Jon they got us to 30 to 35.
And now they get us to approximately 40.
I mean there's just so much movement in there and assumptions as to probability of when.
I mean when we pick 30 to 35 yes we had a lot contracted but we had also quite a few on spec.
And some of those have firmed up; some of those went to others.
So no I can't give you a split between why we're adding more growth than we originally expected because of increased demand.
What we do know is that the mix has changed towards more vessels because of the 13 that we added 9 of them went on vessel support and 4 went to ROVs.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
I guess I was just -- I was trying to get maybe -- it seems like there's certainly the perception that the drilling market is slackening here.
Yet you continue to add more vessels than certainly more than what we're seeing in rig additions.
I guess another way of asking that is when you've had the more drill support ROV additions compared to overall rig count add has that been typical for you guys in the past too? Or is this -- has that rate slowed down or sped up here as we think about the numbers you put up for the first couple of quarters? Well I think the new market dilemma that we're facing is the replacement of rigs.
I mean rigs going idle.
It used to be if you won 80% of the rigs coming out of the yard you would win 80% of the incremental rigs working.
Today if you win 100% of the -- this quarter for example we won 100% of the rigs being placed into service and we went up a net of 2 because 2 went away.
So the only thing the math works is 5 rigs went idle.
And -- make sure I get this right we added 3 ROVs net.
And the...
Fleet added 1.
And the fleet added 1.
So 3 went in and 1 went -- 4 went out.
2 went out.
2 went out...
Sorry.
The new rigs coming in Jon are pretty visible we know what those are.
The old rigs going out we don't really know.
And vessels usually we don't have very good line of sight too.
And so those would tend to be more of the variable in there apart from a rig that we might displace someone else on that obviously you don't predict that too far in advance.
Research Division</strong> Yes I appreciate that.
And it just seems like you -- the drill support side of business seems to be holding up better than what the perception of the market is out there.
And it just doesn't seem like you're getting credit for that.
But as I think about the Subsea Products which are topics here can you give us any help on maybe geographies that were driving the big uptick in tooling? Was it still mostly Gulf of Mexico-related or are you branching out into other markets there as well? I think Norway has been very good to us this year.
Gulf of Mexico is pretty steady and West Africa.
I mean those really are the primary places.
Your next question comes from the line of Byron Pope of Tudor Pickering Holt &amp; Company.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> When you framed the ROV business in terms of Q3 you talked about favorable mix toward Gulf of Mexico and Africa.
You guys have also the decent presence in the North Sea.
So I'm just curious how you're thinking about -- or you just touched on it the market Norwegian market being healthy in terms of the Subsea Products side.
But just curious as to how you see the outlook on the Norwegian side for your ROV business and maybe for Asset Integrity as well.
I would say for Asset Integrity it would remain fairly steady.
The ROV side we've got about as many ROVs working there as we do in the Gulf of Mexico and West Africa.
That looks to be pretty steady as well.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then for Subsea Products I couldn't write fast enough.
But I just -- I thought I heard you say with regards to the full year Subsea Products were you guiding to 21% up margins? I wasn't clear on exactly on what you guys are referring to there.
Yes the operating income margin for that business.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And so in the back half of the year is that just a function of some of the umbilical projects that you guys have won starting to flow through that's bringing down that full-year margin expectation? Well I mean that percentage that margin is always a result of the product mix that we have.
Umbilicals we can see you can't always see what's coming on the tooling and IWOCS and some of those higher-margin parts of the business.
So we've had a good data point and we feel good enough about it to go to the upper end of the margin range.
But we don't have enough visibility of the higher-margin mix that could come to make a declaration on that for the second half.
And I think the good news is we have significantly increased our throughput in umbilicals and yet we are posting -- we expected when we said when that was going to happen when we expected that to happen.
We said we would have margins in the high teens.
And we've been able to do numbers better than that.
And -- but I still think it's product mix as Kevin said that makes it -- and we just had a very good second quarter.
And it affects our year-to-date and we don't think we're going to have 2 more of those in the second half.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Understood.
And then last question for me.
It's been a while since we've had an active Gulf of Mexico hurricane season.
I know some of your businesses actually benefit from it.
So could you just frame at a high level during hurricane season the typical impacts if we had activity disruptions for the ROV side of your business as well as for Subsea Projects? Well during hurricane everybody comes to the beach.
So everything kind of stops.
And so that negatively impacts certainly all the vessel-based businesses -- business work.
And depending on the path and the size of the hurricane and the rest of it when they start evacuating drilling rigs and whatnot with personnel then that affects us as well.
I think our view on hurricanes is that overall it's more negative than it is positive.
And the only positive thing that would come out of it was to be if there was a lot work to be done due to damage on shallower water structures and flow lines and whatnot.
And I don't know my personal view of it is that probably most of what was going to fall down already fell down.
And you would not see a repeat of the amount of damage that occurred back in 2005 '06 '07.
Yes.
I mean those were very unusual years with a number of major storms.
And the amount of damage that was done and number of downed platforms that caused an incredible spike in work.
And mostly all of our stuff and I think since then operators have taken out platforms that were -- that they didn't deem to be strong enough to withstand a similar type of event in the future.
Or they beefed them up so that they could.
Your next question comes from the line of Kurt Hallead of RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just had a couple questions.
First again just going to beat the ROV horse to the ground here.
But -- so of the -- when you think about the potential of rigs being displaced throughout the course of the year and I'm sure you have taken -- you've gone through your own assessment.
So I was wondering if you might want to share your views on what you do think could be displaced new rigs vis-a-vis old rigs as the year goes on.
I'll give you my model okay Kurt? And then it is a guess and an assumption.
And it's what we said.
It is how we base our forecast.
It is just how it impacts us.
We have 39 ROVs on 33 rigs that according to IHS Petrodata have contracts expiring in the second half of 2014.
And their average remaining contract term is around 100 days.
And of course the exposure's weighted more to the fourth quarter than in the third.
What we have assumed is that essentially 18 rigs will continue to work through the end of the year and 15 will be sacked.
So based on this assumption we forecasted these 39 rigs will be on day rate for approximately 55% of the uncontracted exposure on these rigs.
So that frames how it affects our drill support.
How accurate those assumptions are? It does include that no contract will be terminated before its Petrodata database says is going to expire and then we had to make a number.
And we did it based on our assessment of rigs the customer information and rig operator conversations.
LLC Research Division</strong> That's great that's fantastic color.
I really appreciate that.
The next follow-on question as it relates to ROVs is I know over time ROV pricing is not a significant make-or-break decision for an operator especially vis-à-vis the rig rates.
I think we are all aware of the pressure on the ultra deepwater rig rates that has and continues to occur.
Any inkling on your part? Any pushback from customers whatsoever? Even at the margin as it relates to what you guys are asking for on ROV pricing? Actually there's really been no change in that regard from prior recent quarters.
I mean as we continue to say we did on every job we do have competition trying to get these jobs away from us usually at some discount.
And we are successful 80% of the time.
And it is difficult to raise rates per se.
And we have still managed to raise them enough in the face of the increasing labor costs.
And in some cases increasing CapEx costs for deepwater systems to largely maintain our same margin and that fight just continues on like that and I expect that it will going forward for as far as I can see right now anyway.
And I think it's important for everyone to remember that our average revenue per day on hire also is influenced by the mix between vessel work and drill support.
So sometimes you might see a change in mix and it might be interpreted as a price increase or price decrease and all it is is the change in the number of crew.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
Appreciate that.
Now one last if I may on the Subsea Products side.
You guys continued to provide the very positive macro data 500 discoveries not yet developed.
And again I just want to make sure I understand the driving dynamics here when investors and ourselves think about the offshore products business.
It is really being driven by those discoveries not yet developed.
The way that I've kind of always thought about it is the installation repair maintenance on subsea infrastructure.
It's not -- that's not directly tied to rig rates or so on and so forth.
So I'm just looking for some additional clarity on that.
I think there's some concern in the marketplace that what's going on in the rig market directly impacts what the subsea infrastructure is going to be.
So if you could provide some clarity on that that would be great.
Sure I think that once there is an identified development I mean that is going to go forward in some sort of priority of return versus capital for each operator.
But those things are going to go forward.
And what's happening in the rig market per se I don't think is really overly relevant.
I mean I think that is really going to affect how much more exploration folks are doing at that time.
And certainly once you get to a decision to go ahead on producing the field all the other stuff happens.
They order all the hardware and the equipment and the installation happens and then the whole production goes.
So I don't think that the current exploration issues are affecting the 500 discoveries or projects that we think are going to eventually get done.
Your next question comes from the line of Stephen Gengaro of Sterne Agee.
Research Division</strong> Can you give us a little color as we sort of think about the back half of the year on the Subsea Projects side? And are there any vessels that are being disrupted for any reasons? And how should we think about how the margins unfold there? I'm not sure I understand the question for vessels being disrupted.
What do you think...
Research Division</strong> Well just I mean there's a downtime in the first quarter.
Is there anything like that we need to think about in the back half of '14 or '15? Well okay.
The Gulf of -- I mean the BP contract is a long-term thing.
And so I assume we're talking about the Gulf of Mexico.
That is a callout business.
And so we have virtually no visibility to 2015 right now in terms of specific projects or whatnot in terms of orders or backlog or anything like that.
So we do expect reasonable utilization for the second half of this year.
But again it's a callout business.
And so we have reasonable visibility for Q3.
And it starts to fade off a little bit when you get into certainly the mid-back part of Q4 and also weather will tend to play some factor in that depending on what that is at the time.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then as we think just...
Stephen Steve generally I mean if you think about the first half versus the second half you're going to have seasonality.
And we talked about the Normand evolution coming on higher.
So just generally the second half is better than the first half in run rate and resulting in margin improvement too.
Generally.
Research Division</strong> Okay okay.
That's helpful.
And on the product side I mean I know you're sort of reluctant to predict any kind of increase in -- or some of the higher margin work tends to be shorter term in nature.
But when you think about your guidance range for the back half of the year is that one of the big variables that the margin profile within products? Or there's something else which moves the numbers around a bit as you look at your guidance range for the rest of this year? First of all I would say with a tight guidance range there's just not a lot of moving around.
And everything is variable.
Maybe it looks a lot from the outside but it's pretty steady state.
But it's -- we've got a lot of moving pieces.
And I think the range is very reasonable in Products Projects ROVs and Asset Integrity and they'll all add to the variability of that mix.
Your next question comes from the line of Dan Leben of Robert W.
Baird.
Research Division</strong> Great.
Moving back to the ROV segment just go ahead and try bury the horse I guess.
On an intermediate term looking out with the amount of installations in place as that continues to grow.
Does this business naturally have to shift more towards more of a vessel-based than what it has been historically? Over time I think we would expect the vessel percentage of the total to increase.
But I don't think this is any sharp increase at any point in time.
This will be gradual over a number of years type of deal.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just a follow-up on that.
Could you just talk a little bit about some of the differences when you get in that market either from a competitive standpoint or pricing and utilization just how over time it may affect some of the metrics that we'd see? Well I guess I would explain it this way.
I mean the Gulf of Mexico as I said earlier is purely a callout market.
It historically always has been.
We have added vessels.
And as we see the market demand increasing we will certainly seriously consider adding another vessel.
And recall that we do have one under construction that doesn't get delivered until first quarter of '16.
In terms of the international aspect of that business as we've said we're looking for long-term field maintenance support contracts.
Long meaning probably at least 2 years to make it worthwhile to go charter a vessel if that's what the customer is looking for and operate the vessel in a foreign location.
And so that's what we're looking for.
But I think it's pretty obvious to the marketplace that long-term field support if you're a boat owner a boat company is a place where you want to play.
And so there's more competition coming into that.
More people looking for that including the more traditional construction-only kind of folks like Subsea 7 and Technip.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then just the ROVs that would be attached to vessels.
That piece of it as well.
Well they typically on those spreads there are 2 ROVs because the work intensity is such that either you need 2 ROVs or you just need to have a backup.
You can't afford to have the vessel not working.
And the work is a lot more arduous than drill support work.
So the opportunity to bang up the ROV is a lot greater.
So having 2 has become the norm.
And then you would have 2 full round-the-clock crews on those vessels and that's a good project for us.
That's a day rate and margin enhancer.
Right yes.
Your next question comes from the line of Ian Macpherson of Simmons.
Research Division</strong> It's very easy I think to embrace the growth thesis for products over the long term.
Shorter term your backlog has stalled a little bit.
It more than doubled from 2011 and '13 but it's down from around $900 million to $850 million.
So when we're thinking about formulating our top line growth for 2015 I think we probably need to have some visibility for backlog growth or stabilization throughout the second half of this year.
What kind of visibility do you guys have at this point for your orders in backlog for products for the rest of this year? Ian we have a long list of projects that we expect -- I mean we did involve early on the long lead time items like umbilicals and fuel development projects with feed studies and then budgetary bids and then they get refined.
So we're in the pipeline early.
And so we have good visibility of the identified projects.
And every now and then a fast turnaround project comes in I'm talking about umbilicals and subsea field development-type of projects not tooling and IWOCS.
But we have said for so many quarters years that the umbilical order business is lumpy.
So it's not so steady state that we look at it and say golly we didn't get 1.0 kind of replacement rate and we had some backlog burned and that doesn't foretell a demise.
Or just like getting a big order it doesn't say that increase in activity is going to continue.
So I can't help you very much.
I think we were expecting our products' activity to grow year-over-year.
And that's -- but we don't get too excited that it fell from $900 million to $850 million.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just really getting back to Byron's earlier question on the margin.
Your guidance would suggest a little bit of reversion in product margins from the first half and second half.
There is nothing to specifically with regard to mix or seasonality that suggests that it could drop that far but you have perhaps some element of normal Oceaneering conservatism in that guidance based on the visibility you have today.
Is that fair? I would say that we see a drop in margin contribution and products for the second half.
And we think it's predominantly associated with mix.
And if you look I mean there is some seasonality into the service side when you talk about -- Kevin mentioned that tooling was particularly strong in Norway in Q4.
Norway starts to slow down.
The North Sea starts to slow down.
So does the Gulf of Mexico in some spot -- I mean some areas.
So you can talk about it being normal Oceaneering conservatism I'd see that's what in our crystal ball.
Your next question comes from the line of Brad Handler of Jefferies.
Research Division</strong> A couple of different unrelated questions please.
First related to your -- whatever you can share on the -- on your negotiations for your vessels in Angola.
Are the contracts -- does the negotiation include keeping 3 vessels at work? Or in other words are you rolling over 3 vessels in what you're negotiating? Right.
I mean the option here that is being discussed is to carry on the existing contract work that we're currently performing.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Just wanted to confirm if it was sort of steady.
Second can you give us some more color on I guess on the higher R&amp;M expenses in ROVs? And I guess if I think about it -- without precision frankly if I think about it over the last couple of years maybe we've had a smattering of quarters where that feels like that sprung up.
But feel free to correct that perception.
But can you comment on that a little bit? And then or is this something that we need to think about systemically.
I don't think you should think about this in terms of systemic sort of issues.
I mean we've got 323 systems operating all across the world basically isolated on a drilling rig.
A growing market with a lot of new trainee people coming into the mix.
And we just had a collection of a couple of data points that didn't work well.
And so it's nothing I would say systemic.
It's just maybe the alignment of a couple of jobs that didn't do as well as they could have.
And I wouldn't expect that going forward as a trend or as a consistent trend certainly.
Research Division</strong> Okay good enough.
And then the last one if I may.
And I'm sorry I think I'm cheating.
But the commentary about sort of new -- I think you've sold new ROVs probably to your -- I'm guessing here so you probably went to your potential customers for a new ROV and you said "Well we'll give you a new ROV " which probably makes it very difficult to turn around and say "How about an old ROV?" I'm wondering if this current market circumstances might encourage you to think differently about the selling process.
Might you be able to proactively sell old ROVs or a more fungible kind of ROV sale which might allow you to do that or...
We do try that.
I mean obviously that would be the first choice so we do.
And we have quite a I guess a range of age of ROVs as well.
Generally we can just put a new fish on the system and it is like new.
And so we're able to sell that.
We certainly do.
And -- but maybe the situation will change.
We've got an overhang of vessels which are big but don't have any contracts at all on them.
And so maybe that dynamic will change a little bit going forward.
But up until now all the ones that we have been successful winning the operator is taking a longer term on that unit and they want a brand-new ROV.
And so that's what we would do.
And as utilization falls that gets a much keener focus.
That exact issue that you mentioned about selling a refurbished ROV a light new ROV as opposed to a new ROV to do the same work.
And if contract terms are shorter terms then the customer's focus is a little bit different too.
And so yes we focus on that a lot.
And we're focusing on it more.
Your next question comes from the line of Darren Gacicia of Guggenheim.
LLC Research Division</strong> I'm going to avoid any horse commentary as I go with and ask questions I'm trying to kind of bear down on some numbers here.
ROVs you're saying you're going to add -- I'm trying to get like the difference between sort of gross and net here.
So if you say you're going to add over 40 I'm not sure if that's gross or net you say you're going to lose 15 to contract over to the second half.
What else do we need to fill in there by way of just kind of natural ROV attrition aside from what may have happened with roles? So how do I kind of get that with kind of the net numbers on ROV adds? I heard a lot of comments but I haven't figured out how to get there.
Okay.
I think you're using data points but may not be relevant to the fleet size.
The fact that we're assuming 15 of these rigs rolling off or going to be idle for the rest of the year doesn't mean that we're taking those ROVs out of our fleet count.
That has no bearing at all.
We may keep our ROVs on those rigs unless there's another alternative because we believe the best place for those rigs I mean those ROVs to go back to work is on that rig when it goes back to work.
If a rig is being cold stacked we may take an ROV off.
But what I explained is our assumption for rigs rolling off doesn't have anything to do with our fleet count.
And I think the only thing you can do is we say that we're going to retire 4% to 5% on average of our ROVs per year.
And so on a base of 300 to make my math easy since I couldn't do it a while ago 4% of 300 is 12; 5% of 300 is 15.
And so somewhere on a normal year you would be expecting an average of 12 to 15 retirements.
And so -- but we look at every quarter and constantly when ROV is idle we look at the marketability the cost to refurbish.
And then we make a decision do we retire it do we refurbish it or do we wait? And so I can't get any more granular than that.
LLC Research Division</strong> And so the 84% then that you have as utilization guidance for the back half is basically factoring whatever the -- I'm leaving it on the rig but it's not contracted portion of say the 15 you're saying for the rigs that go idle.
That 84% number we gave was for the year.
LLC Research Division</strong> Got it.
And...
Yes.
I mean the utilization includes the idle ones as does the count.
If we haven't retired it it is in our utilization count.
LLC Research Division</strong> Got it.
Last question on -- so if vessels -- I'm assuming vessel-based activity has a little bit more variance on utilization.
Does that mean kind of the average day rate per day should be creeping up to kind of offset that to some degree as I understand the business works? Or am I thinking about that the wrong way? I think we said that because of increased crew count on vessel-based ROVs that has higher day rate associated with it.
And so if the mix changes you also have to take into consideration the geographic area of that mix.
But directionally if we continue to get more vessel-based days as a higher percentage of our total days day rate should be moving up if pricing was the same.
LLC Research Division</strong> Is there an order of magnitude to that? No.
It really depends upon the vessel the type of work that it's doing and no we...
Really it's just the addition of the extra people.
Yes.
And your next question comes from the line of Michael Marino of Stephens.
Research Division</strong> I know the Products and Projects businesses are big callout businesses.
And Marvin you touched on kind of customer conversations and planning.
But I'm -- just to be clear I mean there's nothing fundamental here that's changed.
And you're not -- customer conversations aren't dragging out any further than they would normally -- I mean I'm just trying to -- one of the concerns is maybe rig rates is just the leading indicator and customers in general are just kind of pushing back.
But -- I mean is anything changed in the conversations you're having? No.
I would say not in that regard.
No.
I mean normal business is going on in outside of the exploration part of the business.
Yes.
I think what Kevin alluded to earlier is it's hard to get price increase and I mean at a premium to some competition.
But that's been going on for some time.
So I mean...
I think the discussion was more basically all the other stuff that we do is that slowing down as a follow on to the big thing? I'd say those are not connected.
At least not now.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I mean so there's no reason to think that the recent trend in kind of -- especially your products business there's no reason to think that that can't continue out into the future? [indiscernible] Research Division</strong> Okay.
So Q2 was a really good quarter in Products.
Maybe you don't get back there in the back half of the year but it's -- there was nothing exceptional about the quarter in your view? Just the numbers.
Research Division</strong> Just the good mix? Just the good mix.
And we do not think we'll get back there in the second half.
Research Division</strong> Well then we'll have to wait till the next year if that's...
[indiscernible] Absolutely that's right.
There are no further questions at this time I'll turn the call back over to the presenters.
Okay.
Since there are no more questions I'd like to wrap up by thanking everyone for joining the call.
We are very pleased with our best ever quarterly results and anticipate producing another record year of EPS for 2014.
This concludes our second quarter 2014 conference call.
Thanks and have a great day.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Jessica and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the 2014 Q3 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the call to your host Mr.
Jack Jurkoshek.
Mr.
Jurkoshek you may begin your conference.
Thank you Jessica.
I'd like to thank everybody for joining us on our 2014 third quarter earnings conference call.
As usual a webcast of this event is being made available through the StreetEvents Network service by Thomson Reuters.
Joining me today are Kevin McEvoy our President and Chief Executive Officer who will be leading the call; Marvin Migura our Executive Vice President; and Cardon Gerner our Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Just as a reminder remarks we make during the course of this call regarding our earnings guidance business strategy plans for future operations and industry conditions are forward-looking statements made pursuant to the Safe Harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
And I'm now going to turn the call over to Kevin.
Good morning and thanks for joining the call.
Today I will deviate a bit from the normal flow of our opening remarks by beginning with a summary of what I'm about to discuss.
We feel the following 6 items represent the take-home value from this call.
Number one we achieved record EPS for the quarter.
Never in Oceaneering's history have we ever generated quarterly net income of $124 million or EPS of $1.16.
Number two 2014 should be a record earnings year for Oceaneering.
We are clearly on track to outperform 2013's record EPS of $3.42.
Number three over the course of Quarter 3 we repurchased 3 million shares of our common stock.
And year-to-date we've returned $318 million to our shareholders in the form of stock buybacks and cash dividends not counting the quarterly dividend that was declared yesterday.
Number four we have 5.4 million shares remaining under our current Board of Directors share repurchase reauthorization and we intend to repurchase all of these shares in due course.
Number five we have taken steps to provide significant additional financial flexibility through 2 actions.
First we increased our committed bank facilities to $800 million exactly double the $400 million we had available at the end of September.
And second yesterday we filed an S-3 shelf registration statement to enable the issuance of unsecured debt as we consider adding a layer of long-term debt to our balance sheet.
Number six we are initiating 2015 EPS guidance with a range of $4.10 to $4.50 based on an average of 105.7 million diluted shares.
If we were to achieve the bottom of our guidance range 2015 would most likely be another record year of earnings even in view of the much publicized concerns regarding the future deepwater activity.
Of course there is a great deal of uncertainty in the oil patch as we make these prognostications.
Regardless we are committed to make the most of our leading niche market positions during the expected slowdown in the deepwater activity growth rate and to be poised to return to double-digit growth when the long-term fundamentals of oil supply and demand get back into balance.
In summary we are confident that our earnings and cash flow generation combined with our commitment to growth and to the return of cash to our shareholders will continue to create value for all of our shareholders.
Now I'll go back to my originally prepared comments.
Some of these may be a bit redundant but still noteworthy and hopefully with more color.
As I mentioned earlier we achieved record EPS for the quarter demonstrating the high level of demand we experienced for our Subsea Services and products.
Year-over-year quarterly EPS increased by 21% on a strength of operating income improvements from subsea products and remotely-operated vehicles.
Sequentially quarterly EPS was 14% higher on operating income improvements by all business segments led by ROVs.
Our third quarter results were highlighted by all-time high operating income from our ROV and Subsea Products businesses.
We remain on track to achieve record EPS for 2014.
For the fourth quarter we are projecting EPS of $0.94 to $0.99.
Given this outlook and our year-to-date performance we are narrowing our 2014 EPS guidance range to between $3.95 and $4 from $3.95 to $4.05.
During the third quarter we repurchased 3 million shares of our common stock at a cost of $201 million.
Year-to-date we have repurchased 3.5 million shares at a cost of $237 million.
The decision to repurchase our shares reflects our belief that Oceaneering stock has been undervalued.
It also underscores our willingness to return cash to our shareholders and confidence in Oceaneering's financial strength and future business prospects.
Year-to-date we have spent $318 million on share repurchases and cash dividends.
We have 5.4 million shares remaining under our current Board of Directors share repurchase authorization all of which we intend to repurchase in due course.
We have taken steps to provide significant additional financial flexibility to invest in organic growth fund acquisitions and return cash to shareholders through dividends and share repurchases.
As previously announced we reached agreement for $800 million of committed bank facilities consisting of a $500 million 5-year revolver and a $300 million 3-year delayed draw term loan.
In addition yesterday we filed an S-3 shelf registration statement to enable the issuance of unsecured debt which gives us the additional option of quickly accessing the public debt markets as we consider adding a layer of long-term debt to our balance sheet.
We intend to maintain our investment quality capital structure as this is important to retaining a preferred vendor status with our major customers who are themselves investment-grade companies.
We are initiating 2015 EPS guidance with a range of $4.10 to $4.50 based on an average of 105.7 million diluted shares.
While we are facing widely publicized concerns regarding the future of deepwater activity our 2015 guidance is based on assumptions that service and product demand to develop new fields and perform life-of-field activities will be higher than in 2014 and global floating rig demand would be about the same.
For 2014 and '15 we anticipate generating at least $845 million and $880 million of EBITDA respectively.
Our balance sheet and projected cash flow provide us resources to invest in Oceaneering's growth and return cash to our shareholders and we intend to continue doing so.
I'll talk more about our 2015 guidance later.
But first I'd like to review our operations for the third quarter.
Year-over-year and sequentially third quarter ROV operating income increased 18% and 17% respectively on higher demand for both drilling and vessel-based services and an improvement in operating margin.
Operating margin increased to 31% due largely to a change in geographic operations mix resulting in a higher average revenue per day on hire.
Our ROV days on hire for the quarter increased to a record high of over 25 200.
Fleet utilization rate was 84% the same as last quarter and down slightly from 86% in the third quarter of 2013.
During the quarter we put 14 new ROVs into service and retired 5.
At the end of September we had 332 systems in our fleet up from 302 a year ago.
11 of the new ROVs went into drill support.
Our fleet mix during the quarter was 71% on drill support and 29% on vessel-based work the same mix as last quarter and about the same as the 72%-28% mix in the third quarter of 2013.
Year-to-date we've added 41 systems to our fleet and retired 13.
At the end of the quarter we had ROVs of 168 or 60% of the 281 floating rigs under contract.
We had ROVs on 69% of the drillships and 6 generation [indiscernible] and 79% of these rigs not contracted to Petrobras in Brazil.
Sequentially the contracted rig count dropped by 3 in a number of rigs on which we had ROVs declined by 2.
Year-over-year the contracted rig count rose by 3 and the number of rigs on which we have ROVs increased by 5.
Since the end of last year the contracted rig count has remained unchanged while the number of rigs on which we have ROVs contracted has increased by 8.
Year-to-date our ROV days on hire to support drilling activities has increased 5% over that of the same period last year.
So even in a flat rig demand market we have been able to grow our drill support days on hire.
During the fourth quarter we expect to place 7 new ROVs into service and we have contracts for all of these.
When they are placed into service depends on the actual commencement dates of each new drilling rig and vessel project.
On a gross basis we now anticipate adding 48 new systems to our ROV fleet in 2014.
Turning to Subsea Products year-over-year third quarter operating income improved 35% on a 28% increase in revenue due to a higher demand for each of our major product lines led by tooling and subsea work systems.
Sequentially operating income was higher on increased demand for tooling and subsea work systems.
Our Subsea Products backlog at quarter end was $768 million compared to our June 30 backlog of $850 million and $857 million 1 year ago.
Year-over-year and sequentially the backlog decline was primarily attributable to umbilicals the market for which we continue to note can be quite lumpy.
Now looking at Subsea Projects.
Year-over-year third quarter operating income declined as a result of lower demand for both deepwater intervention and diving services in the U.S.
Gulf of Mexico.
The decline in deepwater service demand was partially attributable to the loop current that occurred during the quarter which caused work delays.
Sequentially operating income rose due to a seasonal uptick in Gulf of Mexico demand for diving services.
During the quarter we received a 2-year contract extension from BP to expand our feet -- to extend our Field Support Vessel Services contract for work offshore Angola.
Under this contract term extension we will continue to provide project management engineering and vessel services through January 2017.
2 charter vessels the Ocean Intervention III and the Bourbon Ocean Team 101 will continue to be supplied during the contract term extension.
The contract has a provision for us to continue to provide during extension period a BP's option a third vessel on a mutually agreed as-needed basis.
The third vessel currently being provided is the Bourbon Evolution 803 which is contracted through January 2015.
We also have secured during the quarter a contract commitment from BP to commence providing diving services offshore Angola later this year.
These services will be used to perform underwater inspections and move-up dry docking on BPs FPSOs and comm buoys [ph] located in blocks 18 and 31.
As for our other business segments Asset Integrity's third quarter operating income improved year-over-year and sequentially largely on a $2.5 million gain on the sale of a non-core operation that was part of our AGR FO acquisition in 2011.
Year-over-year we also benefited from higher service sales in the United Kingdom and Middle East.
Sequentially we benefited from higher service sales in the United Kingdom and Australia.
Advanced Technologies quarterly operating income declined year-over-year on decreased activity on theme park projects and vessel maintenance work for the U.S.
Navy and higher cost on theme park work that we did perform.
Sequentially operating income increased due to higher profitability on vessel maintenance and engineering services for the U.S.
Navy which is attributable to an increase in award and incentive fees and improved indirect cost recovery.
In summary we are pleased with the third quarter results and EBITDA generation of $241 million during the quarter.
Capital expenditures for the quarter totaled $80 million of which $30 million was invested in ROVs $26 million was spent on Subsea Products and $19 million on Subsea Projects.
We are lowering our organic CapEx estimate for this year to $400 million down from $450 million on lower spending for ROVs.
Now let's talk about our year-end outlook.
For the fourth quarter of 2014 we are projecting EPS in the range of $0.94 to $0.99.
We expect our fourth quarter EPS to be up year-over-year on operating income improvements from ROVs Asset Integrity and Advanced Technologies.
Sequentially all of our oilfield business segments are forecast to have operating income and margin declines due to normal seasonal activity or project timing.
Advanced Technologies operating income is forecast to increase significantly.
This is attributable to an escalation of industrial project work in engineering services for the U.S.
Navy and improved execution on the work we do perform.
Looking forward to 2015 we are initiating EPS guidance with a range of $4.10 to $4.50 based on an average of 105.7 million diluted shares and an effective tax rate of 31.3%.
We have not completed our detailed planning process but the big picture changes we envision for 2015 compared to 2014 can be summarized as follows.
ROV operating income is projected to grow modestly on the strength of greater service demand to support drilling and vessel-based projects.
We are projecting an increase in days on hire to support drilling even though we are anticipating floating rig demand will be about the same.
This is attributable to a full year benefit from the 15 vehicles we have put into service during 2014 on new rigs in the first 3 quarters.
The firm contracts we have on 5 additional vehicles expected to go to work on new rigs in the fourth quarter and a firm contract we have in place for 9 systems on new rigs in 2015 and additional ROV work we may secure on the 14 new rigs currently scheduled to be delivered by the end of 2015 that are not yet contracted assuming some of these eventually will land contracts.
Partially offsetting this new work are jobs we may lose on existing rigs.
We had 193 ROVs on 168 floating rigs at the end of September.
80 ROVs were on 71 rigs.
They'd have all lost contract by the end of 2015.
For the 80 vehicles on rigs rolling off contract we currently have around 11 000 days of work in 2015 covered by existing rig contracts and about 18 000 days that are not.
Fortunately 45 of the vehicles are on drilled ships or 6 generations semis accounting for more than 10 000 of the 18 000 uncontracted days.
We believe these rigs have an excellent chance of being re-contracted and therefore high utilization.
We are projecting that our fleet utilization rate will decline to around 80% due to downturn on existing floating rigs as they -- downtime on existing floating rigs as they roll off contract.
We remain committed to growing our fleet and securing as many new builds floating rigs investment opportunities as possible with customers that appreciate our value proposition.
In pursuing this work we intend to use existing upgraded systems to satisfy new rig investment work to the extent possible.
We intend to retire systems when they reach the end of their useful lives and we'll continue to report these only after they have occurred.
Given our fleet size its average age and our strategy of operating a modern fleet we expect to retire annually about 4% to 5% of our fleet or 13 to 17 ROVs.
We anticipate adding 20 to 25 new vehicles to our fleet in 2015 and expect to manage our cost to achieve an operating margin of between 29% and 30%.
Subsea Products operating income is forecasted to improve on the strength of higher demand for tooling and installation and workover control system services.
Products operating margin is expected to be in a range of 20% to 22% if we are to achieve the midpoint of our EPS guidance.
We are anticipating lower umbilical plant throughput in 2015 notably due to a decline in scheduled work for Petrobras at our Brazilian plant.
Subsea Projects operating profit is expected to be better on increased demand for our deepwater intervention service capabilities in the Gulf of Mexico and diving in the Gulf and offshore Angola.
Projects operating margin is expected to be slightly higher than in 2014.
During 2015 the operating profit from our Gulf of Mexico deepwater operation is expected to benefit from the addition of another charted multi-service subsea support vessel to our fleet and contract negotiations for our vessel are currently underway.
We have assumed that we will secure work for the Bourbon Evolution 803 or a similar vessel either from BP or other operators in the international waters for the entire year.
Diving is forecasted to be up due to the contract we recently secured from BP for offshore Angola and in the Gulf of Mexico on higher utilization for the Ocean Patriot to perform IMR work.
Our Asset Integrity segment profit contribution is forecasted to be higher on increased refinery and offshore production platform service sales in the United States and Australia and on subsea infrastructure projects worldwide.
Asset Integrity operating margin is expected to be similar to 2014.
Advanced Technologies performance is expected to be significantly higher due to the resolution of execution issues on certain U.S.
Navy and industrial projects that impacted results in 2014 and additional engineering service work for the U.S.
Navy.
Operating margin is anticipated to increase to the historical 8% to 9% range.
Unallocated expenses are estimated to increase at a rate greater than our revenue growth as we improve our information technology infrastructure.
At the midpoint of our guidance range we expect our overall operating margin in 2015 to remain in the same 16% to 17% range we anticipate for 2014.
During 2015 we anticipate generating at least $880 million of EBITDA.
Our balance sheet and projected cash flow provide us with ample resources to invest in Oceaneering's growth.
Our preliminary CapEx estimate for next year is in the range of $300 million to $400 million.
We are expecting lower spending on ROVs and higher spending on Subsea Products particularly for tooling and Subsea work systems.
At this time as usual we are not providing quarterly earnings guidance for 2015.
For those of you who intend to publish quarterly estimates I'd like to remind you that historically our first quarter is the slowest of the year due to seasonality.
On a macro basis we remain convinced that our strategy to focus on providing services and products to facilitate deepwater exploration and production remain sound.
We believe the oil and gas industry will continue its investment in deepwater as it remains one of the best frontiers for adding large hydrocarbon reserves with high production flow rates at relatively low finding and development costs.
While we presently expect only modest increases in deepwater capital and operating expenditures by our customers next year we anticipate our customers CapEx will be directed more to development work and less to exploration activity.
Looking longer term however we believe both CapEx and OpEx will increase at a faster pace as new deepwater investments are made and the buildout and aging of the subsea infrastructure continues.
Consequently we anticipate demand for our deepwater services and products will continue to rise and believe our business prospects for the next several years are promising as we are well levered to the continued expansion in deepwater development and life-of-field IMR spending.
If this is an accurate assessment the projected rise and 3 installations and the growing number of subsea completion in service should lead to umbilical and connection hardware sales demand for IWOCS services and vessel-based ROV and tooling demand.
We are well positioned to supply a wide range of the services and products required to support the safe deepwater efforts of our customers.
We believe Oceaneering's business prospects for the long term remain promising.
Our commanding competitive position technology and leadership and strong balance sheet and cash flow enable us to continue to grow the company and we intend to do so.
In conclusion for 2014 we are anticipating that we will achieve another record year of EPS performance and that 2015 will be better than 2014 even in light of the widely publicized concerns regarding deepwater activity.
We appreciate everyone's interest in Oceaneering and we'll now be happy to take any questions you may have.
[Operator Instructions] And your first question comes from the line of Jim Wicklund.
Research Division</strong> Kevin the borrowings are interesting and we've all read the reasons for them which is everything possible.
And maybe the question that comes to mind is are you going shopping? Are you willing and planning to lever up a little bit to buy back stock in your undervalued situation? What takes precedence here do you think? Well as we have repeatedly said the 4 uses of our cash remain there some priorities could be shifting based on what's going on in the marketplace right now.
But we're not going to give any more color than that.
But obviously we're prepared to be flexible and move forward in each of the 4 areas.
Research Division</strong> Do you have a predetermined ceiling as to what you're comfortable with the debt to cap rate being longer term? No other than I think as we stated earlier in the notes we're going to maintain our investment quality structure.
And your next question comes from the line of Mike Urban.
Research Division</strong> So you answer the question on the liquidity or sort of did.
And on the business side the backlog in Subsea Products has been coming down for reasons that you talked about I guess primarily umbilicals.
You also noted that this can be lumpy.
What does the pipeline look like out there not necessarily just for umbilicals but potential for order rates to pick up our customers out there there are projects out there that are yet to be awarded? And if so how quickly could that stuff flow-through to the P&amp;L once you book it? Well I think generally the fact that we're giving guidance for next year that is better than our projected results for this year suggests that we believe that the orders are still out there.
The umbilical orders as we always noted are very lumpy particularly when we get a large order from Petrobras who are sort of going into pause mode at the moment.
But the big contract we got 2 years ago or so is winding down.
And so that's probably one of the things driving that decline.
There's a lot of product work that exists for a very short period of time in our backlog.
It may never make the external figure because it flows through pretty quickly.
So it's a pretty quick flow-through in most of our hardware products segment work except for the umbilicals.
And that's why just looking at the quarter-to-quarter up-and-down of that is not as meaningful as it might be in some other Subsea Hardware company.
Research Division</strong> Great.
That's very helpful.
And following up on Jim's question a little bit.
In terms one of the potential uses of capital which is M&amp;A or acquisitions probably too early would be my guess but have you seen any change in the marketplace based on the weakening we've seen in the macro fundamentals and the oil price in terms of expectations out there or willingness to sell? Mike I think it's too early.
This is Marvin.
I think it's too early to have seen any significant shift in expectations.
[Operator Instructions] Your next question comes from the line of Ed Muztafago.
You all highlighted obviously that there's going to be a bit of shift in mix of your CapEx spending towards lower ROVs and higher products.
Just on the ROV side specifically could we see the net ROV count for your fall next year due to retirements maybe more than offsetting the addition? We don't see that.
We said we would add 20 to 25 and historically retire 13 to 17 based on our percentage.
Okay.
Fair enough.
So not so much risk about things perhaps coming off some of the older floaters that might not be as viable as the newer stuff.
And then just a very simple question.
Did you all give the share count that underpins your Q4 guidance? I mean presumably you're going to continue to purchase shares as we go through here? Q4 no.
What we are assuming right now is the ending share count and we said 105.7 million for '15 and I think somebody noted that our share count went down 1 million in Q3 even though we had bought 3 million shares because of the timing of the repurchases.
So hopefully between those two numbers you can come up with a pretty good share count.
Okay okay.
But presumably there's a decline that underpins that.
No we are not in our earnings guidance assuming repurchases of additional shares and we're not projecting that.
As we said we'll repurchase the authorized 5.4 million shares in due course without giving a specific time.
[Operator Instructions] And we've a question from the line of Waqar Syed.
Research Division</strong> So my question deals with subsea intervention market.
Kevin could you talk about the competitive landscape in that market.
It seems like it's a high-growth market going forward and a number of different companies are looking at it.
What segment of the market do you play in? And who are the key competitors in that segment? Well I mean there are more competitors out there more levered towards the construction and installation side of the business I will have to say.
And obviously our market is the Gulf of Mexico aside from the contract work we have offshore Angola.
And so we're not operating in the North Sea or any of these other places.
So we feel strongly enough about our market position and prospects for the Gulf of Mexico for next year that as noted we are adding another vessel to our fleet.
So we're confident in our ability to maintain and grow our market share in light of more competition coming through the Gulf of Mexico.
But again I think it's important to recognize that most of the companies that are coming here with assets are looking at the construction and installation part of the market which we do very little in.
Research Division</strong> And then you have a Jones Act vessel coming in.
I believe it's in the first quarter of '16.
That's correct.
Research Division</strong> And could you talk about the strategy there why Jones Act vessel and why pursue that? Sure.
And to be accurate our expectation for the arrival of this vessel is at the end of the first quarter '16.
But nevertheless I mean it is becoming more advantageous to have a Jones Act vessel.
We went to the market and evaluated what was available for charter versus buying and determined that to get what we really wanted at a price that made some sense that we would have to buy and so that's what we did in this case.
And the advantages of having one in your fleet is that for certain projects you can take the liberty of hardware that's going to be installed offshore at the U.S.
port and install it and not have to transport it out there on the second vessel to comply with Jones Act law.
And your next question comes from the line of Kurt Hallead.
LLC Research Division</strong> Thanks for all that great detail on how you guys are viewing the world going out into '15.
I wanted to kind of follow-up on that.
So it seems predicated on your commentary that you really only think -- predicated on how things are rolling off in 2015 that there was about 7 000 days of contract risk if you will.
I think there's a difference between 18 000 that's rolling off and the 11 000 that you have equipment on drillships and 6 gen semis [ph].
That means I would happen to share your view that those will get extended.
So when you think about that 80% or when we try to think about that 80% utilization number that you put out there for ROVs how do we kind of calibrate that back to that 7 000 uncontracted days like are you assuming that half of that goes back to work? Are you assuming that most of that goes back to work? Can you give us a little bit more color around that on how are you viewing the world? Kurt it's too early.
It's Marvin again.
It's too early for us to do it on a rig by rig basis.
What we have considered in a number of cases is idle time between contracts.
And even for the other 11 000 that we believe are most likely to go back to work and I appreciate that we share the same view because maybe others don't.
But we think that's a good likelihood of him going back to work.
But we don't think it's going to be rolling off and rolling on right away.
So we think there's going to be idle time for all of those 18 000 days and we've tried to model that in.
And also we believe there may be idle time on vessel activities.
So we're expecting a slower rate of growth next year and we came up with 80%.
LLC Research Division</strong> That's fine.
I appreciate that too.
And just for another point of calibration on that range of $4.10 to $4.50 would you say that the delta and to get you down to that lower end would that really predominantly be because of a lower ROV utilization number than at 80% you put forward? If I were to think through that way would that be the best way to do it? No Kurt.
We look at it in a number of different ways and we can get to $4.10 in several different ways just like we can to $4.50.
So we're probably going out there with a little bit more uncertainty than we have in a decade.
But because of the oil price environment we really don't know what CapEx is going to be and how much shift through development is we expect it's going to occur and the timing of that.
But I would say that all of our oilfield segments have a considerable range that helps us to get from $4.10 to $4.50.
And your next question comes the line of Jon Donnel.
Research Division</strong> I had a question just regarding the products guidance I just want to make sure I was hearing the numbers correctly.
So it sounded like the op income expectations are coming down year-over-year despite the fact that the growth is going to be led by more of the ROV tooling which thought of as being more of the higher-margin work.
So I guess was I hearing that right and if so could you reconcile that for us and how we ought to be thinking about that dynamic of the top line coming from a bigger mix of the ROV tooling compared to the op margins moving down little bit? John I think -- first of all let me just start with we're projecting at a midpoint or as we said for all of our oilfield segments to be up '15 over '14.
And the guidance range for profit margin is between 20% and 22%.
But that was to achieve the midpoint of our EPS guidance.
Right.
And that's at the midpoint.
So I think there's some give in our forecast.
But the other thing that we're talking about is while tooling and subsea work practice [ph] are going up we talked about uncertainty in Brazil in the umbilical plants.
So you do have some moving pieces and I wouldn't think the shift in mix would be significant enough to take us outside of that intended 20% to 22% margin.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
That helps a lot.
I mean then regarding the ROVs you guys clearly continue to add share even in a tough market on the drill support side.
And it looks like it's having a positive impact on the day rates that comes back into for the published numbers.
Are those -- are these high day rates here something you think can be sustained through 2015 even in kind of your view of flattish to uncertain market if you will? Or should we be baking in some of that into our day rate outlook as well? It really quarter-to-quarter can change on the basis of the geographic mix because these markets are all -- somewhat different.
And so it's kind of hard to just take this one data point and move forward with that for rest of the year.
I mean I think that you could expect to see the same sort of margin generation that we have historically been trying to achieve.
And that's hard enough in this world.
Yes.
I really think price increases are going to be difficult in this environment.
And we believe that the 29% to 30% is the right expectation for ROV margins for '15.
And that assumes some serious cost controls.
And your next question comes from the line Byron Pope.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Very helpful color.
So I've just got one question.
I think about you guys having pretty good breadth across the deepwater markets globally and I look at roughly 1/3 of your revenues coming from the Gulf of Mexico which feels to us like the one deepwater theater where we should still see activity growth year-over-year.
So as you about the line of sight that you have for work in your ROV segment and Subsea Products and in Subsea Projects is it reasonable to think about the Gulf of Mexico as being the primary regional driver for Oceaneering next year? Or is it still too early to tell? I think it's a little early.
I mean one of the nice things if you want to look at it this way about operating in some of the different regions in the world is that you don't have to be able to predict exactly what's going to happen.
Things shift around and it's kind of hard to predict precisely.
But -- and certainly Gulf of Mexico and West Africa and Norway are the 3 big primary areas for us.
And we do believe that Norway is going to slow down and we share your opinion about the Gulf particularly because of the let's just call them nonmajors sanctioning projects and proceeding ahead.
And we think with the lower rig day rates there will be more opportunity for these players to pick up 1 or 2 well projects that usually or historically in last couple of years have not been available to them.
And there are no further questions at this time.
Excuse me you do have one other question that just came into queue from Brad Handler.
Research Division</strong> Can you please -- I guess I'm going to come back with same sort of questions but I wasn't quite clear on the products side.
Do you think revenues will be up year-on-year or just operating income? Well I mean I think I know the answer to this but ...
revenues have to pick up year-on-year right? We think revenues will be up.
Revenues are going to be up.
Research Division</strong> Right right.
It has to be because of the margin.
So the point is that the tools and the IWOCS more than offset the decline in the umbilicals that you're looking for? Yes that's what we see at the midpoint.
Correct.
Research Division</strong> Okay yes simple enough.
All right.
I just wanted to clarify.
And then an unrelated question for me.
I think last quarter I think it was just last quarter you talked about having a bit -- well I'll describe it this way maybe you'll change it.
A bit of a challenge selling or convincing customers to use existing ROVs yet your prepared comments today talk about doing just that.
So can you talk a little bit about some of the progress you've made in that area in doing that? Well I'm not I would characterize it as progress that we've made.
I would characterize it more as a change in the marketplace where previously operators were taking rigs for 5 to 7 years a brand new rig and they wanted a brand new ROV.
Well in today's world where you see rigs being -- pretty new rigs being taken for much shorter periods of time we don't think -- our guess is that they're not going to be so adamant about demanding a new ROV and we are hoping that we will have some opportunities to use like new systems on those opportunities as opposed to having to build another ROV.
Does that make sense? Research Division</strong> Sure it does.
And there are no further questions at this time.
Okay.
Since there are no more questions I'd like to wrap up by thanking everyone for joining the call.
We are very pleased with our best-ever quarterly results and anticipate producing record EPS for both 2014 and 2015.
In closing I would like to reiterate our confidence in our earnings and cash flow generation combined with our commitment to growth and the return of cash to our shareholders will continue to create value for all of our shareholders.
We suggest you stay tuned to the Oceaneering story like our Fox News Houston's affiliate KRIV slogan you miss a little you miss a lot.
This concludes our third quarter 2014 conference call.
Thanks and have a great day and holiday season.
Good morning.
My name is Melissa and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Oceaneering International 2014 Q4 and Annual Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Thank you.
Mr.
Jack Jurkoshek you may begin your conference.
Good morning everybody and thanks for joining us.
As usual a webcast of this event is being made available through the StreetEvents Network service by Thomson Reuters.
Joining me today are Kevin McEvoy our President and Chief Executive Officer who will be leading the call this morning; Marvin Migura our Executive Vice President; and Cardon Gerner our Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Just as a reminder remarks we make during the course of the call regarding our earnings guidance business strategy plans for future operations and industry conditions are forward-looking statements made pursuant to the Safe Harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
And I'm now going to turn the call over to Kevin.
Good morning and thanks for joining the call.
I'd like to start out by addressing 4 key points in our earnings release.
First 2014 was a record earnings year for Oceaneering.
Earnings per share increased for the fifth consecutive year up 17% over 2013 and we realized the highest annual operating income margin in our history.
Second heading into 2015 we are faced with a slowdown in deepwater activity.
This is attributable to the significant decline in the price of Brent crude oil since our last earnings release and the growing prospect that this depressed oil price environment could be prolonged.
This has led to announced plans by our customers to reduce their 2015 exploration and development expenditures which have adversely impacted our earnings prospects.
While work on most deepwater projects already approved and underway is likely to continue the urgency to start new projects is in question until the commodity price environment stabilizes and improves.
Therefore we are resetting our 2015 EPS guidance to a range of $3.10 to $3.50.
While all oilfield services and product companies face the same uncertainties we are attempting to frame our outlook to be within a realm of probabilities under a variety of scenarios.
We are not pretending to have a better crystal ball than others.
We are simply sharing our view of our business prospects at this time.
Within this framework we are initiating first quarter 2015 EPS guidance of $0.58 to $0.62.
Third despite the current uncertainties surrounding deepwater activity our long-term -- our longer-term outlook remains positive.
Deepwater is expected to continue to play a critical role in global oil supply growth despite its large capital commitments technical challenges and the current commodity price environment.
An industry research report published late last month indicated that about 1/3 of future incremental oil supply estimated at more than 25 million barrels per day by 2020 will come from deepwater.
And finally we recently announced an agreement to acquire C &amp; C Technologies a global provider of survey services principally for the Oil and Gas industry in deepwater.
We believe this transaction which is expected to be completed in April of this year is a unique opportunity to strategically expand our service line capabilities and underwater service offerings.
We anticipate C&amp;C to be accretive to our 2015 earnings and plan to include its results in our Subsea Projects segment.
I'd now like to briefly review our operations for the fourth quarter.
Record fourth quarter EPS of $0.99 for 2014 was 15% above that of the fourth quarter of 2013 on income improvements from our ROV Subsea Projects and Advanced Technologies business operations.
ROV operating income rose on an increase in days on hire and an improvement in operating margin.
This was accomplished despite the fact that our fleet utilization dropped to 80% from 87% a year ago due to declining demand to provide drill support services on older-generation floating drilling rigs.
ROV operating income margin for the quarter was 31% compared to 28% a year ago.
The fourth quarter 2013 results included a charge we recorded related to the OGX receivables.
During the quarter we put 8 vehicles into service and retired 4.
Our fleet mix usage during the quarter was 72% on drill support and 28% on vessel-based work compared to a 73%-27% mix a year ago and a 71%-29% mix last quarter.
Subsea Projects operating income grew on increased demand for Deepwater vessel intervention services in the U.S.
Gulf of Mexico and the commencement of providing diving services offshore Angola.
Advanced Technologies operating income improved on the strength of increased demand for engineering services and shipyard repairs by the U.S.
Navy and completion of several industrial projects.
Moving on to our total year 2014 operations.
We achieved record earnings of $428 million and EPS of $4 and realized the highest annual operating income margin in our history.
These results were largely attributable to our global focus on deepwater and subsea completion activity and solid operational execution.
For 2014 our ROV Subsea Products and Subsea Projects segments received -- achieved record operating income.
ROV operating income rose for the 11th consecutive year an accomplishment of which we are very proud.
This was attributable to the expansion of our fleet in response to higher global demand to provide drill support and vessel-based services principally in the U.S.
Gulf of Mexico and offshore Africa and an improvement in operating margin.
We increased our days on hire by 7% to over 98 000 days.
Our fleet utilization declined to 83% from 85% in 2013.
During the year we added 49 vehicles and retired 17 older systems increasing our fleet to 336 vehicles compared to 304 at the beginning of the year.
In 2014 20 new floating drilling rigs were placed into service and we had ROVs on 16 of them.
We believe we continue to be the largest ROV owner with an estimated 36% of the industry's work-class vehicles at year end.
This represents a fleet more than twice the size of the next-largest ROV competitor.
We remain the primary provider of ROV drill support service with an estimated market share of 59% more than 3x that of the second-largest supplier.
We had 182 ROVs on contract on 162 floating drilling rigs.
Subsea Products operating income increased on higher demand for each of our major product lines led by tooling and umbilicals.
Tooling results were up from continued strong demand for subsea work systems which are used for projects such as flow assurance and well stimulation services we provide to conduct a large subsea fuel abandonment project in the North Sea and the sale of a chemical distribution unit for -- used in an emergency oil spill response equipment package which can be economically deployed from a vessel instead of a rig.
Operating margin increased slightly to 23% from 22% in 2013 due to good execution resulting in higher margins on tooling umbilicals and IWOCS service sales.
Umbilical revenue as a percent of our total products revenue in 2014 grew to 32% from 29% in 2013.
Our year-end Subsea Products backlog was $690 million down from an all-time high of $906 million at the end of 2013.
This backlog decline was attributable to umbilicals.
Regarding Subsea Projects operating income grew in 2014 on an increase in deepwater vessel service activity and the commencement of providing diving services offshore Angola in the fourth quarter.
During the year we obtained 3 notable contract commitments for future work.
We obtained from BP Angola a Field Support Vessel Services contract extension through January 2017 and a contract to provide diving services through the first quarter of 2016.
We also secured a 2-year term commitment from Shell that started January 1 2015 for use of one of our chartered vessels the Ocean Alliance in the Gulf of Mexico.
To augment our ability to provide deepwater vessel services we chartered late in the year an additional vessel the Island Pride for 2 years.
This vessel commenced work in the U.S.
Gulf of Mexico earlier this month.
The initial work program for this vessel was to perform a well stimulation project that is anticipated to last around 3 months.
Asset Integrity operating income was about the same as in 2014 and AdTech operating income declined on lower activity on theme park projects and vessel maintenance work for the U.S.
Navy and lower margins on the theme park work that we did perform.
Moving on from operating results to a financial strategy overview.
In November we issued $500 million of 10-year senior notes through a public offering to add a layer of long-term debt to our balance sheet and achieve a more efficient capital structure.
We also more than doubled our committed bank facilities in 2014 to $800 million consisting of a $500 million revolver and a $300 million 3-year delayed-draw term loan on which we had drawn $250 million at year end.
Our total capital allocation spending was approximately $1.1 billion in 2014.
We invested $387 million in organic capital expenditures and $40 million on acquisitions.
We paid $110 million of cash dividends and we repurchased $590 million or 8.9 million shares of our common stock approximately 8% of our shares outstanding at the end of 2013.
Shares repurchased during the fourth quarter totaled 5.4 million at a cost of $354 million.
We completed our 2010 stock repurchase program in mid-December and our Board of Directors authorized a new $10 million share repurchase program.
The cash dividends share repurchases and our new share repurchase program underscore our willingness to return cash to our shareholders and confidence in Oceaneering's financial strength and future business prospects.
At $858 million our 2014 EBITDA was also a record high.
In summary we believe our annual 2014 earnings performance and cash generation results were excellent.
We are committed to our customers' success and our results reflect their recognition of our ability to provide value.
Now let's talk about our 2015 EPS outlook.
Compared to 2014 our revised 2015 EPS forecast assumptions are that demand and pricing for many of the services and products we offer will be down.
Consequently we are projecting that all of our oilfield business segments principally ROV and Subsea Products will have lower operating income in 2015 than in 2014.
We are resetting our 2015 EPS guidance range to a range of $3.10 to $3.50 on an estimated number of 100.3 million diluted common shares outstanding.
This EPS guidance takes into account the pending acquisition of C&amp;C.
Our EPS range also includes the impact of rightsizing and cost initiatives we have underway.
And we will take further measures if demand falls short of our expected levels.
Compared to 2014 our earnings outlook for 2015 includes the following major considerations for our oilfield business operations: Lower demand for ROVs for both drilling and vessel support work and reduced average pricing.
We are expecting our fleet days on hire and utilization to be lower.
At the end of 2014 there were 82 floating drilling rigs that had contract end dates in 2015 and we had ROVs on 55 of them.
As these rigs roll off their existing contracts we are anticipating that a high number will experience substantial idle time or become cold stacked.
The extent of the impact of reduced rig activity is unknown and difficult to forecast at the present time.
We are not anticipating that our overall fleet size will materially change.
We have firm contracts for more than 10 new ROVs expected to be placed in service during 2015.
These fleet additions could be offset by retirements which in these market conditions may be more than our normal average annual prediction of 4% to 5% of our fleet.
For Subsea Products we expect our short-cycle businesses such as tooling to experience lower demand.
We also expect lower demand to support field abandonment projects and DOP control system replacements.
Based on our backlog and forecast bookings we expect umbilical revenues to be flat.
For Subsea Projects we are projecting lower vessel pricing in the Gulf of Mexico and reduced use of a third dynamically positioned vessel by DP on our Angola project.
We expect the Bourbon 803 to be released by DP at the end of April.
The decline on our Subsea Projects business should be mitigated by the affected income contributions from our acquisition of C&amp;C during the last 3 quarters of the year and our data solutions group including our acquisition of AIRSIS in 2014.
And for Asset Integrity a lower level of activity as a result of planned maintenance deferrals by our customers and generally lower pricing.
In some cases our customers are seeking price reductions for work we have already contracted.
In this regard we are working with them to develop lower-cost alternatives rather than simply dropping our prices.
We continue to expect that our Advanced Technology segment operating income performance to be significantly better in 2015.
This is attributable to additional industrial project work and the resolution of execution issues on certain U.S.
Navy and industrial projects that adversely impacted results in 2014.
Unallocated expenses are estimated to be higher as we improve our information technology infrastructure notably with regard to cybersecurity.
Given the uncertainties in our plan for 2015 including the level of floating rig use and the short-cycle nature of demand for many of our services and products we are not giving additional segment guidance.
We are expecting our overall operating margin in 2015 to be down over 200 basis points compared to 2014 and that our effective tax rate will be about the same.
In spite of the current and anticipated market conditions we expect our liquidity and projected cash flow will provide us with ample resources to continue investing in Oceaneering's future and returning capital to our shareholders.
At year end we had $431 million in cash and anticipate generating at least $725 million of EBITDA in 2015.
We also expect to reduce our 2015 organic CapEx to between $200 million and $250 million largely on lower ROV spending.
And as previously announced we have an agreement to acquire C &amp; C Technologies Inc.
for approximately $230 million which we expect to complete in April.
We intend to reevaluate our quarterly cash dividend payment annually during the second quarter of each year.
Our residual use of capital is share repurchases.
At the end of 2014 we had authorization to repurchase 10 million shares.
We intend to continue our practice of announcing share repurchases only after they occur.
Moving on to our first quarter 2015 outlook.
As I stated earlier our EPS guidance range is $0.58 to $0.62.
This takes into account normal seasonality project timing issues and generally lower demand due to the recent decline in the price of oil.
Our first quarter 2015 guidance is down year-over-year as we expect all of our oilfield business segments to have lower operating income.
It is down sequentially as we expect lower operating income from all of our operating business segments except Asset Integrity which is expected to be slightly up.
Our first quarter guidance takes into account that on a year-over-year and sequential basis we will have higher unallocated expenses and net interest expense and a lower share count.
On a macro basis we are well positioned to supply a wide range of the services and products required to support the safe deepwater efforts of our customers.
Our commanding competitive position technology leadership and strong balance sheet and cash flow enable us to continue investing in the company's future as opportunities arise and returning capital to our shareholders and we intend to do so.
In conclusion our 2014 we achieved another record year of EPS performance and I would like to recognize and thank our over 12 000 employees who made this happen through their commitment to safety quality and creativity within the framework of our core values.
Heading into 2015 we are faced with a slowdown in deepwater activity and consequently are expecting that our EPS will be lower than in 2014.
Certainly this is a challenging time but believe we are well positioned and up to the task of making the most of it.
Market conditions may change but our commitment to deliver results to our shareholders remains the same.
We have a seasoned management team in place that has experienced serious oilfield industry down cycles before.
We are confident in our ability to quickly adjust our business plan and take advantage of opportunities that may emerge.
We are focused on cash flow generation and cost control and have already taken actions to rightsize our workforce where needed.
We appreciate everyone's interest in Oceaneering.
I will now be happy to take any questions you may have.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes the line of Byron Pope.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Very helpful color on the 2015 outlook so I just have one question as it relates to the ROV business.
You mentioned lower demand for both drill support and work-class ROVs.
And you've got pretty good geographic coverage across deepwater tiers for both types of ROVs.
I'm just wondering are there any particular 1 or 2 geographies that are likely to drive the year-over-year lower demand? Or is it just more broad-based given where we are with Brent prices? Well first of all the ROVs are kind of the same.
It's just where they are working is different but the ROVs are the same.
We're expecting across the board that there will be pressure on pricing and that as rigs go idle that's going to create decrease in demand.
But Norway is probably going to be an area that we'll see lower demand particularly on the vessel side.
Yes.
I think the Gulf of Mexico continues to look to be the bright spot.
And Africa from a drill rig support base is going to -- is declining.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And if I think back to the '09 downcycle and the resiliency of your ROV business relative to most other oil service businesses is the pricing dynamic or the competitive dynamics somehow different this time around? Because I look back then and you really didn't give up all that much in terms of your revenue per days worked.
No.
I don't think the pricing dynamics are any different.
I think the rig utilization dynamics are significantly different.
I think in '09 it was a blip.
And it was a V-shape and we -- deepwater wasn't impacted.
And right now deepwater is being impacted.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then last question for me.
I just wanted to -- Kevin maybe if you could -- I know you touched on this a little bit in your prepared remarks.
But could you speak to some of the medium- to longer-term opportunities you see as a result of bringing C &amp; C Technologies in-house? And just thinking about what they do versus what you already provide in terms of products and service opportunities.
Well I think -- I mean this provides a new branch if you will for us to expand services that they provide.
We're particularly interested in the deepwater AUV part of their business.
They're primarily Gulf of Mexico-centric and we obviously provide a geographic platform there where we can expand that and help to grow that business.
Obviously it'll be -- we'll see what happens in 2015 in terms of demand for that.
But longer term we're very happy with that business and like the ability to really jumpstart an AUV presence in the marketplace.
And there are synergies between our projects business our vessel base user survey our vessel's use survey.
And often times ROV bids require a survey capability.
So we saw unique attributes to C&amp;C and we were very pleased that we were able to come to an agreement to acquire them.
Your next question comes from the line of Stephen Gengaro.
Research Division</strong> As we look at 2015 from here as you look at the ROV side and you touched on this a little bit and also on the Subsea Projects side how much of visibility do you have right now? How much is under contract that you're very confident? And how much is sort of out there that you're -- that's a little looser as far as your expectations are concerned? Well as far as the projects group we have some long-term contracts in Angola and we have the Shell 1-year -- or 2-year contract that we alluded to in the remarks there.
Outside of that it is project work.
Some -- we have some visibility on that in the shorter term but not so much past first quarter let's say.
And on the ROV side I mean it really is all about the rig utilization and how much vessel work is going to be done in areas particularly Norway.
That all seems to have pulled back quite heavily and it's still unclear what they plan to do in the coming year but we're expecting it to be less and...
I think we quantified the rig exposure that we had 55 ROVs on 82 floating rigs that have contract end days in 2015.
And I mean I think other than that the ROV drill support barring any other cancellations is pretty firm.
Yes.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
No that's helpful color.
And then as we think about the uses of cash it may be hard to comment on but when you think about the desire to continue this trend of raising your dividend versus share repurchase how should we think about that? Well as we said in the remarks we evaluate that the second quarter of each year and we'll announce that accordingly.
I think just further answer to that is we expect that the continuation of dividends is way more stable than our episodic purchases of treasury stock.
And we'll always continue to put growth first dividends second and acquisition of treasury shares third or fourth depending if we want to view the growth in organic and acquisitions.
Your next question comes from the line of Kirk Hallead.
LLC Research Division</strong> I appreciate the color and the info.
In a tough market backdrop obviously always difficult to predict the magnitudes and everything else.
But I'm just curious when you do kind of -- when you went through your own internal assessments and you looked at the different segments I was wondering if you could give us some insights as to what segments would be hit.
If you give us a descending order which ones are going to be hit the most down through the ones that will be hit the least? Well I think we indicated in the remarks that it's going to be principally ROV and then followed by products.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then the others are not going to be impacted as about -- impacted about the same from when we talk about projects for example? It would be projects would be third Asset Integrity would be fourth and AdTech is countercyclical and going up.
And within the products segment we said umbilicals was the easiest to predict because of visibility of backlog and we made it longer term and we said it's going to be flat.
So -- and the short-cycle high-margin business of providing solutions by providing tooling is kind of the least visible.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
If I missed some of that earlier I apologize for having to rehash it.
The other dynamic I was wondering because you gave some information good information here on aggregate decline and overall margin.
And I just again kind of wonder from a revenue standpoint are you expecting aggregate revenues to decline by more than 10% or less than 10%? Kurt I haven't looked at the revenue at the $310 million at the $350 million.
I would say at the top end it would be less and I haven't really looked at the $310 million.
I don't have the $310 million number with me as far as revenue.
I think we're looking at so much speculation as to the level of activity that it's -- we just ran a various -- on a variety of scenarios and kept coming up with numbers that fell between that range.
We're not saying the midpoint's any more predictable than either end of them.
Your next question comes from the line of Jim Wicklund.
Research Division</strong> Excellent acquisition of C&amp;C.
Very good company.
The Chance family strikes again.
You found something that's your value so I congratulate you on that.
That's a good deal.
You guys have said a couple of times -- Marvin you were talking about it's different this time.
Pricing's the same but the dynamic with the rigs are different.
And before that you mentioned weakness in '15 and '16.
Instead of asking you what your revenue is going to be in the third quarter for ROVs can you tell us how long you think this cycle will take to readjust and come back? Is this a 1-year period of push to the right a 2-year period push to the right? And I know you guys don't know but nobody's better -- in a better position to speculate how long does it take for all the things that have to happen all the step changes and everything to actually start deepwater back on an upward track again? Jim is this a pool that we're betting on or what? Research Division</strong> Yes yes if we're going to -- exactly.
At my Christmas luncheon we're going to all participate.
Jim tell me the exact oil price scenario and I'll think about the other.
Research Division</strong> Well let's say if we don't go above $75 for 2 years.
I don't know.
We take it -- I mean if you look at a lot of -- I mean this is a variety is it a U a V or a W or a whatever.
And we're not taking any position on that because it really depends upon what segment and what sector you're in.
And I mean we think that deepwater has more potential for coming back or not going as low as land and for stabilizing sooner.
I mean before the oil price collapse we had the problem of oversupply in the drilling market.
And that was starting to hurt utilization and then the oil price dropped.
So it really is a matter of oil price visibility.
I think if it comes back to $75 I mean it would be -- we [indiscernible].
You'd hope to see some recovery in '16.
I mean I think that one consistent thing that we get from talking to the major oil companies that are our customers is that they are not going to stop in deepwater.
I think what may be a bit different this time from previous down cycles is that there seems to be a fair realization amongst the major oil companies that they need to structurally change the way they're doing their business.
And so they're going to be working through that.
I would say that even if the price magically spiked backed up to $80 tonight we're still going to go through the same travail with the large operators in particular because of the way they're doing your business.
It's not very cost effective and that's what they're going to be working on.
And so...
Research Division</strong> And that's my biggest concern Kevin.
And I see that it's going to happen.
I'm just trying to figure out how long that duration of those oil companies taking will be.
That's all.
And then if you all don't have a handle I understand.
But that was really the crux of my question.
Well I mean I think that they are obviously going to continue to proceed with projects that are already underway.
I've got to believe that they have got enough inventory out there to prioritize which ones are the lowest cost in today's environment and they will work towards those.
There may be delays and whatever else but they'll do that.
And in the meantime they will continue to work on changing the way they're doing their business in order to reduce costs.
And we're in pretty detailed conversations with several different operators in that regard as they are with lots of other companies not just us to try and make these changes.
So I don't think that they're going to go back to business as usual with this oil price.
As we all know they were kind of getting beat up for a long time way before the oil price went down on their increasing costs and with the static oil price.
And so they need to address that issue and I think they are starting to do that right now.
And lastly Jim just because we were bold enough or foolish enough to give 2015 guidance we are not taking a position on our '16 earnings okay? Research Division</strong> And I think that's prudent Marvin.
But I also have to tell you you're the only guys with the cajones so far to put out '15 numbers at all so congratulations.
Your next question comes from the line of Jon Donnel.
Research Division</strong> Just another question here regarding the guidance and just kind of the seasonal progression that's kind of embedded within it.
I mean it looks like just from the first quarter numbers compared to the full year that you're kind of baking in the same 18% to 20%-ish earnings achieved during first quarter implying that there's going to be the typical seasonal build-up.
But it seems that just given the size of the drilling market and the number of rigs rolling off contract et cetera that it ought to maybe dampen that seasonal increase a little bit here through the middle of the year.
I guess could you help us sort of reconcile those 2 phenomenon and kind of how you see the earnings progressing throughout the year to get to the annual number compared to the first quarter? And will that be very different than we are used to seeing in the past? Well right now Jon we may be just creatures of habit and there's very little visibility as to quarters.
So I mean we know -- we think we've got a handle on what's going to happen in Q1 and what we think our guidance is as you noted traditionally based as far as seasonality.
Does the dampening of the market and rigs rolling off contract during the year impair our earnings progression to be something that is not traditional? We haven't really been able to focus on that enough to -- with any certainty.
Right now we're looking at more of a traditional layout.
I would add to that too though the -- we can tell you that the earnings contribution from C&amp;C is highly seasonal.
It was at the end of the [indiscernible] the second and third quarter.
Okay.
But let's not overweigh that because we know that we said the first year we're going to own them.
They're going to generate -- we expect to generate $20 million to $30 million of EBITDA over the 12 months after April 1.
And if you take that after depreciation and taxes let's just make sure that we're not overweighting the contribution from C&amp;C especially in year 1 with integration costs.
Your next question comes from the line of Chase Mulvehill.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I guess back on kind of the buybacks and leverage if I remember correctly back in December you guys talked -- you put out a release talking about the buybacks and the desire to kind of more optimize your capital structure potentially taking your net debt-to-EBITDA up to 1 to -- or 1.5x.
Is that still in the cards? Are you guys still wanting to optimize your capital structure? Or are we now thinking a different way? Well I think we are probably going to be a little more conservative about that in the shorter term.
I think longer term we're still committed to that principle that we laid out.
But obviously in the uncertainty that we have right now we're going to be a little more conservative about what our leverage is going to be until things stabilize a bit.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
All right.
That make sense.
And on the Subsea Products revenues have basically doubled since 2010.
Can you just walk us through the main drivers of what drove the doubling of revenue and then kind of the outlook of those businesses in a $60 oil price environment? Is that in 2 sentences or less? I mean I think over that time period we had some reasonable growth in the contribution from our umbilicals business over that time period.
We had some good growth in the demand for a lot of our subsea work systems out of the tooling group over that period of time.
We also had some significant projects in our Grayloc subsidiary that made some meaningful contributions.
Going forward...
IWOCS too.
And IWOCS has been a good contributor as well.
So moving forward all of those things I mean the Grayloc business doesn't have the set of large projects that contributed over that time frame.
It's still going to be a great business but it won't be as high as it was.
We already know what we see for the umbilical business for 2015.
And I think there it really is a question of how much of a gap if any is there in the offshore development cycle.
If people don't make orders for some period of time it's going to affect everybody in the manufacturing sector.
They'll have a gap in their factories.
But 2015 we have reasonable visibility of that.
Lastly on the subsea work systems side I mean that is a function of callout demand from our customers.
And you could expect that if there's anything they can defer they might be deferring it.
And so it's pretty cloudy in terms of what might come there.
And in general even when times are good we don't really have clear visibility.
It's just the market momentum and an expectation that we are going against as opposed to orders in the end or anything like that.
Your next question comes from the line of Ed Muztafago.
Certainly appreciate you not wanting to get too deep into the segments given the uncertainty that we're facing this year.
I was wondering maybe if we could just talk about projects a little bit in terms of the sequential improvement in 2Q and just the fact that you've got C&amp;C.
You have the Island Pride and then of course the Shell vessel charter that's already started.
Do we see the most dramatic rebound in the projects business at least sequentially in 2Q and then a more dramatic falloff? Or can you help us think about that a little bit? Well I think while we have those positive things there we also have a number of other vessels in our fleet and vessels coming here from the North Sea trying to get work that's originating over there.
So I think the competition is going to be even more heightened here in the Gulf than it was in 2014.
So do those all balance out? I don't know.
I mean we'll have to see because again other than what we had stated as being a long term everything else is callout and it's...
And we have the 803 in Angola going off contract in April.
So there's too many moving pieces to be able to give you much color as to whether or not sequentially Q2 over Q1 projects rebounds.
I mean they -- it's normally most affected by the seasonality.
So I mean you start with thinking that logical approach but there's just too many moving pieces and I don't think C&amp;C is going to move the needle in Q2.
Okay.
Well I can appreciate that and I'll certainly stand on Jim's comment about the brass [ph] to give out guidance.
Can you maybe help us think about just sort of the ROV pricing a little bit more? And I guess really thinking along the lines of the fact that you do have 10 ROVs coming in that I believe are sort of a higher-revenue higher-margin ROV but -- and presumably what's going off contract would be some lower-revenue lower-margin stuff.
If we think about sort of the -- kind of an imputed day rate or pricing for ROVs net-net those suggest they might cancel out a little bit but then there's the pricing dynamic.
And I know you've kind of said in the past that you're always a little reticent to really push ROV pricing but that might suggest that to the downside it's also less sensitive.
Can you just kind of help us think through all those moving pieces? Ed first of all I mean I don't think 10 ROVs coming into a fleet of over 300 is going to have much impact.
And the other thing I want to say is what impacts our ROV average day rate a lot is the mix between drill support and vessel base with vessel base having a larger crew and having a larger day rate because of the higher crew component.
And so that mix with the low visibility on vessel utilization is probably the biggest thing that we have to concern ourselves with about average day rate or a.k.a.
pricing.
Okay.
Fair enough.
That's very helpful.
And then just in terms of the sort of relative price compression or ability to sort of give away pricing on the different product lines would ROV be for the most part the least affected or the least decline in pricing? I mean historically in that business we have fared very well in these down cycles.
I think it's hard to tell how aggressive the oil companies are going to be in what in our view is a pretty small part of the overall cost issue that they have.
So I mean they're all asking for discounts.
They're all asking for discounts on the order of not just to us and not necessarily in the ROV business but just generally across the board they're talking in terms of 30% to 35% reduction in cost on the basis that "Hey guys we just lost 50% of our revenue.
Help us out here." And so these are very difficult conversations.
But back to the point I -- at this point it's hard to see that the ROV business will be -- I mean it certainly is not going to be immune.
I mean we're thinking that it won't be dramatic or drastic or anything like that but it could be affected a little more than it has been historically.
And instead of as we said and as Kevin said in the opening comments instead of just looking for ways to give them lower pricing we're looking for ways to eliminate cost.
And so if we can do the same job without the [indiscernible] during a completion on a drilling rig instead of having additional crew cost and additional crew pricing in there they could see a lower-cost solution.
And so we're working on ways to achieve some of their goals without giving all of them what they're asking for out of pricing.
Your next question comes from the line of Brad Handler.
Research Division</strong> I guess I was hoping you could share a little bit more color about your work with -- in Angola.
Is it your sense as they -- as you said that the Bourbon 803 is going to be let go at the end of April I guess is it your sense that your customer has found an ability to do the work over the long term with 2 vessels versus 3? Has there been some change in the pace of work to be done there? I think they're slowing down.
I think they're cutting costs because they have to across the board and slowing down is one way to cut costs.
Right.
Research Division</strong> Right right.
So maybe that's not optimal from their standpoint but it does cut costs for now.
Correct.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
What -- maybe let's switch back to the Gulf of Mexico where you're obviously a little bit more optimistic about project work.
And maybe it's -- you can string some of your contracts or some of the visibility you do have together.
Is it a behavior? Is there some behavioral change? Is this -- actually is this a good way to manage the economics for some of your oil company customers in terms of having -- in terms of are they doing more work from a flowing well perspective or something? I don't know.
Just do you see anything in the demand profile there that I guess is a little more encouraging? But what can we draw from some of your -- from some of the visibility on it? Well I think -- I mean the Gulf of Mexico right now has got more project activity ongoing.
And so it's going to be a stronger market compared to some other places particularly let's say the North Sea.
But in terms of any fundamental shift in what they're using vessels for today versus yesterday no I don't see that all.
I do see the -- or heavy expectation that if they can defer some work like abandonment type of activity or inspections that don't have to be done but they were doing them before because they wanted to or whatever then those things are going to get deferred.
So there is no fundamental shift in how things are being done in the Gulf of Mexico.
It's just that there's more activity there that is going on and that's a good thing.
Research Division</strong> Maybe with regards to the alliance and Shell.
So presumably Shell has been doing callout work for a long long time.
Were you able to persuade them that a dedicated vessel achieves a lot of efficiencies? Is that sort of the business development dynamic? Yes.
Yes absolutely.
Now we were working on that for quite a long time.
But anyway so...
And Brad a good observation on that is that the contract is not incremental because they were doing a lot of project work on a callout basis and we are a very good preferred vendor of theirs and they are a preferred customers of ours.
So the fact that we locked up the alliance doesn't mean that we took utilization risk out of the overall fleet because we took Shell off the customer list for the callout work.
Research Division</strong> Right right right.
And if you try to roll -- should we try to roll forward this concept a bit? In other words are there savings that you're offering that you might expect to be able to aggregate work and concentrate it in one of them? I mean it really is about visibility of demand on the operator's side.
I mean if they see the demand then they have a clear choice whether to take a vessel for a longer period of time or to work the stock market.
And I think generally that is directly related to how much subsidy infrastructure that operator has in the geographic area that we're talking about.
And it is -- not everybody has or most other companies don't have that kind of infrastructure there.
So they're not going to see that demand.
[Operator Instructions] Your next question comes from the line of Darren Gacicia.
LLC Research Division</strong> I wanted to ask it's -- people have been kind of poking around trying to get around projects.
It's always a little bit kind of the least visible to sort of understand.
I guess the only sensitivity question I wanted to ask is if you took one vessel off what's the revenue impact of kind of one vessel going down in any given quarter on that quarter's revenue? Just if I wanted to make my own assumptions how would I want to calibrate that? I don't think we...
Don't want to go there.
Give that out.
I mean it's just too hard to make anything meaningful out of that anyway in my opinion.
I mean it's a callout.
Being the callout business it's up and down all the time and that's granularity that I think would be...
And making out that the vessel you're talking about is the Bourbon 803 it was on charter and it going off would not be relevant to what would happen in the Gulf of Mexico.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
Switching gears a little bit and just trying to aggregate some of the comments I've heard to make sure that I'm looking at it the right way I understand completely what you were saying with regard to mix changing the pricing somewhat and that vessels get higher pricing with more men versus ROVs on drillships/drilling rigs.
If I'm looking at it from a utilization standpoint usually vessel utilization is lower.
So if your mix is shifting more towards drillships and then the drilling side just because the vessel activity is falling off a little bit faster is what I'm gathering is what you've been telling me like is it safe to assume that maybe sort of higher 70s-type utilization could be a fair assumption because the drilling tends to be a little bit more consistent? Even if drilling's going down as well if the overall mix is going towards drilling of what's working the utilization will be higher.
What I think you're missing is that you're assuming that the ROVs that aren't working on the vessels are suddenly finding jobs on rigs.
And I mean I think utilization is impacted by both and the change in mix of the day's work isn't very relevant to overall demand if there's no vessel activity for 30% of our ROVs.
LLC Research Division</strong> Got it.
So if I look over past cycles that utilization in net is kind of falling into that -- can fall easily into the kind of mid-low 70s and that may be a fair assumption here.
We're not commenting on utilization right now.
We're just saying it's going to be lower.
We're not quantifying it because we really don't know what the callout work on the vessels is going to be and we don't know what the rollover rate and the idle time between contracts is.
There's too many unknowns to predict.
Too many variables.
Yes.
LLC Research Division</strong> When do you think your clients are going to have a little bit more visibility on their portfolios? Is that something that kind of comes in March and sort of after the budgets have been filed? Or what's the timing of usually kind of having a little bit better clarity for the year ahead on that? Well usually by the second quarter we start getting a little more visibility of what's out there.
But I don't think in this case from an operator standpoint I don't think it has so much to do with whatever their budget is.
It has to do with what do they need to get done and they're not going to spend any money they don't need to get done.
And a lot of what we do is problem solving and so they're never predicting what their problems are going to be.
They might have a budget for -- set aside for that.
But obviously they don't spend it unless they need to.
So that's where the difficulty comes in in terms of utilization.
Yes and I think a lot of oil companies have announced that they're going to remain flexible during the year and not commit the budgets until they have better visibility.
So that's another unknown.
And there are no further questions in queue at this time.
I turn the call back to our presenters.
Okay.
Since there are no more questions I'd like to wrap up by thanking everyone for joining the call.
We're very pleased with our record results for 2014 including our 11th consecutive year of record ROV operating income.
2014 marked our 50th year in business and my 35th year with the company.
I am grateful for the opportunity to have been part of the firm's evolution and growth and look forward to leading Oceaneering to another year of substantial earnings performance in 2015.
This concludes our fourth quarter and year-end 2014 conference call.
Have a great day.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Tammy and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the 2015 Q1 Earnings Release Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Thank you.
Mr.
Jurkoshek you may begin your conference.
Thank you.
Good morning everybody and thanks for joining us.
As usual a webcast for this event is being made available through the StreetEvents Network service with Thomson Reuters.
Joining me today are Kevin McEvoy our Chief Executive Officer who will be leading the call; Marvin Migura our Executive Vice President; and Cardon Gerner our Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Just as a reminder remarks we make during the course of the call regarding our earnings guidance business strategy plans for future operation and industry conditions are forward-looking statements made pursuant to the Safe Harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
And I’m now going to turn the call over to Kevin.
Good morning.
Thanks for joining the call and your interest in Oceaneering.
Year-over-year and sequentially our quarterly earnings were down primarily as a result of lower demand and pricing for many of the services and products we offer.
This was attributable to the significant drop in crude oil prices since June 2014 which in turn has led to oil and gas industry reductions in both capital and the operating expenditures.
2015 is shaping up to be a very challenging year despite first quarter EPS exceeding our guidance.
Our above guidance performance through a considerable extent was attributable to an acceleration of forecasted work in Subsea Products notably umbilical plants throughput of our – throughput in our Panama City Florida facility and Subsea Projects specifically a large high-grade remediation projects in the Gulf of Mexico.
We also benefited from cost reduction measures we put in place including rightsizing our workforce reducing training expenses and obtaining price concessions from our suppliers.
Since our last earnings release our oilfield business outlook for the remaining quarters of this year has weakened for ROVs Subsea Projects and asset integrity.
We are challenged with materially lower demand customers demanding price concessions and competitors willing to dramatically reduce prices to secure utilization for their assets.
Consequently we are lowering our 2015 EPS guidance to a range of $2.80 to $3.20 down from $3.10 to $3.50.
As I stated on our last quarterly earnings call we do not pretend to have a better crystal ball than others.
Our revised EPS guidance represents our view of our business prospects at this time.
We acknowledge that the precipitous declines in demand and pricing taking place within the oilfield markets we serve are unrivaled in recent history.
Our earnings for the balance of 2015 will largely be determined by a vessel-based inspection maintenance and repair or IMR work and floating drilling rig use.
The majority of IMR activity is performed on a callout or spot market basis and it impacts the results of our ROV Subsea Products particularly tooling and Subsea Projects business.
These short-cycle jobs normally have low visibility but in 2015 when many of our customers are curtailing OpEx spending the risks associated with this works materializing are high.
Additionally our results will continue to be dependent on floating rig use especially those rigs with contracts expiring during the remainder of this year.
During the quarter we paid $27 million in cash dividends and repurchased 1.1 million shares of our common stock at a cost of about $86 million.
Additionally earlier this month we completed the acquisition of C&amp;C Technologies a global provider of survey and satellite-based positioning services.
The acquisition price of approximately $230 million was paid in cash.
I’d now like to review our operations for the first quarter.
Year-over-year and sequentially ROV operating income declined due to a decrease in days on hire largely to provide drill support services and lower average pricing mainly due to a weakening of the Norwegian kroner and exchange rate relative to the U.S.
dollar and a reduced average manning level per ROV day-on-hire.
Our fleet utilization rate during the quarter was 73% compared to 86% a year ago and 80% last quarter.
Operating margin for the quarter was 28% down from 30% a year ago and 31% last quarter.
During the quarter we put four new ROVs into service and retired four.
At the end of March we had 336 assistants available for operations up from 314 a year ago.
Two of the new ROVs went to work in drill support service and the other two went to work on board a vessel.
Our fleet mix during the quarter was 71% in drill support and 29% on vessel-based work compared to a 72% 28% mix both sequentially and year-over-year.
At the end of March we had 155 ROVs on 151 floating drilling rigs or 58% of the 261 floaters under contract.
This compares to having ROVs on 59% of the rigs contracted at the end of March 2014 and the end of December 2014.
Asset integrity operating income declined year-over-year and sequentially on lower service demand in most of the areas in which we operate notably Norway due to reductions in our customers operating and capital expenditures.
Our customers are deferring maintenance work whenever possible which is affecting our inspection and NDT services and reducing their CapEx programs which is affecting demand for our engineering services.
As for our remaining business operations for the first quarter year-over-year Subsea products operating income declined primarily due to lower demand for Subsea hardware mainly BOP control system replacements and clamp connectors.
Operating income declined sequentially largely on lower demand for tooling and BOP control system replacement.
Our Subsea products backlog at quarter end was $788 million up $98 million from December 2014 but down $106 million from March 2014.
Sequentially backlog improved on the strength of two large umbilical awards including a contract for the Offshore Cape Three Points Block Project located offshore Ghana which added over $100 million to our backlog.
Year-over-year the backlog decline was attributable to decreases in orders for umbilicals tooling and Subsea hardware.
Subsea project’s operating income improved year-over-year on the commencement of diving services offshore Angola.
Sequentially operating income declined from a record high on lower vessel activity and pricing in the U.S.
Gulf of Mexico and an increase in regulatory vessel inspection expenses.
Advanced Technologies operating income was higher year-over-year on an increase in profitability on theme park work.
Sequentially operating increase declined on lower U.S.
Navy and industrial project activity.
In summary 2015 will be a very challenging year I believe we are well positioned and up to the task of making the most of it.
We generated $165 million of EBITDA during the quarter.
Capital expenditures for the quarter totaled about $49 million.
$22 million was invested in ROVs and $22 million was spent on Subsea Products.
Now let’s talk about our 2015 EPS outlook.
As I mentioned earlier since our last quarterly earnings release our oilfield business outlook for the remainder of the year has substantially weakened for ROV Subsea Projects and Asset Integrity.
ROVs on lower service demand primarily to support drilling.
50 or roughly a third of the rigs we had ROVs on at the end of March had contract terms expiring during this year.
The future work prospects for these rigs has significantly deteriorated.
We currently anticipate follow-on rig work for about half of our – approximately 7 000 uncontracted ROV days on these rigs.
Subsea Projects primarily on lower demand and pricing for deepwater vessel and diving services in the Gulf of Mexico.
Lower demand is attributable to a decline in the installation activity and the postponement of maintenance work.
Lower pricing is due to an oversupply of vessels related to the level of demand and Asset Integrity on lower demand and increasing pressure for our services globally.
Subsea Products is also expected to be down somewhat on lower demand for field development hardware related service work and lower tooling rentals to support field development and well abandonment activities.
We are challenged with materially weaker near-term demand customers demanding price concessions and competitors willing to dramatically reduce prices to secure utilization for their assets.
Consequently we lowered our 2015 EPS guidance to a range of $2.80 to $3.20.
We anticipate generating at least $515 million of EBITDA during the remaining three quarters of 2015 for our projected total of $680 million.
At the end of March we had $305 million in cash $50 million available to be drawn on a three-year delayed-draw term loan and an undrawn $500 million revolver.
We’ve subsequently drawn down the remaining $50 million on the term loan.
Our organic CapEx estimate for this year remains between $200 million and $250 million down from $387 million in 2014.
We intend to continue paying a quarterly cash dividend which is currently $0.27 a share.
Other uses of capital may include share repurchases.
At the end of March we had authorization to repurchase 8.9 million shares about 9% of our shares outstanding.
We intend to continue our practice of announcing share repurchases if any on a quarterly basis.
Moving on to our second quarter outlook we are projecting EPS in a range of $0.64 to $0.70 which sequentially takes into account normal seasonality and project finding issues.
On a year-over-year basis it reflects lower demand and pricing for many of the services and products we offer higher interest expense and the lower share count.
Sequentially we anticipate quarterly operating income declines from ROVs on decrease in days-on-hire and lower average pricing due to customer demands for discounts and Subsea Products on lower umbilical plant throughput.
We anticipate sequential operating income improvements from Subsea Projects our normal seasonal increase in demand in the Gulf of Mexico and the reduction in regulatory vessel inspection expenses.
Asset Integrity on seasonably higher service demands performed refinery turnarounds in Europe and offshore platform inspections in the North Sea and the Gulf of Mexico and Advanced Technologies on higher demand for U.S.
Navy ship repair work.
We are expecting year-over-year second quarter operating profit declines for each of our oilfield business segments due to lower demand and pricing for the many – for many other service – services and products we offer.
ADTECH operating income is expected to be higher due to improved operational execution and increases in U.S.
Navy and theme park activity.
On a macro basis we remain convinced that our strategy to focus on providing services and products to facilitate deepwater exploration and production remains sound.
Deepwater is expected to continue to play a critical role in global oil supply growth despite its large capital commitments technical challenges in the current commodity price environment.
Therefore we anticipate demand for our deepwater services and products will rebound and rise over time and believe our long-term business prospects remain promising.
We’re well-positioned to supply a wide range of the services and products required to safely support the deepwater efforts of our customers and have the cash flow and liquidity to manage our business due to current low commodity price environment.
In conclusion for 2015 we’re faced with a slowdown in deepwater activity and consequently are expecting that our EPS would be lower than in 2014.
Certainly this is a challenging time but we believe we are well-positioned in the market and up to the task of managing the company through this [indiscernible] period.
Market conditions may change but our commitment to deliver results to our shareholders remains the same.
We are focused on cash flow generation and cost control and have already taken actions to right size our workforce where needed and we will take further measures if demand falls short of our expected levels.
We appreciate everyone’s interest in Oceaneering.
I will now be happy to take any questions you may have.
[Operator Instructions] And your first question comes from the line of James West Evercore ISI.
Hey good morning guys.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Kevin you mentioned a couple of times your dramatically reduce pricing from your competitors I’m curious it sounds likes that’s more in the the heavy asset side.
Is that – is it ROVs is it diving which segment in particular you’ve seen kind of the most kind of aggressive predatory pricing? It’s on the vessel side.
Okay.
And I know they are working at rates that you’re just unwilling to work at or that is under-cutting you on contracts? Well everybody is trying get utilization and at times like this it’s all about price.
So in order to keep our assets employed we’ve got to be at the market price.
So margins are getting compressed.
Okay.
Okay.
Fair enough.
And then on the – I mean the maybe on the Subsea kind of products side we’re hearing from – FMC yesterday and Cameron today while this year is going to be a little bit challenging to FMC maybe on orders and Cameron were rosy about orders I think both were pretty optimistic about recovery in 2016 I know your business might be a bit shorter cycled but did you agree with that assessment that this is kind of a – kind of bottomed out here in 2015 and we’ll see an upturn in 2016? Well perhaps I will go ahead with my remarks by saying nobody really knows but… Sure.
My feeling at the moment is that even if prices rebound to what the general consensus seems to be i.e.
circa $70 or so I find it hard to believe that the big oil companies are going to immediately just go back to business as usual given that they were already struggling at $100.
So I think there is some structural changes that will be taking place.
And they’ll be inwardly focused on how to reduce cost trying to manage their free cash flow and figure out what they will do with the capital that they have.
And I expect that it could be beyond 2016 before it really gets back into a more predictable mode.
James this is Marvin.
Sure.
The other thing I mean if it does recover for Cameron FDI and that will be a good news for us.
But we are way more impacted by the rate at which fees get installed than at the rate of which they get ordered.
So we’re looking for development work to increase so if they order trees we know it’s coming down the line but we just don’t know when.
Okay.
Okay.
Fair enough.
So for you guys it maybe a little bit of a prolonged downturn relative to others.
It’d be.
Okay.
Your next question comes from the line of John Donnel Howard Weil.
Good morning.
Good morning John.
Good morning John.
Regarding the pricing commentary and specific on the projects side is any of that flowing over into the BP contract that you have in Angola or is just more on the call out work at this point in time? It’s kind of everywhere.
Yeah.
Everybody wants a concession.
Okay.
And then is the...
Even if it’s already contracted.
Sure.
Are you able to get anything from the operators in return in terms of more volume or longer terms or at this point is it just purely pricing concessions? Well we are obviously trying for both of those in return.
But as demand is weakening that’s kind of counterintuitive of how much of that’s going to be.
We certainly have gotten some concessions we’ve traded some work for some other work and it depends on the operator and what not.
But I’d say – at this point the bulk of conversations across the spectrum of our oilfield customers is really short-term about the price.
And Jon it is on a case-by-case basis depending upon the customer and the region.
Okay.
Yeah fair enough.
And then I guess some more then on the CNC Technology acquisition here.
I think when you first announced that you were thinking something in the neighborhood of $20 million to $30 million of EBITDA over the next 12 months.
How if any has that outlook changed here just given the changes in the market since that was first announced? Yeah Jon.
I think – since we’ve owned them for less than a month it’d be easy to say that it’s too early to tell.
But we’ll also say that CNC’s operations are definitely not immune to the downturn.
And we took this possibility into consideration during the acquisition process however the rate of deceleration offshore maybe greater than we anticipated.
So we’re not going to go ahead and revise our sub-segment EBITDA.
We’ll look for outlook at this time.
And regardless of the near-term we acquired C&amp;C for the long-term and we believe it will be a very good part of Oceaneering’s portfolio.
Okay.
Your next question comes from the line Ian Macpherson with Simmons.
Hey thank you.
I was wondering if you could say based on your assumptions for uncontracted time on your ROVs for the balance of the year do you see your ROV activity flattening out or continuing to decline significantly from where we thought in the first quarter? Ask that again Ian.
I’m sorry I...
I’m wondering if there is a meaningful downside in your outlook to the ROV activity level in terms of days worked relative to Q1? Okay.
Is the trough could be much lower and do you see a flattening out based on the assumptions you’re using right now? Well I think Kevin discussed that we had 7 000 uncontracted days on – ROV days on rigs that we’re on that have contracts expiring in – in the balance of 2015 and we have assumed a 50% utilization of those specific rigs in general.
I mean we went rig-by-rig looking at it and it just came up to be which rigs we thought we were going to continue to that – they were going to continue to work than we would.
So I think is there a downside? Yes.
I mean we try to quantify that part of it but also as Kevin mentioned the vessel base call out work is really going to be in the amount of IMR that the operators are going to do is really going to be the determining factor of our ROV utilization.
And both of these are unknown but we will say that our guidance assume that utilization of ROVs will hover around 70% for the balance of the year.
Okay.
That’s good.
Thanks.
Your next question comes from the line of Jim Wicklund with Credit Suisse.
Hey guys.
Good morning Jim.
I know – can you hear me? Yes sir.
Okay.
I know that you don’t know when things are going to turn you said one day over time.
But what should we look for or what you look for to see that the market is improving.
I mean other than waiting for oil prices to come back you mentioned the structural change.
Kevin one of the things we should look for over the next year or two three four five or however long it takes to know that the deepwater is coming back? Well Jim the first thing as new projects going ahead orders per trees and then eventually we’ll get orders for umbilicals and that will tell you it’s coming back closer to one things you’re going to get installed is usually when it really starts to make a difference to us.
Your next question comes from the line of Chase Mulvehill with SunTrust.
Hi thanks.
This is Josh Large on for Chase.
I just want to continue with the ROV question.
So we’ve kind of got utilization for the balance of the year how should we think about margins is this the bottom this quarter or should we think of a deterioration kind of going forward? Well I mean that’s pretty hard to predict.
I mean we certainly are hoping that we’re seeing the bottom in terms of pricing and margins certainly on the rig side of the [ph] legacy here but we’ll have to see.
I mean we’re not – there’s nothing out there that we see that would suggest that it will deteriorate significantly more apart from what happens on vessel pricing and that would impact our ROV pricing there.
And I don’t think that the full extent of the pricing concessions negotiated in Q1 have been gone through the income statement.
But offsetting that are some pretty substantial cost reduction.
So we’re not going to call the bottom.
But right now we think it’s going to be so much as what Kevin said before is timing and rate of utilization of vessel-based ROVs and the callout work.
Okay.
Great.
And then on buybacks should we think of that more as free cash flow I know you’ve mentioned in the past that net debt-to-EBITDA that you are kind of comfortable with.
Should we think of the company kind of levering up to that or just free cash flow for this year? I think that our leverage ratios that we gave before we are certainly going to be fairly conservative during this period of time.
And we will tend to hold onto more cash than we would then we otherwise that market was really good.
So we need to be conservative we want to be able to take advantage of opportunities that is there.
We also need to be very conservative about maintaining our liquidity.
All right.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] And your next question comes from the line of Ole Slorer Morgan Stanley.
Thank you very much.
Your Subsea Products margins at 20.8% very strong.
Is there any different dynamic going on in that market where there may be more proprietary products or what are the sort of pricing trends that you see their compared to your other businesses? Ole our products are stronger than many others because of the service element that we have in tooling and IWOCS.
And I would say that the market trend for IWOCS has been remain strong as most of the work is being down offshore from a drilling rig relates to completions and therefore IWOCs demand has held up rather well.
Going forward the pricing on umbilicals continues to be challenged and tooling is really going to be a matter of utilization on vessel callout.
And I think that – that sort of covers the top three right? I mean it’s really – how much maintenance work...
I understand.
How much maintenance work our company is able to postpone and therefore what will that next be in our products results.
And we’ve postponed a lot.
So hopefully that has to come back again at some point.
My follow-up question would be on your repair and maintenance side.
I mean you’ve gone in a way long multi-purpose supply boats and I think we all realized how bad the over capacity is in the supply boat market and where the capacity also being delivered into that market for the next 12 months to 18 months.
And I just wonder to what extent how long vessels are at the moment and how much of an issue is that for you when you are talking about your margin out but let’s say compared to if you had a more short-term targets and you able to pass those costs on? Well I think I mean first of all what the market demand is going to end up to be in the Gulf of Mexico in terms of us being able to keep our vessels here employed remains to be seen.
But in 2016 we do have opportunities to release a boat or two if we should be and have to be the right thing to do.
So you can re-price in 2016? Well we can release.
Or we may contract or re-price yeah.
Let’s say prices have dropped to a fair amount.
Yes.
Yeah.
You can [indiscernible] on much lower prices? We could yes.
And the timing of that in 2016 how should I think about that? Late second quarter – or yeah at the end of the second quarter or early third quarter.
Okay.
Thanks for that.
It will be consistent with delivery of our new boat the Jones Act vessel that we are building which we still believe – well although we still believe that the Jones Act vessel will have a marketing advantage in the Gulf of Mexico over other foreign flag vessels of similar capability.
Your next question comes from the line of Daniel Burke Johnson Rice.
Good morning guys.
Hi.
Hi.
Just have one left on Subsea Products I understood that the timing influence and the pull forward in Q1 and how that affects Q2 and understand that visibility is limited but whether this is – this question is specifically directed on vehicles and more broadly on products.
Do you have visibility into products top line in the second half 2015 looking stronger than first half 2015? I think just generally our all of Oceaneering’s second half is stronger than first half consistent with every year.
So – and I think it really depends on project timing and at the rate at which we push it through but I would say that we are expecting a stronger second half in products than first half.
And Marvin is that true across all I guess four of the major products sub segments or can you differentiate amongst them as you look to the second half? I’m surprised for example that tooling will be stronger second half than first half maybe? Well it really depend.
I mean the third quarter is when I mean almost sound like a broken record about a lot depends on the rate at which our customers do inspection maintenance and repair particularly in the Gulf of Mexico globally because vessel utilization drives our utilization of ROVs and demand for tooling.
So there’s a lot callout work is short cycle expected in our second half forecast even though we are saying it will be lower than last year.
Okay.
Guys that’s helpful.
That’s really all I have left.
Thank you.
Your last question comes from the line of Ian Macpherson Simmons.
That’s it’s for me.
I was going to ask the same thing on the second half waiting I guess the only thing I would ask for clarification is.
Do you think the ROVs will be up in the second half or the first half? That’s the one where I’m struggling a little bit.
Not at this time.
Okay.
We don’t.
We’re not – at our midpoint we don’t see it up.
Got it.
Okay thanks for that clarification.
There are no further questions.
Do you any closing remarks? Yes.
Since there are no more questions I’d like to wrap up by thanking everyone for joining the call.
And this concludes our first quarter 2015 conference call.
Have a good day.
Bye-bye.
Today’s conference is concluded.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning ladies and gentlemen.
My name is Aaron and I will be your operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the 2015 Q2 Earnings Call.
At this time all lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speaker’s remarks we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions] We also like to please – allow you to limit your questions to one or two per queue and you are welcome to queue up again for additional questions.
Now I'd like to turn the call over to Mr.
Jack Jurkoshek.
Mr.
Jurkoshek you may begin your conference.
Good morning everybody.
I'd like to thank you for joining us on our second quarter earnings call.
As usual a webcast for this event is being made available through the Street Events Network service by Thomson Reuters.
Joining me today are Kevin McEvoy our Chief Executive Officer who will be leading the call; Marvin Migura our Executive Vice President; and Cardon Gerner our Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Just as a reminder remarks we make during the course of the call regarding our earnings guidance business strategy plans for future operations and industry conditions are forward-looking statements made pursuant to the Safe Harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
And I'm now going to turn the call over to Kevin.
[Technical Difficulty] the call and your interest in Oceaneering.
Our reported EPS of $0.66 was within the guidance range we gave last quarter.
However these results included a couple of items that had not been considered in our guidance.
Specifically $9 million or $0.06 a share inventory write down and $6 million or $0.04 a share of net foreign currency exchange losses.
The inventory write-down reported in Subsea Products gross margin was a result of a decision to exit the business of manufacturing Subsea BOP control system.
We intend to continue providing aftermarket parts for the installed base.
The foreign exchange – our foreign currency exchange losses reported in other income and expense included $8.9 million of losses in Angola attributable to its central bank's devaluation of the kwanza primarily in June.
Therefore operating results for the quarter of an adjusted EPS of $0.76 surpassed what we have anticipated.
This was attributable to performances by our ROV and Subsea Projects segments.
ROV benefited from better than expected revenue per day on hire due to more vessel based services and Subsea Projects profited from higher U.S.
Gulf of Mexico demand for deepwater intervention and diving services.
Year-over-year quarterly operating income declined on lower profit contributions from Remotely Operated Vehicles Subsea Products and Asset Integrity.
Net income was down due to the operating income decline the foreign currency exchange losses and higher interest expense as a result of the debt we put on the balance sheet during the second half of 2014.
Sequentially quarterly operating income was about the same but obviously would have been higher if not for the inventory write-down.
Earnings declined due the foreign currency exchange losses.
Our overall outlook for the second half of this year is down somewhat from the 2015 guidance we issued last quarter.
This is primarily due to the reduced expectations for Subsea Products and Asset Integrity.
We now expect to report EPS of $1.34 to $1.54 during the second half of 2015.
Given this outlook and our year-to-date performance we are lowering our 2015 EPS guidance to a range of $2.70 to $2.90 from $2.80 to $3.20 down about 7% at the midpoint.
Compared to 2014 we continue to forecast income declines for all of our oilfield operating segments in 2015.
And as a reminder our guidance does not assume any foreign currency exchange gains or losses.
Before I get into our second half of 2015 outlook by operating segment I would like to address our lowering of the earnings guidance without sounding too defensive.
Yes we are again lowering our 2015 annual earnings guidance.
I'm not aware of too many if any oilfield service or products companies onshore or offshore who have not repeatedly revised their internal 2015 expectations downward.
Maybe the only difference is that we published our guidance and we still believe it is prudent for us to set external earnings expectations even in this fluid challenging difficult to predict market.
So at the midpoint our new guidance range is 7% lower than our prior guidance that is if you choose to only consider our reported second quarter GAAP EPS of $0.66.
If you choose to add back the $0.10 adjustment and use the more operationally reflected $0.76 adjusted EPS for the second quarter.
The midpoint of our new 2015 guidance range is $2.90 down 3% from the guidance range we gave last quarter.
Either way 7% or 3% we're still feeling pretty good about the results of our operations and our outlook relative to the results of others in or around our space.
Now addressing our operating outlook relative to the first half of 2015 during the second half we expect to generate higher operating income from Subsea Products and Advanced Technologies lower ROV and Subsea Projects results and a similar contribution from Asset Integrity.
Subsea Products profits are expected to be up on an increase – increasing in throughput at our umbilical manufacturing plant and higher umbilical distribution hardware sales and higher tooling and Subsea work system sales.
Advanced Technologies operating income is forecast to increase primarily on higher theme park activity.
ROV operating income is expected to decline on a decrease in days on hire and lower average revenue per day on hire.
Our guidance assumes our projected fleet utilization for the second half of 2015 of around 67%.
This estimate takes into consideration our exposure on floating rigs and call out vessel based work.
If we achieve the expected second-half utilization our annual 2015 utilization would be about 70%.
Subsea projects operating profit is anticipated to be substantially lower due to reduction in work for BP offshore Angola including the release of Bourbon Evolution 803 that occurred at the end of April.
Lower pricing for deepwater intervention services in the U.S.
Gulf of Mexico and lower demand and pricing for diving services in the Gulf.
We believe the full impact of competitive vessels pricing will be realized in the second half.
The impact on the first half was muted due to jobs at higher day rates and backlog carried over from 2014.
Our earnings for the balance of 2015 will largely be determined by vessel based inspection maintenance and repair or IMR work and floating drilling rig use.
The majority of IMR activity is performed on a call out or spot market basis and it impacts the results of our ROV Subsea products particularly tooling and Subsea Project businesses.
These short cycle jobs normally have low visibility but in 2015 with where many of our customers are curtailing OpEx spending the risks associated with this work materializing or higher.
Additionally our results will continue to be dependent on floating rig use especially those rigs with contracts expiring during the remainder of this year.
For 2015 we anticipate generating at least $660 million of EBITDA.
At the end of the quarter we had a $191 million in cash and in undrawn $500 million revolver.
We believe our liquidity and projected cash flow provide us ample resources to continue to invest in Oceaneering's future and returning capital to our shareholders.
I'd now like to review our second quarter segment results.
Year-over-year the decline in the second-quarter Subsea Products results from operations was largely attributable to lower demand for tooling and Subsea work systems and BOP control systems and a reduction in umbilical plant throughput.
Sequentially our operating income and margin was essentially flat with that for the first quarter excluding the BOP control system inventory write-down.
Our Subsea Products backlog at the quarter end was $703 million compared to our March backlog of $788 million and $850 million one year ago.
Year-over-year the backlog decline was attributable to umbilical's tooling and BOP control systems.
Sequentially the backlog decline was primarily due to umbilical's and umbilical distribution hardware.
Year-to-date our book-to-bill ratio was 1 and for the trailing 12 months it was 0.87.
Now turning to ROVs.
Year-over-year ROV operating income declined on lower demand and a reduction in average revenue per day on hire.
Our ROV days on hire decreased 11% to approximately 21 700 days largely on reduced demands to provide drill support services.
Average revenue per day on hire declined 9% due to lower pricing weakening of the Norwegian kroner krone exchange rate relative to the U.S.
dollar and geographic mix.
Sequentially operating income was essentially flat.
Our average revenue per day on hire was also unchanged despite the fact that the pricing concessions we previously agreed to went into effect.
This was attributable to a change in work mix to a higher percentage of vessel based services.
Our fleet mix during the quarter was 69% drill support and 31% on vessel based work.
This compares to a 71% 29% mix last quarter and in the second quarter of 2014.
Operating margin during the quarter was 28% the same as in the first quarter and the second quarter a year ago.
Our forecast – our focus on cost reductions is having an impact in a period when customers are requiring price concessions.
The fleet utilization during the quarter was 71% compared to 73% last quarter and 84% in the second quarter of 2014.
Year-to-date our fleet utilization was 72%.
During the quarter we put three new ROVs into service and retired three.
At the end of June we had 336 systems available for operation up from 323 a year ago.
All three new vehicles went to work in drill support service.
At the end of the quarter we had ROVs on 142 or 58% of the 243 floating rigs under contract.
We had ROVs on 151 contracted rigs at the end of March 2015 and on 170 rigs a year ago.
Looking at Subsea Projects segment operating income was higher year-over-year on an increase in demand for diving services both in the Gulf of Mexico and offshore Angola.
Sequentially subsea projects operating income increased on a seasonal pickup in the Gulf of Mexico demand for deepwater intervention and diving services and lower regulatory vessel inspection expenses.
Our success in securing deepwater intervention work was related to our ability to provide Subsea work systems which we offer as a part of our tooling business in Subsea Products to perform slow line hydrate remediation and well stimulation projects.
We also benefited from the first full quarter availability of the Island Pride which we chatted late last year.
Notably in the current environment Subsea Projects operating income for the second quarter and year-to-date 2015 exceeded operating income for the same period in 2014.
As for our remaining business operations for the second quarter Asset Integrity operating income declined year-over-year on lower demand and increasing pricing pressure for our services globally.
Sequentially operating income declined primarily on lower demand and pricing for inspection services in the United Kingdom.
Advanced Technologies operating income was higher both year-over-year and sequentially.
Year-over-year this was attributable to higher demand for engineering services by the U.S.
navy and increased activity and operational efficiency on theme park projects.
Sequentially it was due to higher U.S.
navy demand for engineering services.
In summary 2015 is turning out to be a very challenging year.
But we believe we are well positioned to make the most of it we generated $165 million of EBITDA during the quarter.
Capital expenditures for the quarter totaled $275 million of which $230 million was spend in early April on the acquisition of C &amp; C Technologies a global provider of survey autonomous underwater vehicle or AUV and satellite-based positioning services.
These results are included in our Subsea Project segment.
Moving on to our third quarter outlook we are projecting EPS in a range of $0.65 to $0.75.
Sequentially we are expecting a quarterly income improvement from Subsea Products in similar or declining profit contributions from our other segments.
Subsea Products is forecast to be up on higher tooling and Subsea work systems sales.
Year-over-year we are anticipating that all – of oilfield business segments will have lower operating income.
Advanced Technologies is forecast to be up on an increase in theme park activity.
In conclusion for 2015 we are focused on cash flow generation and cost control and have already taken actions were needed to right size our workforce and streamline our onshore support functions.
And we will take further measures if demand falls short of our expected levels.
We believe our cash flow and liquidity position us well to manage our business due to current low commodity price environment.
Longer term deepwater is still expected to continue to play a critical role in the global oil supply growth required to replace depletions and meet projected demand.
The oil and gas industry in general and the offshore market in particular are experiencing demand destruction not seen since the mid-1980s.
Given all of the unknowns in this offshore market we have decided to give you advance notice that we will not be providing 2016 EPS guidance at our third quarter earnings release as we have done in the past.
We will continue to assess the market and perhaps provide a 2016 annual outlook when we report our 2015 year-end results in February of 2016.
We appreciate everyone's interest in Oceaneering and I will now be happy to take any questions you may have.
[Operator Instructions] And your first question comes from the line of Ian Macpherson from Simmons.
Please go ahead.
Thanks gentlemen.
My first question I was wondering if you would – if you might share with us the historical materiality of BOP control systems just so we have an idea of what's being winding down there.
And whether you're contemplating winding down any other segments within products to the demand situation? The answer to the first question is – was it's not really material and the answer to the second question is not at this time.
Straightforward.
Thanks.
Follow-up question it's – the midpoints of your Q3 guidance and your second half guidance with just Q4 higher than Q3 which is really atypical for your earnings seasonality.
And I'm wondering if you might share what leads you to that and what specifically looks like it'll be stronger in Q4 than Q3 which is to me a little bit counterintuitive at this point? That's a good question.
It really is in products timing of projects and products and also advance technologies.
Got it.
I think what we've got Ian is timing of umbilical throughput.
And the fourth quarter is greater than that as the third quarter and commercial theme park activity in ADTECH is expected to have a better fourth quarter than in third quarter.
Okay fine.
It's not all sure activity unfortunately.
Yeah.
Okay.
Got it.
Thank you very much.
Yes.
Your next question comes from the line of Jim Wicklund from Credit Suisse.
Please go ahead.
Good morning guys.
Hi Jim.
Hey.
You talked about how future EPS are going to depend on IMR work and the rig counts.
And you had said before that as long as there is one vessel operator with that behavior it makes for a difficult market.
You guys are in the boat business you are taking delivery of your new boat next year you guys study it and much closer to it than we do.
When – when should we kind of start to hit the equilibrium when should the bad actors no longer be incentivized to be bad actors and when should we expect the vessel market to at least stabilize if not improve? I'm sure that's a hard question to answer given that it really is demand related and demand is so unpredictable right now.
I mean the basic problem is there – there are too many out there and they are like the floating rig market trying to survive and so they are going to you know cash neutral pricing as necessary to get enough utilization to – you know to survive.
So you know until we get a more predictable demand trend it's pretty hard to answer that question.
But I think I think you read in the – in the – you know the press the same things that we do about you know some of those folks are in trouble and they may not all survive and that will obviously have some positive impact if that's the case.
Okay I appreciate that's – so I won't ask you to tell me when the rig counts are going to bottom then.
Thank you.
Thank you.
And you are not going to ask when the oil prices are [indiscernible] either I guess.
Hey no well that was going to be my third question no.
Oh! you only get two sorry.
There you go.
C &amp; C I'm assuming that the pick-up in projects in the quarter was at least partially contribution by C &amp; C can you talk about how that's working out? C &amp; C is working out well Jim I mean with the integration is really kind of just underway in the quarter.
I would say that none of that better than expected performance and projects was associated with C &amp; C.
C &amp; C is new to the earnings in 2015.
Okay.
Well then the rest of your business did better than expected.
That's good.
Right.
And my final one if I could you guys have demonstrated your ability to control the CapEx just by not adding new equipment and buyback a chunk of stock.
I'm assuming that I won't ask questions if you're going to raise your dividend but it looks like the dividend is safe for a long-term foreseeable future.
And you'll still be generating a free cash flow is that the bright side of this market? I think the bright side is our liquidity and ability to generate cash flow.
And I'll comment on the – the dividend and say that we think it's safe until we reconsider it and may at as we do annually.
And on the treasury stock repurchases that we're going to report those after they occur.
Okay gentlemen.
All the best.
I wish you luck.
All right.
Thanks Jim.
Your next question comes from the line of John Donnel from Howard Weil.
Please go ahead.
Good morning guys.
Hey John.
Hey John.
I had a question on the products bookings here those are obviously being pretty lumpy over that the first half of the year but still holding in that book to bill ratio of about 1.0 I was wondering if you had maybe some expectations here for the remainder of 2015 if you could hold that book to bill ratio or kind of how you see that part of the business unfolding as we go through to the remainder of the year? Well as you noted it is a lumpy business and I think particularly now with the – I mean we do have line of sight of potential projects that are out there.
But whether they actually go forward or move to the right is anybody's guess and so it's pretty hard to answer that question.
And we stop predicating the future backlog and jobs good for that very good reasons some time ago.
But there is still considerable answers in our products it's just whether or not they're going to pull the trigger.
Have you seen any change maybe in the kind of within the sub segments of that group either or it was maybe more umbilical projects or ROV tooling et cetera or is it still just kind of – is these all of your comments more sort of broad base for the entire segment? Broad base...
Pretty broad-based.
Okay.
Fair enough.
You got the projects for umbilical's primarily in the connection systems and then you've got to call out work for the higher value subsea work systems and tooling part.
Okay.
And then on the ROVs I was wondering if you might have any update on either the number of rigs that you guys are currently have vehicles on maybe rolling of a contract here over the remainder of the year or and also maybe the new systems that you have scheduled to be coming on for the rigs that are still under construction? John we'll get to that maybe a real quick Jack's looking up right now.
But we've really stopped focusing on the number of uncontracted days because we don't find much sanctity in the contracted days right now.
So when every time I read something about another rig it was cancelled or idle prematurely or whatever it's counting days than they seem to have a lot of relevance anymore as we thought it once did.
But at the end of June we had 33 we had ROVs on 33 rigs that had contracts rolling over into the second half.
Okay.
But again we're not – when Kevin's notes – introductory notes mentioned we've got exposure on drilling rigs and on expected but on booked callout work.
So there is a lot of speculative days in our forecast it need to materialize.
Okay.
Fair enough guys.
Thanks a lot I appreciate you for taking my questions.
All right.
Your next question comes from the line of Chase Mulvehill from SunTrust.
Please go ahead.
Hey good afternoon I guess good morning good afternoon.
Let's see I guess first on the ROVs it – the margin held up in the second quarter you had some seasonality with the vessel base support being up quarter-over-quarter.
You're guiding utilization lower in the second half versus the second quarter.
So how should we be thinking about margin progression in the second half of the year? We are trying to hold the line on – certainly on further discounts we think that's behind us although that's now starting to run through our – our operating to earnings but we are doing everything we can on the cost-side to mitigate that.
And I think that's was reflected in maintenance for or the margins from the second quarter and we're going to do everything we can to try and continue to do that.
We're focused on every areas that you would expect in this kind of a market in terms of costs cost that can be eliminated or avoided.
And I think our margin is too directly tied to utilization percentages to – and we just got there discuss in all of the work we need to win in the spec base that we have in forecast.
And as normal in the callout business.
So it really depends upon level of activity out there that and utilization that will determine.
I mean I think there is a lot of effort trying to maintain it and there's a lot of pressure to bring it down from external sources.
Okay all right.
And then – so moving on to the Subsea Projects business you got a decent amount of contract coverage there.
So could you just talk to you know – how you expect utilization to unfold over the next year or so here and if your customers have come back to you about price concessions on these contracts? Well in the projects business I mean if you look at the two different places where we have that Angola and the Gulf of Mexico Angola is a term contract.
And we have made some concessions to BP there those are you know already beginning to roll through our financials.
And as far as the Gulf of Mexico I mean that market gets – gets priority market every day.
And so you know the – the term contract that we have with one customer is I think is okay.
But the balance of the fleet is subject to the daily fluctuations in that market and you know it's hard to predict that but I think it's going to be challenging for the remainder of this year.
Okay.
And utilization of our vessels really I mean what – why we get call out work and others don't is because of the whole package of project management tooling and ROV that we bring but still utilization is so dependent on whether or not the phone is going to ring.
Does somebody have a problem out there that they need fixed.
Okay.
All right.
Are there any vessels that are scheduled to be redelivered over the next 12 months to 18 months? In 2016.
In 2016 we have two – three vessels one of them at the end of the year but we've got one in the middle of the year I guess in August is the first one in July...
We had two in the fourth quarter.
Two in the fourth quarter.
We are taking on as Jim indicated earlier the new -- our newbuild owned vessel should be delivered in April and whether it goes to work in Q2 or Q3 after it gets -- it goes to the shakeout cruise and all that is yet to be determined.
And do you have a contract for that newbuild? No it's going to be participating in call-out market.
Got it.
Okay.
I'll squeeze one more in real quick.
So on the Subsea Products how should we be thinking about the progression of margin as you get the mixed shift kind of in fourth quarter you mentioned about umbilicals and then lower price backlogs starting to run through the P&amp;L as we kind of get two or three quarters out? We really don't give guidance on our margin.
Again we're doing everything we can to keep it up.
We said that it would have been flat if we hadn't had the BOP controls inventory write-down.
I don't see much degradation but I mean I think it's going to be a challenge to hold it where it is.
Right.
I mean I guess in 2014 you guys used to kind of give some guidance around 19% to 21% would you consider that in a normal mix normal margin way that's kind of where we should be thinking about normalized margins? We think that was normal for 2014.
I don't think this market is very comparable.
Then we had bigger umbilical backlog which is the lower of the mix and the callout fees which is the higher margin is what we can't really predict until we know what happened.
I think the most difficult to predict is the utilization of our Subsea work systems in our tooling group.
And that when there is a well stem or a flow remediation problem we get utilized and we have contribution from that when it's – that equipments on the beach not so.
Okay.
That will make some margin.
Variable...
Variable and difficult to predict it's timing of offshore or callout work.
Got it.
All right.
Thanks for all the color.
I'll turn it back over to...
All right.
Your next question comes from the line of Ole Slorer from Morgan Stanley.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
And thanks for the update on the guidance.
I'm impressed that you guys have the systems in place to be able to tweak it to 4% to 7% given the volatility of the current environment.
And certainly appreciate that.
One thing upon the strings in this last quarter in the ROV business little bit not quite clear on how come that it was driven by a vessel work because it's quite different what we're hearing from some of the other companies that also you must be hearing from some of the other companies that also have vessels involved in Intervention work in particular has been quite weak for them.
So what was it that delivered such a differentiated performance for you guys? Well we just have – I mean we had reasonable utilization in our vessel fleet where we have ROVs installed on those vessels mostly two ROVs per unit.
And that's a much higher day rate and profitabilities on the rig.
So I guess for us maybe the difference was we had better utilization of our assets during that time.
And as the rig market goes down our percentage of vessels goes up.
But I think earlier we're comparing Intervention vessels to – across the board I think our differentiated services in flow line remediation and wells in the second quarter helped us it helped carry some vessel utilization but otherwise wouldn't have been there on a call out basis.
Does that [indiscernible] Yeah no [indiscernible] a difference in the type of services as you provide that give you access to a different parts of the market.
I'm just not sure if I fully understand the differentiation? A really big it is integrated ROVs and the tooling services including and particularly focusing on well stimulation and flow line or high-grade remediation [indiscernible] And a fair amount of this is difficult to forecast given that it is a – as you say that you're responding to a problem is there any reason to assume that the high market share that you must have enjoyed in this quarter will change going forward or do you think it's a little more structural about product that you supply? I think it really it depends on the amount of the more complex intervention jobs that are arise during the quarter as that really is a differentiator.
So if there's a lower amount of that in going forward then we loss some of our advantage against the other competitors I mean after that's really that the differentiator.
Two comments when we talk about intervention we're talking about outside of the wellbore? Yeah.
I mean let's look I mean I know you know that but I want to make sure everybody doesn't compare us to do any well intervention inside the wellbore.
And secondly I totally agree that it is – it's not difficult to predict it's almost impossible to predict call out work.
[indiscernible] Here it's pretty hard.
Yeah.
No I mean that the inside versus the outside of the wellbore.
Yeah it's a good point.
So let me ask as the business environment unfolds which is of course closely impossible to predict somewhere to what it did there's no recent to assume that you won't be able to maintain your shares.
So...
Right.
If I understand correctly.
Okay.
That's it we...
That is what we would say – answer.
Thanks all for clarifying that.
Yep.
Your next question comes from the line of Waqar Syed from Goldman Sachs.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
Yeah thank you for taking my question.
In Advance Technology with theme park work that you were mentioning that could show up in the second half.
Could we get the quarterly income up to that $10 million a quarter or $10 million number that we've seen in the past and kind of the higher number.
Can we get in that kind of a ballpark? On a run rate basis.
No just for one quarter when you're doing all that theme park related work? Well Waqar I don't know.
I mean it would be pretty serious step-up from the level that we're doing right now.
So to go from 5 or 6 to 10 that's quite a leap.
I don't know we have that much.
But we're – I mean there is – I mean it's a notable increase.
So but ...
But it's very project timing related and the number of projects and also where they are in the course of delivering those projects.
So it's pretty lumpy just like the umbilical business perhaps.
And it is just fortunate that they're in a time right now where they do have some good projects that they're working through.
Okay.
But could you get into that eight – that we have seen maybe even little bit more regular $8 million or so in a quarter? Yeah.
We're real happy with the progress that – we got the issues that we incurred last year kind of look like they're totaling behind us and we are running at a substantially better operating income contribution rate than last year.
And yeah I think depending on timing but I mean I don't see a problem with eight nine maybe – maybe eight [indiscernible] a little bit more re-stretch.
All right.
I'll take my family to Disney maybe that'll help.
There you go.
I'll make sure you do that.
All right.
Thank you sir.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of David Smith from Heikkinen Energy Advisors.
Please go ahead.
Yeah thank you and good morning.
Hi David.
Good morning.
So you mentioned the pricing concessions on the ROV drill support have gone into effect and I guess there is a mix shift impact that favors the vessel support.
But could you talk about how pricing has moved on in apples-to-apples basis whether those are rig-based apples or vessel-based apples? No sir we're – we're really trying to hold pricing concessions pretty close to our invest because if we gave a number and somebody got less than that that might won't come back and somebody got more than that then might won't to comeback.
Yeah that makes sense.
Then I guess a lot of follow-ups but just real quick circling back to C &amp; C.
I wanted to ask how those EBIT margins compared to legacy business – legacy project business.
And if it's safe to assume that the C &amp; C margins should be more resilient maybe then the legacy business going into the second half? Right now this depends upon what legacy business we would be – we would be tying it to.
Again if you look the level of our activity offshore really helps determine the level of activity in the margins associated with the survey work.
And then we use the term lumpy for a lot of callout work but we haven't really seeing lumpy until we looked at the AUV business.
I mean if you've got an AUV job ongoing your margins are very good.
If your AUV is waiting for the next job your margins are not so good.
So over time we think we can integrate that service offering into what we do and where we do it and we think it's got a great fit within Oceaneering.
Right now we think that everything we're doing offshore is challenged and it'd be hard for me to pick I mean if you look at it compared to call out IWOCs and tooling no that legacy business is way better than CMC's offering.
But if you look at it compared to some of the projects and other products work it's right in line.
Okay great.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Ken Sill from Seaport Global.
Please go ahead.
Good morning guys.
I wanted to go over the Asset Integrity business; inspection maintenance and repair.
Do you guys say that you expect that to be flattish or down in Q3? Wait wait.
Asset Integrity.
Yeah Asset Integrity.
We said -- I think we said flattish.
So one of the things...
Hold a second out.
We'll double check as it's – the answer to your question I think would be yes.
We said it was flattish to downish but I'm pretty sure we said it would be similar.
Okay.
So that's similar.
And that leads to my real question which is that business obviously gets cut pretty sharply when CapEx cuts happen but that seems like more of a deferral rather than revenues going away permanently.
So how long can people defer inspection repair and maintenance before it becomes a problem.
And I guess what I am leading up to is should you see some bounce back or rebound in that business sometime next year? Ken let me – I'm going to – then I'll turn it over to Kevin there to add to answer.
But I going to – want to start with it really is not related to CapEx it is – this is in most of our work is inspection and Asset Integrity associated with existing facilities and its very much more associated with production.
So we – the one surprise we have in 2015 that made it a surprise because we didn't think production OpEx would be cut as quickly and as sharply as it was.
Now some of this inspection has to occur and they're just deferring it.
I have like in this way more to having your car needing an oil change and you don't have to do it today even though it's been the requisite number of miles.
You think you can keep running it for a while and you can.
But then there is always more costs if you don't get the oil change.
Right now they have – customers and the interest of cash flow have stop spending this discretionary timing money.
And I think we are expecting it to come back but not in the second half of 2015 we're expecting similar results in 2015.
Go ahead Kevin.
I mean I mean there are regulatory requirements that we – it have to be adhere to but these are all around individual plans that they lodge with the authorities in various countries wherever they're operating.
And so they could all be different timings whatnot but we do certainly expect that this is going to come back we just really don't know when it really depends on when their drive to that be would be to get the inspections done.
Yeah I guess that's where I was trying to get a ballpark thought for this is that so you deferred it.
Does that start coming back within a year or can some of that be even longer.
I just I don't have a feel for that.
I don't know if you can...
I mean well I will previs by saying that I really don't have any exact knowledge but one would think that within a year that they would have to be getting back to business here.
Okay.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] Your next question comes from the line of Stephen Gengaro from Sterne Agee.
Please go ahead.
Thanks good morning guys.
Hi.
Just a one quick follow-on on the ROV front.
Can you give us a sense for what the pricing looks like just even in general terms.
And kind of how do you think about the supply demand right now? A plenty of supply not much demand.
I can tell you that.
And but as far as the pricing I mean I think we don't want to go into that.
I mean we have we believe a stronger market position with respect to competitors because of our value offer and we really for obvious reasons don't want to explore that publicly.
When you look at the margins in that business the margins have held up fairly well.
So I would imagine there hasn't been too much price deterioration but you've done some other things from an efficient perspective the whole margin.
Right I mean is that a good way to think about it going forward that you are able to kind of compete or manage it in the face off some price headwinds to keep margins flattish? Well I mean that's certainly our intent and – but I would also point out that some of the not all of the reduced pricing has shown up in our results yet.
And so that's going to still – that's going to continue to trickle through.
But I mean this is – this is a about over challenged and we are continuing to look at ways to be more efficient reduce cost we're stopping to do things that we were doing but eventually we'll restart when the market is better but I mean we're just doing everything we can to maintain.
And it really is difficult to maintain margins with...
Declining utilization.
...utilization declining.
I mean that's the challenges where our utilization second half going to be? Right.
And maybe because suddenly depreciation becomes a larger component on a day on a per day worked basis so we haven't turned that off yet.
And then just as a – as a quick follow-up when you think about your value proposition your liability your uptime et cetera on your VSAT is that a more important or less important negotiating point in this kind of market or is it about the same? I think that kind of depends on the operator but it is obviously of less importance to the person making the procurement decision at times like this.
So there is a lot of factors involved the philosophy of the particular client the geographic area that you might be going to work in.
And so there might be a lot more concern about it if you were headed to East Africa then if you are going to be operating here in the Gulf of Mexico let's say.
Great.
Thanks for your answers.
Sure.
Your next question comes from the line of Ed Muztafago from Société Générale.
Please go ahead.
Hi guys.
We heard one of the subsea providers talk the other day about the small project work in the Gulf of Mexico actually having an uptick in 2Q and then sort of the – their expectation they expected that portion of the business to perform quite well given the better relative economics to the bigger projects.
Just kind of wondering how the small project work in the Gulf of Mexico plays into your thinking do you all expect that business to be fairly robust or within your guidance are you not really baking much of these small project work into your guidance at this year? You're talking about new development work like a tie back? Correct.
Exactly.
Well I mean I think when you compare the capital required to do something like that versus some other bigger project I think the oil companies would much rather do those they're quick generally relatively easy but I'm not aware that there is a – an overabundance of those things out there waiting to happen.
Okay.
I think what and I don't know that the products company was talking about particularly but I think what we have seen is with low day rate.
Independence have plenty access to rigs and they are doing single well drillings and you know and those have always been right in the middle of – of our fairway because our vessels can [indiscernible] short umbilicals and we can do the installation.
And the lead time is very quick turnaround from the time they decide to – that they have a discovery they need a umbilical.
So usually we see quicker turnaround and quicker from delivery but I can't say that we've seen enough of a pickup that we put that in our second half thinking.
Okay.
So presumably that could present some upside.
I wanted to maybe harp just a little bit on the ROV margins a bit.
If we kind of go back to 2009 when we saw utilization creep down into the 70s around where you're talking about.
Margins eventually came down maybe 200 basis points to 300 basis points.
Would it be inconceivable for us from kind of a modeling perspective to think about that type of margin compression in ROVs going forward here? Well [indiscernible] there is not a lot of comparison in our view between the 2008 2009 issue with what's going on today.
I mean that was really kind of a very quick and minor blip for us in our business...
Yeah.
As you could see from our financial results around that – around that period.
So this is – way different.
So I wouldn't make a comparison that because we had similar utilization perhaps that the margin compression will be the same.
If we move back far and we think about what happen in 2008 2009.
Look what happened in 2008 and 2009 is the down platform work in the Gulf of Mexico got completed.
And even though it was in shallow water there was a significant number of ROVs being utilized to assist in the rig removal of the down platform.
And so Jack correct me if I'm off base here but it was all vessel-based days that caused our utilization to do down and we had no compression in margin in drill support.
Right.
Right.
And today it is a amazingly different market right.
Yeah.
Okay.
No no.
I was wondering that it was down platform and the vessel days...
And we have the down platform I think that..
Yeah.
But that's what caused our utilization a downtick down there it wasn't the global financial crisis or anything else it caused because that just didn't affect deepwater.
Yeah oh that's fair.
And so you in that period you lost some of the what would be the higher margin work for sake of lower margin work? It was all about the mix ...
Yes.
At that point in time.
Yes it.
Okay.
And so presumably that the mix issue that we're talking about this time around could ultimately be the reverse where you see more loss in the mix on that the lower margin work which is the drilling work? Yeah but I mean – let's make it sure that it's same thing about umbilicals.
I mean when you start losing that lower margin work doesn't mean your margin is going up.
It – fair enough.
Fair enough.
But ...
You got a lot more fixed cost to cover with your higher margin work.
Yeah.
And it's just doesn't work out that way.
Okay.
Fair enough.
I appreciate that.
Your next question comes from the line of Daniel Burke from Johnson Rice.
Please go ahead.
Good morning guys.
Thanks for squeezing me in.
One last question on Subsea Products and I might have missed this.
So I apologize.
But the press release commentary noted that the moderate reductions the guidance for this year reflected reduce Subsea Products expectations but that business is still expected to be up second half of the year.
It sounds like there has been a decent amount of callout workstation type activity so can you – maybe I missed it.
Can you address what part of that business you dialed back your expectations for the second half of the year? Within the services related what you said.
I think it was in tooling IWOCS and other manufactured products that we dialed down in the second half.
And we basically said umbilicals are going to be up second half over first half and we didn't change our outlook from the first quarter outlook.
Well that's been pretty steady because that's mostly backlog.
Got it.
Thanks Marvin.
And then the last one what – on the integrity side what percent of integrity revenues are non-U.S.
dollar denominated? Way most.
Okay.
Okay.
So that's one thing to keep in mind when we look at that top line year-over-year is just the impact of that pushing through then.
Correct? Yes.
I think it is right now I will say that we've always been Europe and West Africa centric West Africa is or Africa is dollar denominated but it is worth by UK and Norway.
And but I'm not going to use the FX word too much because level of activity in UK and Norway is down way more than the kroner or pound has weakened.
Okay great.
That's helpful guys.
Thank you very much.
It's a demand issue Daniel.
I understand.
All right I just wanted to explore that for a moment.
I appreciate the – your time.
Okay.
And your final question comes from line of Jim Wicklund from Credit Suisse.
Please go ahead.
Thanks for the follow-up and since I'm the last question I get to ask the fun one.
You stayed all this time for this.
All this time just for this.
Okay.
So you can imagine [indiscernible] Okay with everything we see today you are not giving guidance for 2016 got that no problem.
With everything you see today and nothing will hold you to – hope to which is a complete lag as well I remember it.
That's shifting on us.
Check in the mail.
49% or 51% that 2016 earnings are better than 2015.
And you may all have different opinions.
I'll poll each of you.
Jack? Let me ask you what part of the offshore market do you see improving in 2016? No no no I'm not going to get into this.
We have publish research just whatever you think and I'm not even asking to qualify.
Okay.
49% or 51% on earnings up next year.
Do you have your own opinions? You don't need mine? And I think a different number? All right.
[indiscernible].
I know the answer.
The answer is...
First it start with a five.
The answer is yes.
Okay.
the answer starts with a five? I said it doesn't start with a five.
It doesn't start with a five? Or what? It does not.
That was very helpful.
Okay guys I appreciate it.
Thanks so much.
Anyway.
Thank you but what hey look when I look at the you very smart people that follow us and I could ask the same question and it is exactly or very likely to be half would pick 49.5 would pick 51 we're not going to give any comment on 2016 even directionally because we haven't – we got our own gut feel but we have no numbers or no market intelligence to kind of give you an order of magnitude.
But thanks for the fun last questions.
You just answered my question completely and thanks guys I appreciate it.
And we've no further questions.
I'll turn the call back over to the presenters.
Okay.
Since there are no more questions I'd like to wrap up by thanking everyone for joining the call.
This concludes our second quarter 2015 conference call.
Have a good day.
And that concludes today's call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning ladies and gentlemen.
My name is Ryan and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the 2015 Third Quarter Earnings Review.
[Operator Instructions].
I would now like to turn our call over to Jack Jurkoshek.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
Thanks for joining us on our 2015 third quarter earnings conference call.
As usual the webcast of this event is being made available through the StreetEvents network service by Thomson Reuters.
Joining me today are Kevin McEvoy our Chief Executive Officer who will be leading the call.
Marvin Migura Executive Vice President Alan Curtis Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer and Suzanne Spera who recently joined the company as Director of Investor Relations.
Suzanne will be opening our earnings calls commencing next February.
Just as a reminder remarks we make during the course of this call regarding our earnings guidance business strategy plans for future operations and industry conditions are forward-looking statements made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
These remarks are going to include non-GAAP measures of adjusted earnings per share and free cash flow that are reconciled to the closest GAAP measure in a posting on the IR section of our website.
I'm now going to turn the call over to Kevin.
Good morning.
Thanks for joining the call and your interest in Oceaneering.
As we reported in our press release our EPS of $0.70 was with our guidance range but was not achieved in a manner we initially anticipated.
Compared to our earlier expectations we experienced demand declines for tooling and installation work-over and control system or IWALKS services as customer projects were either postponed or did not materialize.
Furthermore contract renewals for floating rigs on which we provide ROV drill support services were weaker than forecast.
The unfavorable impacts of these market developments were more than offset by better results from Subsea Projects and lower unallocated expenses.
Subsea Projects exceeded our expectations due to higher U.S.
Gulf of Mexico vessel utilization which included completion of certain projects originally scheduled for the fourth quarter.
Unallocated expenses were lower as performance-based compensation expenses were reduced based on our current projections and results relative to plan targets.
In addition during the quarter we incurred around $9 million in foreign currency losses which our guidance does not consider.
Nearly $8 million of those losses were attributable to the devaluation of the Angolan Kwanza.
Year-over-year quarterly earnings decreased on significantly lower demand and pricing for most of our oil field services and products.
This was attributable to reductions in capital and operating expenditures by our customers resulting from the steep decline in oil prices.
Sequentially quarterly earnings increased on lower unallocated expenses.
Our outlook for the fourth quarter this year is down from what we envisioned at the time of our last quarterly earnings release primarily on reduced expectations for ROVs and Subsea Products.
ROVs on a reduction in days-on-hire for drill support work and lower average revenue per day-on-hire subsea Products largely on lower demand for tooling and IWALKS services.
Given this outlook and our year-to-date performance we're lowering our 2015 EPS guidance to a range of $2.60 to $2.66 from $2.70 to $2.90 down 6% at the midpoints.
Our guidance range is provided on a GAAP basis.
Adjusting for foreign currency exchange losses incurred year-to-date and our second quarter Subsea Products inventory right now would add back EPS of $0.15 to our guidance.
Compared to 2014 we continue to forecast income declines for all of our oil field operating segments in 2015.
For 2015 we anticipate generating at least $640 million of EBITDA.
At the end of the quarter we had $271 million in cash and an undrawn $500 million revolver.
We continue to take actions to reduce our operating expenses and organic capital expenditures.
And believe our liquidity and projected cash flow provide us ample resources to manage our business through the current low-commodity price environment.
I would now like to review our third quarter segment results.
Year-over-year ROV operating income declined on lower demand and a reduction in average revenue per day-on-hire.
Our ROV days-on-hire declined 16% to approximately 21 200 days largely on reduced demand to provide drill support services.
Average revenue per day-on-hire declined 17%.
Due to an unfavorable change in geographic mix as we experience disproportionately lower demand in high day rate operating areas notably Norway and Angola.
A weakening of about 30% in the Norwegian krone exchange rate relative to the U.S.
dollar and lower pricing or customer discounts.
Notably of the total decline in revenue per day-on-hire over half was attributable to the geographic mix change.
Sequentially operating income decreased primarily due to reduction in average revenue per day-on-hire for the same year-over-year reasons I just reviewed.
Operating margin during the quarter was 26% compared to 28% in the second quarter and 31% in the third quarter of 2014.
Our fleet mix during the quarter was 65% in drill support and 35% on vessel based work.
This compares to a 69%/31% mix last quarter.
And a 71%/29% mix in the prior year quarter.
Our fleet utilization during the quarter with 68% compared to 71% last quarter and 84% in the third quarter of 2014.
Year-to-date our fleet utilization was 71% compared to 85% for the comparable time period in 2014.
During the quarter we put five new ROVs into service and retired four.
At the end of September we had 337 systems available for operation up from 332 a year ago.
At the end of the quarter we had ROVs on 127 or 57% of the 222 floating rigs under contract.
We had ROVs on 142 contracted rigs at the end of June 2105 and on 168 rigs a year ago.
Turning to Subsea Products year-over-year third quarter operating income declined on lower demand for all of our major product lines particularly tooling.
Sequentially operating income was higher despite the decline in revenue as the second quarter included an inventory write-down of $9 million.
Absent the right down third quarter operating income declined mainly on lower demand for tooling and IWALKS services.
Operating margin during the quarter was 21% compared to 18% in the second quarter and 25% in the third quarter of last year.
Our Subsea Products backlog at quarter end was $736 million compared to our June backlog of $703 million and $768 million one year ago.
Year-over-year the backlog decline was largely attributable to tooling and BOP control systems.
Sequentially the backlog improvement was attributable to umbilicals notably the Shell Appomattox award.
Our book-to-bill ratio for the quarter was 1.15 year-to-date it was 1.07 and for the trailing 12 months it was 0.97.
Looking at Subsea Projects segment operating income was slightly higher year-over-year as a result of our acquisition of C&amp;C Technologies in April of this year.
The profit contribution from our U.S.
Gulf of Mexico Vessel Operations was about the same.
The profit contribution from our Angola Operations was down due to the release by BP of the Bourbon Evolution 803 during the second quarter of this year.
Sequentially Subsea Projects operating income decreased on a declining demand and pricing for Deep-water intervention services in the Gulf of Mexico and offshore Angola and diving services in the Gulf.
Operating margin during the quarter was 20% compared to 18% in both the second quarter ended third quarter of 2014.
The year-over-year improvement was attributable to better performance by our diving operations.
The sequential improvement was due to an increase in profit contribution from C&amp;C Technologies.
During the quarter we secured a two your subsea field support vessel services agreement with an oil and gas company in India for use of the Island Pride.
This contract is expected to start next month upon completion the vessel's mobilization from the Gulf of Mexico and acceptance by our customer.
With this contract we secured term work to expand our international Subsea Projects business while reducing our exposure to the Gulf which is primarily a spot or callout demand market.
The shorter term for the Island Pride has been amended to go back to back with this new services agreement.
As for our remaining business operations for the third quarter asset integrity operating income declined year-over-year on lower demand and increased pricing pressure for our services globally.
Sequentially operating income improved due to a change in service mix and actions we took to lower operating costs primarily a reduction in manning.
Advanced Technologies' operating income was lower year-over-year and sequentially due to execution issues on certain theme park projects.
We have implemented an internal reorganization to address these issues which specifically address engineering design and subcontractor selection matters.
In summary 2015 marked the beginning of a very challenging period oil field services and products industry but we believe we're well-positioned to make the most of it.
We generated $168 million of EBITDA during the quarter.
Capital expenditures for the quarter totaled about $44 million of which $17 million was invested in Subsea Products and $13 million in ROVs.
Moving on to our fourth quarter outlook we're projecting EPS in the range of $0.54 to $0.60.
Sequentially we're expecting quarter operating income declines from ROV Subsea Projects and asset integrity a similar profit contribution from Subsea Products a profit improvement from Advanced Technologies and lower unallocated expenses.
Year-over-year we're anticipating that all of our operating business segments will have lower fourth quarter income.
In conclusion for 2015 we're focused on cash flow generation and cost control.
We're taking actions to reduce our expenses and believe our cash flow and liquidity positioned us well to manage our business throughout the current low-commodity price environment.
For the first nine months of this year we have generated $497 million of EBITDA.
During this period we invested $369 million in CapEx and acquisitions spent $100 million to repurchase the 2 million shares of our common stock and paid $80 million in cash dividends to our shareholders for a total of $549 million.
This was funded by our cash flow from operations a $50 million drawn on our three-year term loan and it $160 million reduction in our beginning cash balance.
Another way to look at our cash flow generating capability is in our free cash flow conversion rate of 115%.
We define this on a percentage basis as net cash provided by operating activities less organic capital expenditures divided by net income.
Our year-to-date net cash provided by operating activities was $373 million and our organic capital expenditures were $139 million.
This derived amount of $234 million compares favorably to our net income of $204 million for the period.
While we don't focus on our quarterly free cash flow conversion rate due to the short-term fluctuations in this measure it is noteworthy that it was 187% for the third quarter.
Looking beyond 2015 based on the current number of floating rigs working and expectations for further reductions in offshore activities due to continued spending cuts by our customers we believe our 2016 earnings will be lower than our projection for 2015.
However we're not prepared to quantify the magnitude of the decline at this time.
We will continue to assess the market and perhaps provide a 2016 outlook when we report our 2015 year-end results in February 2016.
Longer-term deep water is still expected to play a critical role in the global oil supply growth required to replace depletion in the projected demand.
Consequently we intend to continue our strategy to expand our service and product line offerings as evidenced by our recent investments in survey and satellite based positioning data solutions and Subsea Asset Integrity.
We appreciate everyone's interest in Oceaneering.
I will now be happy to take any questions you may have.
[Operator Instructions].
Your first question comes from the line of Kurt Hallead from RBC Capital.
Your line is open.
The question I had here was on ROVs.
When you look at the market dynamic going into next year do you think the risk related to ROV revenue generation is still more utilization? Or is there increasing pricing pressure? It's probably a little bit of both.
I think as operators continue to struggle with their cash flow and whatnot there is continuing pressure there.
I think I would maybe characterize it as saying that the maybe the worst of it is over but I still expect that this is going to be continuing until things get better here.
And the utilization risk is higher because of drill support rig renewals continues to fall off or be nonexistent.
And one thing you gave a lot of great information.
I don't know if I caught it all but you mentioned that you expected the fourth quarter to be in that earnings range.
And then I think you indicated that you expected -- was it the products business to generate a similar level of income in the fourth quarter as it did in the third quarter? Did I hear that correctly? Yes you did.
Your next question comes from the line of Waqar Syed with Goldman Sachs.
Your line is open.
A couple of questions number one your investor-based ROV count increased nicely from 74 to 81 ROVs during the quarter.
Can you see at this level into the fourth quarter or do you see seasonally it may come down in the fourth? I think fourth quarter seasonality is certainly going to kick in.
So that will affect our vessel-based operations as it always does.
I was looking at last year we didn't see that much between third and fourth quarters.
That is why -- It has been nicely going up but okay [indiscernible] to come down.
Again it is a callout business and customers are trying not to spend money.
So we will see but I would expect seasonality in the fourth quarter of this year.
Secondly your CapEx for 2016 any initial guidance? And then even broadly? What would your maintenance CapEx number be? We have historically characterized our maintenance CapEx as around $100 million a year.
Which will probably continue.
And at this point we're not really going to put out any sort of guidance as to what that might be for next year.
Although you could surmise that it might be less.
I think it will be less than it is during 2015.
Your next question comes from the line of Ian Macpherson with Simmons.
Your line is open.
You provided helpful color on the geographic adjustments that impacted your ROV revenues.
I wonder if this sort of two points of margin that you lost in the quarter are recoverable to any degree that those changes normalize going forward? Do you think you can defend the margins where they were previously at 28% or currently at 26% in Q3? Or should we think of further downside to margins for ROVs as the revenue line continues to be under risk going forward? Given that we noted Norway and Angola as two of the highest folks in that category that the caused that.
I mean there's not much evidence to suggest that Statoil is going to be doing much different than have been doing right now.
That mix is probably going to continue in that vein and same with Angola at the moment.
Ian as we also indicated with utilization expected to continue to be under pressure in drill support seasonality and vessel-based.
And continued pricing pressure even though we're cutting costs everywhere we can I think that margin percentage is very difficult to defend in this environment.
In this environment.
Yes.
My follow-up question I'm sorry that I missed this when you're going over the elements of Q4 guidance.
Did you say your unallocated expenses which were low in Q3 those would tick up or tick down in Q4? We said they would be lower.
Your next question comes from the line of Jim Crandall with Cowan.
Your line is open.
Kevin if you eliminate the mix geographically roughly how far down are ROV rates on your most recent contracts from the peak? Jim we're not going to really characterize that.
Okay.
It is reflected in the average revenue per day.
Which is complicated by mix and everything else.
But to characterize it anymore finally would get into such particulars in every geographic area that it would be more unhelpful that helpful.
I think from an investor standpoint.
And trying to figure out what is going on.
It really is Jim on a case-by-case basis.
And we don't want to give any general indication as to averages for customer pricing confidentiality.
Okay.
Kevin you have seen a lot of cycles.
And as I recall during some of the down cycles in the past we saw more of a leveling out of day rates.
Going all the way back to let's say the 1986 and 1987 cycle how did the declines in ROV rates compare with the worst cycle other than this one that you have seen in your career? Jim were there ROVs around in 1986 and 1987? I remember at least in 1986 when I was in the Morgan City Office we had a total of three ROVs working and none of them were in the Gulf of Mexico.
I don't think there is a comparability-- I don't think it is comparable at all to compare those.
How about -- take the 2009 down cycle.
I think we saw more of a flattening in rates there.
This has certainly got to be measurably worse than that.
This is totally different.
That was really a very minor downward blip for us as a company.
Across our service lines including -- drilling didn't slow down during that time.
And so this is very different and quite more negative compared to that timeframe.
In 2009 we didn't have a record earnings year it was still our second best year ever because it was still better than 2007.
Deepwater didn't suffer.
It continued to grow through it.
And there was that initial shock but then Deepwater momentum continued.
Right now that is the one thing you can't say about this market.
Your next question comes from the line of Chase Mulvehill with SunTrust.
Your line is open.
This is Josh logged on for Chase.
Thanks for taking my question.
My question is kind of around Subsea Projects did you -- help us characterize spot work during the quarter and how competitive that is? As we said last quarter the situation hasn't really changed.
It is a very competitive environment.
More vessels in the Gulf of Mexico than there is demand.
I think we're getting our fair share of utilization maybe even more so.
However pricing is pretty competitive and margins tend to be thin.
Okay.
What percent of revenue would be from the spot work that you had in Q3? We have one vessel in the Gulf of Mexico that is on a term charter everything else is spot work.
We don't break out projects by region to not give too much detail on the BP Angola contracts.
This is one customer and two vessels.
I would say that it is a substantial portion of the total and whatever overwhelming amount of the Gulf of Mexico vessel-based services projects segment.
Your next question comes from the line of David Wilson with Howard Weil.
Your line is open.
I just got one quick follow-up.
I think you might have mentioned it but I could've missed it.
Regarding ROVs on rigs rolling off contract did you give a number for 2016 of what your exposure there was? We have not.
Would you be able to? Or I can do some digging I guess.
Why we didn't give a number is because we don't know about the sanctity of rig contracts right now.
It really is and you know this better than I do it is a drilling rig market that is very concerned about extend and blend or cancel.
We focus on the decline and the number of rigs that we're working quarter-over quarter and how many ROVs we have on it.
We didn't go there this quarter.
Your next question comes from the line of Mike Urban with Deutsche Bank.
Your line is open.
I guess kind of a broader organizational or maybe even a strategic kind of question or questions.
We saw over the last several months a number of releases for you on management changes people coming and going changing roles within the Company.
Outside of exiting DOP control systems I haven't necessarily seen or maybe I just missed it is there some kind of broader organizational change going? Is there anything you are doing structurally or anything you're trying to accomplish there? I would be interested in your thoughts on that.
I think what you have seen in terms of announcements is normal succession and organization planning and whatnot.
In terms of structural changes I would say no apart from our continuing look at how we can better streamline the Company to reduce overall cost.
I think there is a considerable amount of effort and cost reductions going on within the segments.
But I think if you look at the personnel changes we're blessed with bench strength and Alan Curtis became the new CFO with my pending exit.
And he has been with us for as long as I have.
Clyde Hewlett became our Chief Operating Officer.
And Clyde has been here almost as long as Kevin has and longer than I have.
And Rod who was promoted to President he has been here now for three years.
All of this is a very orderly transition.
And we recruited Steve Barrett for -- to run our Subsea Products Group.
I would say that organizationally there have been a few press releases but there has been very little change in pace or direction within Oceaneering.
And other than exiting the BOP controls new systems we have not changed anything in our business strategy.
We bolted on C&amp;C and we continue to look for growth opportunities.
That may answer my second question so no change in direction broadly speaking right now? But given some of the structural challenges that are out there in the industry are you re-valuating your position or investments in certain markets? Other places where you might want to add or exit? And just the overall strategic direction of the Company? We're not really looking to change the offshore subsea focus of the Company.
I think we're going to continue to go down the path that we have been going down.
If there are opportunities to make an acquisition we will certainly look at those.
We have the capability of making some deals but otherwise we're staying with our knitting here so to speak.
Right now Mike we continue to look for growth opportunities.
We don't think there's going to be any distressed subsea asset sales other than vessels and we're not interested in that at this time.
But we're continuing to look for opportunities to add assets to do geographic expansion rather than any type of contraction.
We know that may suffer our margins as we keep a store-based network functioning with reduced activity everywhere.
But I think it will help us considerably if we're able to expand -- specifically subsea work systems to do well stimulation or hydrate remediation and IWOCS.
We're looking to grow rather than to contract.
Your next question comes from the line of Brad Handler with Jefferies.
Your line is open.
Maybe just a couple of follow-ups that you have spoken to a little bit already.
Can you give us visibility on BP Angola specifically? Do you expect to retain two vessels that works through 2016? We're not going to comment on that.
Right now we're pretty clear on what our contract coverage is but you know and I know that those things are subject to change today.
Maybe speaking to just your last answer a little bit.
Are there stair steps in demand that might have you think a little bit differently about cost savings opportunities? Or maybe just a different way to answer it is can you quantify the aggregate impact? Do you think of the cost savings steps you have taken and ones that are underway? No.
So much is related to utilization and it is -- our ROV business is very variable.
So is our vessel cost all of our offshore crews get paid when they work.
When you go to plants a step change would be should we choose to close down an umbilical plant? And yet when we look at the three that we have one in Scotland one in Florida and one in outside of Rio we see a reason to keep all three of those operating at this time.
If you're going to go lower for longer and not have backlog we will revisit that when appropriate.
Right now we don't see a step change.
We just see less activity less demand and lower prices and we're focused in cash flow.
I think we're doing a pretty good job.
Your next question comes from the line of Ed Muztafago with Societe Generale.
Your line is open.
I just really had one question here.
I wanted to focus maybe on asset integrity a little bit.
I know this is the business that really has fallen off a lot more then you probably all expected.
And you kind of commented that you can't go on like this forever.
If we have a muted year another year down next year do you think this business can bump along at this level for another four quarters without really risking safety in the industry? Maybe you can just talk to how you're thinking about that.
That really is a question for the operators and what their risk tolerances in that regard.
I think our observation would be that there are a lot of regulatory requirements around this so they can't just ignore it for too long.
Our hope and expectation is that this will start picking up again in the first quarter to second quarter of next year.
Because it has been as you said lower than we would have anticipated given the regulatory nature of that.
Every operator -- that is their decision and stuff.
And I think I would leave that with them.
Maybe just a related follow-up there obviously you are scaling all of the businesses down to meet the current environment.
I don't know to what extent that you have fully scaled down in asset integrity.
But is that a business where if it picks up unexpectedly quite quickly that you can have ample resources in place to meet that demand? I would say yes.
This is probably fairly true for the industry in general.
But you go through a downturn like this a lot of people lose their jobs.
And they're not going to get a job in the same industry until things improve.
But once it does everybody is going to come back to work.
We should be able to attract the necessary personnel to attack the market when it does come back.
Your next question comes from the line of Jim Crandall with Cowen.
Your line is open.
I wanted to come back and try to ask the pricing question on ROVs a couple of different ways.
As I understand it Kevin it's highly unusual to be replaced as an ROV company once you are on a rig.
Have you been replaced as an existing ROV supplier on a drilling rig by another company? Secondly how does your overall drill support market share compare with levels pre-downturn? I think the overall percentage of market share is pretty close within a percentage point or so.
That really has not changed as far as -- you are correct in saying that it is not routine for ROVs to be replaced on rigs but it does happen.
It even happens to us occasionally.
I couldn't tell you whether it has happened to us in the last quarter or not I just don't know.
Off the top of my head but as you said it is very non routine.
However I would say that in the current market where rigs are getting warm stacked and whatnot and or going into yards or whatnot it does make it easier for that to happen.
Operators are bidding everything to get the absolute lowest price.
So we could see it happen.
But I would not expect this to be a major shift in the industry by any stretch.
To say this is slightly different way we're not losing market share.
During full utilization times you don't bother to switch out an ROV operator because of the cost associated with it.
And time primarily because the rig is going from well to well.
And so they're not going to take a rig out of service essentially for a couple of days even to make a switch.
But with a lot of downtime between contracts and a lot of warm stacked rigs there is ample opportunity should you choose and they are choosing to re-bid but we're matching the market and continuing to work to the extent the rigs are continuing to work.
Our strategy is we have always said is to leave our systems on board.
Warm stacked rigs in order to have some cost advantage of not having to mobilize to go there.
That does help us in our bidding strategy.
Isn't it fair to say that historically that you have been able to command a meaningful premium on price because of the quality of your people and all the things that make Oceaneering what it is? Is the pressure on pricing coming from the competitive aspect and that they're willing to go even deeper below Oceaneering? Or is it just the oil companies are demanding price concessions across-the-board and literally everything that is been done out there? I think in all of these cycles at least this is the way we would characterize it.
In all of these cycles where money gets to be very very tight the procurement departments in oil companies have a lot more sway over decision-making.
I think historically what you said is very true.
And I think that is reflected in the market share that we've had.
Everybody is bidding lower now because they have to if they want utilization.
And I think utilization is the name of the game.
Or staying market share is in name of the game and we're doing everything we can to maintain our market share.
I think the pressure is more Jim from the customer than it is from the competitors.
Absolutely from the customer.
Okay.
Everybody is trying to match up to whatever they think they want to take.
Your next question comes from the line of Chase Mulvehill from SunTrust.
Your line is open.
You guys have been very successful with umbilical awards over the last year.
I wonder if you'd help us think about 2015 what that's going to look like? As a percent of products and then how that transitions into 2016? Chase we do that annually.
And we're not going to do it at nine months.
I haven't even calculated it myself.
We have had a as you said a very good run in umbilical awards and execution.
So a good backlog great book-to-bill stats that we gave out and long may it continue.
Your next question comes from the line of Ian Macpherson with Simmons.
Your line is open.
I wonder could you say whether the Island Pride contract in India would be of a similar magnitude of the revenue or profit contribution that you lost in Angola going down from 3 to 2 vessels? Or are they very dissimilar? It will not be the same.
Market conditions are significantly different today than they were when we did the Angola contract.
No it is very different.
We have no further questions in queue.
Since there are no more questions I would like to wrap up by thanking everyone for joining the call.
And this concludes our third quarter 2015 conference call.
Have a great day.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Kirk and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Oceaneering 2015 Fourth Quarter Earnings and Annual Earnings Conference Call.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers’ remarks there will be a question and answer session.
[Operator Instructions] Suzanne Spera you may begin your conference.
Thanks you Kirk.
Good morning and welcome to the Oceaneering fourth quarter and full year 2015 results conference call.
Today’s call is being webcast and a replay will be available on Oceaneering’s website.
Joining us on the call are Kevin McEvoy Chief Executive Officer who will be providing our prepared comment.
Alan Curtis Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer and Marvin Migura Senior Vice President.
Before we begin I just like to remind you that the remarks we will be making during the course of this call regarding our earnings guidance business strategy plans for future operations and industry conditions are forward-looking statements made pursuant to the Safe Harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Our comments today also include non-GAAP financial measures.
Additional details and reconciliations to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures can be found in our fourth quarter press release.
We welcome your questions after the prepared statements.
I'll now turn the call over to Kevin.
Good morning and thanks for joining us.
We appreciate your participation today and your continued interest in Oceaneering.
2015 was a tough year and global market conditions are not likely to improve over the course of 2016.
While we cannot affect the macro environment we find ourselves in today we are focused on the reality of the current market and are making changes necessary to manage through the downturn.
So rather than beginning my comments outlining the reasons why our earnings in 2015 were less than the record we achieved in 2014 I would like to briefly highlight our cash flow generating capabilities and liquidity which we feel set us apart from many companies in the oil field service space.
Despite declining earnings our annual free cash flow increased year-over-year as we reduced organic capital expenditures and working capital.
In 2015 we generated free cash flow of $360 million or 127% of adjusted net income exceeded the $335 million we made in 2014.
We had $385 million in cash at the end of the year and $500 million available under our revolving credit facility.
I will talk more about our 2015 cash flow later during the call.
Moving on to our earnings results our fourth quarter adjusted earnings per share was $0.58 excluding the $45.9 million impact of pre-tax adjustments in foreign currency losses and was within the guidance range we gave last quarter.
Annual adjusted earnings per share excluding the $81.1 million impact of pre-tax adjustments and foreign currency losses was $2.87 a share down 28% from our 2014 results.
We have undertaken a series of initiatives to align our operations with current and anticipated declines in activity and pricing levels.
Given these conditions we unfortunately found it necessary to reduce our workforce incur unusual expenses and make certain accounting adjustments.
With our limited market visibility on how 2016 may actually be we are not prepared to quantify the magnitude or the duration of the decline or give annual and quarterly EPS guidance.
Looking at our business operations on an adjusted basis for 2015 compared to 2014 ROV operating income declined 32% on 24% less revenue driven by lower demand for drill support services and an 11% reduction in average revenue per day-on-hire.
Our annual ROV fleet utilization is 69% fell from 83% in 2014.
Our days-on-hire decreased by 15% to about 83 800 days.
Average revenue per day-on-hire of $9634 was down due to an unfavorable change in geographic mix a weakening of about 22% in the average Norwegian kroner exchange rate relative to the US dollar and lower pricing and customer discounts.
During the year we added 16 vehicles retired 36 older systems and transferred one to Ad Tech; the net effect of this decreased our fleet size to 315 vehicles compared to 336 at the beginning of the year.
We retired a large number of vehicles during 2015 due to low market demand and limited prospective future work.
Due to actions we took to control costs operating margin only dropped to 27% from 30% in 2014.
We believe we continue to be the largest ROV owner with an estimated 31% of the industry’s work-class vehicles at year end.
We remain the primary provider of ROV drill support service at the end of 2015.
Of the 216 floaters under contract we had ROVs on a 118 or 55% which is nearly three times that of the second largest supplier.
At the end of 2014 we had ROVs on a 162 of the 275 contracted floaters or 59%.
The calculated 4% decline in our market share of contracted rigs year-over-year was not due to competitors replacing us on contracted rigs it was simply a function of which rigs were idled during 2015.
Subsea Product’s operating income was down 27% in 2015 relative to 2014 on a 23% reduction of revenue due to lower demand and pricing for tooling and subsea hardware and lower umbilical plant throughput.
Umbilical revenue as a percent of our total subsea product’s revenue in 2015 was 33% about the same as the 32% in 2014.
Our year end subsea products backlog was $652 million down from $690 million at the end of 2014.
This backlog decline was related to tooling at subsea hardware.
Products book-to-bill ratio for the year was 0.96.
For subsea projects considering the oil price environment and the current global oversupply of vessels operating income held up relatively well during 2015 due to an increase in diving activity offshore Angola and in the Gulf of Mexico and a higher profit contribution from our data solutions group.
The decline of 12% was due to lower deepwater vessel activity and market pricing offshore in Angola and in the US Gulf of Mexico.
Within subsea projects during 2015 we commenced work on a two-year multi-service vessel charter with Shell Offshore for the use with the Ocean Alliance in the Gulf of Mexico that started January the 1<sup>st</sup>.
We experienced a reduction in pricing and work for BP Offshore Angola including the release of the Bourbon evolution 803 that occurred at the end of April.
We secured a two-year subsea field support vessel services contract with an oil and gas company in India for use in the Island Pride.
With this contract which commenced in November we expanded our international subsea projects business while reducing our vessel charter exposure to the Gulf which is predominantly as spot or callout demand market.
Last April we acquired C&amp;C Technologies recently renamed Oceaneering Survey Services a global provider of survey and satellite base positioning services.
Included within this acquisition were customized state-of-the-art autonomous underwater vehicles or AUVs capable of deep ocean survey mapping.
The purchase price of $224 million was paid in cash.
Due to the deteriorating market condition the contributions from Oceaneering Survey Services had not been what we initially expected.
However we believe having in-house survey capabilities are complementary to our existing service offerings and will be very positive in the longer-term.
Asset Integrity operating income fell precipitously compared to 2014 on lower global demand and pricing for inspection services.
Advanced technology’s operating income for the year was substantially lower due primarily to execution issues on certain theme park projects.
Unallocated expenses during 2015 were lower mainly as a result of reduced performance-based incentive and deferred compensation expenses as plant targets were not achieved.
While 2015 was an extremely challenging year for the industry and Oceaneering we have taken actions to do more than just survive in this current market but drive and emerge even strongly than we are today.
These actions focus on reducing our costs and establishing strategic partnerships with suppliers to create innovative cost-effective solutions to maximize the value of our customers that our customers receive.
We are also working on ways to further differentiate ourselves with integrated solutions that offer greater customer value especially in the areas of life of field inspection maintenance and repair work and decommissioning projects.
Since our comparisons have been on an adjusted basis I would now like to address the adjustments for the year 2015.
Our results included $81.1 million of pre-tax adjustments including $15.4 million of foreign currency losses that were primarily attributable to Angola Central Bank devaluation of the kwanza.
The remaining $65.7 million of adjustments reflect our assessment of a weaker future business outlook given the prospect that a depressed oil price environment could be for long.
Of this $25 million was the restructuring expenses incurred principally as a result of workforce reductions and facility rationalization.
About $12 million of these expenses were incurred prior to the fourth quarter and were not identified earlier as being non-operating in each quarter as these were not significant.
Of the $65.7 million $56 million affected the ROV and subsea products results.
Other than restructuring expenses the ROV-related charges consisted of a $16 million inventory reserve due mainly to having excess ROV umbilicals based foreseeable market demand and a $3 million write-off of residual book value of retired ROV systems.
For subsea products in addition to the $9 million second quarter inventory charge taken as a result of our decision to exit the subsea BOP controls manufacturing business we also reserved about $11 million of other items associated with our umbilicals business.
Of this $5 million was an allowance for a doubtful account and about $6 million was related to non-income tax credit carry-forwards in Brazil that are now doubtful to be realized due to the reduced level of expected business going forward.
Turning next to our sources and uses of cash as mentioned previously we had $360 million of free cash flow in 2015 as we generated $560 million of cash provided by operating activities.
This amount represented the total of $231 million of net income $241 million of depreciation and amortization $88 million of cash reductions in working capital less $200 million of organic capital expenditures.
Our total capital allocation spending was $650 million compared to $1.1 billion in 2014.
We invested $200 million in organic capital expenditures and $244 million on other investments.
We also paid $106 million in cash dividends and spent $100 million repurchasing $2 million shares of our common stock.
These uses of cash were funded by our cash from operating activities a decrease in cash of $45 million and an increase in debt of $50 million.
Looking ahead to 2016 and for illustration purposes only at an earnings level of $1 per share we would generate about $100 million of net income after $240 million of depreciation and amortization.
Before considering any changes in working capital or other sources of cash our cash provided by operating activities would be $340 million.
Assuming organic capital expenditures ranging from $150 million to $200 million our free cash flow would be $140 million to $190 million.
This should be more than adequate to fund our anticipated $106 million in dividend payments and make additional investments or stock repurchases.
For modeling purposes we believe it is fair to assume that for every $0.10 of EPS above or below the $1 EPS is used in the foregoing illustration the impact on free cash flow would be approximately $10 million.
For 2016 our organic capital expenditures are expected to range from $150 million to $200 million and includes $75 million in maintenance capital and some uncompleted project CapEx carried over from 2015.
The carryover relates mainly to the completion of the Jones Act vessel Ocean Evolution several of the spoke ROVs of which we have firm contracts and additional equipment for our IWOCS service fleet.
In addition to funding our organic capital expenditures we expect to continue the quarterly cash dividend of $0.27 a share.
We may however revisit our quarterly dividend should market conditions deteriorate to the extent that our projected annual net income would not exceed the current annual dividend.
I would like to reiterate the keywords to this statement.
We wrote in our earnings release and we are saying again today we may revisit our quarterly dividend amount of $0.27 per share if our projected annual net income amount does not exceed this annualized dividend amount.
We did not write nor did we say that we will lower our quarterly dividend rate in such instance.
We simply stated that we might revisit the quarterly dividend amount if our annual projected earnings fall below the implied $1.08 a share.
We chose our words carefully understanding this might be one of the focal points of our earnings release in this call.
While today we may not think this to be likely case in 2016 we’ve learned from other service companies and customers alike to never say never especially when it comes to maintaining the dividend rate; at least not in this environment when everyone including representatives of most of the sell-side firms listening today have continuously revisited and lowered the expected average price of oil in 2016 and the expected level of spending by our customers.
Today we are living in a time of almost unprecedented uncertainty.
However I think we have indicated our committeemen to our current cash dividend to the highest extent possible or at least reasonable.
Our other uses of capital maybe to fund acquisitions or buyback shares.
We will consider acquisitions that augment our service and product offerings or add technologies.
With respect to share repurchases at the end of 2015 we had authorization to repurchase an additional 8 million shares.
We intend to continue our practice of announcing share repurchases only after they occur.
Turning to our outlook for 2016 we are expecting lower demand for our services and products and renewed pricing pressure and spending cuts from our customers.
Consequently we are projecting that each of our oil field segments will have lower operating income in 2016 than in 2015.
Directionally for our business operations we see ROV results being down on declining demand notably in the US Gulf of Mexico for drill support and vessel based work and lower average revenue per day-on-hire.
Subsea products’ results are expected to decline on lower pricing and the reduction in umbilical plant throughput and reduced demand for subsea hardware.
Subsea projects’ results should reflect lower deepwater vessel demand and diving activity offshore Angola primarily due to the release of the Bourbon Evolution 803 in April 2015 and the recently announced release of the Bourbon Oceanteam 101 at the end of May 2016.
With respect to the financial impact due to the charter cancellation we cannot comment on the confidential contract terms for any one vessel.
This was only one part of the ongoing demand destruction occurring in this extremely low oil price environment.
Project management engineering and vessel services work associated with the provision of the remaining charter vessel Oceaneering Intervention III is expected to continue as previously contracted with BP Offshore Angola through January of 2017.
This year in the Gulf of Mexico the term charter for the vessel Olympic Intervention IV expires in July and the charter for the Normand Flower expires in December.
We have options to renew these charters or let them expire and release one or both of these vessels.
Due to further shipyard delays deliveries of our subsea support vessel the Ocean Evolution is expected to occur late in the fourth quarter.
For asset integrity we expect results being down on continued lower global demand and pricing for inspection services.
For our non-oilfield segment Advanced Technologies operating income should improve due to expected better execution on theme park projects and increased activity.
On a year-over-year basis we expect higher unallocated expenses due to provisions for increased performance-based incentives and deferred compensation.
Turning to our first quarter 2016 outlook we anticipate that our earnings for the first quarter will be down considerably when compared to the first quarter of 2015 and adjusted fourth quarter of 2015.
Compared to the first quarter of 2015 we expect each of our operating segments we’ll have lower income led by ROVs on declining demand and average revenue per day-on-hire.
Subsea product’s operating income is expected to be lower on reduced demand and pricing for tooling IWOCS and subsea hardware.
Subsea Project’s operating income is expected to be down mainly due to the releases of Bourbon Evolution 803 Offshore Angola at the end of April 2015 and the regulatory inspection dry-dock at the Ocean Alliance in the US Gulf of Mexico during the first quarter of 2016.
Compared to the adjusted fourth quarter of 2015 we expect each of our oilfield segments to have lower income led by subsea products on reduced demand and pricing for subsea hardware a drop in demand for IWOCS services and lower umbilical plant throughput.
ROV operating income is anticipated to be down on declining demand and average revenue per day-on-hire.
For our first quarter 2016 outlook we anticipate that unallocated expenses will be lower than the first quarter of 2015 but higher than the fourth quarter of 2014.
The sequential increase is attributable to accruals for 2016 incentive and deferred compensation plans compared to the 2015 accruals which were adjusted downward.
In conclusion near-term we believe our liquidity and cash flow generating capabilities provide us with ample resources to manage our business with a backdrop of market uncertainty falling energy prices and reduced demand for our services and products.
Longer-term deepwater is still expected to continue to play a critical role in global supply oil growth required to replace depletion in projected demand.
Major deepwater projects remain key long-term growth drivers within international oil company portfolios.
In the medium-term we believe there will be an uptick in demand for products and services to extend the producing life of existing offshore fields and to perform decommissioning work.
Consequently we intend to continue our strategy to maintain or grow our market positions and to be prepared to expand our services and product line offerings since suitable opportunities emerge.
We believe our seasoned management team financial strength and cash flow generating capabilities position us well to manage through this downturn.
Thank you very much.
We will now be happy to take any questions you may have.
[Operator Instructions] And your first question comes from the line of Ole Slorer from Morgan Stanley.
Your line is open.
Thanks a lot.
And certainly a resilient performance.
When you think about your ROV outlook in 2016 is there any reason why at least the volume or activity volume let's forget about prices for a second should trend materially different to that of the overall global floater rig counts? No I would say not.
So no real changes in market share so anything like that? Well we don’t see that.
I mean really what we’ve been seeing is just a drop-off of contracted drilling rigs and if we are on them and that’s our mix and if we are not on them then it doesn’t affect us.
But I think the general trend needs to be that this certainly could continue to some extent through 2016 and what the real – what the new equilibrium number of contracted and working floating reason is going to be I don’t think anyone knows yet.
And Ole this is Marvin.
I think the same thing applies to our vessel-based services.
That seems to be dropping commensurately with rig activities.
So we are seeing those significant shifts in mix and we don’t know where the bottom is yet.
And my follow-up will be when you look at prices you talked about price weakness but when I look at your revenues it seems to in the fourth quarter have been relatively modest and offset by internal cost reductions.
Do you think that will be more difficult to mitigate the price discounts going forward? Or price reductions relative to your own cost structure or should we expect them to continue to be relatively balanced? It’s going to be increasingly more difficult for us to find cost savings to offset the potential future discounts or rate-cutting that are being demanded by our customers.
I think as their situation does not improve they are getting directives from their leaders to go back and renegotiate some more.
And so we are seeing this pretty consistently.
I think everybody in our space is seeing this and so we expect that to continue and until there is some stabilization in the price.
And that comment cuts across all of our oilfield segments to not just ROV.
Right.
I suppose the one difference between you guys and a number of the North American guys is that you are still making money which is a good thing.
But with that I'll hand it back.
Thanks for the clarification.
Your next question comes from the line of Chase Mulvehill from SunTrust.
Your line is open.
Hey.
Thanks for letting me in.
So I guess the first question on the subsea products side maybe you could help us with your umbilici’s exposure here and then how much of your 2015 subsea products revenues were generated from umbilicals? I think you give us that number last year.
We gave it in the call last year it was 33% versus 32% last year.
So 33% this year.
Okay.
In 2015 umbilicals represented 33% of the subsea products revenue and in prior year 2014 it was 32%.
Okay and the margin profile on the umbilicals 2014 versus 2015 were there any material difference in margins for umbilicals? I mean margins were everything.
We were going down in 2015 relative to 2014 and we have previously stated pretty consistently that the umbilical business has more challenging margins than the other sub-segments and the products segment.
And so yes like everything there is continued pressure on margins.
I mean before the downturn there was twice the capacity roughly than demand and that has gotten a lot worse.
Okay I mean but umbilical margins are positive right from an EBIT basis? Yes.
Yes.
And that’s about all that we are going to say on sub-segment margins Got it got it okay.
And real quick on ROVs can you just talk to the competitive landscape on the drilling support side of the business? Well I mean we really haven’t seen much on the competitive side for the reason that rigs are dropping off and not much is coming on.
So there really hasn’t been much to say there.
It’s all directly with the oil companies coming back and wanting concessions.
Chase I think we addressed that on the call when Kevin said that we really hadn’t lost much market or any market share that the decline in the number of rigs that we are on as a percentage of contracted rigs was simply a function of which rigs were idled during 2015.
Okay all right.
One last one and then I'll turn it back over.
Is there any chance you could give us D&amp;A for the ROV segment for fourth quarter 2015? No I don’t – we will do it for the year in the K and I don’t have that with me right now Chase.
Okay all right.
I thought I'd give it a shot.
Thanks.
Hey guys.
Not a whole lot of things to ask other than how deep is the abyss and nobody knows.
Thank you for answering your own question.
There you go.
So why don't you just put the company up for sale and say the hell with it? Let consolidation take place always happens at the bottom of the cycle and move on.
I’ll pass on that one.
Well why don’t you answer that one too Jim? Well about one in three investors asked when is Oceaneering going to sell and I remember at our Christmas lunch Kev we talked about how we couldn't come up with anybody who would make sense.
But I just thought I'd ask the question in public and get it out of the way.
Okay.
Has the market become noticeably worse in the last two months? I'm getting the impression from talking to people whether it's bank stress or activity and I'm hearing from board members the managements are always optimistic but board members seem to be taking their liability much more seriously in the last couple of months.
Has there been a change or is this just because we are in 2016? <br>Well I mean I think it’s important to separate out the segments we are talking about.
There is doom and gloom everywhere.
But there is a lot of stress I think on the onshore side generally across the board whereas in the offshore segment maybe it’s a lot more focused on things that float.
Not necessarily everybody else’s businesses is going down the tools or anything.
But I think there is – the longer that this goes on the more negative discussion there is in the press about everything and so you are going to feel worse about it but certainly anybody on a board of a company in this business ought to be paying attention to what is going on.
I mean there are companies we can’t borrow more company I mean there is all kinds of stress out there and that’s why we thought it would be prudent to highlight the fact that we’ve thankfully at this moment in time and as far as we can see at the minute are not in that situation and should be able to weather the storm as I say.
Okay and unprecedented uncertainty you guys were the last guys standing for the last year to give guidance.
Was it a decision that it didn't do you any good or you couldn't come up with anything credible I mean too much uncertainty to even give broad guidance because in the past you've given a range? Well I think that we – in last year it was in October and I think things were really just starting to happen and we did not appreciate and I think many other people did not either at that time which is when we historically gave the guidance for the following year.
So we just did not see what was coming.
And so - and you are right.
I mean we certainly got no credit for it.
We got beaten up for it lot more than people that didn’t give any guidance.
True.
And I think we – I mean well anyway and so there did not seem to be any upside to try to give guidance.
It would have been so broader range that no one would account for anything.
And so the last point it is pretty unclear out there what it’s going to be.
I mean we are primarily in a spot market kind of business and FID of new projects.
This is not really happening and so there is just a heck of lot of uncertainty.
And we’ve seen the term contracts for rigs boats whatever.
Don't mean much.
Can put it on.
So it would be really I think the answer to your question was both.
Okay well I think it's good that you all don't give guidance.
Like I say you didn't get credit for it.
Gentlemen thanks all the best.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Kurt Hallead from RBC.
Your line is open.
Hey good morning.
Hey Kurt.
Good morning.
Hey I had a question on the ROV dynamics specifically on the cost front.
Can you give us some general sense as the variability on ROV cost when I go back and look over time there has been some upward movement in the working cost of the ROV over time.
But as activities coming down and there are fewer ROVs working I’m kind of thinking that the ROV cost is going to come down as well.
So just looking for some fixed versus variable on your ROV cost structure? Well I mean the cost structure is different dependent on a geographic area that we are working because in some places you’ve got unions and the labor cost can be pretty variable.
I mean the system cost is fungible.
It doesn’t really care where it’s working.
I don’t know if that answers your question or not.
Kurt I think our cost relative to anything else that we have – our cost – our ROV costs are variable because all of the crew members go home when the rig – when the system is idle.
So I mean that has always been a variable cost up or down and our NIM stops when the ROV when the system goes idle.
What continues and becomes a bigger part of the cost in lower utilization is the onshore cost and depreciation.
So that’s fixed.
So when you look at – I mean we have a high degree of variability in direct cost as it relates to crew labor and depreciation and the costs are much less variable when it deals with shore-based cost and depreciation is not.
In shore-based cost for example I mean we still have to keep the shore base open if it’s four systems running or 12 systems running.
We can reduce the people but you still got the rent you still got the facility cost and you still have some people.
So I hope that addresses it.
Okay yes that's helpful thanks.
And then on subsea products also wanted to get a handle on the resiliency in that business because these elements of it - that are backlog-driven right? And are elements projects that are still moving forward and you probably have some good sense on what margins are in backlog.
So any color around the resiliency of subsea products or helping get a greater understanding and knowledge of how that business may fare as we go into a downturn here? Well I think we gave the backlog number.
Yes.
Which is primarily umbilical-denominated.
The rest of it is pretty short cycle stuff and so pretty hard to say what that’s going to be and obviously through this year and into next year everybody is going to be looking at are there any new orders for umbilicals for project that A has maybe already been sanctioned or B or expected to be sanctioned.
Does that happen or not or that they continue to slide to the right or what’s going to go on there.
So I think it’s a moving target.
Okay.
I appreciate that.
Thanks for that guys.
Your next question comes from the line of Waqar Syed from Goldman Sachs.
Your line is open.
Thank you for taking my question.
Kevin in the Advanced Technology business should we think about the first half of 2016 to look similar to the first half of 2015 or things are different there too? Well we hope what is going to be different is better execution on some of these theme park projects but hang on one sec we’ll just try to look at our… Your first half of 2015 was actually pretty good.
Sorry.
First half of 2015 was pretty good – good for you guys in Advanced Technologies.
Waqar it looks like our crystal ball tells us that first half is going to be a little lighter and then the second half is going to be much stronger.
And I think that there is a mix if you will that for a lot more engineering works in the first half and then we’ll go into project execution in the second half which will generate more revenue.
Because as Kevin mentioned on the call in the prepared comments we are expecting Advanced Technologies to improve for two reasons.
One is better execution and the second is increased activity and as Kevin said that increased activity starts but in the beginning of a project that there is more engineering and then we actually get into the commencement of the work.
That’s when you have more revenue recognition and process.
Okay.
Now on the ROV side many of the contracts for the drilling rigs are being terminated early but the drilling contractors generally as per contract receive early contract termination revenues.
Do you have any provision like that in your ROV contract especially for the ROV that you've built for new-builds? Generally we do not other than the obligation for them to reimburse us for the cost of demobilization should we choose to do that.
I think that’s consistent with most of the service companies that go on rigs we are really tied to be whether or not the rig is working and termination seem to go to the real high capital asset intensive companies and we don’t fall in that category.
Okay.
And then off your one-time items that you broke out for the fourth quarter could you guide us which item is allocated to G&amp;A and which is to DD&amp;A and what goes to the cost of goods sold? Okay Waqar I am going to try this from the top of my head.
$3 million of the ROV write-downs for the retired systems went to DD&amp;A.
The - whatever it was $5 million associated with the allowance for doubtful account with a small and independent operator in the North Sea on umbilical contract and that went to G&amp;A because it was not a performance issue it was a collectibility issue.
And the only thing that’s very hard to do is restructuring expenses – there were $14 million of it in Q4 it is spread all over the place.
It is spread in not in DD&amp;A but it is primarily in direct cost cost of goods sold but there is some of that element in G&amp;A and I can’t figure that out.
I just don’t know.
Okay.
I don’t have that detail So what would your guidance be for G&amp;A for first quarter 2016? We are not giving guide.
You know because there is just so many - we don't know what underlying G&amp;A is for the fourth quarter 2015.
So it's a little bit harder to project for first quarter 2016.
So that's why I am asking.
No I appreciate that.
Let me say it I think from year-over-year we’ll be down.
We’ll have lower G&amp;A in 2016 than we had in 2015.
Okay.
I think that should I mean that should spread pretty – not evenly I don’t know that but I am just saying we are expecting that some of – I mean we had cost in the numbers that were associated with the two things that I mentioned restructuring and the allowance of doubtful accounts.
So guide should come out and then the cost savings of the steps we have taken to reduce our fixed cost or G&amp;A cost all cost we should be able to notice that impact in 2016 But it really going to – part of that question is what’s our run rate going to be and that’s why it’s really hard to give a more definitive answer other than down.
Okay.
And how many ROVs are you planning to build in 2016 and I apologize if you already mentioned that in the prepared remarks.
The only ROVs that we are going to build are something that is bespoke as we mentioned in the call notes that we have a specific contract to provide and we are talking mid single-digit numbers for something like that.
And how many do you plan to retire? We don’t predict it.
I mean I think… Same number 3% to 4% is the kind of standard answer but again it really is going to – you can tell that we retired a bunch more than that in Q4 and I mean there is not much impact at all to retire a system.
Usually it’s fully depreciated and it hadn’t worked for a lot.
Okay and Kevin in the past you've mentioned that maintenance activity has been slow.
Are you seeing any signs that 2016 people will need to pick that up? Not yet.
Not yet? No.
All right so that's all I have.
Thank you very much.
Okay.
Your next question comes from the line of Dave Wilson from Howard Weil.
Your line is open.
Good morning everyone.
Thanks for taking my questions.
Just some clarifications.
One on the initiatives and aligning the operations with the current environment are you done with that and or - do you think that will be done in the first quarter? Is there more to go from here? I think we are continuing to work on this.
As the market continues to change downward or until that stops I mean we are going to have to keep doing it.
Gotcha.
What we can do.
I think that we’ve noted in Q4 we do expect most of those would be completed in Q1.
Okay and then kind of a follow-up on the 25 ROVs that were retired in the fourth quarter.
Can you give us a broad breakout of when's the last time those ROVs were actually in service and working? I know you said previously it's been a while but were any of those actually working in the fourth quarter that got retired in the fourth quarter? No.
No.
We are going to ask you that question Dave.
No.
Okay great.
And then one final one and I apologize if I missed it and going over the limit here on two.
But the breakout between drilling support and vessel support in terms of percentages I might have missed that if you all gave that.
We did I think.
Yes Alan go ahead give it to bear with one second.
We didn’t give it.
We did not give it.
So we will look that up.
Go to the next question we will come back to it.
For the year? Yes for the year got it? For the year drill support was 68% and vessel support was 32%.
Okay 68% and 32%.
Okay? Okay I can figure out the rest.
Thank you very much.
Yes.
Your next question comes from the line of Marc Bianchi from Cowen.
Your line is open.
Hey good morning guys.
On the - back to the line of question I think Kurt was asking on the ROV side just trying to understand the operating leverage there a little better.
Just looking at the experience in the fourth quarter is that - should we think about the operating leverage that was produced in the fourth quarter as sort of normal? So with a sort of 12% decline in activity and flat sort of pricing would produce that kind of a margin change? Well Marc that’s a really difficult question when we are talking about no visibility in the utilization as to knowing what – we always read about is how many rigs are coming off in the Gulf of Mexico over the next quarter or next six months whatever and I mean I don’t think – and as Kevin mentioned renewed pricing pressure from everybody.
So I don’t know it’s repeatable.
I don’t know how to answer that question.
Well I think Kevin also spoke to factors can be harder and harder to take the cost out.
Right.
To the basis of pricing so the answer is it’s going to be difficult.
Okay.
That's all I had.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of George O'Leary from Tudor Pickering Holt &amp; Company.
Your line is open.
Good morning guys.
Just one from me given all the questions that have been asked already.
Could you maybe help frame your prospects for 2016 and I know you are not giving explicit guidance but just maybe compare and contrast the prospects you see for your ROV business and subsea projects and regarding the latter is there potentially more pressure on that business given the callout nature of the Gulf of Mexico business in particular? Well I think as long as we are continuing in this downward trend there is going to be increasing pricing pressure particularly the vessel-based activity that’s not on a term contract I mean that’s a mark-to-market every time they pick the phone and call you and those margins are eroding as time goes on.
And there is an oversupply of vessels out there trying to get whatever work is available.
So it is a very challenging market.
So maybe one tiny follow-on that’s helpful color thanks.
And I said I have one but just something popped up while you were talking.
So just generally would you maybe are you - intervention type work is maybe at the margin under pressure more than drilling support or is it more just there is too much supply and too little demand out there? I think it’s the latter.
I don’t think there is any pricing pressure for – your focus on ROV and Kevin was talking about projects and the intervention work ROVs are still reported in lot of vessel-based services in ROVs.
And I think there is the utilization issue more than a pricing issue of any differentiation.
And the pricing pressure everywhere but in the callout vessel-based business it’s more function of utilization.
Got it.
Thanks guys.
Your next question comes from the line of Ian Macpherson from Simmons.
Your line is open.
Hey thank you.
Good morning.
I am interested in the recent slope of the decline in activity for ROVs that was witnessed in Q4.
Your days-on-hire were down 12% sequentially which was a much bigger sequential drop than you’d experienced during the prior several quarters since we peaked and rolled.
And it was also a sequential drop that diverged from what the rig count did the rig count didn't roll 12% quarter-on-quarter.
And so I am just trying to really gauge what's going on and I wonder if you would be willing to share any of your middle of Q1 results in terms of activity and how it's tracking from the end of the year until now.
Is it still falling sharply or has it been a little bit more stable through the first half report? Well remember that this is a – historically a very seasonal business and I think that particularly in today’s market when people are trying to not spend any money it maybe even exacerbating that phenomenon.
So in terms of I think this is probably not a good place to go to try and compare to the fourth quarter of last year because everything is just how different.
I would say that seasonality is going to be a lot more prominent in the first quarter than it has been and that’s really what’s going to drive it.
People are trying not to spend money.
Okay we'll wait and see.
Can I have just two more quick follow-ups on model stuff? You said your unallocated expenses for 2016 are expected to be higher than 2015.
Correct? Yes because of the – long-term incentive.
Incentives and deferred comp plans.
Yes.
Okay.
And then lastly in your free cash flow construct that you provided in the opening remarks you didn't mention free cash sorry release of working capital.
I think we would expect that you would enjoy some release of working capital in this compressing market.
Is that too optimistic to assume that will be another free cash flow tailwind? No we would expect that to happen.
We are just trying to generalize and directionally give a positive accounting of what we have said.
What we did in the illustration Ian is talk about a dollar.
In the working capital [Multiple Speakers] has gone we just ignore it and just said we don’t need that.
But if the business continues to contract like you just mentioned then you would expect working capital reductions.
Got it.
Thank you very much.
Your next question comes from the line of Ken Sill from Seaport Global Securities.
Your line is open.
Yes thanks for taking me.
The use of the cash great balance sheet you've got access to liquidity.
You talk about kind of technology acquisitions but I mean can you give a little bit more guidance on what - I mean is this subsea or any new market potential or I mean how are you guys looking at what tucks into Oceaneering out of the prospects? Well I think we said anything that complements our existing products and service lines and technology I mean I think implied is that also that would complement what we are currently doing.
I mean we added the survey leg to the stool back in April which was a major I guess complementary acquisition.
I would not look to see us do something way out of the fairway from what we have focused on is our core businesses.
And Ken we – are a big qualifier in there too should suitable opportunities arise.
So now we don’t have anything in the line up that we could talk about we know that we are looking.
And I think the point was that we do have the capacity and capability to entertain such a thought which is more positive than most folks enjoy it right now I think.
I mean not that you want it but I think you could buy all of the offshore size companies in the world for about $500 million.
Yes well okay if we wanted.
Okay.
Yes so one other question then and I don't know if it's too soon to say.
So you've got Schlumberger buying Cameron.
You've got the - everybody is trying to look for ways to reduce the cost of subsea infrastructure that seems to produce these deepwater fields where do you see Oceaneering fitting into that? I mean Obviously on the intervention tooling and stuff like that you can fit but how do you guys plan or see yourselves participating there? Well I mean the ROV is central to everything that happens in subsea but it’s just a tool.
There is not much to do with it per se I mean we do have ways to reduce the cost of umbilicals and connection hardware but that really is dependent on our customers being willing to reduce their self-imposed technical requirements in many cases.
I think the truth of the matter is that we are a pretty small part of the cost of a field development and my perspective would be that all companies need to shorten the timeline from discovery too first oil and going to more standardized approaches for development in general as opposed to a particular piece of hardware I can allow them to do that and working closer with contractors up and down the value chain in order to achieve that is also going to be part of it.
Okay.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of David Smith from Heikkinen Energy Advisors.
Your line is open.
Hi good morning.
Thank you for getting me in towards the final minute.
Just regarding the cautionary comments about potentially revisiting the dividend based on how it compares to projected annual net income? Just hoping to get a little color including - does that refer to GAAP net income or should we just think about that compared to adjusted net income? We don’t have any adjustments in mind for 2016 and we don’t play for in any way.
We are not planning for and so otherwise we are out of crayons.
We are thinking there the same.
Right right.
But just in case just in case they warrant I was curious to keep in mind going forward if we should think about that being a GAAP or adjusted? It will depend upon when that happens on the type of adjustments that we are going to carve out.
So I mean right now it’s same but the intent that I mean I think Kevin clearly underscored that is we may revisit but pick one I mean I would say GAAP.
Appreciate it.
And just regarding the subsea projects wondering if there were any particular cost items that stood out in the quarter maybe related to the Island Pride mobilization just otherwise the flattish cost would kind of suggest similar activity levels to last quarter.
Yes during the Q3 as a Q4 comparative we actually got have a dry-dock on an ocean intervention vessel.
And lot of it was seasonality as well declining in demand for C&amp;C survey during the quarter as well as decline in diving in the Gulf of Mexico as well as we talk about lower vessel pricing.
Okay so nothing particularly sticks out in terms of the charter – Other than dry-docking Got it.
I appreciate it.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Darren Gacicia from KLR Group.
Your line is open.
Hey guys thanks for fitting in the end.
Broad question that I am hoping to kind of get specifics with it.
Subsea projects when you think about the fourth quarter how many vessels were running how many were owned how many are leased in? And kind of I think I heard in your prepared comments that you could potentially – the leases on two of them expire.
I am just trying to get a sense of how to model out the earnings power of that business just based on what the assets are and if I need to make my own assumptions on what goes forward that's fine.
But it's always a tough business to kind of breakdown in terms of its components if you could help me out that'd be great.
Darren to clarify you want to know how many vessels are owned and how many are chartered? Yes and what was working in the fourth quarter and maybe if you have some thoughts on how that's progressed over the course of the year? Well I mean we give the utilization.
No we don’t get into which vessels or we don’t even see – what we have I mean let me start with the easy part we own the smaller two of our boats the Ocean Intervention and the Ocean Intervention II and we charter in everything else.
Except for the Ocean Intervention III in Angola and the Ocean Alliance in the Gulf of Mexico everything is on a callout.
Island.
Or in Island Pride in India.
Sorry forgot about that.
In Island Pride in India so.
Everything else is callout.
So and what worked in Q4 remember Q4 and Q1 particularly are the lowest level of activity for callout boats because of seasonality.
So what works in Q4 it’s not very relevant to being able to model and with the uncertainty in next year what we did point out is that if we find ourselves one boat too many in July we can reduce our costs and then again in the very late part of the year we have that other option to renew or not whichever the last boat is.
The Flower – Normand Flower.
Normand Flower yes thank you.
So I don think we give you much more color on that.
Gotcha okay.
Well I tried it's a difficult business to follow given the fact that there can be so many things on and off.
With regard to ROVs a little bit more of a - less of a numerical more of just kind of a broad how the business works question.
When a rig stops working and you take the ROV off you move it back to some central yard.
What happens in there? Is there a basic maintenance that happens there? And then if you were to put that same ROV back on hire what's the lag time in terms of being able to do that? And so it's really a question about kind of cost to maintain idle ROVs and then time to put them back to work and what's required? Well okay let’s try this.
If the rig is a rig that we think is potentially going to go back to work again we will leave the system on there and the maintenance pretty much stops.
We can choose to send two folks out there periodically every couple of months or something to just to turn the life time and see things to work or whatever but it’s di minimus cost there.
If we choose to de-mobilize it typically we take it to one of our regional bases and it is same thing we don’t have to spend lot of money maintaining them and the turnaround time from inactive ROV that was working when inactive to turning it back around again to be ready for a job is two weeks or something.
It’s not very not very much.
Gotcha.
Is there any perspective in terms of what is idle now how much of you - how many have you kind of left on the rig versus how many is going to come back – gone back to base? I don’t have that number off the top of my head.
I mean generally you can maybe look at it this way when the rig owner says that they are cold stacking a rig then generally that is high probability that we take our ROV system off of there.
Gotcha No I appreciate the help.
Thank you.
Yes.
And you next question comes from the line of Edward Muztafago from Societe Generale.
Your line is open.
Hey guys.
Thanks for squeezing me in.
Just two quick questions on the ROV business just maybe to follow-up a little bit on what Ole was talking about.
We are more or less seeing an ephemeral relationship between declining ROV utilization and the idling of rigs.
Under a recovery scenario should we expect that relationship to be largely the same or is the dynamic such that we would see kind of somewhat of a lead time between an improvement in ROV utilization and working rigs? I am not exactly sure what you are asking but I mean it’s pretty much one-for-one when a rig goes back to work the ROV is working and if it’s on a short-term drilling contract then that will obviously impact the trajectory but if rigs start going back on year plus charters then you’ll be able to see the corresponding increase in ROV utilization.
And if our outlook for the medium-term as Kevin said in his remarks if the outlook is correct that there will be an uptick in demand for products and services to extend producing life of existing offshore fields and performance decommissioning work you will see you should see a pick-up in vessel base activity before more rigs go to work.
Okay.
So that will help our ROV utilization without increased number of the drilling rigs.
Okay so some in the vessel base business; not so much in the rig base business Rig base is one for one.
Yes okay very helpful.
And then just the follow-up you did highlight that it's pretty difficult probably from here forward to kind of offset some of the pressures on pricing with cost reduction.
Is there any reason for us to think that the decremental margin performance for ROVs would be better in 2016 than it was in 2015? No.
I don’t think so.
Okay.
That's very helpful.
Okay.
Thanks.
We have no further questions at this time.
I’ll turn the call back over to the presenters.
Okay very good.
I’d like to thank everyone for joining us and just make a few short remarks.
2016 will likely be a very challenging time for the oilfield services industry.
But we are confident in our ability to manage our business through this cycle.
We intend to stay focused on our operations organize more effectively and further integrate our services and product offering for more cost-effective solutions which better serve our customers.
We have a strong balance sheet and are confident in our cash flow generating capabilities.
We have been and we will continue adapting and making changes as necessary.
We have many initiatives ongoing.
I would like to thank our employees and management teams for their dedication and support while embracing the challenges in a positive way and responding admirably.
So again I appreciate all of you joining us this morning and thank you for your continued interest.
This concludes our fourth quarter and full year 2015 earnings conference call.
Have a great day.
This does conclude today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you!