Good morning.
My name is Christy and I'll be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Occidental Petroleum 2011 First Quarter Earnings Release Call.
[Operator Instructions] Mr.
Stavros you may begin your conference.
Thanks Christy.
Good morning everyone and welcome to Occidental Petroleum's First Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
Joining us on the call this morning from Los Angeles are Dr.
Ray Irani Oxy's Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; Steve Chazen our President and Chief Operating Officer; Bill Albrecht President of Oxy's U.S.
Oil and Gas operations; and Sandy Lowe President of our International Oil and Gas business.
Our first quarter earnings press release Investor Relations supplemental schedules and conference call presentation slides can be downloaded off of our website at www.oxy.com.
I'll now turn the call over to Steve Chazen who will review the first quarter financial and operating results.
Steve Please go ahead.
Well thank you Chris.
I hope you can hear me better than I can hear you.
Thank you Chris.
Core income was $1.6 billion or $1.96 per diluted share in the first quarter of this year compared to $1.1 billion or $1.35 per diluted share in the first quarter of last year.
Non-core items amounted to a net after-tax charge of $44 million.
Non-core items included pretax gains of $225 million from the sale of the Argentina operations and a $22 million gain from the sale of our interest in the Columbia pipeline.
Non-core pretax charges included $163 million related to the early redemption of $1.4 billion face value of debt $35 million write-off the entire accumulated estimated cost of exploration properties in Libya and nonrecurring out-of-period charges for state and foreign taxes $62 million.
This resulted in net income of $1.5 billion or $1.90 per diluted share in the first quarter of 2011 compared to $1.1 billion or $1.31 per diluted share in the first quarter of last year.
We reorganized our Permian operation to 2 business units this quarter.
One unit will hold the CO2 flood assets and the other will operate the conventional production.
In connection with these we've moved the production from Southwest Texas which was previously part of the Midcontinent and other into the Permian.
The Midcontinent and other includes production from the recently acquired South Texas and North Dakota properties.
Natural gas liquids account for about 10% of our Oil and Gas volumes and sell at a discount to crude oil.
Starting this quarter reporting NGL and crude oil production and sales volume separately as opposed to the previously disclosed combined liquids volumes.
Please see the Investor Relations supplemental schedules for the 2010 quarterly realized prices and production and sales volumes reflecting these changes.
Here's the segment breakdown for the first quarter.
Oil and Gas segment and core earnings for the first quarter of 2011 were $2.5 billion compared to $1.9 billion from the first quarter of 2010.
Realized prices increased 24% for crude oil in 2011 and 11% for NGL prices on a year-over-year basis but domestic natural gas prices declined 25% from the first quarter of last year.
Sales volumes to first quarter of 2011 were 728 000 BOE a day a 6% increase compared to 685 000 BOE a day for the first quarter of 2010.
The production guidance we gave you in last quarter's conference call was 740 000 to 750 000 BOE a day was an $85 average price assumption.
The actual first quarter oil price reduced our production volumes by about 10 000 BOE per day including 1 000 BOE a day at THUMS in Long Beach in California.
As we previously disclosed our Iraq production was lower by about 9 000 BOE a day due to less than planned spending levels as we are in the startup phases of operations.
Inclement weather mainly in Texas caused an additional reduction of about 7 000 BOE a day.
These reductions were offset by less-than-expected production loss from the Elk Hills maintenance shutdown and operational enhancements providing higher-than-expected production in Colombia Yemen and Qatar as well as the new assets resulting in production of 730 000 a day.
Please see the production and sales volume reconciliations schedules in the Investor Relations supplemental schedules.
First quarter production of 730 000 a day was higher than the fourth quarter 2010 production of 714 000 a day.
First quarter volumes compared to the prior fourth quarter included 25 000 barrels a day from the new domestic acquisitions in South Texas and North Dakota.
Sales of 728 000 a day which is higher than our initial guidance of 725 000 a day differ from production volume to the timings of liftings principally caused by Iraq where liftings are expected in later half of 2011.
First quarter 2011 realized prices improved for all our products over the fourth quarter of 2010.
Worldwide crude oil realized prices $92.14 a barrel increase of 15%.
Worldwide NGLs were $52.64 a barrel improvement 7%; and domestic natural gas prices were $4.21 per MCF increase of 2%.
Oil and Gas production costs were $11.30 a barrel for the first quarter of 2011 compared to last year's 12-month cost of $10.19 a barrel.
The increase reflects increased workovers and maintenance activity and higher cost for energy.
Taxes other than non-income which are directly related to product prices were $2.25 a barrel for the first quarter of 2011 compared to $1.83 for all of last year.
Total exploration expenses are $84 million in the quarter.
This amount include the Libyan write-off of $35 million which is included in non-core items discussed earlier.
Chemical segment earnings in the first quarter of 2011 were $219 million which were greater than our earlier guidance.
These results are among the best ever reported for the Chemical segment's first quarter of operations which is historically a weak quarter due to seasonal factors.
First quarter operations were positively affected by strong export demand and improved supply-demand balances across most products resulting in higher margins including higher demand for calcium chloride resulted in severe winter storms in the Northeast and Midwest sections of the United States.
Midstream segment earnings for first quarter of 2010 were $114 million compared with $202 million for the fourth quarter of 2010 and $94 million in the first quarter of 2010.
The decrease from the fourth quarter earnings were mainly due to lower marketing and trading income.
The worldwide effective tax rate on core income was 40% in the first quarter of 2011 which was in line with our guidance.
Capital spending for the first quarter of this year was $1.3 billion about 88% was in Oil and Gas 10% in Midstream and the remainder in Chemicals.
We're currently operating 16 rigs in the Permian and 24 rigs in California compared to 5 and 11 rigs respectively in the first quarter of last year.
Cash flow from operations the first 3 months of 2011 was $2.2 billion which includes a build in our accounts receivable of about $1 billion from the fourth quarter.
In addition we received $2.7 billion in proceeds from the sale of assets and use $1.3 billion from the company's cash flow to fund capital expenditures and $3 billion on acquisitions.
We used $310 million to pay dividends and $1.5 billion to retire debt.
We borrowed $1 billion at the end of the quarter for short-term needs which has now been repaid.
These and other net cash flows reduced our $2.6 billion cash balance at the end of last year by $500 million to $2.1 billion.
Free cash flow from continuing operations after capital spending and dividends but before acquisition and debt activities was about $500 million.
Acquisition expenditure in the first quarter was $3 billion.
These acquisitions included the previously announced South Texas purchase and properties in California and the Permian.
Excluding the South Texas purchase these properties did not materially impact the first quarter volumes.
During the second quarter we will make a payment of about $500 million in connection with the signing of the Shah Field Development Project.
This amount represents development costs incurred by the project prior to the effective date for our participation.
Future development costs reflected in capital expenditures.
The weighted average basic shares outstanding for the first 3 months of 2011 were $812.6 million and the weighted average diluted shares outstanding were $813.4 million.
Our debt-to-cap ratio declined to 12% compared to 14% at the end of last year.
Our remaining outstanding debt has an average interest rate of 3.7%.
As we look forward to the current quarter first quarter average oil prices are about $95.
Expect the second quarter Oil and Gas production volumes to be as follows.
Domestic volumes are expected to increase to at least 425 000 BOE a day compared with the first quarter daily production of 404 000 BOE a day.
Latin America is expected to be comparable to quarter one volumes.
In the Middle East region where an overwhelming majority of the value using either the SEC standardized measure or income comes from Qatar including Dolphin and Oman where the operations are running smoothly.
With regard to second quarter production in Middle East region we expect no production for Libya.
Production levels in Iraq are not easily predictable due to volatile spending levels at this early stage of that project.
This is caused by the nature of the contract which allows at anywhere near current oil prices immediate recovery of expenditures through cost recovery barrels.
As a result the level of development spending in any given period has an immediate impact on volumes for that period.
In Yemen almost all of our reduction comes from concessions operated by others.
In addition the Masila Field contract which produces net to us about 11 000 barrels of oil a day is approaching expiration at the end of 2011 and capital spending is being phased down.
These factors make a forecast in the production volumes from this area to be very difficult.
For the remainder of the Middle East we expect production to be comparable to first quarter volumes.
Total sales volumes are expected to be 725 000 BOE a day which should not include any volumes from Iraq or Libya.
A $5 increase in WTI would reduce our production sharing contract daily volumes by about 3 500 barrels a day.
We are increasing our total capital spending program to $6.8 billion with about $500 million of the increase related to Shah Field development program subsequent to the effective date of our participation and the remainder principally in California spending attributable to additional permits being obtained.
At current market prices $1 per barrel change in oil prices impacts quarterly earnings before income taxes by about $34 million.
First quarter WTI oil price was $94.10 per barrel.
$1 per barrel change in WTI prices affects NGL quarterly earnings before income taxes by about $4 million.
A swing of $0.50 per million BTUs in domestic gas prices has a $34 million impact on quarterly earnings before income taxes.
The current NYMEX gas price is around $4.25 an M.
Additionally we expect exploration expense to be about $85 million for seismic and drilling for our exploration program.
The Chemical segment earnings are expected to be comparable to the first quarter.
We expect continuation in the first quarter trends with sufficient gains from strong exports and seasonal demand improvement to offset the reduced contribution from the calcium chloride business.
We expect our worldwide tax rate in the second quarter to be about 39%.
In California we are continuing the program I discussed in the last quarter's conference call which is progressing with satisfactory results.
Permitting especially exploration permits are still an issue but we recently obtained some permits that make us optimistic about increasing our second half capital spending plan.
Governor Brown has been working to speed up the permitting process.
We expected that his effort will be successful which should enable us to increase our activity and add more jobs to the state.
In the first quarter we drilled and completed 26 shale wells outside of the Elk Hills Field.
Copies of the press release and the Investor Relations supplement are available on our website or to the EDGAR system.
We're now ready to take your questions.
[Operator Instructions] And your first question comes from David Heikkinen of Tudor Pickering Holt.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</strong> First want to talk about your Permian operations with the division of CO2 flood assets and conventional production can you give us what the current production is for each of those assets? You're actually breaking up so we couldn't actually hear the question.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</strong> So Permian operations the CO2 flood assets and the conventional production can you give us production amounts per each asset gain? Bill I think can rough it out.
We're not going to report that separately because it's a little confusing.
But we can give you an idea for it.
Yes David on the CO2 side it's about 140 000 or so BOE per day and on the primary development side it's around 60 000 to 65 000 a day.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</strong> Okay.
And then on Shah gas the $500 million payment prior to participation how is that communicated or was that expected because we didn't have that in our expectations? The first $500 million is related to basically historical costs because I think they've been working on it for 3 years.
They're working on it for 3 years.
That's the historical cost.
We treated it as effectively a bonus payment but it's really related to the cost and some of it is actually accrued.
The remaining $500 million is our estimate of what the capital will be for the remainder of the year.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</strong> Okay.
And as you think about the total cost of the project now do you have any update as far as what that will be? Sandy? $10 million is still a good number.
And we're currently reviewing all the engineering procurement contracts with the Shah team and $10 million or $10.2 million looks good to me right now.
And we own 40% of that just to remind you.
So including the sunk because the sunk's in the $10.2 million so we're talking about a $4 billion net to us $500 million we've essentially already paid.
We expect that $500 million will be either paid or accrued this year another $500 million.
The next question comes from Paul Sankey of Deutsche Bank.
Steve can we just stick around in California a little bit more and try and work out really by the 3 elements that you've got going on there how the satisfactory progress is going and where we'll go from here.
Can you talk more about Kern County going forward about other California if you like? And then I noticed you said that you've got 26 shale wells drilled and completed can you talk about the production from those? Yes.
Thank you.
The exploration program is slightly stalled from the permitting process.
We hope at the back half of the year we can catch up.
That's the pure exploration.
I think we're doing very well on the shale exploration development and that's actually progressing well and the wells are -- we basically have caught up to where we needed -- where we thought we'd be and we're continuing to progress.
We're getting a little better results from the completions than we were historically because we probably figured out how to do it better.
The Kern County discovery basically I don't think it will change much until we move -- until we start drilling more of the deeper wells which won't happen until we get closer to have the new gas plant.
And what's the latest on that? So fundamentally we're shifting to an oilier more predictable outcome for this year.
I guess just looking backwards the gas plant is back up from the turnaround of gas and we then get to wait and see to develop the second one which I guess is still...
That's right.
It's back up but no it's not exactly brand new.
Right.
And the next one? Latest...
Next one I think is about in the first quarter of next year.
And can you put some volumes around the shale exploration and development in terms of any sort of additional data you can give us on what you're finding? I'd really like to wait another quarter if I could because I got some preliminary results now but having been burned on this in the last year I just assumed we'd be cautious about.
I got some good results currently but we'll see if they continue for the next few months.
But it's been -- it's really picked up nicely and I think our completion techniques have improved so I think we're doing better.
But I'd like to put off a more detailed discussion for another quarter if I could.
But there's nothing in here that's negative.
If anything it's slightly positive.
The next question comes from John Herrlin of Societe Generale.
Some quick ones Steve.
With Yemen would you opt to try to renew that PSC? I'm sorry I -- you wanted to...
With Yemen would you...
We'd like to but it's hard to exactly find somebody to negotiate with right now.
True.
That's fair.
I was just curious whether you want to stay there.
That's all.
No it's a very profitable small operation and really has created very little problems for us over the years.
But right now you actually need a government on the other side to be signing.
So I think once the thing stabilizes we'll be trying to do that.
Okay that's fine.
With the Permian there's been a big ramp up in activity.
Given the price realizations would you try to accelerate there at all or you just keep to your normal program? No I think we've accelerated materially already.
You can see the rig count change from a year ago.
No I meant beyond now.
Beyond what was reported.
I think we'll continue to accelerate it.
I think that you'll see it certainly by the end of this year.
Another by the end of the year see a much higher rig count in the Permian for us.
Okay great.
And you didn't mention anything about the Bakken you bought yourself a little exposure there any news for you there? We've sort of just taken over.
It's still what it was supposed to do but it's still pretty small at this point.
Once it becomes more sizable we'll talk more about it.
But right -- it's doing what it's supposed to do.
We really just took over.
There's nothing really here that's either surprising good or bad.
Okay.
Last one for me...
We were surprised to find out it was cold there.
It's very cold there in the winter time yes.
How about on the M&amp;A front are you seeing ridiculous prices on packages or are the big gaps now between buyers and sellers in terms of what you are seeing? Yes we've had obviously a big first quarter in M&amp;A which you can see in the numbers.
The pipeline now is pretty thin and there's a lot of expensive-looking stuff floating around especially in the shale plays.
So I'm guessing right now that the rest of the year will be pretty -- or the next couple of quarters for sure -- will be pretty inactive for us except for some small deals maybe.
Your next question comes from Doug Leggate from Bank of America.
Let me do and try a couple please if I may.
Obviously the discussions you appear to have had with the Governor in California.
Can you give some indication as to what commitments you may have given in terms of your activity levels? Obviously it seems to be a highly politicized situation over there right now? And what was really behind my question is that when we look at the Permian [ph] conservation data Steve it's looking like you got a lot of permits issued in March like of the order of more than 90.
And I just want to get a feel as to are we really starting to see a ramp up there? And what commitment have you made to basically raise your own activity levels obviously in the unconventional? The governor is focused on jobs in California and so we've indicated that job creation as the permits come which is fairly obvious.
Not something that's hard to figure.
The permits that you're looking at there a lot of those are development permits which are sort of normal course of business things which we counted on.
We did get some for an extension not an exploration but extension of a discovery and some permits to drill there which I think will be good.
So we're encouraged but we really have a long way to go.
We still have a nine-month backlog roughly.
So the boost there a lot of that was the normal development stuff within the field which is not as contentious.
And so I'd like to wait another quarter before we say that the tide has really turned.
Just a quick follow-up on that.
The run rate up until March was about 10 or 12.
It looks like maybe 10 to 15 if we're lucky.
And you did say in the last call you had about 107 permits to drill on the shales this year can you say 1 was that run rate was about right? So is that step-up correct? And second is the 107 still a good number or is that moving higher? I think it's likely to move higher as the back half of the year comes.
I mean we've indicated we're going to put more money in so I think we'll probably be higher at the back.
I'm hoping it'll be higher at the back -- I'm hoping it'll be higher at the back half of the year.
There are some issues floating around here that are sort of technical issues but I think that big jump up in the early part of the year was drilling within fields and then there's some on this extension which were look very positive because we focused with the Governor others on this field extension which is very important to us.
My only follow-up Steve is can you talk a little bit about the Lost Hills acquisition.
Looks like a steam flood but my understanding this was also historical well data to suggest there is some deep similarities with discovery you had in southern Kern County.
So a little bit if you could elaborate on that and I'll leave it there.
It's a relatively small amount of production.
We have -- sort of a special situation we own the minerals under a slug of it.
So we could get significantly better economics at almost any price level than somebody else might.
So and there's obviously some other opportunities there.
But right now I don't think it'll add a lot until for several years.
So it'll be a slow buildup and then I think it'll do fine.
Obviously we got a lot.
We're by far the largest gas producer in the state and some cheap gas to turn it into oil strikes me as okay trade right now although we're not bearish on gas over a multi-year period.
But nation's petroleum we're talking 35 000 barrels a day within 4 to 5 years is that about the right number? I think what you picked up was -- I don't know what they call it the advertising numbers rather -- I think that was the baked sort of numbers.
I think the real numbers are more modest than that.
[Operator Instructions] And your next question comes from Faisel Khan of Citi.
Just you guys reported a full quarter of production in Libya and I guess what I'm trying to understand is what was the contribution to segment earnings from Libya in the quarter? Just so I can understand...
Almost nothing.
It has a very small contribution and I don't have the number in front of me.
But sales number -- so we actually reported what we actually listed.
We didn't report any -- so in the Q I think we'll report the earnings rate of Libya but it might be $0.01 in the earnings.
Okay understood.
And then if I'm looking at the Permian Basin view and of course you guys control a lot of the pipeline systems in and around that area how are you using your logistics assets to move some of that crude to market? And are you seeing any sort of significant discounts to that crude? Or are you able to get higher realizations because of the assets you own? I think the answer is yes we're doing I think better than the average there.
We're not interested in solving the whole industry's problem with pushing.
We're just interested in solving ours.
So I think we're doing better.
Our realizations company-wide are very good and likely to improve into the second quarter.
Is there a way to quantify the kind of uplift that you guys got in the quarter from the domestic oil price realizations from point of assets? Not really because they pass it back to the -- they don't keep it in the Midstream.
They pass it back to the oil companies so we can pay royalties on it.
So pretty hard to come up with a number.
Generally speaking our basic marketing business does about putting aside the current situation does about $1.50 a barrel better than a small producer would.
It's clearly a lot wider than that now.
Your next question comes from Joe Stewart from KeyBanc Capital Markets.
First Stephen in response to an earlier question you said that you guys are just kind of climbing up the learning curve on the completions in the California shale wells could you please comment are you using more acid jobs now or are you moving towards hydraulic fracs? Why don't you let Bill answer that? Yes Joe it's mainly acid-jobs driven and we're just simply treating these wells in larger intervals with more acid.
Okay.
And what are the average lateral links running on your horizontal wells? California has hardly any horizontal wells.
Very few in the shales if that's what you're referring to Joe? Yes.
Yes in the shales.
Well actually we drilled vertical wells.
Okay got it.
And then second question for you Steve thinking about NGLs last week Dow announced that long-term contract for ethane supply what do you think the potential is there globally for similar contracts for you guys? We're looking at the future oversupply NGLs.
We're trying to figure out how our Chemical business can reap some of the benefits from that.
So we'll probably have some kind of announcement here in the next quarter about how we're going to deal with it.
The next question comes from Paul Sankey of Deutsche Bank.
Just getting back to the I guess the 2 approaches here on California bottom up or top down.
I think on the top-down basis you've made a couple of statements about where volumes are expected to go.
Firstly I believe you said that California will be bigger than the Permian for the full year 2012 and I think in the past I haven't seen recently the improvisation [ph] you've talked the...
'12 '13 I think was probably a better -- I think I said in the next couple of years.
So I think made a '12 '13 area.
And that would I guess mean 200 000 a day barrels of oil equivalent plus? That's right.
And then in the past you had in your presentation words to the effect of unconventional oil in California would achieve a similar level.
I think it was to be the biggest business unit within I think it was 10 years? Yes that's right.
So that would mean unconventional oil in California you're allowing would be more than 200? That's -- yes.
Our biggest business unit's the Permian combined Permian.
I didn't split it in 2 so could I make it easier now.
Is there any other long-term statement to that kind that you can help us with again just from a top-down point of view for getting our arms around it? I think those are pretty conservative statements.
I think pretty easy for us to see how we could achieve that if -- we had a little bumps in the road as you're aware.
But I think once we get by whatever you want to call it the issues here in California I think you'll see a pretty good growth certainly in the shale production for sure.
So I think that because we were focusing on that now because it's fairly predictable.
We may not know what 2 wells will do but we certainly know what 100 will do.
So I think we've got a pretty predictable program for the year or so.
It'll allow us to build a base and then we can do some more exotic things if you will.
Can we back in recently to an activity level from your higher CapEx? I mean an increase how would I do that? Yes you could figure some amount per well.
What would you figure that to be? About 3.
Yes okay.
And then just...
I mean it might be some that are less sometimes more.
But if you just stick to an average around $3 million.
That's real complete and hook-up not just drilled.
Okay and then we can move forward on the CapEx number that you've given us for California.
What's the kind of word going forward on that? I'd like to spend more.
Just so you understand.
This isn't -- we're not limiting them.
This is just an estimate for you so you can see what we think sort of what we think we can do.
But we would like to spend more if this moves along faster.
And how much would each well produce Steve approx? A reasonable guess and there's some variance around it but on the average around 400 mostly oil.
400 barrels a day right? No.
It's about 400 equivalent Paul but heavily skewed to the oil side.
And then I guess the obvious question to follow that up is what kind of declines would it then show? I think we're trying to get to the ultimate recovery I think we're somewhere between 400 000 and 500 000.
Your next question comes from Doug Leggate from Bank of America.
If anyone else is doing a follow-up I figured I would as well.
I think what we're really all trying to get Steve is real simple.
Let me try a couple here and see if you can frame it.
Are you still comfortable with your 10-acre spacing? And if so how much of the acreage on your current 12-rig drilling program do you believe that you've de-risked out of the 1.6 million acres? And if you could just do the math for us and help us hold our hand a little bit on it ultimately when you talk about 200 000 barrels a day of unconventional production in a conservative statement what resource are we talking about in the context of supporting that? If you could just try and help us a little bit what ultimately what you see...
I'll try to do it without going nuts.
The 10-acre spacing I think is fine.
It's possible it could be less but we'll say it's 10.
Less meaning a number below 10.
We're pretty comfortable that we got more than 200 000 acres that's fairly safe.
So we're talking about 20 000 more locations.
Yes.
With 500 000 barrels per location.
I'm sorry...
Yes.
400 000 to 500 000 whatever you want to use then yes.
So what was -- is it only the permits then is stopping you putting more money to work? Permitting and people.
You got to get the rigs and you don't want to destroy everything.
But it's a combination of all those things.
But that's sort of where we're headed over the next few years.
Great.
One final follow-up if I may completely unrelated.
Wolfcamp activity could you maybe just give us a little bit color as to what you're doing there in the context of your overall Permian business? And I'll leave it there.
You're talking about the berry stuff? Yes.
It's a different berry everywhere so Bill will answer that.
Yes Doug just to give you a flavor.
Of the 16 rigs that we have currently running in the Permian right now 6 of those are drilling Wolfberry wells which as you know is that interval between the Spraberry and the Wolfcamp.
So we've got nearly 50% of our Permian development program designated to drill Wolfberry wells.
And can you give kind of any characteristics around the wells Bill? Yes I mean they make good returns.
General IPs are somewhere around 150 barrels of oil equivalent per day.
Its ultimate recoveries of 200 000 or so BOE per well.
Is there multiple horizons that you're targeting in terms of -- I hear talk of like 7 different recompletions in some of these wells.
Is that something you are seeing or again if you could just elaborate on how you see the potential that would be great.
Yes Doug I mean it's a thick interval as you know and so we're doing multistage fracs on these intervals.
So frankly we're not leaving a whole lot behind in terms of recompletion potential.
We like to open the whole thing up.
Your next question comes from David Heikkinen of Tudor Pickering Holt.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</strong> I think Doug Leggate covered me.
Good.
Thank you.
And at this time there are no further questions.
I'll turn the call back over for closing remarks.
Well thank you very much for participating in today's call and if you have any other questions feel free to call us here in New York.
Thanks very much.
Thank you.
This does conclude today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Christy and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Occidental Petroleum Second Quarter 2011 Earnings Release Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Mr.
Stavros you may begin your conference.
Thank you Christy.
Good morning everyone and welcome to Occidental Petroleum's Second Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
Joining us on the call this morning from Los Angeles are Steve Chazen Oxy's President and Chief Executive Officer; Jim Lienert Oxy's Chief Financial Officer; Dr.
Ray Irani Oxy's Executive Chairman; and Bill Albrecht President of our U.S.
Oil and Gas operations.
In a moment I will turn the call over to our CFO Jim Lienert who will review our financial and operating results for the second quarter and first 6 months of 2011.
Steve Chazen will then follow with some guidance and an outlook for the second half of the year.
Our second quarter earnings press release relations supplemental schedules and the conference call presentation slides which refer to Jim and Steve's remarks can be downloaded off of our website at www.oxy.com.
I'll now turn the call over to Jim.
Jim please go ahead.
Thank you Chris.
I'll discuss the second quarter results for the company and Steve Chazen will follow with guidance for the second half of the year.
Core income was $1.8 billion or $2.23 per diluted share in the second quarter this year compared to $1.1 billion or $1.32 per diluted share in the second quarter of last year.
Net income was $1.8 billion or $2.23 per diluted share in the second quarter of this year compared to $1.1 billion or $1.31 per diluted share in the second quarter of last year.
Here's the segment breakdown for the second quarter.
Oil and Gas segment earnings for the second quarter of 2011 were $2.6 billion compared with $1.9 billion in the same period of 2010.
The improvement in 2011 was driven mainly by higher commodity prices.
The second quarter 2011 realized prices increased on a year-over-year basis by 39% for crude oil 31% for NGLs and 2% for domestic natural gas.
Sales volume for the second quarters of 2011 and 2010 were flat at 705 000 BOE per day.
Production volumes were 715 000 BOE per day in the second quarter of 2011 compared to 701 000 BOE per day in the second quarter of 2010.
The production guidance assumptions we gave you on last quarter's conference call were at a $95 WTI average price assumption.
The actual average second quarter oil price of $102.56 reduced our production volumes by about 5 000 BOE per day.
Domestic production volumes were 424 000 BOE per day compared to our guidance of 425 000 BOE per day.
The higher crude oil prices reduced Long Beach volumes by about 1 000 BOE per day.
Latin America volumes were 33 000 BOE per day.
In the Middle East region we recorded no production in Libya consistent with our guidance.
In Iraq we produced 5 000 BOE per day.
The decline from first quarter volume was due to the timing of development spending.
Yemen daily production was 23 000 BOE compared to 33 000 BOE in the first quarter.
Civil unrest and operational issues reduced our daily production by 3 000 BOE and higher prices and lower development spending rates reduced daily volumes by 7 000 BOE.
The remainder of the Middle East had production of 230 000 BOE per day compared with 235 000 BOE per day in the first quarter.
Qatar production was lower by 7 000 BOE per day mainly due to planned maintenance and mechanical issues.
Our second quarter sales volume guidance which assumed a $95 WTI oil price was 725 000 BOE per day which translates to about 720 000 BOE per day at the higher actual prices for the quarter.
Our actual volumes were 705 000 BOE per day.
The lower volumes resulted mainly from the lower production in Yemen and Qatar and the timing of liftings in Oman and Qatar.
Second quarter 2011 realized prices improved for all our products over the first quarter of the year.
Our worldwide crude oil price was $103.12 per barrel an increase of 12%.
Worldwide NGLs were $57.67 per barrel an improvement of 10% and domestic natural gas prices were $4.27 per MCF an increase of 1%.
The second quarter of 2011 realized oil price represents 101% of the average WTI price for the quarter.
Oil and Gas production costs were $11.
Cash production costs were $11.88 a barrel for the 6 months of 2011 compared with last year's 12-month cost of $10.19 a barrel.
The cost increase reflects more work over and maintenance activity and higher support costs.
Taxes other than our income which are directly related to product prices were $2.36 per barrel for the first half of 2011 compared to $1.83 per barrel for all of 2010.
Total exploration expense was $62 million in the quarter.
Chemical segment earnings for the second quarter of 2011 were $253 million compared to $219 million in the first quarter of 2011.
The second quarter results one of the highest ever reported for the Chemical segment reflected higher margins and volumes across most product lines.
Midstream segment earnings for the second quarter of 2011 were $187 million compared to $114 million in the first quarter of 2011 and $13 million in the second quarter of 2010.
The increase from first quarter earnings was mainly due to higher marketing income and improved margins in the gas processing business.
The worldwide effective tax rate was 38% for the second quarter of 2011.
Our higher proportionate domestic income brought us closer to the U.S.
statutory rates.
Our second quarter U.S.
and foreign tax rates are included in the Investor Relations supplemental schedule.
Let me now turn to Occidental's performance during the first 6 months.
Core income was $3.4 billion or $4.19 per diluted share compared with $2.2 billion or $2.67 per diluted share in 2010.
Net income was $3.4 billion or $4.13 per diluted share for the first 6 months of 2011 compared with $2.1 billion or $2.61 per diluted share in 2010.
Cash flow from operations for the first 6 months of 2011 was $5.6 billion.
We used $3 billion of company's total cash flow to fund capital expenditures and $1.2 billion on net acquisitions and divestitures.
We used $685 million to pay dividends and $1 billion to retire debt.
These and other net cash flows resulted in a $2 billion cash balance at June 30.
Free cash flow from continuing operations after capital spending and dividends but before acquisition and debt activity was about $1.8 billion.
Capital spending was $3 billion for the first 6 months of which $1.6 billion was spent in the second quarter.
Year-to-date capital expenditures by segment were 85% in Oil and Gas 13% in Midstream and the remainder in Chemicals.
Our net acquisition expenditures in the first 6 months were $1.2 billion which are net of proceeds from the sale of our Argentina operations.
The acquisitions included the South Texas purchase a payment for the cost already incurred for the Shah Field development project and properties in California and the Permian.
The weighted average basic shares outstanding for the first 6 months of 2011 were 812.5 million and the weighted average diluted shares outstanding were $813.3 million.
Our debt-to-capitalization ratio declined to 11% compared with 14% at the end of last year.
Oxy's annualized return on equity for the first half of 2011 was 20%.
Copies of the press release announcing our second quarter earnings and the Investor Relations supplemental schedules are available on our website at www.oxy.com or through the SEC's EDGAR system.
I'll now turn the call over to Steve Chazen to discuss the guidance for the third quarter.
Thank you Jim.
As we look ahead to the back half of the year our average oil price is about $95 WTI.
We expect the back half of the year in Oil and Gas production to be as follows: Domestic volumes are expect to increase by 3 000 to 4 000 BOE per day for each month compared to the previous month.
This should result in average third quarter production of about 430 000 to 432 000 BOE a day; Latin America volume should remain comparable to the second quarter.
The Middle East region production is expected as follows: Consistent with the second quarter we expect no production for Libya; in Iraq we are still unable to reliably predict spending levels which have related impact in cost recovery barrels; in Oman production is expected to grow from our current gross production of 210 000 BOE a day to a year-end exit rate of 230 000 BOE a day which should result in about a net of 2 000 BOE per day for quarter growth; in Qatar we expect to gradually regain the production rate lost due to planned maintenance and mechanical issues resulting in about 3 000 BOE per day growth rate each quarter in the second half of the year compared to the second quarter average; in Dolphin and Bahrain production is expected to be similar to second quarter levels; In Yemen forecasting production volumes remains difficult although currently Oxy operated production has been partially restored.
We expect the range to be between 23 000 and 27 000 BOE a day.
We expect the lifting in Iraq in the third quarter of about 600 000 barrels of oil.
Including this lifting we expect sales volume to be about 725 000 BOE a day at $95 West Texas Intermediate.
A $5 increase in West Texas Intermediate would reduce our production sharing contract daily volumes by about 3 500 BOE a day.
Our total year capital expenditures remains at $6.8 billion same as the guidance we gave you last quarter.
With regard to prices at current market prices a $1 per barrel change in oil prices impacts quarterly earnings before income taxes by about $37 million.
Second the average second quarter WTI oil price is $102.56 per barrel.
A $1 per barrel change in NGL prices impacts quarterly earnings before income taxes by $7 million.
A swing of $0.50 per million BTUs in domestic gas prices has a $34 million impact on quarterly earnings before income taxes.
The current NYMEX gas price is around $4.40 per MCF.
Additionally we expect exploration expense to be about $80 million for seismic and drilling for our exploration programs in the third quarter.
The Chemical segment earnings is expected to moderate to about $225 million mostly due to seasonal factors.
The third quarter segment -- Chemical segment earnings are expected to reflect continued strong export demand and overall good supply and demand balances across most products offset by some seasonal factors and turnarounds.
Historically the fourth quarter is typically the weakest quarter and generally earnings are about half of that in the third quarter.
We expect our combined worldwide tax rate in the third quarter of 2011 to remain in about 38%.
As far as our activity is concerned in California we expect our current drilling programs to result in more predictable production growth going forward.
The status of permitting is generally unchanged from the prior quarter.
We've obtained enough permits to allow us to prosecute the program at the current pace until year end.
However there remains some uncertainty around future permits particularly related to injection wells.
Our overall rig count in the United States has gone from 38 at the end of 2010 to our current rate of 59.
This is expected to grow to 74 at the end of the year.
This will represent a 25% growth in our total rig count's current levels.
The growth will be in the Permian the Williston Basin and South Texas.
This program leads to continued growth of production into next year.
I think we're ready to take your questions now.
[Operator Instructions] And your first question comes from David Heikkinen of Tudor Pickering.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</strong> Steve just thinking about your production targets and the monthly sequential growth can you give us where you were in June domestically by region just so we can kind of build from there? We don't report that way.
And so what you have to do is use the average because that's the way it will be reported.
So if you take the average which is the 424 number and so if you say okay that was the average so it will be average to average when you do the -- numbers actually come out.
So if it's -- it will be up 3 000 up 6 000 up 9 000.
If it's 3 then you average that out you wind up with 6 000 of growth for the average for the quarter.
Because if you start at the end of the quarter you don't actually see the exit rate for the quarter.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</strong> And then kind of the regionalization of your domestic kind of how you see that 3 000 to 4 000 barrels a day of growth? How much of that is the California Permian Williston any idea of that would be helpful.
Well we risk these numbers.
So the number that we use might be is a risk number as opposed to the maximum number that could come out or the worst number.
So probably misleading to say exactly where.
Clear that there is going to be the bulk of it the overwhelming majority will come out of California.
And there'll be some growth in the Williston the Williston is small anyway and some in the Permian.
So I think if you look at the third quarter you'll see the bulk of the growth out of California with smaller amounts out of the rest as you go into the fourth quarter.
Because of the ramp up in drilling in the Permian you'll see a little more growth in the Permian but continued pretty strong growth in California as the wells come on.
And that's sort of what it looks like.
But to actually give you how we figured it out I'd have to start with our risk numbers and I don't want to give those kinds of numbers out.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</strong> Okay.
And then on the California permitting side you talked about injection wells being some uncertainty.
Can you just walk us through any color around what that means? Is that just water disposal availability and we become limited as far as total oil volumes by that injection capacity? At some point we will.
I don't think we're up against it now.
Where it will affect more than anything is actually THUMS.
More than it will kill [ph] of the other places is probably enough for a while.
But THUMS they've got some -- that's really water injection for their process.
So I think you're going to -- that's probably where you'll see it but the numbers are real small for this year.
Certainly within the noise of the rest of the numbers.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</strong> And how do you think about opportunities for additional acreage acquisition and kind of where things are currently in the market? Well I don't know how much more there is in California.
I probably don't want to buy land underneath the building here with the drill.
So I think California will probably -- probably not much.
Permian we continue to buy some small partials of acreage for Wolfberry drilling primarily.
And then the Williston there's a lot of acreage for sale.
If we were open 7 days a week there'd be 7 guys here that sell us acreage.
So a lot in the Williston and we're pretty picky about what we do.
So there may be a small amount of acreage acquisition there.
I don't see a large deal flow in the back half of the year although I think I said that last year at this time was shown to be completely wrong.
Your next question comes from Paul Sankey of Deutsche Bank.
Steve can we just go back to the new disclosure on the rig count? What's the outlook beyond 2011 for those various counts? Do you think...
The California one depends on the permitting.
I mean if we had better -- more visibility in the permitting we'd lay more rigs on to the back half the fourth quarter.
Right now this is the visibility we have and that's why it's showing the way it is.
Once we get more visibility we'd probably raise the count.
That would be a raised count just for 2011 you mean exit rate? Yes.
But I mean yes your exit rate and so it would -- you got to get the rigs on before you get the end of 2012.
So we'd start contracting for the rigs.
So you'd see a higher exit rate.
But right now this is all the visibility we really have.
We're looking at the Permian and I'm trying to figure out what the right level is.
But more likely than not it [ph] will go up so more and maybe even sizably more depending on how we can figure it out.
I think South Texas is about the same and there'll be some growth in the Williston but I think a high probability of the Permian.
And if we can get the permitting issues worked out in the next 6 months you'll see significantly higher rig counts in California.
Right now I can't -- I just don't have a basis to raise that rig count in California.
What we're doing now will generate a fare amount of production growth.
So I'm not really concerned that this is going to be bad but we could do some more.
But right now I just can't.
I don't have enough confidence in the permitting process.
This level of rigs in California would generate growth through 2012? Or is it the kind of pace that you're talking about? Oh yes.
Which seems to me about 2 000 barrels per month.
Somewhere in that.
We gave you the 3 000 to 4 000 so some of that will be California and maybe in some quarters all of it.
So it's just hard to say exactly what it is again I use risk the numbers so...
Understood.
If we look at the year-over-year you're flat looking backwards obviously over 2010 to 2011 for Q2-to-Q2.
That's on yes sales I think.
I understand yes it's on sales and I understand obviously that net there's been a negative basically from Libya but all the other movement.
But from here forward are we looking again back to the 5% to 8% if we ask you again in a year's time? Are we going to be in that 5% to 8% volume growth range that you've talked about in the past? At least back because I think the domestic businesses you're going to be surprised but I could be wrong.
But I think the 3 000 to 4 000 a month for the domestic business is pretty solid for a while.
And maybe we could do a little better but I think that's a good risk number for us.
Thanks Steve.
If I could ask you about Phibro the training administering business this looked like a good number and we've been expecting a headwind from Phibro.
There was a small headwind.
Okay so Phibro wasn't that negative and what I'm thinking about is whether the run rate of your Midstream business is just structurally higher now as a function of Permian activity and piping and whether we should think rolling forward of a higher through the cycle or even growing I guess Midstream profitability.
Well we break it out because that's the most volatile and we have a hard time predicting it.
I think the way to think about it is that the volatility and price volatility oil price volatility and wide differentials between say pushing and world prices generates generally higher numbers.
It might generate lower numbers too but it reduces the predictability a lot.
So if I were to look at it and I'd say what's the average I'd average the first and second quarter to get sort of an average number.
Yes and again just going back to Phibro and I seem -- forgive me if I garble this number but I think you said that the range historically would be a minus $0.08 to a plus $0.12.
Was that range of Phibro profitability or loss? I can't remember any more but that the -- he was ahead for the year at midyear.
So he had a spinoff depending on how you view modest a modest loss in the second quarter.
But for the year he's ahead and he's well ahead now.
But again I think I've told you this before no sense in watching it.
It's like an NBA game.
You may as well turn in the -- tune in the last 30 seconds and forget the rest.
Fair enough.
And then forgive me if I misheard this is the last one for me.
I kind of missed the Iraq guidance.
I think 5 000 of production with no sales in Q2 is that the correct? And then did you say 7 000 a day of production? I don't think we said for production in Iraq.
The field is doing fine.
The field is doing fine.
The gross is really doing fine.
Our nets may be 6 000-ish but it really depends on the investment which has slowed up considerably.
So I don't really know.
We do have a sale we know of 600 000 barrels this month.
So we'll have some actual sales this month.
And I assume given the spending slowing that you will -- the outlooks and mix here on Iraq volumes is difficult? I don't know how to do it because it reacts so quickly to the spending.
Because if we spent more production would go up immediately.
So I just don't know.
What is the spending constraint? There's a lot of issues I think with the operator and that sort of thing getting permits approved or not permits but contracts approved.
Your next question comes from Ed Westlake of Credit Suisse.
Steve just on California you've spoken in the past about trying to get these large areas permitted because then you can progress it a little bit quicker once you actually get the permit through and that means you get probably more effective capital.
Could you talk to us in terms of have you got one of these larger permit areas 2 3? When did you put those permits in and when given they might take 12 to 18 months you might get a larger area permitted? I don't really know we could go into that.
I don't know how helpful it is.
We put a number of them in for large areas a fair a sizable number.
And we just don't know what the process is.
It's not exactly transparent.
So at this stage you don't really have a feeling for how long it's going to take for one of those larger areas to actually...
I think it's a nontransparent process.
Right okay.
Maybe then switch to the increase in rig count 3 to 4 monthly sequential increase over the second half of this year but also your rig count is increasing as you go through the second half.
So as you look into 2012 would it be fair to think that that would accelerate a little bit? Yes let's say we just spud a well today doesn't make a difference where.
We spud a well today.
It will have a small effect on the production in the fourth quarter because it takes say 90 days or so.
You hook it up and then you get a partial quarter.
So what you're seeing is a wedge or the stuff pushing into next year.
So our exit rate going into next year ought to be fairly attractive with a pretty high backlog of production.
So it just takes -- you just lose sight of how long it takes from today which has been the drill today to when you actually get a meaningful measurement of production.
So I think we're on good track now and I think we'll have an attractive exit rate in the United States as the year ends.
And then final question is around realizations maybe any strategies to perhaps or any changes we should be aware of to try and sort of get away from WTI inland pricing towards more international pricing across the portfolio? We're not trying to solve the industry's problems in this.
We're just trying to solve ours.
And so I just as soon not comment on our strategies but to point out that for example California basically gets world prices.
I'm mainly thinking perhaps in the Permian.
In the Permian some of that could fall to the Midstream rather than into Oil and Gas.
Your next question comes from Doug Leggate of Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Steve at the beginning of the year you suggest that you may get 107 shale wells drilled this year what's the way to...
Sorry I missed you.
At the start of the year I believe you suggested that you would drill about 107 wells so what's the latest estimate? Bill can answer that.
I think right now we're looking at somewhere between 150 and 175 shale wells to be drilled in California for the year.
And how many did you complete Bill in the second quarter? You gave us the first quarter number I think it was 26.
How many did you complete in the second? It was 55.
Completed? Correct.
But not necessarily hooked up.
That's what I was going to say.
So they were -- so your backlog is building basically? Yes it is.
Steve at dinner about I guess a month or 6 weeks ago you suggested that your kind of first base target was to get to drill around 300 wells a year.
To what extent -- I mean what is it going to take to get there and how engaged are you with the state government in trying to achieve that objective? We're engaged with the state I just as soon not go into our state relations.
I think we're making some -- we're making physical progress where we can and I think the state -- eventually I think the state will come around.
It just it takes longer that's all.
I guess a couple of other quick ones if I may.
The production from the shale is obviously what we're all focused on in terms of how quickly that can ramp up.
Are you prepared to give us what the current production is from that particular part of the portfolio and how you would expect given your declined curves and the rate of drilling how you'd expect that to progress let's say within the next 18 months? I don't think we're -- I'm not willing to give you a forecast because again the forecast the overall forecast I give you is a risk number and the bottoms up numbers are essentially sort of unrisk.
But I think Bill can give you some numbers on where we are.
Doug right now in terms of current shale production in California we're running about 45 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day.
Okay and given the pace of the potential pick-up spill where would you expect that to exit the year? I think we're not into the forecasting of that again because I think you'll be mixing a risk and unrisk numbers on the totals.
Got it.
All right the final couple for me again related to the same thing.
Steve the status of the gas plant please I believe after the maintenance in Q1 I guess we should have been expecting some recovery there.
And finally the Rosetta acquisition how much of that was included in Q2? And I guess...
Very little because it didn't -- it closed in pieces during the quarter so it was a really a small number.
Okay and the plant status? The plant is ready in April is that what you're thinking? Yes that we're targeting April of 2012 and actually we're currently running a little bit ahead of schedule on that.
Sorry Bill I was talking about the existing plant.
The existing plant is an old plant that's not fairly reliable.
Our next question comes from Jason Gammel of Macquarie.
A few more on California if I could.
Of the 29 rigs that you have running in California and Steve can you talk about how many of those are actually pursuing the unconventional objectives you have? And then out of that number how many are looking to de-risk further acreage versus drilling in the I believe 200 000 acreage that you said you thought you had de-risked on the first quarter call? Bill can answer that.
Jason right now of the 29 rigs we have running in California fully 20 of those are drilling unconventional plays or horizons.
And of that 20 roughly 4 to 5 are in the process of de-risking additional acreage.
Is the 200 000 acres still a reasonable number for us to be thinking about in terms of de-risking? I think that's not plenty for now.
Yes agreed.
Then one more if I could.
It's probably too early to talk about this but I'm going to try it anyway.
Anything on Khuff [ph] curves initial production rates what you expect ultimate risk to be et cetera? I think as we look at this if we went back to what we said roughly a year ago or a little more than a year I think we're a little more optimistic on the verticals and a little more pessimistic on the horizontals.
Steve can you remind me what you're expecting on the verticals of that 300 barrels a day accurate 400? Jason right now we're averaging about 370 and that's BOE that's equivalent per day.
And then just one more if I could.
Of that 370 or just on an overall mix of production of the unconventionals how much would you expect to be  gas versus black oil versus condensate? It's about 60-40 60% oil and about 40% gas.
Your next question comes from Faisel Khan of Citigroup.
On the 3 000 to 4 000 barrels per month domestic production growth at the end of the year how much of that is Gas and Oil? Because of the way it was computed there are no particular easy way to tell.
I would guess the bulk of it 75% 80% would be oil.
Okay got you.
And in terms of...
Oil meaning real oil.
NGLs is an oil just so we're clear what we're talking about.
NGLs are something between Oil and Gas.
Okay fair enough.
And then looking at the overall domestic natural gas dry gas production portfolio is that production kind of expected to remain flat through the end of this year? Or do you expect declines to take place? No I think it will probably grow.
Sometimes when you -- especially in California you drill it -- sometimes it's a little misleading because if you drill a shale well you might take it down to the deeper zone slightly deeper zone and the slightly deeper zone tends to be gassy.
And you may not have drilled the well for that purpose.
But all of a sudden you got some gas.
And so our ability and so as we take what was designed as a shale well down a little bit further you can wind up with a gas zone and so you get a little more volatility in the number which is not a bad thing by the way.
But so you're predicting the stuff.
You might get lucky and find the big gas zone so our gas might go up sort of by serendipity.
Okay.
Is that gas able to be produced into the market or is there infrastructure required to bring? It depends on where it is but the answer is we so far we've been able to manage it.
Okay fair enough.
My last question is on the Permian Basin.
In terms of your rig count kind of going up in that basin how much of that is split between the Delaware and the Midland Basin? Bill? I would say looking forward Faisel is that what you're asking? Yes sir.
I'd say probably 70% or so is going to be devoted to that delta.
That incremental rig count is going to be devoted to the Delaware Basin as opposed to the Midland Basin.
The delta kind of where we are today versus where we'll be at the end of the year.
Right.
Your next question comes from Sven Del Pozzo of IHS.
With that new disclosure on the rig on the back page is that gross operated rig on a net basis are the increases similar? Yes there's a whole bunch of non-operated activity also especially in the Permian the Permian really.
So we don't have any way of sort of predicting that.
Okay and the overall increase in the rig count in the U.S.
going from 38 to 59 does that -- are those conventional drilling rigs or are there workover rigs there included? No that's just strictly drilling rigs.
We got a very large number of workover rigs so they would just obscure the numbers if we include the workover rigs.
Okay.
The IP rig you mentioned the 370 for the California shale well that's the 24-hour rate? It's actually longer than that.
It's generally -- what a stabilize rate would be over say a week's time because these wells have to clean up before they stabilize.
So it's really over a week or even longer period of time.
Okay.
How did your operations team deal with the flooding in North Dakota? I mean you're farther away from the river.
So I'd assume there is less flooding where you guys are but I'm not sure.
It really didn't affect us at all given where we operate.
Okay.
I'm seeing an increase in NGL production from the U.S.
in the second quarter over the first quarter is that correct? I mean a substantial one? NGL production? Yes I might be wrong.
Let me see.
Forget about that one.
In the Permian Apache was mentioning the application to modern drilling and completion techniques horizontal application to their CO2 flood and also water floods.
I'm assuming whether you guys see a similar upside.
We don't have a basis compared with what Apache is saying I don't know what that's about.
Your next question comes from Duane Grubert of Susquehanna Financial.
LLLP</strong> On the CO2 team we've had others in the sector see CO2 supply as a constraint.
I think you guys have been pretty proactive in telling us why it's not a constraint.
Can you talk to us about how you think of allocating capital in the Permian to non-CO2 versus CO project and the CO2 available is a factor in that allocation? We have [indiscernible] with supplier about half of our own CO2 and we have ways to increase that.
So the fact that some smaller operator has a problem getting CO2 doesn't surprise us the market is fairly snug.
It's a very profitable business.
We allocated and sort of we have a 5-year plan for putting CO2 in the ground and we just go ahead and do it.
It's a very profitable business to see.
We spend all the capital really.
LLLP</strong> And then jumping over to one of your recent acquisitions the heavy oil stuff in California do you have any early read on your enthusiasm for your heavy oil project? It's a one-off thing.
I don't think we're interested in more heavy oil.
This was a pretty good opportunity.
It was an undrilled field and 5 years from now it will be a pretty good result for us.
LLLP</strong> Okay.
And then you have been buying a lot of what appeared to be one-off things that pretty have legs [ph] domestically.
I'm sure people also pitched to you international assets.
Do you have any appetite to be shopping internationally? We always look for opportunities internationally but in places we understand of course.
So I don't think we'll be drilling much in the Arctic or anything like that.
So we're looking for places we understand and where we can make substantial returns.
You don't want to go to international just to produce empty barrels.
LLLP</strong> And then to follow on to an earlier comment you guys made on California.
You said I think unconventional wells you got about 20 out of 29 rigs more or less developing and 4 or 5 de-risking.
Can we really think of that whole program as being in a development stage now or are there certain aspects of it like infrastructure sizing or maybe where the footprint is that you're still in less of a development stage and more of a figuring out what you want to do stage? We're always figuring out what we want to do I think.
I think we always are looking to expand and figure out new opportunities.
There's different plays that are around that we haven't talked about publicly.
So we're always looking for different things to do trying to figure out where to build the next gas plant.
There are a lot of things we do and so we're trying to figure out what the program will be over the next decade.
So that requires a certain amount of it's not high-risk exploration but significant step-out activity just to figure out where we're going.
LLLP</strong> And then with the current sector environment with the higher oil prices and the ability to do a lot of work in domestic areas that didn't frankly exist 5 or 10 years ago can you remind us of your philosophy of cash use and maybe how the current environment might be influencing or changing that if at all? Cash use has always been the same.
I think I have the same slide for the last 15 years.
Number one use is maintenance capital second use is dividends third use is growth capital the fourth is acquisitions and the share repurchases are last.
Your next question comes from John Herrlin of Societe Generale.
A bunch of quick ones for you Steve.
For your volume growth domestically in the second quarter was the bulk of that South Texas? Maybe somebody will look at the numbers.
I don't know whether there was a bulk of it or not.
Okay next one California...
No I don't think so.
Okay.
Okay with California you said that the lion's share of the rigs currently running are unconventional what would have been it a year ago just to give some perspective? It was more conventional.
A year ago we were probably even 50-50 and then we shifted because we said we were going to do that.
Okay.
Year end should we assume that there's no Yemeni volumes? No.
I think a good case at Yemen.
We think that there's a reasonable chance that the -- first of all half the production isn't really covered by that.
It's other fields that have longer contracts.
And it looks to us that there's at least a reasonable chance that the government will always allow Nexen to continue to operate in Masila field while it figures out what it's going to do.
So I think there's a reasonable chance the stuff in Yemen will continue for a while at the full rate.
No guarantees of that obviously but about half of the production is unrelated to that and has been pretty much unaffected by this.
Okay.
For the properties the Nexen is operating would you expect then to pay a sizable upfront bonus? We don't know.
I think right now there's really nobody to negotiate with.
I assume that what will happen is that they'll just let it go for a while until there's a clarity in the government there.
Okay.
All right.
That's fine.
In terms of the property acquisition marketplace you're full in California you said there's a lot of for sale in the Williston there's always dribs and drabs in the Permian.
Are you considering any sort of new areas? In the United States? Yes correct.
No not really.
I mean we tire kick a lot of stuff so we understand what's going on.
But I don't see any and certainly not this year.
But you're accruing a lot of cash and so would it be reasonable to assume that you would focus on more dividend growth or potentially a share buyback which I know you don't particularly like but is that a consideration? We like dividends better than share repurchases.
Okay.
That's fine.
Last one for me we're seeing a lot of gratuitous divorces these days in the public marketplace disintegrations whatever.
Would the board ever consider maybe doing a split of Oxy between domestic and international? You just have to come to conclusion that that actually creates value rather than just some sort of something to entertain investment bankers.
So we never say never but I think right now there's a lot of synergies between them.
Very difficult for the international business to have anything less than a single A credit rating to get new contracts.
And so it's just improbable if that would create new value to split them off that way.
Your next question is from David Heikkinen of Tudor Pickering.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</strong> Bill just had a follow-up question thinking about the vertical well split around talking about 60% oil 40% gas that's for all the wells drilled including the Elk Hills primary wells but your guidance is reflecting more oil growth.
Can you talk us through kind of what are the kind of current well splits for the wells you're drilling on the vertical unconventional? David most of them are vertical wells in terms of the unconventional wells.
Nearly all are drilling vertical wells as opposed to horizontal just speaking to the unconventional.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</strong> I'm trying to understand the 60% oil 40% gas and the average of all the wells drilled versus the guidance that most of the growth is oil.
Yes what I was referring to was the 60-40 split was just solely on unconventional shale wells.
That's an average rather than sort of the outcome.
If they look at it that's what they're sort of doing because when you produce the oil you get a fair amount of gas with it.
The wells are oil wells.
They just have -- they have associated gas.
It's just hard -- most of the growth is oil but I think you asked about really a -- the answer to a very narrow range of wells.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</strong> Okay.
So out of your total what's your conventional development program heading forward and how do those wells look like? Those wells are basically oil wells with less gas.
Nothing wrong with the gas I mean you get $4 and they have high rates and so you get your money back pretty quick.
But we think most of the growth for this year will be oil because we're trying to bias it that way.
Although occasionally we have this issue with you drill a little bit deeper and you wind up in a gas zone.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</strong> And the properties acquired that was kind of 30 million to 35 million cubic feet equivalent a day primarily? I think it was less.
I think it's less than that.
We're the largest gas producer in the state and that's an old field been around a long time it's in different part of the state.
And I think we could probably market a little different than maybe the predecessor.
Your next question comes from Katherine Minyard of JPMorgan.
Quick question on your comments on California and some of the permits.
You talked about there being some uncertainty around future permits particularly related to the injector wells.
Was just curious as to whether there's something about the nature of the injection wells that's holding them up or is it their location? No.
It's an industry issue not necessarily related to us.
Okay.
And then Just in light of that how much of your growth forecast in California depends on successfully permitting the injection wells and then does that change over time? It's a long-term problem for us rather than a short-term problem.
The only place it affects us in the sort of intermediate term is a little bit under 1 000 barrels a day at THUMS but other than the rest of it.
Ultimately you need to dispose of the water so it's hard to produce oil without producing saltwater.
So we're going to have to ultimately have more injection wells and so it's an issue.
But it's more an issue for people in steam-like business which for some large players out here in California that have I think a much bigger issue than we do.
Okay.
All right thanks.
And then can I just switch quickly to Latin America.
It just looks like the production that's being reported from Colombia is kind of trending downward.
I'm just curious as to whether that's a price-related impact or whether it's project delays? Basically there is a kicker to the Colombian government on price.
Your next question comes from Evan Calio of Morgan Stanley.
So going to cannibalize the front of your conference call at least for some folks.
I'll give you a break on the California questions.
We thought we'd run out of counties.
I thought so.
But on the Permian my question is are wider differentials impacting the way you think about capital allocation and potentially away from the Permian at least on operating level at least until this normalize and move in to another part of your portfolio? At $100 oil which is the WTI price you could drive a truck through the margins on a cash basis or a reported basis or whatever.
Historically $100 is a pretty decent price.
And so the fact that somebody says well maybe it should be on some basis of $106.
Yes it's true but this is still $100.
Given a very oily portfolio in the Permian I mean this is enormously profitable.
I mean you should get -- I mean just say -- well you should get some more I don't know if we should get some more now but I don't know about a year from now.
So I think we'll take the money and run.
Well I mean that's -- I guess the second question and clearly respect that that's very profitable do you think of changing any kind of hedge position into 2012 if you have...
We're not hedgers we don't know.
The Phibro guys are bullish on oil forever so I guess we're not hedgers in that sense.
Okay so nothing to protect any TILOS exposure? The reason we keep sort of a debt-free balance sheet is so we don't have to protect our downside so we don't have to buy basically insurance for downside.
We're not good speculators on product prices.
Okay that's fair.
Just maybe last question on Iraq.
I apologize if I missed it early you mentioned it on your last call did you begin liftings in the second half of '11? Lifting will be this month first lifting is this month.
[Operator Instructions]  And your next question comes from Doug Leggate of Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Steve sorry for the follow-up.
I just wanted to get clarification on a couple of things.
You've said in the past that your shale wells were predominantly oil meaning north of 90% has that changed? No.
So what's the 60-40 then I'm confused? It's just 60-40 is related as to whether it's called oil well or gas well.
So what is the majority of the wells you're drilling are they 60% oil or 90% oil? Closer to 90% but we may occasionally -- you should understand that sometimes you drill a little deeper and you wind up with a pretty gassy well.
Sure.
I understand that.
But predominantly if we're talking about completing 150 to 175 wells this year what proportion of those would you say were in the 90% range than in the other range because it makes a heck of difference to the value obviously? Probably not as much as you think because the gas wells will have a lot of liquids with them.
Right.
The IP rates again going back to Bill's comments.
Previously you've said sort of 350 reserve was a good run rate as an IP rate.
But you described that as longer than 30 days which is a bit different from Bill saying 7 days.
So can we get some clarification on that also maybe just reiterate how you see the decline curve as we compare to what you gave us a year ago? Doug just to clarify really when I was talking about 7 days I was talking about time for the wells to clean up.
That 370 BOE a day number really is a 30-day stabilized IP number.
That's an average.
So how would I think about that in terms of let's say a month underlying 30-day average is that a good number or...
That's a good number Doug yes.
I think what he was trying to say is as opposed to just the IP rate like the Haynesville well which is sort of one day or something what he's trying to say is it takes them a week or so to clean up the well.
It stays at this 370 for a month or so and then the decline will begin.
All right great.
And the final one is previously $3 million of well was kind of the number to drill complete and hooked up I guess that you've given us.
Can you just talk a little bit about what's happening to service cost in the state and what about -- those results were still a good run rate that we should be thinking about in terms of the CapEx and I'll leave it at that.
Doug I think $3.5 million to $4 million is really a good range drill complete and hooked up to sales.
We are seeing some inflation on pressure pumping obviously just as the whole industry is.
But that's still a pretty good number $3.5 million to $4 million.
You're not frac-ing these wells Bill? No there's a few that we do fracture stimulate but the majority are just acidized.
And your final question comes from Sven Del Pozzo of IHS.
Sorry Just returning to the NGL question from our view.
In fact if things go up just wondering are you -- is that part of the South Texas acquisition is that rich gas is that why -- I'm looking at the end the domestic NGL production looks like...
The additional NGLs from last year from a year ago come from South Texas and in the Permian.
So are we going to see in the future similar ramp up in NGL production sequentially quarter-over-quarter? No.
There are no further questions.
Thank you.
Well thanks very much for joining us today on the call and if you have any questions feel free to call us here in New York.
Thanks again and have a great day.
Thank you.
This does conclude today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Christie and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Occidental Petroleum Third Quarter 2011 Earnings Release Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Thank you.
I would now like to turn the call over to Christopher Stavros.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Christie.
Good morning everyone.
Welcome to Occidental Petroleum's Third Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
Joining us on the call this morning from Los Angeles are Steve Chazen Oxy's President Chief Executive Officer; Jim Lienert Oxy's Chief Financial Officer; Bill Albrecht President of our Domestic Oil and Gas operations; and Sandy Lowe President of our International Oil and Gas business.
In just a moment I'll turn the call over to Jim our CFO who will review our financial and operating results for the third quarter and first 9 months of 2011.
Chazen will then follow with some comments on Oxy's strategy and outlook for the fourth quarter and we'll conclude with a brief Q&amp;A session.
Our third quarter earnings press release Investor Relations' supplemental schedules and the conference call presentation slides which refer to both Jim and Steve's remarks can be downloaded off of our website at www.oxy.com.
I'll now turn the call over to Jim Lienert.
Jim please go ahead.
Thank you Chris.
Core income was $1.8 billion or $2.18 per diluted share in the third quarter this year compared to $1.2 billion or $1.48 per diluted share in the third quarter of last year.
Net income was $1.8 billion or $2.17 per diluted share in the third quarter of 2011 compared to $1.2 billion or $1.46 per diluted share in the third quarter of 2010.
The small difference between net and core income is due to discontinued operations.
Here's a segment breakdown for the third quarter.
Oil and Gas segment earnings for the third quarter of 2011 were $2.6 billion the same as the second quarter of 2011 and compared to $1.8 billion in the third quarter of 2010.
Higher volumes this quarter compared to the second quarter of 2011 resulted in flat quarter-to-quarter income despite lower prices.
The improvement in 2011 over the same period in 2010 was driven by higher production in liquids prices.
The third quarter 2011 realized prices increased on a year-over-year basis by 34% for crude oil 41% for NGLs and remained about flat for domestic natural gas.
Sales volumes which are different than production volumes due to timing of liftings.
We're 743 000 BOE per day compared to 713 000 BOE per day in the third quarter of 2010.
Our production was 739 000 BOE per day compared to 706 000 in the third quarter of 2010 which included production from Libya.
This represents a greater than 4.5% increase year-over-year reflecting our continued focus on production growth.
The third quarter production was also more than 3% higher than the second quarter 2011 volumes of 715 000 BOE per day.
Domestically our production was 436 000 BOE per day representing the highest-ever domestic production volumes for the company compared to our guidance of 430 000 to 432 000 BOE per day.
Our production in California rose by 6 000 BOE per day compared to the second quarter and contributed a large portion of the sequential increase in our overall domestic production volumes.
Latin America volumes were 30 000 BOE per day.
Columbia volumes decreased from the second quarter due to pipeline interruptions caused by insurgent activity.
In the Middle East region we recorded no production in Libya.
In Iraq we produced 4 000 BOE per day.
Yemen daily production was 28 000 BOE slightly ahead of our guidance.
In Oman the third quarter production was 79 000 BOE per day an increase of 3 000 BOE per day over the second quarter volumes.
In Qatar the third quarter production was 73 000 BOE per day an increase of 5 000 BOE per day over the second quarter volumes.
The increase reflected the results of the development program as well as maintenance issues that affected the second quarter volumes.
In Dolphin and Bahrain combined production increased 3 000 BOE per day from the second quarter volumes.
Our third quarter sales volumes were 743 000 BOE per day compared to our guidance of 725 000 BOE per day.
The improvement resulted mainly from the higher domestic production and the timing of liftings.
Third quarter 2011 realized prices declined for all of our products from the second quarter of the year.
Our worldwide crude oil realized price was $97.24 per barrel a decrease of 6%.
Worldwide NGLs were $56.06 per barrel a decline of 3% and domestic natural gas prices were about flat at $4.23 per MCF.
Differentials improved in the quarter resulting in realized oil prices representing 108% of the average WTI and 87% of the average Brent price.
About 60% of Oxy's oil production tracks world oil prices and 40% is indexed to WTI.
For example in California our realized price was 114% of WTI and 91% of Brent in the third quarter.
In Oman our average price was 117% of WTI and 93% of Brent.
Price changes at current global prices affect our quarterly earnings before income taxes by $38 million for a $1 per barrel change in oil prices and $7 million for a $1 per barrel change in NGL prices.
A swing of $0.50 per million BTUs in domestic gas prices affects quarterly pretax earnings by about $34 million.
Oil and gas cash production costs were $12.36 a barrel for the first 9 months of 2011 compared with last year's 12-month cost of $10.19 a barrel.
The cost increase reflects higher workover and maintenance activity driven by our program to increase production at these higher levels of oil prices.
Taxes other than on income which are directly related to product prices were $2.29 per barrel for the first 9 months of 2011 compared to $1.83 per barrel for all of 2010.
Total exploration expense was $39 million in the quarter.
Chemical segment earnings for the third quarter of 2011 were $245 million compared to $253 million in the second quarter of 2011 and $189 million in the third quarter of 2010.
The improvement in third quarter results on a year-over-year basis reflects higher margins across most product lines.
In addition during the third quarter of 2011 we temporarily idled certain production in our Texas plants and sold power to the grid during the power shortage resulting in an increase in the quarter's earnings.
Midstream segment earnings for the third quarter of 2011 were $77 million compared to $187 million in the second quarter of 2011 and $163 million in the third quarter of 2010.
The decreases from the second quarter and prior third quarter earnings were due to losses from our Phibro unit both for the quarter and year-to-date partially offset by higher pipeline income and increased power sales to the grid during the third quarter.
The worldwide effective tax rate was 38% for the third quarter of 2011.
Our third quarter U.S.
and foreign tax rates are included in the Investor Relations' supplemental schedule.
Let me now turn to Occidental's performance during the first 9 months.
Core income was $5.2 billion or $6.37 per diluted share compared with $3.4 billion or $4.14 per diluted share in 2010.
Net income was $5.1 billion or $6.31 per diluted share for the first 9 months of 2011 compared with $3.3 billion or $4.07 per diluted share in 2010.
Cash flow from operations for the first 9 months of 2011 was $8.6 billion.
We used $5 billion of the company's total cash flow to fund capital expenditures and $1.5 billion on net acquisitions and divestitures.
We used $1.1 billion to pay dividends and had a net cash inflow from debt activity of $600 million.
These and other net cash flows resulted in a $4 billion cash balance at September 30.
Capital spending was $5 billion for the first 9 months of which $2 billion was spent in the third quarter.
Year-to-date capital expenditures by segment were 83% in Oil and Gas 14% in Midstream and the remainder in Chemicals.
Our net acquisition expenditures for the first 9 months were $1.5 billion which are net of proceeds from the sale of our Argentina operations.
The acquisitions included the South Texas purchase properties in California and the Permian and a payment in connection with the signing of the Al Hosn gas project in Abu Dhabi which is a gas development of the Shah Field.
This payment was for Occidental's share of development expenditures incurred by the project prior to the date the final agreement was signed.
The weighted average basic shares outstanding for the first 9 months of 2011 were $812.6 million and the weighted average diluted shares outstanding were $813.3 million.
Our debt-to-capitalization ratio was 14% the same as the end of last year.
During the third quarter of 2011 Oxy issued senior notes of $1.3 billion due in 2017 and $900 million due in 2022 at a weighted average interest rate of 2.3% which brought the company's average effective borrowing rate down to 3.2%.
Our annualized return on equity for the first 9 months of the year was 20%.
Copies of the press release announcing our third quarter earnings and the Investor Relations supplemental schedules are available on our website at www.oxy.com or through the SEC's EDGAR system.
I'll now turn the call over to Steve Chazen to discuss Oxy's strategy to maximize total shareholder return and provide guidance for the fourth quarter.
Thank you Jim.
This morning I want to spend a few minutes discussing Occidental's overriding goal to maximize total shareholder return.
We believe this can be achieved through a combination of: first growing our oil and gas production by 5% to 8% a year on average over the long-term; second allocating and deploying capital with a focus on achieving oil above cost of capital returns; and finally consistent dividend growth.
I'd like to give you an update of our progress year-to-date.
Oil and gas production the impact of our capital program and increase in drilling activity started to have a visible impact on our domestic oil and gas production volumes.
Compared to the second quarter our domestic production increased about 6 000 BOE per day per month compared to our guidance of 3 000 or 4 000 BOE per day.
This increase resulted in domestic production of 436 000 BOE a day for the third quarter compared to 430 000 to 432 000 BOE a day guidance we gave you.
Third quarter 2011 domestic production is the highest U.S.
total production in Oxy's history reflecting the highest-ever volumes for liquids.
Compared to the prior year total company third quarter production of 739 000 BOE a day was affected by a 7% decline in our international production.
This reduction was a result of disruptions in the Middle East and North Africa and the impact of higher prices on our production sharing contract.
On a year-over-year basis our domestic production volumes increased by 15%.
In our operations we experienced disruptions affecting our production.
Examples of such events in the third quarter of 2011 included the Elk Hills gas plant shutdown due to mechanical issues mechanical issues with plants compressors and pipelines in the Permian and Qatar and insurgent activity in Colombia that caused a significant portion of our production to be shut in for about 10 days.
Without these events our production would would've been 10 000 to 15 000 BOE a day or higher which is more representative of our assets' current theoretical productive capacity.
Some of these constraints have been removed and we expect others removed over time.
Others are not within our control and will reoccur.
We believe our capital program will yield higher production growth and reliability over time.
Turning to returns.
Our return equity as Jim pointed out for the first 9 months was 20%.
Our return on capital employed annualized for the first 9 months was 18%.
We will continue to manage our capital program and acquisition strategy to yield well above cost of capital returns.
Dividend growth is an important part of our total return to shareholders.
Our ability to pay dividends is indicated by our free cash flow generation.
Free cash flow after interest taxes and capital spending but before dividends acquisitions and debt activity for the first 9 months of the year was $3.7 billion.
Oxy's annual dividend rate is currently $1.84 per share or about $1.1 billion for the first 9 months of 2011.
Oxy has increased its dividends 10x in the last 9 years resulting in a compound annual dividend growth rate of 15.6%.
Keeping with our philosophy to raise the dividend on a consistent basis the Board of Directors is expected to consider a dividend increase at the February meeting.
Turning to a topic which I know is favored among at least some of you share repurchases.
The policy on possible share repurchase remains essentially unchanged.
We do not do share repurchases as an alternative to dividends.
We believe that dividends are given directly the shareholders while the effects of share repurchases on the stock price is at best murky.
Therefore you should not expect a program of regular share repurchases set to offset any shares issued on our employee programs.
These share issues tend to be very small.
If there's continuing excess cash it will be used to boost the dividend rate.
We do consider using the shareholders' capital to buy shares when the stock is trading at discount for the results we can expect from our capital acquisition program.
To assist you in determining this the analysis we employ is as follows: the value of the chemical and midstream assets that are not directly related to our production is determined.
This is done on a very conservative basis.
The debt and cash levels of the company are netted.
The current capital program finding the development cost for each of oil and of gas are estimated.
We use only proved reserves in the calculation not probable or possible reserves and we don't consider the value of acreage.
The result of this analysis is not the value the company but rather determination of whether the next dollars should be spent on capital or share repurchases.
Normally this results in a decision to invest in the business rather than a decision to buy in shares.
When we do repurchase shares we will make only the required public announcements in order to minimize what you pay for the stock thereby enriching the remaining shareholders and not assisting the exiting ones.
This approach eliminates our natural bias to think the stock is always undervalued and makes the calculations pretty straightforward.
We have sufficient authority to purchase significant number of shares.
Form 10-Q filings will show if any shares were purchased at what price and how many shares remain authorized.
Small repurchases are indicative of employee plan activities.
We value the company's financial flexibility especially in times of stress.
It would be a disservice to our shareholders to impair that flexibility to achieve some theoretical short-term advantage.
As we look ahead to the fourth quarter of the year we expect oil and gas production to be as follows: Domestic volumes are expected to increase by about 3 000 to 4 000 BOE per day per month in the current quarterly average level of 436 000 BOE per day.
This should result in a fourth quarter production of about 442 000 to 444 000 BOE per day.
This would constitute a year-over-year domestic production growth rate exceeding 10% and about 6% a year production growth rate going forward.
In terms of review of our major domestic assets.
In California for the year we expect to drill and complete 154 shale wells outside of Elk Hills compared to the 107 wells we had indicated at the beginning of the year.
Including Elk Hills we expect to drill 195 shale wells for the year.
We expect to drill and complete a total of 42 shale wells during the fourth quarter.
Our experience has been the 30-day initial production rate for these wells depending on areas between 300 and 400 barrels of oil equivalent per day.
With respect to shale wells outside of Elk Hills about 80% of the BOE production is a combination of black oil and high-value condensate.
The cost of drilling and completing these wells has been running about $3.5 million per well and we expect this to continue to decline over time.
Our conventional drilling program is progressing somewhat better than planned.
There has been no significant change in the -- of permitting issues in the state from our last call.
We expect the current permitting levels to allow us to have our program go forward at these levels and enable us to continue to grow our production volumes in the state.
We expect the production rig count to remain at the same 29 rig count although we're likely to add a 30th rig by the end of the year based on a current outlook.
In the Permian operations our CO2 flood production is progressing according to plan.
We expect our rig count to be about 24 in the fourth quarter.
Our non-CO2 operations have stepped up their development program.
This will not show significant production growth until next year.
In the Williston we are pursuing a development program with about 13 rigs expected to be running in the fourth quarter.
Our production is growing as a result of the development program and we expect the growth to continue.
Natural gas prices in the United States continue to be it says here weak but I think poor.
As a result we are considering cutting back our pure gas drilling in the midcontinent and possibly elsewhere.
Internationally we believe that once the current uncertainties are behind us including the resolution of situations in Libya the achievement of a sustained development program in Iraq we will achieve production growth similar to our domestic operations.
We expect that our fourth quarter international production to be about the same as the third quarter production 4% higher than the second quarter of this year which represented a low point of volumes following the situation in Libya.
Colombia volumes should be modestly higher than the third quarter assuming no further pipeline attacks.
The Middle East region is expected to be as follows in the fourth quarter: At this point we expect no significant production from Libya.
Our joint venture partnerships are currently in the process of resuming production but production ramp-up will be hampered in the near term by lack of vehicles and personnel to address operational problems in the prolonged shut-in.
In Iraq we expect production to be similar to the last quarter.
Going forward we are still unable to reliably predict spending levels which determine production.
In the remainder of the Middle East we expect production to be comparable to third quarter volumes.
At current -- at quarter end prices we expect total production to increase to about 745 000 BOE a day as a result of the 3 000 to 4 000 BOE a day per month coming from the domestic production.
We expect sales volumes to be around 740 000 a day to the timing of liftings.
A $5 change in global oil prices would impact our production sharing contract daily volumes by about 3 000 BOE a day.
We expect our total year capital expenditures to be about $7 billion.
Additionally we expect exploration expense to be about $100 million for seismic and drilling for exploration programs in the fourth quarter.
Chemical segment fourth quarter earnings which is historically the weakest quarter are expected to be about $100 million.
This reduction in the third quarter is due to seasonal slowdowns in many markets as construction consumers' efforts to minimize inventories and the slowdown in exports.
We expect our combined worldwide tax rate in the fourth quarter to remain at about 38%.
So to summarize our third quarter income of $2.18 was about 12% higher than the consensus estimate.
Our third quarter oil and gas earnings of $2.6 billion were essentially unchanged to the second quarter despite a $6 per barrel decline in our average oil realizations.
Our annualized return on equity was 20% for the first 9 months of 2011.
Our total oil and gas production of 739 000 BOE a day during the third quarter.
We had more than 3% compared to the second quarter.
Domestic oil and gas volumes grew to 436 000 a day in the third quarter 2% increase the second quarter and above our earlier guidance of 430 000 to 432 000 BOE a day.
Domestic volumes are expected to further increase by about 3 000 or 4 000 BOE a day per month in the fourth quarter.
I think we're now ready to take your questions as long as they're brief.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from Paul Sankey of Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Steve one on the Bakken actually.
Your activity levels there seem very aggressive relative to your acreage.
Can you just talk more about how you're seeing that play? Well at the end of the year I think we had 171 000 acres and we may have picked up some more acreage during the year.
The wells are actually doing very well.
Some of the small piece we had outside of the stuff we bought the end of last year has yielded some surprisingly positive results.
Costs are a little high up there but they seem to be coming down.
So I...
Research Division</strong> Would you mind putting some numbers around some of those comments? Well the wells vary from where they are.
So maybe Bill could answer the question on the well cost.
Yes Paul as Steve said the costs are coming down.
We're somewhere in the $8 million to $8.5 million range drilling complete but the trend is down.
Research Division</strong> Yes and the results? We started the year I think at 2 500 a day? 3 000? And we're running sort of around 7 000 or 8 000 currently.
With a little walk we'll exit closer to 10 000.
Research Division</strong> And would you be looking to buy more acreage up there Steve based on that? I think I told you that every day somebody shows up with some acreage to buy.
So if we were open on Saturday and Sunday we could have it 7 days a week.
So there's really plenty to buy and we're sort of picky on where we buy it.
So if it's additive to what we have and something we understand we'd probably pick up some acreage.
We're not interested in company acquisitions at all.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
Steve you gave away almost all your midstream profitability but you get it back in marketing and trading.
One thing of service that -- that segment seems to performed very poorly when oil equities have a bad quarter which I would have thought exacerbates your volatility to the downside as a stock.
Can you just talk a little bit how you're seeing that segment now and whether -- where we go from here? The segment's fine.
There's certainly volatility in Phibro's results and just depends on what day you choose to measure it.
You measured it today you probably made up all that you've lost for the whole year and maybe then some.
So it's pretty volatile.
I mean it wasn't intended as a hedge.
It's really long oil and so are we.
So I'm not interested in hedging the company's outcome.
I'm sort of long-term modestly bullish on oil prices.
Not as bullish as Phibro but modestly bullish.
So I'm not really bothered by this.
I think over time we're a pretty decent-return business.
It turned out to be not so decent return.
It's pretty easy to exit.
So I'm really not bothered by the volatility.
I know you might be but the volatility -- being long oil is sort of where we are.
Research Division</strong> Yes but I don't understand though is you said that it's actually long oil but it seems to have the worst quarters when it's the oil equities that go down a lot.
I mean I'm thinking post-Macondo was a bad one and then it doesn't seem the rate of change in oil was quite as bad as this result would've suggested unless...
He was investing in some equities and he's not doing that anymore.
Research Division</strong> Ah okay.
And so far this quarter if we stopped here things are going well in that segment? Yes.
But again this is the NBA game problem.
No sense in tuning in till the last minute.
Or a Michigan State Wisconsin problem.
Your next question comes from Jessica Chipman of Tudor Pickering.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Two quick questions on the California side.
First just California liquids have grown nicely after bottoming really Q4 of last year.
How should we think about splitting growth going forward between conventional and unconventional drilling? We cut back on our conventional so we could think about it some more since it requires a little more thought than the shale drilling.
And I think that's had a positive effect on our results.
I think we're more thoughtful and we're getting better results.
So we'll do the conventional when we -- it'll pick up as we get better results.
But the results in the last quarter conventionally were pretty good.
So I don't have an easy answer for you.
So it just depends on how things go.
Basically the base growth comes from the shale drilling.
And every so often you'll have a successful conventional thing which will boost -- you get an unusually high boost.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> And you did have some of that this quarter? It sure looks that way don't it? Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
The second question just -- you expect to drill I think and complete 154 shale wells outside of Elk Hills.
How many of those are actually going to be hooked up in terms of sales? Virtually all of them probably.
The way we count them is -- they don't count till they're actually flowing into the line.
Complete includes hooking them up.
Otherwise you get some odd results.
We're trying to get the time down between completing and hooking up.
So we're only -- for your purpose all we're doing this counting when they get hooked up.
Your next question comes from Doug Leggate of Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> Steve I'm sorry a couple if I may.
Updates on the gas funds for 2012 just the timing of commissioning and given your comments on how weak I think you said are up here gas prices are.
How's your appetite for getting that thing done as quickly as perhaps we might [indiscernible].
Well the plant's really handled by a contractor.
I mean he has a date he's got to deal with it by so.
It's going to be on roughly May 1.
It doesn't make a difference what I think about gas prices.
Research Division</strong> Right.
And so will we -- should we all think about 2012 as being a lumpy year for production? In terms of growth? Every year is lumpy.
I don't think you hadn't noticed.
So yes it could be lumpier than normal.
I'm still concerned about giving away gas.
Even California gas a little higher but at $4.
Even though the conventional wells have a significant amount of condensate in them but seems wasteful to sell gas for $4.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just a couple on the shale if I may.
Why is the growth of 6 000 barrels a day per month obviously beat your prior guidance? Why is it going to slow back to 3 000 to 4 000? I think I actually answered it in the last question.
The 3 000 to 4 000 is for the whole domestic business.
It turned out that we got it all in California and the rest of the domestic business sort of equaled it.
But I'm using the shale wells to drive the 3 000 to 4 000.
And if I get lucky -- the conventional wells are significantly more profitable than the shale wells.
In the case of maybe a shale well you might take it 90 days to get your money back and a conventional well might take 2 weeks.
But it's less predictable.
So you see we're giving you the predictable number and every so often we'll do a little better or if there's some mechanical problem a little worse.
But that's really what we're trying to do is give you something you could can count on.
If we do a little better we'd do a little better.
Research Division</strong> Last one for me is I think a few months back I attended a dinner you were speaking at obviously and you said your kind of first base target was to drill about 300 wells a year on the California shale.
So I'm curious where do you stand in terms of pushing forward the permit process? And do you think that's still a reasonable first base target? If so when do you expect to get there? I'll leave it at that.
I really think at this point the program we have is all we can really count on from state permitting.
Whatever portion of the 30 rigs that we're going to run in California is related to that.
As the permitting process that we hope improves then we'll get there.
Predicting what somebody in the State of California might do is way -- makes predicting oil prices easy.
And so I think you got to say that right now this is sort of where we are and I don't know -- I can't really give you a realistic number.
I think as a practical matter we could get there if we had the permits.
The permitting process -- I mean the difficulty is -- I mean there's 2 elements of it.
First it makes it really hard to plan because while you got a visible supply of permits it does depend on getting more and it used to be that you sort of have an infinite supply.
Second thing is if you find something it makes it really hard to follow up because you might not have a permit for the next lease or something.
So it makes the program significantly more inefficient than you might like it to be and makes it hard to plan.
The other issue in the permitting which probably has very little really effect on us currently is the injector wells.
A lot of -- most of the production in California is not ours but generally is from either steam or something or some kind of injector program.
And the state is studying that more carefully now.
So that has a significant impact on people who are mostly steam generators in the state as steam-based oil production.
And the state is pretty tight on that has -- the only place it's affected is [indiscernible] given long enough it might but -- and is in Long Beach.
And it's a small effect and it really just affects the income the way the contract works the income of the state the city and the port of Long Beach.
So I guess by not making the injector wells they like the lower level of income.
Your next question comes from Jason Gammel of Macquarie.
Steve I just wanted to ask about your permitting operations and appreciate you said that you don't expect the development program outside the CO2 operations to show a production growth until next year.
But I just wanted to ask about the rig count of 24.
How many of those rigs are actually being devoted to that development program? And are you primarily drilling Wolfberry and Wolfcamp-type wells with those rigs? Yes Bill will answer that.
Yes Jason.
We've got -- we're expecting a range of somewhere between 14 and 16 of those rigs working the development side of the Permian.
And of those rigs we're going to probably run 9 to 10 in the Wolfberry.
Again note that these are -- remind you that these are our operated and we have a whole bunch of other activity where somebody else is operating.
All we're giving you is our operated.
Understood understood.
If I can just shift internationally the production in Oman continues to show a steady uptick.
I assume that is discontinued affects from the Mukhaizna steam injection program.
How much more do you have to go on on Mukhaizna Steve? Is there something that is still a multi-year growth? Or are we starting to near the plateau there? Well it's really caused by 2 elements and Sandy can cover that.
But the old traditional stuff is actually doing very well in the north and Mukhaizna's doing well.
So I'll let Sandy answer your question.
Yes.
Mukhaizna today is running 120 000 barrels a day gross.
And during 2012 we're adding another 200 000 barrels a day of steam injectability.
So that will ramp us up to around 150 000 barrels a day at the end of 2012 or maybe first quarter 2013.
As Steve said the northern Oman is running 99 000 100 000 barrels day gross which is the highest it's ever sustained in our 25 years.
So both looking good.
And Sandy would there be any further injection phases after that one? Or is that something that you should be studying now? We're planning to have 600 000 625 000 barrels a day of steam.
There's possibility of adding more later but it's not yet in the plan.
These plans are approved in stages by the government and other people.
So you don't give them a 30-year plan sort of a 30-month plan.
Your next question comes from Arjun Murti of Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Steve you have an update on the non-shale California exploration program? Well that was the conventional I was referring to.
So I think you can see the -- again the base guidance roughly or -- if you thought about maybe 1/2 of the growth or a little more that we'd tell you the 3 000 to 4 000 a month is from the monotonous shorter shale drilling.
The rest of it -- if you see an odd number it comes from that program.
So I think you should view it that way.
The other way to view it just to be honest when we give you our exploration expense it's not worth a darn every quarter but on a cumulative basis for the year.
It's basically done by risking each of the wells.
So we say well this is a 15% chance of success.
This is a 30% and we add that up and that's what we give you as the exploration expense.
When we continually are lower you should assume we're having more success than we planned.
And a lot of that would be in California some in Colombia and some in Oman.
Research Division</strong> And I guess a few years ago you announced the larger Kern County discovery.
Presumably you've not had one of that size or we might have heard about it.
Any...
You might have.
Research Division</strong> We might not have.
That's right.
Research Division</strong> That's fine.
A follow-up on the Bakken.
You've always described it as a science experiment.
These slides I think are easily the most positive you've ever been on it by your standards at least...
Yes.
It's like gas.
Research Division</strong> Is it still like you need to do a bigger transaction to step up here? The prices are obviously high.
There was a recent big transaction.
Do you just patiently wait out the next downturn? Or how -- I mean how do you think about scaling your Bakken? Just patience? I think I said earlier this recent price that some national oil company paid for some stuff is not reflective of what we're paying for acreage with the tax basis.
And so I say there's a lot of -- I mean whatever number of acreage you want to have given a year or 2 you can get.
So somebody's here I'm not kidding virtually every day with some deal to buy 7 000 or 8 000 or 12 000 or 15 000 acres.
If it fits our business model we look at it.
If it doesn't we don't.
But there's no real shortage of opportunity.
The leases expire.
They roll over.
There's really a lot going on.
The prices are not -- I don't think that the recent transaction is reflective of the market.
I think that was a special deal for national oil companies.
Research Division</strong> Right.
So the kind of nagging concern some have that we should be braced for some inevitable big transaction [indiscernible] Yes.
The purpose of an acquisition is to make the company better not worse.
We're not -- we have plenty to do in our current portfolio so we're looking for ways to make the company better or stronger.
We're not looking for ways to dilute the outcome.
Research Division</strong> And just a final quick one Steve any early thoughts on 2012 CapEx? I don't really know where I am.
We've got a lot of uncertainty about the level in Iraq.
The Shah gas field some uncertainty there.
We don't know what we're going to have to spend going into Libya something I presume at least for trucks.
So there's at least some expenditure in Libya.
The U.S.
business has a huge opportunity set of high return relatively high-return projects in aggregate probably beyond what I would be willing to commit to next year.
So we'll push that off a little bit.
So I really don't know where I am.
We're not going to negative cash flow that's for sure.
Your next question comes from Doug Terreson of ISI.
Research Division</strong> Steve I have a couple of questions on Bahrain.
First there seems to be some movement over there on the changes to the natural guys price regime in that country and also there seems to be movement on approval for your deep gas exploration plan.
So I wanted to see if we could get an update on the status of those 2 items to the degree possible? The deep gas -- I mean the government's approved the deep gas drill.
So some time there's a seismic -- there appears there's some seismic and I assume the well to be drilled as soon as we get -- as soon as we can.
Might be -- probably going to be next year at this point.
I don't know anything about gas Sandy doesn't know anything either so I don't know what's going on there.
Your next question comes from Sven Del Pozzo of IHS Herold.
Late 2010 I think you guys made some comments regarding what point we are in the life cycle of your CO2 floods in Texas.
And then I wonder if we can tie -- if you could make similar comments this time around and perhaps tie it into the 5% to 8% long-term production growth rate? Well the CO2 floods normally you have a period of increased gas injection and then it takes 2 or 3 years for the results to show up.
So the increased injection began say early this year maybe middle of this year.
So it'll -- you'll start to see the effects of it a couple of years from now.
Okay.
So a similar kind of question on California shales -- no no just sorry total California production as a whole.
In the past you guys mentioned it would grow to equal that of Texas by 2013 I believe was the year correct me if I'm wrong.
How's that tie into the 5% to 8% production growth rate long term? It obviously does.
It's growing -- the domestic production's growing so that if you use the 3 000 to 4 000 a month it's growing 6% a year.
So eyes on pretty good I think.
So is there a chance -- it might sound like things might be getting better.
I mean is there...
You got to watch this quarterly stuff.
You can have a good quarter and a bad quarter.
So maybe they're getting better but on the ground it's better but there's always interruptions and stuff which make one quarter or some other quarter look good or not so good.
So right now on the ground we're doing fine both in the Permian and in California and we're pretty confident about the growth over time.
So I don't think there's much problem with the growth per month that we've said and it could do better I suppose.
But I mean over time I think it will but probably not.
It's just not that predictable quarter-to-quarter.
Okay.
And then in the Midstream I did see a pretty big jump year-over-year in terms of the Midstream CapEx.
What's that related to? And if so how much of that relates to your E&amp;P business? It's gas plants.
Your next question comes from John Herrlin of Societe Generale.
Steve when you look at your growth going forward you said you're going to do less gas.
We assume that's going to be more like 2/3 liquids crude and liquids versus 1/2 and 1/2 because your current growth has been kind of split.
Yes.
In the U.S.
I mean where we're going to cut back easily is in the mid-continent where the gas is real dry.
No sense in drilling.
So you might see -- if you could see it you might see a decline in something like the Hugoton or something like that where the gas is dry and wells are cheap.
And it just drives you nuts to give it away for $3.50.
You may make money at that but I'd rather defer it.
Okay.
With respect to California your split in terms of sequential buying growth was also 50-50 liquids versus gas.
This goes back to the conventional.
If you have a conventional -- conventionals are -- the Kern County-type discovery is a gas condensate reservoir.
And if you happen to hit one of those you're going to get a lot of gas and a lot of condensate.
The gas is just gas and the condensate really pays for the whole well.
Got it.
With respect to your black oil sequential line growth in California was 2 000 barrels sequentially.
How much was that from your conventional operations versus the new shale type plays? I don't really know.
But my guess is the conventional added a fair amount to it.
Okay.
Last one for me.
You mentioned earlier with exploration expenses that when you miss on the plus side so to speak it's because you're having more success...
More success than the risking would have generated.
Correct.
And essentially you had overestimated by 50% basically.
And if you go back and do the -- I wouldn't focus on a single quarter because it could be just delays.
But if you look at the 9 months I think if you went back and looked at what we said and what we actually did over the 9 months you'll find that we're pretty far below.
Okay.
And then last one for me you said of the chemical ops that you opted to sell power how much net income did you make off that? Just...
$40 million.
Your next question comes from Ed Westlake of Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> But just a small one on the shale well cost the $3.5 that include hook-up? I mean what's the total cost? Yes.
We don't do what the small producers do and just give you.
That includes the site -- well let's build out the site hook up the completion.
It's not just some part of the cost.
Research Division</strong> And then any update on Yemen? We really don't know anything.
I think it's fair to say.
It's hard to negotiate with the government there since it's hard tell what's going on.
Sandy anything? The only -- one of our fields is down for a while another insurgency.
But the production's holding well.
Our share's well up to what we predicted and we just don't know anything about the Masilla block yet.
Masilla's about 8 000 a day by the way just so you have scale for it out of the total.
Research Division</strong> And then on the overall I mean what you pick up as you walk around some people are concerned about CO2 availability and then other people are concerned about competency in shales.
I mean these are just things that it would be interesting to hear your thoughts on? We don't know.
A lot of the discussion of the CO2 is about small producers who have different issues.
Our competency well -- I think the answer comes from the production.
If we make our production that grows you'll assume we're competent.
And if we don't you'll assume we're incompetent.
Research Division</strong> I guess the question is linked back to Arjun's question earlier on the Bakken is that when I'm talking about shales I'm talking about shales outside your corer assets.
Oh Bakken? Research Division</strong> Yes.
And...
I think we have some -- we've undergone some learning clearly in the beginning.
This isn't exactly state secret up there.
We got always vendors who are reasonably experienced.
So I think we've come up learning curve nicely.
We have some more to learn for sure.
But I don't think there's any -- our productivity because we benchmark ourselves is the same as other people in the same area sometimes better but sometimes a little worse.
But I think it's pretty much the same so we don't have a productivity issue whether we're competent or not up there.
We'll know here in the next couple of years.
[Operator Instructions] Your next question comes from Pavel Molchanov of Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just one quick one if I may.
Other than shortage of vehicles and other logistical issues are there any legal or political hurdles at the moment to you resuming operations in Libya? Sanctions or something like that? Our operations in the fields where we have interest have slowly started coming back on by the operators themselves.
We actually have a management team going in there this weekend to visit with all of the government entities that we normally deal with.
And I would say that we don't expect any surprises but I wouldn't want to really bet on that until after we have some meetings with them.
But indications are that they're willing and happy to have us come back in and resume where we left off.
I don't think there's any U.S.
issues if that's the question.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Do you expect the fiscal terms to be in line with what they were under the previous government? All indications are that they're going to honor the contracts that are -- that were in existence when this war started.
Your next question comes from Ann Kohler of CRT Capital Group.
Research Division</strong> Just in looking at the Libyan situation following on to that question do you think that there are opportunities and maybe too early but additional opportunities that the new government might like to expedite additional work? Or is it not -- is it too early...
I think it's just too early to talk about that.
It just depends on how they want to manage their industry.
Right now they have to put up half the capital.
And whether they want to do that in the future or not really determines they want continue to invest their path to capital.
If they don't want to then there'll be other opportunities.
Just hard to say because you don't really know what it'll look like a year from now.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then just on the acquisition side if you could just give us sort of an update.
A year ago you indicated that you didn't expect that you'd have a lot of action or acquisition and then you certainly did step things up the very end of the year.
Could you just provide us a little update and color on the types of opportunities? I would assume that -- I guess in the last couple of calls you've indicated that you really weren't interested in necessarily just adding acreage in California and it sounds as though you would be selective in looking at opportunities within the Bakken? I don't know if I would interpret my remarks that way.
We always look for stuff in California that fits our business.
So I don't think it's like we always add something to California.
As far as the Bakken is concerned we look at a lot of fairly small opportunities.
I'll repeat what I said before we're not interested in a large corporate-type acquisition.
Your next question comes from Jeff Dietert Simmons.
Research Division</strong> Sorry to go back on California shale but wanted to ask a pretty substantial increase in the number of shale wells expected to be completed the 154.
Could you talk about how that -- if the pace is accelerating maybe what -- that looks like in third quarter and perhaps in fourth quarter as far as number of wells completed? I think we actually give you -- I gave you the fourth quarter in my remarks.
But as the well cost come down that's basically reflecting the -- it's reflecting the fact that I'm getting more for my money and therefore I'll drill more wells.
If we started at the beginning of the year and we thought the wells were going to cost $4.5 million we would have said some number of wells because that's how long it takes but we're shorting the time.
So the costs come down and you drill more wells in the year.
So that's what's really going on here I think right now.
This is pretty much what we have planned as far as the rig count.
You have a follow-up question from Doug Leggate of Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> Steve I wanted to go back to your prepared remarks.
You are not by any chance signaling a change of view in share buybacks with your commentary on that.
Could you maybe just give us some clarity as to exactly what you were kind of signal there in terms of your share buybacks rank given how much cash flow you're throwing off right now? I'll read the relevant parts from the remarks if you'd like if that's helpful.
Research Division</strong> I guess.
I'll edit out the irrelevant portions.
We will not have some kind of regular program in lieu of dividends which is what some companies do.
We think dividends are more effective.
We've had this discussion over the last decade.
So that's what we think.
What we are saying here is that when the -- I'll just make up a number.
If we're trading below what I think our F&amp;D is or what I could acquire assets for which is roughly the same then we'll shift the money from the capital program or from our free cash or from the acquisition program into share repurchases.
And that's actually -- in recent times that's happened.
So that's what we're saying.
So you shouldn't expect every quarter we're going to spend $1 zillion no matter what the price is.
But if the price -- if our capital program isn't -- can't add value compared to buying shares then the shares will be repurchased.
Research Division</strong> Is there an operational limit on your capital program though? In other words what you're capable of actually dealing with relative to the cash flow you're throwing off? Has this become a governor for managing your balance sheet? From a point of view I could spend a lot of money on share repurchases.
We're sitting on $4 billion of cash I don't know if you missed that.
And we don't really have -- I bought -- I took the cash because it was cheap and provide some insurance for the volatility that's in the market.
But we got plenty of flexibility to repurchase the shares if they don't reflect -- if it reflects essentially below replacement cost of the reserves.
So if I think that the price replacement cost or our finding and development costs however you want to describe it is $2 a barrel and the stock is trading for $1 a barrel.
I'll take all the money we have and dump it into the share repurchase because it gives a better outcome for the shareholders.
Other hand if our finding and development cost is $2 and the stock is trading for $12 a barrel the shareholders are better off us investing in the business because you've got the multiplier.
This is a complicated way.
This is exactly what Warren Buffett said actually except that he tied it to book value.
The book value isn't a very useful measure for us so I'm tying this to replacement cost.
So if the stock is cheap enough the company will repurchase it because that helps the remaining shareholders.
But we're also going to do it in a way that doesn't -- trying to reward the remaining shareholders not assist the exiting ones.
Your final question comes from John Herrlin of Societe Generale.
One final for me Steve.
In terms of your production growth this year how much of it's been in the U.S.
acquisition versus accelerated spending? The only -- in the U.S.
the Williston started out I think at 2 000 or 3 000 a day.
So you can decide for yourself.
We bought the acreage obviously but we didn't buy a lot of production.
South Texas is -- was bought although there's been some growth.
And we bought $20 million a day of gas in California.
10 showed up in the last quarter and 10 more in this quarter because it's only a partial quarter.
So there really isn't very much of it that's -- where we bought production.
Now we bought acreage or opportunity and we drill it up.
But it just depends on how you want to describe get a -- If you want to go back long enough Elk Hills was bought too.
And there are no further questions.
Are there any closing remarks? No that's fine.
Thanks and if there's any further questions call us here in New York.
Thanks for listening everyone.
Thank you.
This does conclude today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Christie and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Occidental Petroleum Fourth Quarter 2011 Earnings Release Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Mr.
Stavros you may begin your conference.
Thank you Christie and good morning to everyone.
Welcome to Occidental Petroleum's Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
Joining us on the call this morning from Los Angeles are Steve Chazen OXY's President and Chief Executive Officer; Lienert OXY's Chief Financial Officer; Albrecht President of our Domestic Oil and Gas operations; Sandy Lowe President of our International Oil and Gas business.
And also listening in on the call is our Executive Chairman Dr.
Ray Irani.
In just a moment I'll turn the call over to our CFO Jim Lienert who will review our financial and operating results for the fourth quarter and full year of 2011.
Steve Chazen will then follow with comments outlining our 2012 capital program and our outlook for our oil and gas production for the first half of this year.
We'll conclude with a brief Q&amp;A session after Steve's comments.
Our fourth quarter and full year 2011 earnings press release; Investor Relations supplemental schedules; and the conference call presentation slides which refer to both Jim and Steve's remarks can be downloaded off of our website www.oxy.com.
I'll now turn the call over to Jim.
Jim please go ahead.
Thank you Chris.
Net income was $1.6 billion or $2.01 per diluted share in the fourth quarter of 2011 compared to $1.2 billion or $1.49 per diluted share in the fourth quarter of 2010.
Our consolidated pretax income from continuing operations in the fourth quarter of 2011 was about $2.6 billion $2.02 per diluted share after tax compared to approximately $2.9 billion $2.18 per diluted share after tax in the third quarter of 2011.
Major items resulting in the difference between the third and fourth quarter income included higher oil volumes and prices which added $0.07 per diluted share after tax to our fourth quarter income; lower fourth quarter chemical and midstream income of $0.08 per diluted share; higher equity-based compensation cost of $0.05 per diluted share; higher exploration expense of $0.02 per diluted share; and higher fourth quarter operating costs of $0.08 per diluted share.
Here's the segment breakdown for the fourth quarter.
In the oil and gas segment the fourth quarter 2011 production of 748 000 BOE per day was 9 000 BOE per day higher than the third quarter 2011 volumes of 739 000 BOE per day.
Domestically our production was 449 000 BOE per day representing the highest ever domestic production volumes for the company compared to our guidance of 442 000 to 444 000 BOE per day.
Our production costs rose by 13 000 BOE per day compared to the third quarter with the Permian and California contributing the bulk of sequential increase in our overall domestic production volumes.
Our better-than-expected fourth quarter domestic production reflected the effect of the ramp-up in capital spending as well as higher levels of workover and well maintenance activity.
In addition the fourth quarter was relatively free of significant operational disruptions which also contributed to the better-than-expected results.
Latin America volumes were 31 000 BOE per day.
Colombia volumes increased slightly from the third quarter while both periods included pipeline interruptions caused by insurgent activity.
In the Middle East region we recorded "1 000 BOE per day" production in Libya.
In Iraq we produced 9 000 BOE per day an increase of 5 000 BOE per day from the third quarter volumes.
The higher volume is a result of higher spending levels.
Yemen daily production was 23 000 BOE a decrease of 5 000 BOE from the third quarter.
The decrease reflected the timing of cost recovery and the expiration of Masila field contract in mid-December.
In Oman the fourth quarter production was 76 000 BOE per day a decrease of 3 000 BOE per day from the third quarter volumes.
The decrease was attributable to downtime from operational issues.
In Qatar the fourth quarter production was 76 000 BOE per day an increase of 3 000 BOE per day over the third quarter volumes.
In Dolphin and Bahrain combined production decreased 6 000 BOE per day from the third quarter volumes.
Dolphin volumes declined 9 000 BOE per day because during the quarter they reached annual maximum volumes allowed under its contract.
Our fourth quarter sales volumes were 749 000 BOE per day compared to our guidance of 740 000 BOE per day.
The improvement resulted from the higher domestic production.
Fourth quarter 2011 realized prices were mixed for our products compared to the third quarter of the year.
Our worldwide crude oil price -- crude oil realized price was $99.62 per barrel an increase of 2.5%.
Worldwide NGLs were $55.25 per barrel a decrease of about 1.5% and domestic natural gas prices were $3.59 per MCF a decline of 15%.
Realized oil prices for the quarter represented 106% of the average WTI and 91% of the average Brent price.
Realized NGL prices were 59% of WTI and realized domestic gas prices were 98% of NYMEX.
Price changes on current global prices affect our quarterly earnings before income tax by $38 million for a $1-per-barrel change in oil prices and $8 million for a $1-per-barrel change in NGL prices.
A swing of $0.50 per million BTUs in domestic gas prices reflects -- affects quarterly pretax earnings by about $31 million.
Fourth quarter operating costs were about $130 million higher than the third quarter as a result of higher workover and well maintenance activity driven by our program to increase production at these higher levels of oil prices.
Oil and gas cash production costs were $12.84 a barrel for the 12 months of 2011 compared with last year's 12-month costs of $10.19 a barrel.
The cost increase reflects the higher workover and maintenance activity I mentioned earlier.
Taxes other than on income which are directly related to product prices were $2.21 per barrel for the 12 months of 2011 compared to $1.83 per barrel for all of 2010.
Fourth quarter exploration expense which included the impairment of several smaller leases was $73 million.
Chemical segment earnings for the fourth quarter of 2011 were $144 million compared to $245 million in the third quarter of 2011.
The drop in income was a result of seasonal factors.
Midstream segment earnings of $70 million for the fourth quarter of 2011 were comparable to the $77 million in the third quarter of 2011.
The significantly higher year end OXY stock price compared to the distressed levels at the end of the third quarter affected the quarterly valuation of equity-based compensation plans reducing fourth quarter pretax income of the company compared to the third quarter by $80 million.
The worldwide effective tax rate was 37% for the fourth quarter of 2011.
Our fourth quarter U.S.
and foreign tax rates are included in the Investor Relations supplemental schedule.
Let me now turn to Occidental's performance during the 12 months.
Core income was $6.8 billion or $8.39 per diluted share compared with $4.7 billion or $5.72 per diluted share in 2010.
Net income was $6.8 billion or $8.32 per diluted share for the 12 months of 2011 compared with $4.5 billion or $5.56 per diluted share in 2010.
Cash flow from operations for the 12 months of 2011 was $12.3 billion.
We used $7.5 billion of the company's total cash flow to fund capital expenditures and $2.2 billion on net acquisitions and divestitures.
We used $1.4 billion to pay dividends and had a net cash inflow from that activity of $0.6 billion.
These and other net cash flows resulted in a $3.8 billion cash balance at December 31.
Looking at overall cash flow simply our total debt net of cash was $2.1 billion at December 31 2011 compared to $2.5 billion at December 31 2010 representing net cash generated by the company of $0.4 billion.
During this period we returned $1.7 billion to our stockholders in the form of $1.4 billion of dividends and $275 million of stock buybacks.
Over 2 years our net debt at December 31 2011 was $0.5 billion higher compared to the $1.6 billion at December 31 2009.
During this period we returned $2.9 billion to our stockholders in the form of dividends and stock buybacks while executing an $11.5-billion capital program and spending about $6.9 billion on acquisitions.
Capital expenditures for 2011 were approximately $7.5 billion of which about $2.6 billion was incurred in the fourth quarter.
The fourth quarter higher capital partially reflected the gradual ramp-up of our capital program during 2011.
The increases were mostly at Williston domestically and Iraq Oman and Qatar internationally.
The fourth quarter capital also included spending for several midstream projects such as the Elk Hills gas processing plant which will drop significantly during the first half of 2012 as these projects are completed.
Total year capital expenditures by segment were 82% in oil and gas; 14% in midstream and the remainder in chemicals.
Our net acquisition expenditures in the 12 months were $2.2 billion which are net of proceeds from the sale of our Argentina operations.
The acquisitions included a South Texas purchase; properties in California the Permian and Williston; and a payment in connection with the signing of the Al Hosn gas project in Abu Dhabi which is the gas development of the Shah Field.
This payment was for Occidental's share of development expenditures incurred by the project prior to the date the final agreement was signed.
The weighted-average basic shares outstanding for the 12 months of 2011 were 812.1 million and the weighted-average diluted shares outstanding were 812.9 million.
Our debt-to-capitalization ratio was 13% a decline of 1% from the end of last year.
Our return on equity for 2011 was 19.3% and the return on capital employed was 17.2%.
Oil and gas DD&amp;A expense was $11.48 per BOE for 2011.
We expect the oil and gas segment DD&amp;A rate to be about $14 per barrel in 2012.
The total chemical and midstream DD&amp;A expense is expected to be about $650 million for 2012.
We expect the operating cost per barrel to be about $13.75 in 2012.
The 2012 expected costs reflect higher levels of workovers and well maintenance activity.
However significant and substantial product price changes and changes in activity levels and inflation resulting from product prices may affect this cost estimate during the course of the year.
Copies of the press release announcing our fourth quarter earnings and the Investor Relations supplemental schedules are available on our website or through the SEC's EDGAR system.
I'll now turn the call over to Steve Chazen to discuss our 2012 capital program year-end oil and gas reserves and provide guidance for the first half of the year.
Thank you Jim.
We finished a strong year in terms of the 3 main performance criteria that I outlined last quarter.
Our domestic oil and gas production grew by about 12% for the total year to 428 000 BOE per day.
Fourth quarter domestic production of 449 000 BOE a day is the highest U.S.
total production in OXY's history reflecting the highest ever quarterly liquids volume of 310 000 barrels per day the second highest quarterly volume for gas.
Total company production increased about 4% for the year.
Our chemical business delivered exceptional results for the year achieving one of their highest earnings levels ever.
Our return on equity was 19% for the year and our return on capital was 17%.
We increased our annual dividends by $0.32 or 21% to $1.84 per share.
We expect to announce a further dividend increase after the meeting of our Board of Directors the 2nd week of February.
I will now turn to the 2012 capital program.
As I mentioned last call we have ample legitimate opportunities in our domestic oil and gas business where we could deploy capital.
We have tried to manage the program to a level that is realistic at current prices and as a result have deferred some projects that would otherwise have met our hurdle rates.
We continue to have a substantial inventory of high-return projects to fulfill our growth objectives.
We're increasing our capital program by about 10% in 2012 to $8.3 billion from the $7.5 billion we spent in 2011.
About $500 million of this increase will be in the United States mainly in the Permian basin and the rest will be spent in the international projects including the Al Hosn sour gas project in Iraq.
The program breakdown is 84% oil and gas about 11% in midstream and 5% in chemicals.
We will review our capital program around midyear and adjust as conditions dictate.
The following is a geographic overview of the program.
In domestic oil and gas and related midstream projects development capital will be about 55% of our total program.
In California we expect to spend about 21% of our total capital.
We expect the rig count to remain constant in the first half of 2012 to 31 same as what we were running at the end of the year.
We are seeing improvement with respect to permitting issues in the state.
We have received approved field rules and new permits for both injection wells and drilling locations.
The regulatory agency is responsive and committed to working through the backlog of permits.
We expect to maintain our capital program at current levels for about the first half of the year which will enable us to grow production volumes.
We will reassess our capital program when the number of permits in hand allows it.
The Permian operations we expect to spend about 20% of our total capital program.
The rig count at year-end 2011 was 23.
We expect the rig count to ramp up during the year to around 27 rigs by year end.
Our CO2 flood capital should remain comfortable to 2011 levels.
In our non-CO2 operations we are seeing additional opportunities for good-return projects.
As a result we have stepped up their development program and our 2012 capital will be about 75% higher than 2011 levels.
In the Midcontinent and other operations we plan to spend about 14% of our total capital.
In the Williston we have increased our acreage in 2011 from 204 000 acres to 277 000 acres.
We expect that our rig count will be about 6 at the end of 2012.
Additional capital that could reasonably be deployed here has been shifted to higher-return opportunities in California and the Permian.
This may also encourage Bakken well costs to decline.
Natural gas prices in the United States are -- it's written here "horrible." I think that's probably an understatement.
As a result we are cutting back our pure gas drilling in the Midcontinent South Texas and the Permian.
With regard to international capital spending our total international development capital will be about 30% of the total company capital program.
The Al Hosn Shah gas project will continue to increase spending in 2012 as originally planned making up about 7% of our total capital program for the year.
The rest of international operations capital will be comparable to 2011 with modest increase expected in Iraq and Libya.
In Iraq the planned spending level should generate about 11 000 barrels a day of production.
Each additional $100 million in spending incurred evenly through the year would generate about 2 700 barrels a day of production at current price levels.
Exploration capital should increase about 10% over 2011 spending levels and represents 6% of the total capital program.
The focus of the program domestically will continue to be in California and the Permian and Williston basins with additional activity in Oman and Bahrain.
With regard to our oil and gas reserves we haven't completed determination of our year-end reserve levels.
Based on preliminary estimates our reserve replacement levels from all categories are somewhat over 100%.
In the Middle East/North Africa the highly profitable Dolphin project does not replace its production because of the nature of its contract.
The makes overall reserve replacement for the Middle East/North Africa region very difficult.
Despite this fact the 2011 program which includes only the reserve carry or its extensions to discoveries and improved recovery covered about 70% of the region's productions.
Oil price increases which under the production sharing contracts reduce our share of the reserves; and non-fundamental factors in Libya and Iraq essentially negated the reserve adds to the program.
As the program progresses we expect that Libya and Iraq reserves will be restored.
In the United States the results of 2011 program and acquisitions replaced around 250% of production with both elements contributing about equal amounts.
After price and other adjustments to prior year estimates U.S.
reserve replacement was well over 150%.
As we look ahead to 2012 we expect the oil and gas production to be as follows: During the first half of 2012 we expect our domestic production to grow 3 000 to 4 000 BOE a day per month in the current quarterly average of 449 000 BOE a day which would correspond to a 6 000 to 8 000 BOE a day increase per quarter.
As Jim noted fourth quarter of 2011 was relatively free of significant operational disruptions resulting in better-than-expected domestic production.
A more typical experience with respect to such issues could moderate the growth somewhat in the first quarter of 2012.
If the production growth rate continued at a comparable pace in the second half of the year our year-over-year average domestic production growth would be similar between 8% to 10% this year.
Internationally Colombia production should be about flat for the year compared to 2011.
In the first quarter of 2012 volumes should be about 3 000 barrels a day higher than the fourth quarter of 2011 although insurgent activity has picked up recently.
The Middle East region is expected to be as follows for the first half of the year.
Production has resumed in our operations at Libya.
And at this point we expect about 5 000-barrel equivalent a day of production with further growth to come later in the year.
At this point we reasonably expect the total year production to be about half the level that existed prior to cessation of operations.
In Iraq as I discussed previously production levels depend on capital spending.
We are still unable to reliably predict the timing of spending levels but we expect production to be similar to the past quarter.
In Yemen as we previously disclosed our Masila block contract expired in December.
Our share of the production at Masila was about 11 000 a day for the full year.
Our remaining operations in Yemen typically have higher volumes early in the year due to timing of cost recovery each year which will partially offset the loss of Masila barrels in the first half of 2012.
As a result we expect our total Yemen production to drop slightly from the fourth quarter 2011 levels in the first half of the year.
The remainder of the Middle East we expect production to be comparable to fourth quarter volumes.
At current prices we expect total first quarter sales volumes to be comparable to fourth quarter 2011 volumes depending on the scheduling of liftings.
A $5 change in global oil prices would impact our production sharing contract daily volumes by about 3 000 barrels per day.
Additionally we expect exploration expense to be about $100 million for seismic and drilling for our exploration programs in the first quarter.
The chemical segment first quarter earnings are expected to be about $165 million with seasonal demand improvement expected in the second and third quarters.
We expect that lower natural gas prices and the continuing improvement in the global economy will have a positive impact on our chemical business margin which is to be expected -- which is expected to be offset partially by higher ethylene prices.
We expect our combined worldwide tax rate the first quarter of 2012 to increase to about 40%.
The increase from 2011 reflects a higher proportional mix of international income with higher tax rates particularly from Libya.
To summarize we closed 2011 on a solid note with high domestic oil and gas production in the fourth quarter which is ahead of our guidance.
We continued to generate strong financial returns well above our cost of capital.
We enter this year raising our capital program by 10% compared with last year in order to prudently pursue our substantial inventory of high-return growth projects.
The business continues to grow and generate free cash flow after capital which should allow us to consistently grow our dividend at an attractive rate further boosting the total return to our shareholders.
I think we're now ready to take your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from Paul Sankey of Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Steve I'm going to go very general on the questions actually.
First of all I wondered if you could observe how you expect the U.S.
natural gas market to rationalize itself whether we've got an issue with associated gas production.
Obviously a very low price relative to the full cycle cost of production and so on.
I just would be quite interested to hear what your latest views are on that.
Well most -- the bulk of our gas is associated gas so it comes off with oil.
There's not much I can do about cutting that back.
I don't think the gas -- I mean I think currently we're -- the current price is clearly not sustainable.
I don't think anybody's pure gas drilling works at whatever it is $2.50 $2.60.
I think we need to wait for the U.S.
economy to improve.
I just -- all these other fixes people talk about are much longer term.
But if the U.S.
economy improves we'll use more natural gas and hopefully bring the prices up.
But I think $2.50 for a rational person in drilling pure gas wells no matter what they say -- maybe they hedged it or something for next year.
It's just not a sensible price and is significantly below any rational replacement cost.
We can't do much about ours to reduce it because we just don't drill that many pure gas wells.
We're not going to shut any in because again most of the gas is associated.
It has -- you have to have -- in order to make this work you have to have a reduction in gas drilling and improvement in the U.S.
economy.
And frankly the costs to drilling the wells have to come down.
We're obviously not --despite what some people think we're obviously not going to be in a $10-per-MCF gas price environment anytime soon.
And so we need to bring the cost of drilling of gas wells down to rational levels.
Some of that will come from efficiencies and some of it will come out of service companies.
Research Division</strong> And the second very general one is on M&amp;A.
Firstly specifically to OXY whether you're seeing the potential for more deals or whether you're happy with your organic growth rate as it stands today.
And also industry-wide would be interesting as well the M&amp;A trend for 2012.
Most of the stuff that's for sale is pretty gassy right now.
And the prices that people are talking about don't reflect rational current or even the strip in gas prices.
We try to buy things for inventory that is to say drilling 3 4 5 years from now.
Not trying to buy current production.
So I think the organic in the United States is fine.
And I think we'll be fine overall.
So I'm not really in any hurry to spend a lot of money on some acquisitions especially a very capital-intensive one.
A lot of the things that are being done are extraordinarily capital-intensive.
On a good day the cash flow equals capital.
And so that's just not what we want to build.
So I'm really reluctant to enter one of these capital traps.
Research Division</strong> Understood.
And then very finally on California post-regulatory change have you had a notable change? Yes I think I say that in the remarks that clearly we've gotten some permits some injector permits.
It's the first time in a long time we got that.
And clearly a change in attitude.
And so I -- the question is really where you get the permits not necessarily exactly how many.
But I think as we approach midyear we'll have a sizable opportunity based on current trends.
So I think we're -- we feel pretty good about this at this point especially -- it may be that you were being hit in the head with 2 hammers now only 1 and you feel better.
But right now we feel pretty good about this.
Research Division</strong> Yes and the guidance last time we spoke was 5 rigs added every 6 months constrained by...
Yes I think once we get rolling and the permits come at a more normal rate the rig count will pick up.
But right now we'll wait until the permits are in hand.
Your next question comes from Doug Leggate of Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> I got a couple as well if I may.
I wanted to just pick up on Paul's final point there.
It looks to us that you got about a couple hundred permits in the last few months of the year.
As you say a pretty significant step up.
Can you give us an idea of how that's being split between unconventional -- or sorry I guess the rate of unconventional drilling and the new conventional exploration program? And I've got a couple of follow-ups please.
Most of the permits are within fields.
So they were within existing fields because those are some ways the easiest permits to give.
So I think that's the best way to say it so within current field boundaries because those are the easiest thing to clear.
And so there's no way to tell you what the split is but it's really within the existing fields.
Research Division</strong> Okay well maybe my second question is really on the conventional exploration program.
Because I think when we last spoke Steve you suggested that's where your preference for incremental capital would be.
Are you actually done delineating the original Gunslinger [ph] exploration discovery? Or are you basically done with that and moved on to new exploration targets? In which case can you give us an update on progress? We're in a development phase on the -- there will be more wells drilled this year in that.
And while it may not be perfectly delineated it'd be delineated through a development phase not an exploration phase.
We basically moved on to look for other opportunities so that's really -- that program has moved out of exploration.
Research Division</strong> Go it okay.
And then my final one is in 2010 you suggested that you could double your midstream earnings to about $1 billion.
And I think a large part of that was predicated upon the increased steam flood at Mukhaizna.
Can you just give us an update as to where both of those things stand? And then I'll leave it at that.
Most of the -- and Mukhaizna doesn't generate any midstream earnings.
Most of it was different gas processing projects around California and the Permian and the Al Hosn gas processing.
So that's where a lot of it is.
There's other pieces around our pipeline business.
The pipeline business actually did -- is doing pretty good.
So that's growing nicely and we're putting more effort in the pipeline business because we think there's more money to be made there so -- and the additional tariffs in Dolphin also is another area of significant growth as they're moving more gas and we're getting -- we may not get credit for barrels but we're getting a fair amount of fee income.
It's not -- Mukhaizna uses gas but don't make money on gas.
Research Division</strong> Yes I guess what I was referring to Steve was the incremental steam flood on the mid -- I was under the impression that you had some control of the pipelines over there and that would generate some revenue for the gas.
As they use more gas the gas will have to come from Dolphin and there'll be more fee income from that.
I guess that's the way to think about it.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Well maybe just to clarify and then I'll jump off.
The Mukhaizna steam flood expansion has that been permitted and approved? Or what is the status of that? Maybe Sandy can answer that.
The permitting is up to about 680 000 barrels of steam per day and we're running about 430 000 so we're just about to bring on quite a bit more this year.
In fact most of it comes on this year.
We're now looking at the practicalities and possibilities of a third phase of steam flooding as we further understand this reservoir.
Our next question comes from Jessica Chipman from Tudor Pickering Holt.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> First question just quickly could you please give us an update Steve on current well cost really in the Bakken the Wolfberry and the Bone Springs? Bakken well cost hasn't really changed from the third quarter.
It's still too high for what you get relative to our other projects.
Somebody else may have a different hurdle rate than we do.
So we've cut back.
I don't think we've had any real inflation and -- Bill? Just on the Wolfberry we're looking -- depending on where you are in the basin $2 million to $2.5 million completed well costs there.
And in the Bone Springs those long-reach horizontals are somewhere in the $6-million to $7-million per well range.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> And then in the Bakken I think the last update was $8 million to $8.5 million so that's...
It's still a good number Jessica yes.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay okay.
Then just my second question.
Your comments around the acquisition potential and to be a capital trap even sort of as a segue into this question.
So OXY has ramped activity pretty significantly recently and CapEx is increasing as a percent of total cash flow.
2011 looks more like 2/3 of cash flow whereas historically Oxy was more in the 45% to 50% range.
The question is just in general how you think about capital efficiency as OXY allocates spend from long-dated international projects to more capital-intensive drilling in the U.S.
The long-dated projects are just that.
The returns will be good just a few years before the production starts.
In the United States you can't really ignore the fact that the price of oil is not $40 anymore which is the way we used to budget it but some other higher number.
The objective of the exercise is that we spend about 25% of our money on finding and development; about 25% on lifting cost production taxes that sort of thing; giving us 50% gross pretax margins.
So as oil prices go up -- and we got a lot of oil in place around both in California and the Permian.
As oil prices go up we're going to spend more on -- to basically raise the bar.
It won't raise the capital and I don't think it will hurt the capital efficiency over time.
But you got -- you just have to -- you can't just assume the price of oil is going to be $40 nor can you say "Well what I'm going to do is I'm going to -- not going to spend the money and store the oil in the ground." So just a balance between returns and growth and we've tried to have a system where we're sort of in between.
We're not trying to spend all of our capital for sure and we're not trying to also deplete the business.
You can cut the capital and get whatever you want but your returns would go up but the business would deplete.
We could spend a lot more money and have a lot more growth.
And we wouldn't have the high dividend the growth rate that companies enjoy and will continue to enjoy.
I don't know how else to answer it.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Then just 2 very very quick ones.
Going forward will you then target a certain plowback ratio in terms of capital as a percent of cash flow? And...
No.
It's totally driven by the opportunity set.
And so it's not driven by some formula.
It's driven by an opportunity set to -- and it depends on oil prices.
Even our workover program is really an oil-price-driven program.
If you get your money back real quick we'll spend more money on workovers.
Oil prices decline you won't get your money back so quick we'll spend less.
It's really that simple.
It's not very -- these are short-term programs to some extent.
The stuff that's drilling in the Permian a lot of oil there and I think capturing oil at $100 a barrel probably a pretty good business.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> And just last will you provide an update sometime this year on the long-term growth rate of 5% to 8%? Is that still what you're targeting for 2012? That's still a long-term target.
We've had a variety of reasons mostly outside of our control.
We had a tougher year in the Middle East than we'd anticipated.
But I mean when that gets back on track pretty straightforward to make the growth rates.
Your next question comes from Ed Westlake from Crdit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> I guess in the past shale has not been as much of a priority given I guess the returns that you have in California in the Permian and your CO2 floods.
But I guess you're increasing rig counts.
You've given the cost just announced to that previous question for the Wolfberry and the Bone Springs.
But I mean is it encouraging progress on recoveries EURs and IPs that's encouraging you to spend more? Or is it the oil price? Well it's both.
If oil were $30 the higher recoveries wouldn't be any good so it's oil price.
I mean we're driven by this 25% F&amp;D sort of margin thought or 50% including all our costs.
And we don't use the $100 oil but we're sure not using $40 to do this.
And it's a relatively straightforward -- there where we have a large inventory we can either spend a lot more or a lot less.
It's really in our control.
We're going to ramp the program up or down based on how we -- based on the returns that we see looking at these margins.
These margins will generate by the way very substantial returns on invested capital.
The accounting type not the IRR things people talk about which I could have pressed you with those but I don't think they're really meaningful.
Research Division</strong> And on the mix in terms of the increase more Wolfberry wells or more Bone Spring wells just in terms of sort of like...
They're more Wolfberry aren't they Bill? Yes the preponderance of our program -- development program is Wolfberry in the Permian for 2012 Ed.
Research Division</strong> Good.
And just on California obviously you increase 5 rigs say every 6 months from the middle of this year.
Any thoughts on where you see the sort of the maximum rig counts for California driven by obviously internal constraints say organizational and maybe external constraints? No I don't have any idea.
We'll find out -- as the program boosts we'll see where it takes us.
It's relatively people-intensive so you have to build your organization as you go.
It's not just a bunch of guys hopefully with -- hopefully it's not a bunch of guys just fooling around on a computer.
So you have got to build the organization as you go and you have to -- the people have to get more experienced.
So you want to do it in a way you're not wasting money.
The resource isn't going away.
As we own the minerals -- we either own the minerals or we have very long leases the resource isn't going away.
So we got a lot of flexibility on when.
And I really don't have any idea because the program always has surprises.
Some of them are good surprises; some of them are not.
But the program always has surprises.
It's very difficult -- especially in California it's very difficult to predict some maximum rate.
Research Division</strong> A final question for me.
You said most of the permits are within fields when we're talking about the increase in permits.
Any progress on sort of geologically and doing the EA environmental assessments to sort of define some new field areas within the acreage? Oh yes we're doing that.
We'll get the permits eventually.
This is just where we are right now.
Because the state -- it's easy to clear permits within a field.
I mean it's easy in theory.
They weren't doing it before.
So that allows us to have a decent program and a predictable program.
But there's a fair amount of progress.
There's always issues in California environmental issues that they're rightly concerned about.
So are we.
So I think there's always going to be something that isn't perfect for us.
But we're pretty encouraged the way things are going now.
Your next question comes from Sven Del Pozzo of IHS Herold.
Inc</strong> I know you've got the royalty advantage in California.
I'm wondering if on your Permian acreage you have similar advantages because you've had the acreage for a long time.
I think our royalty interests are significantly below average.
And if you went over the whole thing compared to current things it's not as great an advantage as in California for sure because a lot of ranchers still own the underlying minerals.
I'm going to guess it's sort of 9 to 10 points of average against new leases that somebody might take.
Inc</strong> Okay.
And some Permian E&amp;Ps talking about the Wolfberry again with the inclusion of some other interbedded [ph] zones -- perhaps it's varied from area to area -- we're talking about a 25% increase in EUR compared to a couple of years ago that the reservoir engineers are giving them.
And a little bit less than that on IP rates but I was wondering whether you're experiencing similar performance given the application of new hydraulic fracturing techniques.
I think we need to hire their reservoir engineers as they have different numbers than we do.
Inc</strong> Okay.
Then just for clarification in the Bone Springs are we talking Avalon Shale or the Bone Springs sands? How is the program weighted? It's definitely more weighted to the Bone Springs sands because as you know that's an oily play whereas the Avalon is mainly gas.
Inc</strong> Okay.
Any interest in vertical stacked pays in the say Wolf Bone or drilling vertically on your acreage at this point in Bone Springs now? Yes we're looking at that as well.
Inc</strong> Okay.
And then last question.
Could you just give me a general impression of John Laird what you know about him historically and what you've seen most recently? What you like? Who? Inc</strong> Secretary of Natural Resources that's been appointed by Jerry Brown the new guy? That's a lot higher than -- we're sort of nuts and bolts people working with people giving permits.
Policies are best left to more sophisticated people than us.
Inc</strong> So it's bottom-up kind of bottlenecking you could say that's helping things along.
It's right in the agency that generates permits which is basically an engineering discussion about things.
It's not about California environmental policies which is way above my pay grade.
Your next question comes from David Neuhauser of Livermore Partners.
My question is a little bit macro.
I wanted to see or give some thought into some of the headwinds that are currently facing the company as you look out this year and the next few years.
I mean we've had hard asset hard commodity prices that actually fall overall this past year with the strengthening dollar.
But at the same time we've seen recoupling between WTI and Brent crude.
So I wanted to see if you think the prices will remain stable in this band or what your current thoughts are on the landscape.
For planning purposes we're always more conservative than the current pricing.
We're not very good at predicting this you should understand.
We were conservative at $25 oil too.
So as a matter of running the business we're always conservative about how we manage the business and what we expect for product prices.
Having said that I think globally it costs more to find a barrel of oil -- I'm talking about oil not gas -- than it did a few years ago.
And it doesn't make a difference where that is.
The overall finding costs are rising.
And I think it's very likely that that will continue to push prices higher over time.
But just for planning purposes we're always conservative about it.
There's always a bearish argument for oil prices.
There's always some explanation of why it's going to go down.
And there's also the sort of the wacky extreme arguments it's going to be $200 a barrel in an hour.
So I think it's almost impossible to ever -- I'd [ph] accept a general view that over time it will rise with costs and to be I think conservative on a short-term basis.
Okay.
And what about opportunities in general? I know you touched on a bit of M&amp;A activities out there today and that you're seeing a lot of gassy assets.
But are there areas out there or areas that you'd like to focus on where you could see increasing your footprint it would be more advantageous to do so with an acquisition? We're basically not as a rule company buyers.
There's always properties around.
And we added in the Bakken basically not by buying companies but by buying assets.
We'll continue to do that.
I wouldn't expect to see some new areas if that's the question.
But we'll see.
I'm always surprised at what shows up in the course of a year.
My ability to predict this is even less good than my ability to predict oil prices.
Okay.
And my last question is what are some things -- I mean you seem again to be hitting on all cylinders for the most part on the year.
And I guess my question is what are some of the things that you're most not happy with with the company's performance today that you would definitely like to see...
I think we can get more efficient.
I think there's always improvements in efficiency that are around.
I think we're on an efficiency drive but I think that's always something that we're looking for.
You never get -- the problem with the goal is you never get to perfect.
And even if you did we'd move the goalposts.
So not much chance at getting to perfect.
So we look for that and I'm always unhappy about some of the physical breakdowns.
The infrastructure in the United States needs work.
And so we get more breakdowns in infrastructure than you might like so the full potential of the business really never shows up in any quarter.
Those are the main things I'm concerned about.
I can't do anything about the oil prices.
No sense at being worried about it.
[Operator Instructions] Your next question comes from John Herrlin of Societe Generale.
Just some quick ones Steve.
In terms of your California spend what would the breakdown be conventional versus unconventional or shale versus your normal business? Probably about half about half.
I wouldn't take that number to the bank.
It's probably -- it's about right.
And it changes from month to month as you can imagine.
Okay.
That's fine.
In terms of your midstream spend how much of that is going to be in California and the Midcontinent? Most of the spend in the midstream is the gas plant in -- right now in the Al Hosn gas plant.
So that big number there is pretty much that.
The gas plant in California will be done.
This one -- this plant will be done -- the spending will be pretty much done by midyear for sure most of the remaining spend in probably this quarter.
And then there'll be some gas plant spending in the Permian on CO2 plants and stuff but a much lower level.
But the big number you see there is the finishing up in the California plant and the gas plant and the Al Hosn gas plant.
Okay.
Last 2 for me.
What's water disposal running per barrel in the Bakken in terms of cost? That's definitely something I don't know.
We'll find that.
And the last one any issues with proppants since you're doing a lot of exploitation? With what? Proppant.
No we haven't had any supply issues.
You're asking about supply issues? Correct.
Yes no.
No.
Your next question comes from Faisel Khan of Citi.
Research Division</strong> Steve just want to go back to I think some of your comments on Iraq and Libya.
The spending level in Iraq you talked about about a "11 000 barrel a day" sort of number for the year I believe.
How confident are you in that number? Are things kind of -- are things getting done on the ground there to be able to keep that spending level fairly consistent? Sandy will answer that.
We've had a series of meetings in November and December with the procurement committees in Iraq.
And they've recently approved a number of drilling-related contracts and indeed the main drilling contract got a letter-of-intent approval.
This will get all the drilling started.
The facilities that will be needed for the increasing production are under bid right now and they're coming through the committees in the first and second quarter.
So we are seeing an opening up of procurement which of course drives our production.
So to put it in sort of financial terms I think we feel okay about the 11 000 but it's certainly not the most solid number.
On the other hand if it worked right it would be more.
Research Division</strong> Okay fair enough.
And in Libya what's the situation on the ground with you guys right now? How confident are you that you can bring back those volumes to a level that you outlined in your prepared remarks? Sandy can answer that.
Right now the gross production in the fields where we have an interest are about 65% 70% of what they were before the conflict started.
We are continuing -- and our Libyan partners are continuing to repair and improve and they still have a small drilling program going.
So I think that we'll be back up to normal later this year probably in the third quarter.
We're still working with an interim government so we're currently meeting with our counterparts in Libya every day to discuss how to go forward and how to increase production even further.
We try to be conservative in the estimate for that understanding things don't work perfectly.
Research Division</strong> Okay fair enough.
And last question.
In Bahrain any updates on -- I think is it the exploration of the deep gas sort of rights that you guys have? We're doing it with the wells this year.
Yes a well will be drilled this year.
Research Division</strong> How many Steve sorry? I think it's supposed to be -- it's one deep and a couple of others.
Whether they get all done this year is a different issue.
But the drilling will start this year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Any operational issues in Bahrain following some of the civil unrest? Sandy? It's a little more difficult place to work.
We have trouble with our contractor sometimes but it's been relatively quiet recently.
We're watching the anniversary of the initial problems there.
But it's affected our production only a few hundred barrels on a per-day basis over the year.
Things are reasonably okay.
It's growing.
It's probably a little behind where we thought we'd be but it's actually growing and doing fine.
Our final question comes from the line of Pavel Molchanov of Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Quick question about Colombia.
Given that it's one of the very few assets you have outside the Mid East and the U.S.
of course any interest in monetizing that? No.
If you ask a short question you got a short answer.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> No it makes a lot of sense.
And just one more if I may about California.
You've talked about permitting getting sort of tentatively better.
Are there any catalysts that you envision to meaningfully accelerate the change in permitting approach of the administration there? I think generally they're going back to a version of their historic rules and they have a sizable backlog from us and others I'm sure to clear.
And so what they have to do is work through to get back to their historic rules.
And again the easiest ones to clear are the ones within the fields.
I think they'll get to some version of the historical rules.
There'll be other rules that won't be quite historical but I'm not really concerned.
As long as we understand the rules we'll abide by them.
There isn't really a long-term problem.
It's just that the rules have to be clear to us that's all.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Is it fair to say that in the last 12 months since Brown came into office there has been a systemic change in how they approach it versus the...
The governor is very pro-jobs -industry whatever you want to say and has been someone who understands that businesses generate jobs.
That or a fair number of jobs here in California we continue to.
And I think the governor understands that and is appreciative of that.
And it's a very -- he's very interested in this and very interested in employment here in the state and we're pleased with the governor's involvement.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And just one last quick one.
Did you book any reserves in Iraq in 2011? 2011? We booked some in 2010 based on the program that was approved.
Unfortunately the program because of a variety of reasons -- and the program is only approved through 2013.
For a variety of reasons we didn't achieve the program in 2011 mostly because we didn't spend the money and we couldn't.
So the net result was that the reserves were negatively affected by the program.
Those reserves will come back once the -- you can't book reserves beyond where the program has been approved by the government.
So once they give us approval beyond 2013 those reserves will come back.
As a technical matter those reserves came off.
Chris? Thanks for joining us everyone.
And if there's further questions please call us here in New York.
Thank you.
Thank you.
This does conclude today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Christie and I'll be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to Occidental Petroleum's First Quarter 2012 Earnings Release Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Mr.
Stavros you may begin your conference.
Thank you Christie and good morning everyone and welcome to Occidental Petroleum's First Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
Joining us on the call first morning from Los Angeles are Steve Chazen OXY's President and Chief Executive Officer; Jim Lienert OXY's chief Financial Officer; Bill Albrecht President of OXY's Oil and Gas operations in the Americas; Sandy Lowe President of our International Oil and Gas Operations; and OXY's Executive Chairman Dr.
Ray Irani is also joining us on the call today.
In just a moment I'll turn the call over to our CFO Jim Lienert who will review our financial and operating results for the first quarter of this year.
Steve Chazen will then follow with comments on our key performance metrics our capital program oil and gas production and outlook for the current quarter.
We'll also be providing some new information on our activity and exposure on select Permian basin plays and on a one-time basis some additional data on our California production volumes.
Our first quarter 2012 earnings press release Investor Relations supplemental schedules and the conference call presentation slides which refer to both Jim and Steve's remarks can be downloaded off of our website at www.oxy.com.
And I'll now turn the call over to Jim Lienert.
Jim please go ahead.
Thank you Chris.
Net income was $1.6 billion or $1.92 per diluted share in the first quarter of 2012 compared to $1.5 billion or $1.90 per diluted share in the first quarter of 2011.
Several factors lowered earnings during the first quarter by about $0.05 per diluted share.
These factors included higher insurgent activity in Colombia resulting in pipeline interruptions; a maintenance-related shutdown in Qatar; field shut-in due to labor disputes which have shut down the pipeline in Yemen; and inclement weather at our Elk Hills operations partially offset by additional oil entitlements in Libya related to the initial start-up phase of operations after the 2011 civil unrest.
Here's a breakdown from the first quarter.
In the Oil and Gas segment the first quarter 2012 daily production of 755 000 barrels per day was the highest in the company's history and was up over 3% for the same period of 2011.
We're the largest liquids producer in the U.S.
lower 48 and grew our oil production from the first quarter of 2011 by 10% to 244 000 barrels a day.
Our total domestic production was 455 000 barrels per day the sixth consecutive domestic volume record for the company in line with our guidance of 455 000 to 457 000 barrels per day.
Inclement weather which resulted in numerous power outages in California reduced Elk Hills gas production by about 11 million cubic feet per day.
Our total domestic production was about 13% higher than the first quarter of 2011.
Latin America volumes were 26 000 barrels per day.
Colombia's production of 24 000 barrels a day was about 7 000 barrels lower than its typical production capacity due to higher insurgent activity that resulted in pipeline interruptions.
In the Middle East region Libya production was 20 000 barrels per day which included additional entitlements related to the post-2011 civil unrest period.
In Iraq we produced 5 000 barrels per day a decrease of 4 000 barrels from the fourth quarter volumes.
The lower volume is directly related to reduced spending levels.
Yemen daily production was 17 000 barrels a decrease of 6 000 barrels from the fourth quarter.
The decrease reflected the expiration of the Masila Field contract in mid-December partially offset by the timing of cost recovery volumes which are typically higher in the first half of the year.
In Oman the first quarter production was 74 000 barrels per day a decrease of 2 000 barrels from the fourth quarter volumes.
The decrease was attributable to operational issues.
In Qatar the first quarter production was 72 000 barrels per day a decrease of 4 000 barrels over the fourth quarter volumes resulting from a maintenance shutdown in March.
For Dolphin and Bahrain combined daily production increased 3 000 barrels from the fourth quarter volumes.
As a result of higher year-over-year average oil prices and other factors affecting production sharing and similar contracts first quarter 2012 production was lower by 10 000 barrels per day from the first quarter of 2011.
These factors did not materially affect production compared to the fourth quarter of 2011.
Our first quarter sales volumes were 745 000 barrels per day.
The 10 000-barrel per day difference compared to the production volumes is larger than a typical difference between production and sales and was due entirely to the timing of liftings almost all of which was related to Libya and Iraq.
First quarter 2012 realized prices were mixed for our products compared to the fourth quarter of the prior year.
Our worldwide crude oil realized price was $107.98 per barrel an increase of 8%.
Worldwide NGLs were $52.51 per barrel a decrease of about 5%.
And domestic natural gas prices were $2.84 per MCF a decline of 21%.
Realized oil prices for the quarter represented 105% of the average WTI and 91% of the average Brent price.
Realized NGL prices were 51% of WTI and realized domestic gas prices were 100% of the average NYMEX price.
The NGL realization is low by historical standards and indicates a troubling trend.
Over the last 5 years domestic NGL realizations have dropped from about 73% to 52% of WTI.
Absolute realized price of NGLs is not significantly different than 5 years ago.
Price changes at current global prices affect our quarterly earnings before income taxes by $36 million for $1 per barrel change in oil prices and $8 million for $1 per barrel change in NGL prices.
A swing of $0.50 per million BTUs in domestic gas prices affects quarterly pretax earnings by about $35 million.
Oil and gas production costs were $14 a barrel for the first 3 months of 2012 compared with last year's 12-month cost of $12.84 a barrel and fourth quarter of 2011 cost of $14.22 a barrel.
The cost increase reflects higher well maintenance activity.
Taxes other than our income which are directly related to product prices were $2.49 per barrel for the first quarter of 2012 compared to $2.21 per barrel for all of 2011.
First quarter exploration expense was $98 million in line with our guidance.
Chemical segment earnings for the first quarter of 2012 were $184 million compared to $144 million in the fourth quarter of 2011 and $219 million for the first quarter of 2011.
The sequential quarterly improvement was primarily due to stronger domestic demand for polyvinyl chloride brought in part by the unseasonably mild weather resulting in an earlier start to the construction season and rebuilding of downstream inventories.
The year-over-year decrease was primarily a result of lower export volumes and higher raw material costs in large part caused by a rapid increase in ethylene prices.
Calcium chloride sales volumes for de-icing applications were significantly lower due to the mild winter weather.
Midstream segment earnings were $131 million for the first quarter of 2012 compared to $70 million in the fourth quarter of 2011.
The improvement in earnings was in the marketing and trading businesses.
The worldwide effective tax rate was 42% for the first quarter of 2012.
The increase over our guidance was due to higher Libya liftings.
Our first quarter U.S.
and foreign tax rates are included in the Investor Relations supplemental schedule.
Cash flow from operations for the first 3 months of 2012 was $2.8 billion representing a $600 million increase from the first quarter of 2011.
We used $2.4 billion of the company's total cash flow to fund capital expenditures and about $375 million to pay dividends.
We also used about $300 million of cash for working capital during the quarter.
There were no significant acquisitions during the period.
These and other net cash flows resulted in a $3.8 billion cash balance at March 31.
Capital expenditures for the first quarter of 2012 were $2.4 billion slightly lower than the run rate incurred in the fourth quarter of 2011.
Year-to-date capital expenditures by segment were 84% in Oil and Gas; 14% in Midstream; and the remainder in Chemicals.
The weighted average basic shares outstanding for the 3 months of 2012 were 810.5 million and the weighted average diluted shares outstanding were 811.3 million.
Our debt-to-capitalization ratio was 13%.
Copies of the press release announcing our first quarter earnings and the Investor Relations supplemental schedules are available on our website or through the SEC's EDGAR system.
I'll now turn the call over to Steve Chazen to provide guidance for the second quarter of the year.
Thank you Jim.
OXY's first quarter 2012 production set an all-time record for the company.
And for the sixth consecutive quarter the domestic Oil and Gas segment produced record volumes.
First quarter domestic production of 455 000-barrel equivalents a day consisting of 316 000 barrels of liquids 834 million cubic feet a day of gas was an increase of 6 000-barrel equivalent per day compared to the fourth quarter of 2011.
All of the domestic production growth in the fourth quarter was in liquids which grew from 310 000 barrels a day to 316 000.
Gas production was flat.
Compared to the first quarter 2011 our domestic liquids production grew by 35 000 barrels per day and gas production by 100 million cubic feet per day.
As you may recall OXY is the largest producer of liquids in the lower 48 states.
Focusing on the total return to our shareholders in February we increased our dividends by $0.32 or 17% to $2.16 per share.
Our annualized return on equity for the first 3 months of 2012 was 16% and return on capital employed was 14%.
During the quarter the company generated cash from operations of $2.8 billion 25% increase from the same quarter last year.
In the first quarter our capital spending was $2.4 billion.
The current capital run rate may come down over the course of the year as certain projects such as the Elk Hills gas plant are completed.
In addition as I indicated in last quarter's conference call we will review our capital program around midyear and adjust as conditions dictate.
The following is the geographic overview of the program.
In the domestically in California the rig count at the end of the first quarter was about the same as the 31 we're running at year-end 2011.
We expect the rig count to remain at current levels through the end of the year.
Relative to last year we are seeing improvement with respect to permitting issues in the state.
We have received approved field rules and new permits for both injection wells and drilling locations.
The regulatory agency is responsive and committed to working through the backlog of permits.
We expect to maintain our capital program at current levels for about the first half of the year which will enable us to grow our production volumes.
We'll reassess our capital program as the year progresses and the current regulatory environment clearly stabilizes.
Starting in 2011 we shifted our development program on focusing on conventional nonconventional opportunities outside the traditional Elk Hills area.
As you can see in the Investor Relations supplemental schedule our traditional Elk Hills production on a BOE basis has declined 14% since we began this program.
While the remainder of our California production representing our conventional steam and shale programs has increased 30% during the same period.
Essentially all of the increase came from liquids.
Excluding the traditional Elk Hills liquids production was about -- was up about 35% or about 17 000 barrels a day.
As we have previously discussed we are shifting our program to emphasize oil and liquids-rich production.
We are starting to see the effect of this shift in the first quarter of 2012.
We expect most of the California production growth in the near future to come from liquids.
While the current environment -- while in the current environment we don't expect to drill many gas wells.
The new Elk Hills gas plant will possibly affect our operational efficiency and production in the back half of the year.
In the Permian the rig count at the end of the first quarter was 26 3 higher than we were running at year-end 2011.
We expect our rig count to remain at about this level during the year.
As the attached Investor Relations supplemental schedule shows we have significant acreage positions in a number of plays in the Permian basin that will give us ample opportunity for future growth.
Our total acreage position in these plays broadly defined is approximately 2.9 million gross acres or about 1 million acres net.
Based on what we currently believe are the likely limits of these plays our gross and networking interest are 1 million acres and 300 000 acres respectively.
We are currently operating 24 rigs in these areas.
Additionally 74 wells in which we have a working interest were drilled by third-party operators during the first quarter of 2012.
We currently expect about 300 additional wells redrilled by those operators during the rest of the year We expect that our program and the third-party drilling will accelerate our Permian production in the latter part of this year.
In the mid-continent and other operations the lowest in our rig count was 13 at the end of the quarter down from 14 at year end.
We expect the rig count to be about 6 by the end of this year.
As I mentioned in last quarter's conference call we have shifted some capital from this area to California and the Permian.
Natural gas prices in the United States continue at depressed levels.
As a result we have cut back our pure gas drilling.
If the current low NGL prices continue cutback in liquid-rich wells or gas rich wells may be necessary.
International operations the Al Hosn Shah gas project is approximately 38% complete and is progressing as planned.
This project made up about 10% of our total capital program for the first quarter.
If spending continues at current levels we will see higher anticipated spending for the remainder of this year.
However total development capital for the project is expected to be in line with previous estimates.
In Iraq the spending declined compared to the fourth quarter levels as a result of contract approval delays.
However recently a number of major contracts were approved covering drilling and completion services workovers and logistics support.
As we look ahead to the second quarter we expect oil and gas production to be as follows: We expect domestic production to grow 3 000 or 4 000 barrels a day per month in the quarterly average of 455 000 a day which would correspond to 6 000 to 8 000 barrels per day increase for the quarter.
Internationally Colombia's first quarter production was reduced by 7 000 barrels a day resulting from increased insurgent attacks on the pipeline.
Production should go back to normal levels assuming no significant insurgent activity.
Production has been about normal levels so far in the current quarter.
The Middle East region production is expected to be as follows: Production has assumed in our operations of Libyan and averaged 20 000 barrels a day in the first quarter including entitlements in the post-2011 civil unrest period.
We expect that second quarter daily volumes to be about 11 000 barrels a day.
We expect production to increase gradually during the course of the year reaching the historical levels of about 14 000 barrels a day by year end.
In Iraq as I've previously discussed production levels depend on capital spending amounts.
We are unable to predict the timing of the capital spend.
For Dolphin a planned plant shutdown reduced production in January and February.
Production increased significantly in March.
We expect second quarter production to increase modestly over first quarter volumes.
The remainder of the Middle East we expect production to be comparable to the first quarter volumes.
We expect sales and production volumes in the second quarter of 2012 to be about equal subject to scheduling of liftings.
A $5 change in global oil prices would impact our production sharing contract daily volumes by about 3 000 BOE a day.
Additionally we expect exploration expense to be about 125 million for seismic and drilling for exploration programs in the second quarter.
Chemical segment or quarter earnings are expected to be about $175 million.
We expect lower natural gas prices and improvements in exports of VCM and polyvinyl chloride to be offset by several planned maintenance turnarounds and anticipated slowdown in domestic PVC demand following the unusually strong start in the first quarter.
We expect our combined worldwide tax rate in the second quarter to decrease to about 41%.
The decrease in the first quarter reflects lower Libyan liftings.
So to summarize we closed the quarter with an all-time record total company production and the sixth consecutive record domestic oil and gas production.
As the largest liquids producer in lower 48 we increased our liquids production by 6 000 barrels a day from the fourth quarter and by 35 000 barrels a day for the first quarter 2011.
We increased our dividend rate by 17% to $2.16 per share.
Our capital spending was $2.4 billion in the first quarter with the Shah gas project increasing to about 10% of the total spending.
The business generated cash from operations of $2.8 billion in the quarter.
I think we're now ready to take your questions.
[Operator Instructions]  And your first question comes from Doug Leggate of Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> I'm going to go try a couple if I can Steve.
The gas fund I guess we've been waiting on this for quite a while.
Can you just confirm the timeline of -- I think you'd originally said major commissioning.
But more importantly can you help us understand what that does in terms of alleviating any bottlenecks particularly in the legacy Elk Hills field? And maybe help us understand what -- how can we quantify how much incremental production this is actually going to bring to you when the thing comes on stream? And I have a follow up please.
Yes.
It's obvious.
The plant's on schedule and it's in the process of testing or whatever we want to call it currently.
So there shouldn't be any delays.
When we talked about the plant a couple of years ago we talk thought we'll drill more gas and obviously to fill it up and whatever it is $2 gas doesn't seem at all that interesting.
The wells would be all right but I think it's wasteful to produce gas at $2.
We have a sizable inventory of gas to drill in California would easily fill the plant and then some but we'll probably defer that some.
Exact increase basically what will happen is you'll get a little more NGLs out of Elk -- out of the old plant or the old field and much more reliable gas production.
And what exactly it will do we'll be able to see in the third quarter but it will be an improvement.
And we'll see what will happen when the shift the gas the high-pressure gas to the new plant and keep the low pressure gas in the old plant.
So I can't predict that and I don't want to predict it until I actually see the results.
Research Division</strong> My follow up is kind of a related question also to California.
Your commentary around the permits I think is very much supported by the at least that's what we see coming out of the state.
My question is that you've said in the past that you really were unable to plan because you didn't have line of sight on permits.
Well now it seems that you're getting that line of sight and you've said you hold the rig count flat in the middle of the year.
But can you just give us a bit more color as to how you're thinking about the operating team performing to your satisfaction so to speak you're prepared to allocate more capital? And if so what can we expect in terms of the split between unconventional drilling and conventional exploration? The second part I don't really know.
They drill a bit -- the best as it builds up.
I think I told almost everybody that a massive buildup in drilling rigs in California is probably counterproductive at this point.
We expect to build the rig count in the back half of the year as the line of sight improves.
It's obviously a lot better than it was but we need to be able to plan to keep those rigs because once you bring them into California it's hard to get rid of them.
We're effectively the only one drilling.
So I think you just got to say that as the longer lead permitting progresses we'll build the count and we'll see where we are at this point.
Your next question comes from Paul Sankey of Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> On the balance sheet management can you just talk about buybacks? And you've mentioned the dividend increases.
Because we're intermittent buyers of the shares as we buy when they're cheap and when it's less clear we leave it alone.
Stock declined when we're in basically the closed window period.
And so we really couldn't respond this month essentially.
And we'll see -- we talked about the calculation a couple of quarters ago.
And so that will be something that we'll be looking at very hard in next few weeks.
The cash balance courses and we're not exactly getting rich off the interest.
And so we need to put the money to work one way or another.
There may be some small acquisitions but we're earning in spite of -- we earned 16% on equity.
So if we can reinvest it and earn 16% on equity that's probably in the shareholders interest.
But if the shares reflect a different number then we'll take a different tact.
Research Division</strong> Yes that's interesting.
I think obviously the business model in the past has been acquisition at times.
I think I strongly sense your language is this bits and pieces perhaps that you've really got an organic opportunity here that you're going to pursues? I really don't need to do anything material.
Some bargain comes up that's a different story but we're just not going to do anything material.
Again bargains are one thing but so far I haven't heard of any bargains coming by.
And we're actually not a real estate company.
And so we're not actually -- a lot of the stuff that is for sale isn't exactly oceanfront property.
And so we're pretty cautious about large-scale acreage acquisitions.
So if they can steal it that's fine.
But right now we have so much on our plate.
I think I told you a couple quarters ago that the request from the units were essentially twice the approved spending level.
So we got a big inventory.
The opportunities that continues to grow both in California and in the Permian.
And there's just no need to do something splashy.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
If we think about the balance sheet is there an optimal level of leverage for you in this environment? I don't know.
As you know I'm a debtophobe so there's probably not but we still have $3.8 billion of cash.
Research Division</strong> Yes the inefficiency of the cash is more than...
Yes it's more efficient to cash than leveraging up.
Commodity business is volatile and that's not all that exciting.
But 2% interest rate's always a little tempting.
But right now we've got a boatload of cash.
And we would expect this year even with a modest level of acquisitions and the growth of the solid gas the capital spending will build cash this year.
So we got to figure out the best way to put it to work.
Research Division</strong> And then a follow up which is the -- is there anything interesting to say as all there is about Oman? Any outlook there? Well Sandy is a Oman expert.
He'll talk to you about it.
Yes Paul we're running 15 rigs in Oman right now 10 of them in the north.
And we're working the relatively new Block 62 and still working Block 9 and 27.
We're revamping a lot of our facilities so that we can get consistent production over 100 000 gross barrels a day in the North.
So I mean we see that as a place that still got a lot of opportunities ahead of us.
Research Division</strong> What sort of growth should we look for from this earning? What sort of gross or...
Research Division</strong> Growth growth.
In growth we look at -- we're still going to -- we're going to get to about 110 000 gross barrels a day.
We're running about 98 right now.
Some of it we actually have more capacity in the ground we have to fix and refurbished and add some facilities to few.
Your next question comes from Jessica Chipman of Tudor Pickering Holt.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Couple questions.
The first just on the breakout you gave around permian acreage.
Looks like 330 000 net acres was in the likely limits that you see...
That we currently see.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> So what is the current breakdown if you could on the 24 rigs that you're running there currently? You mean by...
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just by location.
Most of those were vertical Wolfberry rigs or were you spend the capital? Bill can answer that.
We're not going to break it down for each play.
We'll do it by basin generally.
Jessica yes.
About half of our rig count is -- and half of the program for 2012 is going to be devoted to drilling Wolfberry wells.
But we are active in not all of the plays that you see listed on the schedule but in a number of them.
And just also just as a reminder we have 8 rigs currently running on our CO2 floods building largely infill development wells.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
that's helpful.
And then I've asked this before and I'll ask this again could you give us an update just on well cost within the Bakken the Permian particularly on the horizontal side and then California? Horizontal side? The Bakken stuff is still not come down to the level that's appropriate so we continue to reduce our current -- we have a lot more better places to put money right now than the Bakken so we're reducing that count.
The rest of the stuff doesn't seem to change very much.
The rest of the horizontal -- I think our service costs are essentially flat.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> And then just thinking about the run rate of CapEx in Q1 was $2.4 billion.
And I think you made a comment there are ways to bring that down over the year.
In addition...
Not ways it's just will.
There are things just roll off.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> So basically decreasing Bakken rigs and then...
And the buildings at the plants.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> So the $8.3 billion original spend that you outlined to the tune of...
The only thing I would say that's really out of our control is the sour gas because we had a lower number in there and I think they'll spend more of that now so the total will go up.
The total over time is about $4 billion our share.
And so if we spent between now and the end 2014 and just a matter -- you don't really know what year it will fall in the total's okay.
So we'll spend more this year and we'll spend less some of the year.
So that's the only variable right now unless we change the program.
Your next question comes from Doug Harrison of ISI Group.
Research Division</strong> Steven international EMP and specifically in Iraq I think you highlighted delays for permitting and contracts and infrastructure that you guys are reducing spending.
We didn't reduce it it's just sort of automatic.
They don't get the permits it's hard to spend the money.
There's only so many dinners you can buy if you want.
Research Division</strong> So my question is can you talk about that position and how production's unfolding versus plant meeting? Not just for the next couple of quarters which I realize is impossible because of what you said about the unpredictability of near-term spending? But has your outlook changed over the immediate term on that position or just cover a general update on how you think about that play? Sandy will be glad to answer that.
Yes Doug.
We are making progress on spending in addition to -- we just yesterday found out they've approved some new production facilities.
So we will not only give us more spend which leads to more introduction but more gross production.
There are some variables facing us with some common infrastructures that the Iraqis are working on.
They fixed a lot of your issues on transportation the terminal.
We're still trying to get the water injections fixed.
And the actual speed of ramp up of our own production will depend on how soon we can get more water in the ground.
The gross just to fill in the gross is running 260 right now.
These latest approvals on contract awards can get us up to 550 600 over the next 2 2.5 3 years.
So that's coming together.
It hasn't gone as fast as he like to we've had some recent progress.
But what was it when we took over? We took it over at 180.
That gives you a feel for the growth.
Your next question comes from Leo Mariani of RBC.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just curious on your U.S.
gas production.
I guess it picked up very modestly here in the first quarter? I guess roughly 1 million a day over the previous quarter.
You talked about pulling back on your  gas activity recently here.
When should we expect your U.S.
gas production to do? Is that going to peak here in the first quarter of '12 and start declining? Just any color that will be helpful.
I would argue it's probably pretty flattish.
It will vary but I think pretty flattish.
A lot of the gas the bulk of the gas overwhelming majority of the gas is associated with the oil production.
And so -- but we're not -- we could size we should have a huge increase in gas production as a company if we decided to drill wells.
And basically that's what's -- at $2 it's just not going to happen or $2.50 or $3.
So that's really what we're saying is we could have a very very large increase in gas production if the prices were sensible.
So you ought to expect sort of flatfish so all the growth in the business will come out of the oil business which is a little easy -- a little harder than growing in the size of our portfolio a little harder than growing gas.
We grow gas a lot because it's a small base.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
I guess in the Permian you talked about participating in 70-something industry wells in the first quarter in a number of different areas.
Any thoughts on what you guys are seeing as a result of those wells? Any particular area other than the Wolfberry that you're very active that has you guys excited at all? Most of it is doing pretty well the oily areas.
I think if you've got about 1/3 of your BOEs in oil that's a stuff that sells for $100 a barrel sort of.
You have I think a pretty economic program.
And those programs were there's really no $100 a barrel stuff all you have this NGLs and gas I think they're economically challenged in the Permian.
So some of the plays are so-called liquids rich if there's not about 1/3 of your stream are condensated black oil I think those are economically challenged.
From our perspective somebody else may have a more limited opportunity set.
LLC Research Division</strong> Any plans for OXY to get after some operated activity and some of those high oil cut plays? What do you think we're doing? LLC Research Division</strong> I'm talking about how possible variables...
How many rigs are we running -- how many rigs are you running in...
Today we've got 30.
Yes we've got total today so...
LLC Research Division</strong> Yes.
I guess I was trying to refer to kind of outside your traditional CO2 floods...
No no.
We've got -- how many -- you take out the Wolfberry wells how many wells you have rigs you have? Without Wolfberry we've got 17 running.
Yes 17 rigs.
LLC Research Division</strong> And 8 of those are CO2 is that right? It varies 6 to 8.
We do swap them between primary development and CO2 from time to time.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay got you.
I guess -- so the remainder of those kind of spread out in different portions and maybe the Delaware and Midland Basin if there's any color you kind of add around where the rest of the activity is? It's spread out.
And whatever we told you today wouldn't be true a month from now.
Your next question comes from Jason Gammel of Macquarie.
I have a few questions about Permian but have been answered but I did want to at least ask you about the CO2 to operations.
We continue to think of that as an operation that essentially runs a flattish production profile moving forward.
And are you still able to secure the type of CO2 that you've been talking about in recent years? Just given some of the changes in century plant operation and that sort of thing? And then if I just get one more.
I think it's been asked.
I didn't quite catch the answer to it are you actually drilling horizontally in the Wolfcamp formation in the Permian right now? Bill will answer the horizontal question.
But on the other question is we would expect that the CO2 production would grow not be flat.
And we have sizable amount of CO2 right now.
We've covered the problem with the sand rich plant with some other way.
And so I think we're in very good shape on CO2 and the production -- and the CO2 area is actually growing.
Yes.
And Jason did I answer your horizontal question? We do have a couple of rigs drilling horizontal Wolfcamp wells in addition to a couple of drilling some Bone Springs horizontals.
LLC Research Division</strong> Great.
Can I follow up just one more Steve just on the oil in Bakken.
It is a play that you talked about being a little more challenged economically than a lot of the other liquids plays that you have.
Is this still something that you're still going to essentially hold onto until economics improve? Or would you potentially be looking to exit that position? We don't plan to exit it.
If you look at the United States say where the oil is the oil is in California the oil is in the Permian and the oil is in the Bakken.
The Bakken right now if you think about it there's labor issues that's basically overwhelmed the small place with the drilling activities.
We're effectively looking if we can -- the right price to add to the position and build it out as a long-term resource.
Right now given the other 2 U.S.
areas it's just not -- it might be effective for somebody else to compete for capital but it's not effective for us to complete for capital.
That's why I'm slowing it down because that money is much better used in either California or West Texas.
But over time it's the Willie Sutton discussion of why we're there because that's where the oil is.
So that's real straightforward and we're domestic oil producer fundamentally.
[Operator Instructions] Your next question comes from Sven Del Pozzo of IHS.
Inc</strong> Just a couple of questions.
On the non-operating wells that you've got in Permian would you care to name perhaps the top 1 or 2 who's drilling is most likely to influence your overall results? No.
Inc</strong> Okay.
This question regarding client shale looking at your Slide 27.
Is it too early to tell or is there evidence of an eastward expansion of the play onto the eastern shale from where we've seen most of the industry success thus far? I think it's too early.
It's -- I think it's fair to say it's -- at this point it's interesting and doing reasonably well.
To find the limits right now it's pure speculation.
Inc</strong> Okay.
And then on that Slide 27 I'm not exactly sure what the likely limits it means...
It means -- it's around whether it's production and people have been successful.
We've provided 2 columns because our view is probably more conservative than the average on what the likely limits are.
So we've given you sort of small E&amp;P version on one set of columns and sort of the rational economic one on the second.
But we would hope that some of the acreage would move over there.
But right now all you can really say that we would view as highly perspective.
Inc</strong> Okay.
And lastly regarding NGL prices at least relative to spot prices your realization held up quite well comparing to the first quarter relative to the fourth quarter.
So I'm wondering what are some of the reasons for that? And if they'll persist during the course of 2012? If you look at the pricing we produce a moderate amount of NGLs here in California.
California pricing is fundamentally better than the rest of the U.S.
Your next question comes from the line of Ed Westlake of Crdit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Thanks for all the extra disclosure to be around the Permian.
I guess 2 questions.
One within that if you add in say current production of 139 000 in the Permian add in 39 000 of NGLs call it 180 000 barrels a day in Q1.
As you add rigs and as the CO2 business grows as you said what scale do think that business could become in a few years also the type of growth rate would you expect on the liquid side out of the Permian? I'm probably going to get in trouble if I speculate.
But it's gone through another rejuvenation maybe the fifth or sixth one in my life maybe more maybe 10 times if I would really count them.
And this is basically driven by not necessarily new technology or some of that but really by higher product prices.
If product prices hold somewhere in this area.
This business is going to grow sharply.
I mean every forecast I've ever made for this business over the Permian over the last 5 or 10 years has been way too low.
And so the business is a very large business larger than a lot of companies and it will continue to grow at a pretty decent phase but you should remember that's a large business.
And so the absolute growth for the U.S.
economy kind of growth is going to be quite sizable.
But on a percentage basis it's not going to be impressive.
As impressive as somebody who starts at 20 000 barrels a day.
So I can't really answer it but I would think that it will be commensurate with the growth of the U.S.
business.
That is to say it is the core of the company's cash flow generation so it will grow in line with our U.S.
business.
Research Division</strong> And your comment there if all prices remain robust and the fact that Permian surprised you over time.
When you're setting out your sort of overall 5% to 7% growth rate for OXY as a corporation do you think that you're being conservative and therefore any surprise would be additive to that growth rate? Only I learned over the years the oil businesses that the well making 2 000 barrels a day and might make 0 tomorrow but it's definitely not going to make 4 000.
And so you've got to be cautious about decline rates and stuff.
But the Permian has really gone through a significant rejuvenation and so we're well positioned to reap that.
Research Division</strong> And given it's a large business is 500 million acres enough? I mean in the likely of 570 million so I'm just doing the math.
The actual acreage in Permian is much larger.
And so that acreage is closer to 3 million for the whole basin.
This is just in this area.
Research Division</strong> So your view is overtime other areas perhaps could come into you economic...
It is the same formation.
I mean they changed the names to protect the innocent I guess.
But these are the same formations that have been producing for a long time.
They just changed the names to make them sound more interesting.
And I would guess that over time the basin has always been very good to us but certainly very good for the U.S.
industry.
So I'm bullish on the basin.
As you move towards New Mexico it gets a lot gassier you should understand.
And a lot of people have big acreage positions out that way.
And that depends really on your view about gas prices rather than oil prices.
We're pretty much an oil company.
Research Division</strong> So your -- to summary the 570 million here plus the overall position you have you feel you can -- you've got enough inventory to grow the Permian say for the next 5 to 10 years? At least for the next 10 years.
We'd continue to acquire more inventory when it's priced properly.
At this time there are no further questions.
I'll hand the call back over for any closing remarks.
Thank you.
Thank you very much.
If you have any further questions please call us here in Investor Relations in New York.
Thank you.
Thank you.
This does conclude today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Christie and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Occidental Petroleum's Second Quarter 2012 Earnings Release Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the conference over to Christopher Stavros.
Please go ahead sir.
Thanks Christie.
Good morning everyone and welcome to Occidental Petroleum's Second Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
Joining us on the call this morning from Los Angeles are Stephen Chazen Oxy's President and Chief Executive Officer; Jim Lienert Oxy's Chief Financial Officer; Bill Albrecht President of Oxy's Oil and Gas Business in the Americas; and Sandy Lowe President of our International Oil and Gas Operations.
In just a moment I'll turn the call over to our CFO Jim Lienert who will review our financial and operating results for this year's second quarter.
Steve Chazen will then follow with comments on our performance and update on our capital program and production for 2012 and including our outlook for the second half of this year.
Our second quarter 2012 earnings press release investor relations supplemental schedules conference call presentation slides which refer to both Jim's and Steve's remarks can be downloaded off of our website at www.oxy.com.
I'll now turn the call over to Jim Lienert.
Jim please go ahead.
Thank you Chris.
Net income was $1.3 billion or $1.64 per diluted share in the second quarter of 2012 compared to $1.8 billion or $2.23 per diluted share in the second quarter of 2011 and $1.6 billion or $1.92 per diluted share in the first quarter of 2012.
All the drop in the second quarter earnings compared to the first quarter of 2012 was attributable to the decline in commodity prices.
Worldwide oil and domestic gas and NGL prices were significantly lower during the quarter.
Here's a segment breakdown for the second quarter.
Oil and gas segment earnings for the second quarter of 2012 were $2 billion compared with $2.5 billion in the first quarter of 2012 and $2.6 billion in the second quarter of 2011.
In the oil and gas segment the second quarter 2012 daily production was 766 000 barrels the highest volume in the company's history for the second consecutive quarter and was up 7% from the same period of 2011.
Our total domestic production was 462 000 barrels per day the seventh consecutive domestic quarterly volume record for the company.
Our total domestic production was 9% higher than the second quarter of 2011.
Latin America volumes were 33 000 barrels per day.
Colombia's production of 31 000 barrels a day improved 7 000 barrels a day from the first quarter of 2012 due to significantly lower levels of insurgent activity in the second quarter.
In the Middle East region volumes were 271 000 barrels per day.
In Oman the second quarter production was 72 000 barrels per day 2 000 barrels lower than the first quarter volumes.
In Qatar the second quarter production was 74 000 barrels per day 2 000 barrels higher than the first quarter volumes.
For Dolphin and Bahrain combined daily production increased 7 000 barrels from the first quarter which included planned plant shutdowns in Dolphin.
The rest of the Middle East/North Africa production decreased by 10 000 barrels per day.
Oil prices and production sharing and similar contract factors did not significantly impact this quarter's production volumes compared to the previous quarter or the second quarter of 2011.
Our second quarter sales volumes were 759 000 barrels per day slightly lower than our production volumes due to the timing of liftings in the Middle East/North Africa.
Second quarter 2012 realized prices were lower for our products compared to the first quarter of the year.
Our worldwide crude oil realized price was $99.34 per barrel a decrease of about 8%.
Worldwide NGLs were $42.06 per barrel a decrease of about 20%.
And domestic natural gas prices were $2.09 per MCF a decline of 26%.
Second quarter 2012 realized prices were also lower than the second quarter 2011 prices for all our products.
On a year-over-year basis price decreases were 4% for the worldwide crude oil 27% for worldwide NGLs and 51% for domestic natural gas.
Realized oil prices for the quarter represented 106% of the average WTI and 91% of the average Brent price.
Realized NGL prices were 45% of WTI and realized domestic gas prices were 92% of the average NYMEX price.
Price changes at current global prices affect our quarterly earnings before income taxes by $38 million for $1 per barrel change in oil prices and $8 million for $1 per barrel change in NGL prices.
A swing of $0.50 per million BTUs in domestic gas prices affects quarterly pretax earnings by about $35 million.
These price change sensitivities include the impact of production sharing contract volume changes on income.
Oil and gas cash production costs were $14.50 a barrel for the first 6 months of 2012 compared with last year's 12-month cost of $12.84 a barrel.
The cost increase reflects higher well maintenance activity in part reflecting our higher well count higher work overactivity and higher support and injection costs.
Taxes other than on income which are directly related to product prices were $2.46 per barrel for the first 6 months of 2012 similar to last year's comparable period.
Second quarter exploration expense was $96 million.
Chemical segment earnings for the second quarter of 2012 were $194 million compared to $184 million in the first quarter of 2012 and $253 million for the second quarter of 2011.
The sequential quarterly improvement was due to improved PVC and VCM margins driven primarily by lower ethylene cost.
The year-over-year decrease was the result of lower domestic and export caustic volumes lower VCM export demand and lower PVC and VCM export prices partially offset by lower natural gas and ethylene costs.
Midstream segment earnings were $77 million for the second quarter of 2012 compared to $131 million in the first quarter of 2012 and $187 million in the second quarter of 2011.
The decline in earnings was mostly in the marketing and trading businesses and to a lesser degree in the gas plants reflecting lower NGL prices partially offset by improvements in the pipeline businesses.
The worldwide effective tax rate was 40% for the second quarter of 2012.
Our second quarter U.S.
and foreign tax rates are included in the Investor Relations supplemental schedules.
Cash flow from operations for the first 6 months of 2012 was $6 billion.
We used $5.1 billion of the company's total cash flow to fund capital expenditures and $1 billion for acquisitions.
Financial activities which included dividends paid stock buybacks and $1.75 billion borrowing during the quarter provided a net $800 million of cash flow.
These and other net cash flows resulted in a $4.4 billion cash balance at June 30.
Capital expenditures for the first 6 months of 2012 were $5.1 billion of which $2.7 billion was spent in the second quarter.
Year-to-date capital expenditures by segment were 82% in oil and gas 15% in midstream and the remainder in chemicals.
The Al Hosn Shah gas project made up about 11% of the total capital spending for the first 6 months of 2012.
Our acquisitions for the first 6 months of 2012 were $1 billion mostly consisting of bolt-on acquisitions in the Williston Basin South Texas and the Permian.
The weighted average basic shares outstanding for the first 6 months of 2012 were 810.4 million and the weighted average diluted shares outstanding were 811.2 million.
Fully diluted shares outstanding at the end of the quarter were approximately 810 million.
Our debt-to-capitalization ratio was 16%.
And at the end of the second quarter we issued $1.75 billion of senior notes at a weighted average interest rate of 2.4% which brought the company's average effective borrowing rate down to 3%.
Copies of the press release announcing our second quarter earnings and the Investor Relations supplemental schedules are available on our website or through the SEC's EDGAR system.
I will now turn the call over to Steve Chazen who will provide guidance for the second half of the year.
Thank you Jim.
Occidental's second quarter 2012 production set an all-time record for the company for the second consecutive quarter.
The domestic oil and gas segment produced record volumes for the seventh consecutive quarter.
Second quarter domestic production of 462 000 barrel equivalents per day consisted of 322 000 barrels of liquids and 840 million cubic feet of gas per day.
This was an increase of 7 000 barrel equivalents per day compared to the first quarter of 2012.
About 86% of the domestic production growth of the first quarter of 2012 which was in -- was in liquids which grew from 316 000 barrels a day to 322 000.
Compared to the second quarter of 2011 our domestic production grew by 9% or 38 000 barrels a day of which 25 000 barrels a day was liquids production growth and 79 million cubic feet a day was gas.
Our annualized return on equity for the first 6 months of 2012 was 15% and our return on capital employed was 13%.
For our capital program we are raising our estimate of the total year capital program to $9.2 billion from our previously announced level of $8.3 billion.
Of the increase about $600 million is for the Al Hosn Shah gas project the remainder of the increase going to the rest of the oil and gas segment primarily to non-operated properties where our forecasting ability is limited.
We expect our capital spend rate to slow down modestly from the current levels during the back half of the year and stabilize in the fourth quarter.
The Al Hosn gas project is approximately 49% complete and is progressing as planned.
This project made up about 11% of our capital program for 6 months of this year.
With spending continuing at current levels we are increasing our anticipated spending for the remainder of 2012 as I just mentioned.
However total development capital for the project is expected to be in line with previous estimates.
In our domestic operations we expect our total average rig count at current levels of about 75 to go down to an average of 70 by the end of the year.
However with the mix of rigs we'll shift among different regions related to changes in gas and NGL prices.
With our production growth wedge firmly in place for the back half of the year we will focus our efforts on improving our profitability.
This includes an increased oil program rather than drilling gas/NGL wells.
We are releasing and we'll continue to release underperforming rigs and crews.
We will also work on improving our operating costs.
These things are well within our ability to achieve.
We expect to do more with less money in the rest of the year.
California we're continuing to see improvement with respect to permitting issues relative to last year.
We received approved field level rules and new permits for both injection wells and drilling locations.
The regulatory agency continues to be responsive and committed to working through the backlog of permits.
The new Elk Hills gas plant which went into operation early July will positively affect our operational efficiency and production in the back half of the year.
Turning to production expectations in the back half of the year.
Over the past year we have generally achieved our 6 000 to 8 000 barrel a day quarter-over-quarter domestic production increase.
We expect that we will achieve the high end of this range increase throughout the rest of the year which should give us an entry rate into the new year of at least 480 000 barrels a day.
The increase will be spread among all of the domestic operations.
Internationally at current prices we expect production to increase modestly for the rest of the year depending on spending levels in Iraq.
This includes the effect of a drop in production at Dolphin to about 40 000 barrels a day starting in the third quarter resulting from the full cost recovery of the pre-startup capital over the first 5 years of production which commenced in July 2007.
We expect international sales volume in the third quarter of 2012 to be similar to the second quarter.
A $5 change in global oil prices would impact our daily volumes by about 3 000 barrels a day.
Financial impact of this volume change is incorporated in the product price sensitivities that Jim provided you.
Additionally we expect exploration expense to be about $85 million from seismic and drilling for exploration programs in the third quarter.
Chemical segment earnings are expected to be about $175 million.
Weakness in export demand conditions in Europe and China slowdown in U.S.
demand and rising U.S.
natural gas costs will keep some pressure on margins.
We expect our combined worldwide tax rate in the third quarter of 2012 to increase to about 42%.
To summarize we closed the quarter with our second consecutive all-time company production and seventh consecutive record domestic oil and gas production.
We increased our total domestic production by 7 000 barrels a day over the first quarter and by 38 000 barrels a day for the second quarter of 2011.
Domestically where we are the largest onshore liquids producer in lower 48 our production increased by 9% the second quarter of last year.
Our total production increased by 7% in the second quarter on a year-over-year basis.
We are increasing our estimate of the total year capital program to $9.2 billion from our previously announced $8.3 billion.
Of the increase about $600 million is for the Al Hosn Shah gas project the remainder of the increase going to the rest of the oil and gas segment.
Our business generated cash flow from operations of $6 billion in the first 6 months of 2012.
We spent about $5.1 billion of our cash flow on our capital program.
I think at this point we're ready to take your questions.
[Operator Instructions] And your first question comes from Leo Mariani of RBC.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just quick question on your Permian basin production it looked like it was down a tiny bit in the second quarter.
Just wanted to see if there's anything unusual in terms of interruptions or maybe just timing of completions there.
Bill can answer that.
Bill? Yes Leo really it's all around gas plants.
We had several significant gas plant turnarounds in the quarter as well as some third-party gas plant outages.
We think most of these turnarounds are behind us for the rest of the year.
But it was all attributable strictly to gas plants both third-party and company-operated.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And you guys talked about going from 75 to 70 rigs and really de-emphasizing NGLs and gas and adding some crude rigs.
Can you just give us a little bit more color in terms of where the rigs are going to be dropped and where you're going to add some on the crude side as you reshuffle? Not really.
But we talked about reducing our count in the Williston last quarter and that's continuing.
There are some quite rigs nationally that we have that are less than -- at the bottom 1/8 of efficiency.
And so we're basically releasing those rigs.
We expect that with the higher concentration and better quality rigs and crews that we'll do better in the quarter.
And I expect that we'll drill as many wells in the back half of the year as we did in the first half of the year for -- with the fewer rigs.
What the shift is -- we're not quite through shifting yet.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay got you.
In terms of acquisitions you guys talked about doing $1 billion kind of in the first of the year.
Do you guys still continue to be very active on the acquisition side in the second half? And is there any type of -- certain area that you guys are focused on at all from there? It looks pretty slow here in the third quarter.
We're going to have very little if anything in the hopper in the third quarter.
So I don't expect to see much in the third quarter.
There's a fair bid ask spread I think right now between what we would be willing to pay and what somebody would be willing to accept.
So we're not in any hurry.
We don't really need to do anything.
You shouldn't expect to see any large-scale M&amp;A from us.
Your next question comes from Arjun Murti of Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Steve you did mention some bolt-on acreage acquisitions in the Williston.
Can you just talk about where your position is now? I know you dropped some rigs and I think you've been less enthusiastic.
But where are you acreage-wise now in the Williston? I think we're north of 300 000 acres.
Research Division</strong> And the bolt-on? I don't know exactly because they never tell me this stuff.
Research Division</strong> That's great.
So give me a bit in California exploration.
There's something you highlighted a couple of years ago.
I know there's some small stuff and some bigger stuff but where is that program now? It's actually doing pretty well.
We have some moderate successes and some oil and we've got some things that are working.
They're a little bit off the mainstream off the main plan that we had as far as where they're located.
There's still some acreage to be acquired that other people have.
So I just don't want to go into details.
But I think it's doing pretty well and we're doing -- we have some nice adds and a few million barrels a year maybe 10 million 12 million barrel adds.
Research Division</strong> That's great.
And then just lastly I know you started increasing the drilling of some of the Permian unconventional stuff.
How -- any comments on how that's going? Well obviously the gassy NGL stuff while it may be interesting at some point not real exciting right now.
And a lot of these plays are towards New Mexico and people call them liquids rich.
I call them gas rich.
So they're just not that exciting right now.
And -- but the oil stuff is doing pretty well.
And really we are doing just fine.
And I can't complete -- there is another area where are there's some poor-performing rigs and crews that we're going to upgrade the quality of that.
So my focus as I said in the back half of the year I think the production wedge will be fine maybe even more than fine in the back half of the year.
So I think we've got a pretty good sized backlog.
But I'm really focused on improving the efficiency of the rigs and generating -- lowering the operating cost.
Your next question comes from Doug Terreson of ISI Group.
Research Division</strong> You guys are obviously later in the Permian and this BridgeTex pipeline looks likely to debottleneck that area to some extent that is if it were to materialize.
So my question is whether or not you could provide us an update on your expectations and any timeline that you feel is reasonable for that situation? I think I'd rather defer that and let talk Magellan about it since they're a pipeline company but you should understand that we could give enough crude to make any pipeline go out of the basin.
Next is maybe even more than one pipeline to go.
But not only do we have our work our net production but we also have the royalty production and third-party barrels.
And so the plan in the basin is to expand our gathering system hook it into these pipelines and maybe make 1 or 2 lines that go maybe into -- whether it goes into Houston or Corpus and then into Houston.
And put as much of our stuff through there as we can.
And we're not trying to fix the problem in the basin we're just trying to fix our problem.
Research Division</strong> I understand.
Let me ask you another question.
In Abu Dhabi can you tell us whether or not you guys are still under consideration on the onshore development phase with the SPC? And if not do you think that you could be brought in at a later date so...
No we are actively involved.
Your next question comes from Doug Leggate of Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> The gas plant in California I guess we've been kind of waiting for this for a while.
My understanding is you've also gone ahead and ordered a second gas plant.
Can you help us understand what...
I think we're in the study phase of the second gas line.
Remember gas isn't such a high commodity right now.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
The new gas plant that you started at Dolphin can you just walk us through how does that help? Because I seem to recall the capacity was fairly significant.
But what should we anticipate in terms of volume response as a result of that? Yes.
I don't know yet.
When we ordered the plant we thought we would drill more gas wells and obviously we're a little ways away from that yet.
So you'll get I think maybe 3 effects.
The most significant one is an increase in reliability.
And so there is a significant loss every quarter due to some something that's blamed on some third party.
So we'll have to take the blame ourselves now I guess instead of blaming it on somebody else.
Second there's a much deeper cut and so there'll be more NGLs for whatever they're worth coming out of the plant.
And finally there's clearly more capacity and I'd like to defer the discussion about the capacity response from the rest of the field until we get at least a quarter of actual results rather than just a few weeks.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And my follow-up if I may is also on California.
So I guess a bunch of quarters ago you kind of laid out the run-ins that you had there but the permitting seems to have gotten an awful lot better.
I guess what I'm curious on is what is it going to take for you to get after what you acknowledged are some of the highest IRR opportunities in the portfolio? Because it seems that with your guidance on rigs you're not planning to do that anytime soon.
Yes.
I'm waiting for them to further reduce their cost per well.
I mean it's simply they can make step changes sizable step changes in their cost per well.
And my experience over the last however long is giving them more money does not cause that.
And so a little diet for a little while will have significant reductions in our cost per well.
I'm talking not 10% not 20% but 1/3.
And once they get to the point where their well costs are in line with what they ought to achieve then we'll pick up the pace.
But if I can reduce the cost I'll get more wells for the same money and that's really what I'm after.
I'm not after volume per se.
I'm actually after money.
And right now they can do a lot better and they will.
But the only way to do it is to ensure that they feel pressed.
Research Division</strong> Forgive me Steve you dominate the play.
How do you benchmark? What's achievable and you're I guess competing with yourself? Competing with myself.
And I know -- we can tell what's achievable.
We've experimented and we know.
So it isn't -- it's not a theoretical discussion.
We changed some things and we had step changes and this is just the beginning.
So they can do better.
Your next question comes from Jason Gammel of Macquarie.
Steve I wanted to ask you first of all about your transportation capacity out of the Permian Basin.
And really my question is really more around what we've seen as a building differential between Cushing and Midland.
And with the pipeline that you acquired a few years back that you should have the ability to avoid any block in differentials there on at least some volumes.
I wanted to see how much you are actually covered on transportation there.
And then my second question is really more housekeeping on the acquisitions.
Should we look at the $1 billion of acquisitions year-to-date as incremental to the new CapEx guidance that you've given? And is there any associated production figure with those acquisitions for the second quarter and then for the rest of the year? Starting with the Midland there was a small problem that somebody had in Midland early sometime this quarter -- last quarter.
And that's really gone away.
So I think some of the differences is pretty much gone.
So you don't really see that anymore.
There was -- somebody had a problem there I can't remember who.
The capital I've included in the capital additionals for the back half of the year the additional spending on the acquisitions that came in the first half.
And then there was no production effect from the acquisitions in the second quarter because most of them were done late in the quarter.
And there might be 1 000 or 2 000 barrels a day of liquids in the third quarter.
Okay.
And just a follow-up on the differential again Stephen.
It may be or not relatively a temporary issue in the 2Q but does it indicate that you're starting to experience pretty tight infrastructure in the Permian in general? So it could be another issue that crops up periodically over time.
Yes.
I think -- let me just take a long view of the basin -- the pipeline system was built for a very large amount of oil years ago and was allowed to degrade because everybody thought it was going to deplete away.
And the ownership for the pipeline has changed from integrated producers to generally speaking cash flow-driven organizations who get paid on increased distributions rather than maintenance.
And so what's happened is that the system is not in particularly great shape which is why we bought the pipeline systems and we're going to invest some money to improve our results in that.
But the system is tight right now and it does not take much to create a modest disruption and we're in better shape than most people because we control our own destiny largely.
But I think this is something not just in the Permian but everywhere where everybody assumed the United States was going out of business in the oil industry.
Even if you don't buy some of the more ridiculous things that people have put out as far as growth modest amount of growth will tax the system nationwide because the infrastructure is basically designed currently for -- as a cash cow rather than something that you need to keep up.
Does that answer your question? Your next question comes from Matt Portillo of Tudor Pickering Holt.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Two quick questions for me.
Just on the acquisition side for the second quarter could give us an idea of the $2.7 billion what approximately is spent on acquisitions? And then just a quick second question here.
In relation to Colombia obviously you guys had a nice uptick back to kind of normalized volumes.
There seems to have been a continued frequency of pipeline...
I think our capital -- just the acquisition money in the second quarter is like $700 million.
It was $1 billion for the back half -- for the first half of the year.
Capital was $2.7 billion but the acquisition was I think $700 million or so.
Yes so it was $1 billion for the first 6 months in acquisitions.
I got lost in the rest of the question so if you could repeat it.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Sure.
And just in terms of Colombia you obviously had a nice uptick in production in the second quarter I think as Cao Limn pipelines kind of normalized.
Are you guys are seeing kind of similar levels of production heading into the third quarter? And are there any improvements that you're seeing on the security side down in Colombia? We'll let Bill answer that.
Yes Matt.
So far in the third quarter we've had about 1 000 barrels a day outage is all.
We obviously have had more insurgent activity in the third quarter so far.
Who knows what it's going to be like for the rest of the quarter? But so far there has not been a material effect on production.
It's capable of producing 32 000 33 000.
So there was some loss even in the second quarter.
So all he's really saying is it's sort of like the second quarter.
Yes.
Your next question comes from Eliot Javanmardi of Capital One Southcoast.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just a quick question for you.
Do you still see the Williston Basin as a potential longer-term resource play for the company? And the reason I asked that is you obviously get great returns in California in the Permian plays.
I'm just trying to understand what kind of scenario would you actually be willing to put to your dollars at work into Williston? And I think you've addressed some of it potentially on the well cost front.
But what scenario would you envision that even if it is the #3 play you would invest in for example in the U.S.
how would you assess that situation as to when you feel good about putting dollars to work there? Definitely #3.
It's really a cost issue.
I think that the service companies are getting rich as pigs there.
And I think until the costs come down and the efficiency improves we'll continue to focus on the best wells and the most efficient wells and improving our learning curve.
We're still I think in the learning curve phase.
But there's that and then there's the differential issue which I think could be fixed over time.
But I'm in no hurry to put capital there.
We're still continuing to put capital there but not to the level that we were.
We're still making 16 000 17 000 a day there.
But it's clearly assets for the future rather than a big driver for today.
Your next question comes from Edward Westlake of Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> So just a question.
You mentioned last quarter when you were looking at the increase in California rig counts sort of 5 rigs every 6 months that's some were going into steam flood as well as the shale and vertical elements [ph].
Can you give us an update in terms of how many rigs you're in steam flood versus other opportunities? I actually don't know 3.
I think we have 3 rigs in the steam floods right now and we'll boost that as the year progresses.
Research Division</strong> So that's still incremental rigs going in against your guidance then into the shale? Yes shale and into the steam floods.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
And just on -- this is more of a longer-term question but obviously in the central part of San Joaquin Valley financial geologist that I am you have a potentially thickest -- thicker part of the shale but its deep and the rock quality may not be as good.
But is there any technology that you think could work that turn that into sort of a repeatable shale play? Well maybe someday.
But right -- we try to do easy stuff before hard stuff.
And so we're focused on what's easy right now.
And what's easiest right now is to drill low-cost shale wells in easy places.
We've monkeyed with what you've just said and I think we're still on the early phases of thinking about that.
Research Division</strong> Is it fair to say that you're putting some R&amp;D dollars into that type of monkey guess? Yes we do.
Your next question comes from Sven Del Pozzo of IHS Herold.
Inc</strong> Your perspective savings on completion costs in California for the -- for your unconventional wells what kind of time frame do you think we'll have -- we'll start to see some CapEx? It's actually happening now.
It's happening now.
So you'll see it as -- it will be clear as the year progresses.
Inc</strong> Okay.
And same type of question regarding CapEx for the midstream.
When do you think we'll start to see the CapEx deployment in the midstream slowdown? Well a lot of that is the Al Hosn gas plant.
And so the domestic capital is not probably going to slow down for a little while until I get the pipeline system up and running better.
But the Al Hosn stuff that part of it should start to roll off into the fourth and first quarters.
But the drilling portion the part that is charged that goes to E&amp;P will pick up that slack and more into the fourth and first quarter next year.
So all you're seeing is -- so I wouldn't be too confused about where this midstream capital is going.
A fair amount of it except for a little bit right now is going into the Al Hosn project.
Inc</strong> Okay.
And your production growth sequentially from the first quarter to the second quarter in the Midcontinent region which also includes the Bakken if it's not the Bakken where the production growth is coming from on the oil side what regions or...
It is from there.
I mean some of -- the bulk of it is from there.
We started if I remember 3 000 or 4 000 a day last year early last year.
And we're 17 000 running now.
So I mean somewhere in there it's there.
There's improvement in South Texas and the rest of the Rockies.
But I mean fundamentally that segment is -- the large increases are Bakken production.
Inc</strong> Okay.
Spike in Bahrain gas production could you just help me to understand what's going on there? Sandy can probably answer that.
Yes.
The gas production is paid for -- on a capacity basis and we've recently installed a lot of equipment that increases the capacity to what the kingdom thinks they'll need over the next few years.
Inc</strong> And is there any way to quantify the profitability change associated with this increase in gas production? Pretty modest.
I mean the profits there will be made off the oil production.
And the gas serves as a -- sort of a base to give us a base return I think is the way to think about the project.
So the gas since it's our captive gas market is basically what pays for the thing.
And then the upside of the higher returns will come from crude oil prices oil production.
Inc</strong> Okay okay.
And lastly view on chemicals just your announced -- sometime after 2015 announcement of 1.1 billion pound ethylene cracker.
I don't know if it's an expansion or a brand-new plant.
No there's no.
I think the announcement is that we are studying it.
We are not committed to the cracker.
We are going to build a fractionator but not -- we are not committed to a cracker.
Inc</strong> Okay.
And for working capital component of your cash flow in the first 6 months of the year that would be -- if you'd like to e-mail it to me later that's fine.
If you have it right now great.
Chris can deal with that.
I don't think you'll find it a big deal.
Our next question comes from Katherine Minyard of JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Just looking at 2Q 2012 production for the U.S.
How much of that  production came from wells that were brought online since the beginning of the year? It's probably a more complicated question you probably thought.
I don't think we -- you have to go basin by basin.
I don't -- we don't know.
We'll try to have -- why don't you contact Chris and maybe we can reconstruct that over the next -- yes we don't have it with us.
Research Division</strong> Okay all right.
And then when you talk about cost reduction of about 1/3 in your drilling are you looking at you...
California we've talked about.
Research Division</strong> Right.
And so are you looking at achieving that? Is it lower drill times? Is it different completion techniques? And what would be the main factors driving the bulk of that type of reduction? Bill can answer that because he's responsible.
Katherine it's really both okay? On the drilling side it's a lot of little things that add up to cost reductions.
And then on the completion side its primarily reductions and pressure pumping costs.
[Operator Instructions] Your next question comes from Alec Morris [ph] of Raymond James.
Following up on the Colombia insurgency question from earlier.
Could you give an update maybe on Libya and whether production is back at pre-war levels there? And I guess if not what needs to happen to get there? Sandy can answer that.
Yes.
We're just at about pre-war levels right now.
We've just putting new teams into the country to work on new projects.
And we will be doing seismic work later this year.
So we're pretty much back to normal in Libya.
Your next question comes from John Herrlin of Societe Generale.
Are you seeing any discounts to price booked by the services companies in the Permian? Some of your peers have been mentioning that.
Are you seeing that at all? Bill can answer that.
Yes.
John yes we're seeing some modest price reduction off of the price book.
What's that? 10% or less? Its 7% to 10%.
We tend to contract longer term than somebody else who might go to monthly contracts.
Yes and so we don't -- we're not quite as sensitive to the -- somebody might be drilling 6 wells or something.
Okay that's fine Steve.
With the Elk Hills plant is there just a commissioning start-up phase before you get it fully on? It's gone through that.
And so we're -- like all plants that are designed by engineers they always -- they never seem to work just exactly right the first day.
So -- but we've actually gone through that because we started the process more than a month ago.
So right now I think we're okay.
Okay.
And then I probably missed this because I got on late what was your cash position at quarter's end? A little over $4 billion.
I will now turn the floor back over to Mr.
Stavros for any closing remarks.
Thanks very much for joining us today.
And if you have further questions on the conference call or earnings release today please call us in New York.
Thanks very much.
Thank you.
This does conclude today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Christie and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Occidental Petroleum Third Quarter 2012 Earnings Release Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Mr.
Stavros you may begin your conference.
Thank you Christie and good morning everyone.
Welcome to Occidental Petroleum's Third Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
Joining us on the call this morning from Los Angeles are Stephen Chazen Oxy's President and Chief Executive Officer; Cynthia Walker Oxy's Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; Bill Albrecht President of Oxy's Oil and Gas Operation in the Americas; and Sandy Lowe President of our International Oil and Gas Business.
In just a moment I will turn the call over to our CFO Cynthia Walker who will review our financial and operating results for this year's third quarter.
Steve Chazen will then follow with comments on our strategy progress as well as providing some guidance for the remainder of this year.
Our third quarter 2012 earnings press release investor relations supplemental schedules and the conference call presentation slides which refer both to Cynthia's and Steve's remarks can be downloaded off of our website at www.oxy.com.
I'll now turn the call over to Cynthia Walker.
Cynthia please go ahead.
Thank you Chris and good morning everyone.
Income from continuing operations was $1.4 billion or $1.70 per diluted share in the third quarter of 2012 compared to $1.8 billion or $2.18 per diluted share in the third quarter of 2011 and $1.3 billion or $1.64 per diluted share in the second quarter of 2012.
The third quarter income from continuing operations improved by $0.06 per diluted share from the second quarter of this year.
The improvement reflected higher margins in the marketing and trading businesses partially offset by lower earnings in the chemical segment.
In the oil and gas business the effect of higher liquids production and domestic gas prices was partially offset by the impact of a 3% decline in realized worldwide crude oil prices.
Now let me turn to the segment breakdown for the third quarter.
In the oil and gas business earnings for the third quarter of 2012 were $2 billion compared to $2 billion in the second quarter of 2012 and $2.6 billion in the third quarter of 2011.
Overall third quarter 2012 production was 766 000 barrels per day flat with the record set by the company in the second quarter of 2012 and up 4% from the third quarter of 2011.
Our domestic production was 469 000 barrels per day an increase of 7 000 barrels per day from the second quarter of 2012 and most notably the eighth consecutive quarter of domestic record volume growth for the company.
Production was 8% higher in the third quarter of 2011 -- versus the third quarter of 2011.
Almost all the sequential quarterly increase came from the Permian and Williston basins.
California production was higher in liquids but flat on an overall BOE basis with the second quarter mainly due to lower gas volumes associated with initial startup issues of the new gas plant.
These issues were resolved mid-quarter although the positive effect of the plant on overall third quarter production was muted as a result.
Today the plant continues to run as expected and California's current production run rate is approximately 150 000 barrels per day.
In Latin America volumes were 32 000 barrels per day.
And in the Middle East volumes were 265 000 barrels per day.
I'll note meaningful sequential changes in Qatar production however details regarding other company-specific production levels are available as usual in the investor relations supplemental schedules that we provide.
Dolphin's production was 13 000 barrels per day lower than the second quarter resulting from the full cost recovery of pre-startup capital as we noted to anticipate last quarter.
Qatar's production was also impacted by a facility outage in August which reduced production in the quarter by about 5 000 barrels per day.
The outage was subsequently resolved.
The rest of the Middle East partially offset these decreases in part due to higher spending levels.
Factors affecting production sharing and similar contracts including oil prices did not significantly impact the quarter's production volumes compared to the third quarter of 2011 or the second quarter of 2012.
Third quarter 2012 realized prices were mixed for our products compared to the second quarter of the year.
Our worldwide crude oil realized price was $96.62 per barrel a decrease of about 3%.
Worldwide NGLs were $40.65 per barrel also a decrease of about 3% from the second quarter while domestic natural gas prices were $2.48 per million cubic feet an improvement of 19%.
The change in worldwide crude oil realized price was primarily due to the mix of sales volumes in the quarter.
Third quarter 2012 realized prices were lower than third quarter 2011 prices for all of our products.
On a year-over-year basis price decreases were 1% for worldwide crude oil 27% for worldwide NGLs and 41% for domestic natural gas.
Realized oil prices for the quarter represented 105% of the average WTI price and 88% of the average Brent price.
Realized NGL prices were 44% of the average WTI price and realized domestic gas prices were 90% of the average NYMEX price.
At current global prices a $1 per barrel change in oil prices affects our quarterly earnings before income taxes by approximately $36 million and $8 million per $1 per barrel change in NGL prices.
A change of $0.50 per million BTU in domestic gas prices affects quarterly pretax earnings by about $35 million.
These price change sensitivities include the impact of production sharing and similar contract volume changes on income.
Oil and gas production costs were $15 per barrel for the first 9 months of 2012.
This is compared to $12.84 per barrel for the full year of 2011.
The cost increase reflects higher well maintenance activity in part reflecting our higher well count higher workover activity and higher support and injection costs.
Taxes other than on income which are generally related to product prices were $2.43 per barrel for the first 9 months of 2012 compared to $2.21 per barrel for the full year of 2011.
And third quarter exploration expense was $69 million.
Now turning to the chemical segment.
Earnings for the third quarter of 2012 were $164 million (sic) [$162 million] compared to $194 million in the second quarter of 2012 and $245 million for the third quarter of 2011.
Both the sequential quarterly and year-over-year declines were due to lower Asian market demand that drove export prices lower partially offset by lower ethylene costs.
In the midstream segment earnings were $156 million for the third quarter of 2012 compared to $77 million in the second quarter of 2012 and as well in the third quarter of 2011.
The 2012 quarterly increase in earnings was in the marketing and trading business primarily and power generation partially offset by lower margins in the gas plants reflecting lower NGL prices.
Our worldwide effective tax rate was 38% for the third quarter of 2012.
The lower rate compared to our guidance was attributable to a shift in the mix of income towards more domestic.
Our third quarter U.S.
and foreign tax rates are included in the investor relations supplemental schedules.
In the first 9 months of 2012 we generated $9.2 billion of cash flow from operations before working capital changes.
Working capital reduced our 9 month cash flow from operations by approximately $660 million to $8.5 billion.
Approximately $510 million of the working capital use occurred in the third quarter.
Capital expenditures for the first 9 months of 2012 were $7.7 billion of which $2.6 billion was spent in the third quarter.
Year-to-date capital expenditures by segment were 82% in the oil and gas business 14% in midstream and the remainder in the chemicals business.
Acquisitions for the first 9 months of 2012 were $1.2 billion of which $100 million was spent in the third quarter.
Financing activities which include dividends paid stock buybacks and a $1.74 billion borrowing earlier this year provided a $300 million net cash inflow for the first 9 months of the year.
These and other net cash flows resulted in a $3.8 billion cash balance at September 30.
The weighted average basic shares outstanding for the first 9 months of 2012 were 810.1 million and the weighted average diluted shares outstanding were 810.8 million.
Diluted shares outstanding at the end of the quarter were approximately 810.1 million.
And lastly our debt-to-capitalization ratio was 16%.
Copies of the press release announcing our third quarter earnings and the investor relations supplemental schedules are available on our website at www.oxy.com or through the SEC's EDGAR system.
At this time I'll turn the call over to Steve Chazen to discuss an update on our strategy our operations and also provide guidance for the fourth quarter of the year.
Thank you Cynthia.
Oxy's domestic oil and gas segment produced record volumes for the eighth consecutive quarter and continued to execute in our liquids production growth strategy.
In the third quarter domestic production of 469 000 barrel equivalents per day consisting of 334 000 barrels of liquids and 812 million cubic feet of gas per day was an increase of 7 000 barrel equivalents per day compared with the second quarter of 2012.
The increase in domestic production over the second quarter of 2012 almost entirely in oil which grew from 249 000 barrels a day to 260 000.
Gas production declined 28 million cubic feet of gas per day on a sequential quarterly basis mainly in California some of which was due to the initial startup issues of the new gas plant that Cynthia mentioned.
Compared with the third quarter of 2011 our domestic production grew by 8% or 33 000 barrels a day of which 30 000 a day was oil production growth.
Our annualized return on equity for the first 9 months of 2012 was 15% and return on capital employed was 13%.
As we near the end of 2012 I want to take this opportunity to reflect on our strategy our progress and our future.
As a company we continue to have 3 main objectives: Generate rates of return on invested capital significantly in excess of our cost of capital achieve moderate growth of the business and deliver continued dividend growth.
With regards to returns we don't believe that a depleting or shrinking business or selling profitable future opportunities to fund high-decline production can yield high rates of return.
One can reduce spending to achieve short-term higher returns but these returns would not be sustainable as the company would deplete.
Our business model is to balance the need for growth of the business while maintaining attractive returns.
We are currently in an investing phase in many of our businesses where higher-than-normal portion of our capital is spent on longer-term projects.
This year we expect to spend approximately 25% of our total capital expenditures on future growth projects that will contribute to our operations over the next several years.
These expenditures include: Capital for the Al Hosn Shah gas project which we expect to start production in late 2014; capital for gas and CO2 processing plants and pipelines to maintain or expand the capacity of these facilities to handle future production increases; part of the capital for the chemical segment and other items.
In our oil and gas business we have built a portfolio of assets that allow us to execute this strategy.
Domestically and internationally we have a business mix of both higher return assets and higher growth assets.
Importantly many of our higher growth assets are relatively early in their development although we have already experienced meaningful success.
In the U.S.
our Permian CO2 operations continue to be our most profitable business generating the highest free cash flow after capital among our entire portfolio of assets.
In contrast our Permian non-CO2 business is one of the fastest growing assets in our entire portfolio.
Since we've began significant delineation and development efforts in late 2010 we have grown production by over 25%.
As a result of the significant activity by us and our partners our Permian acreage where we believe resource development is likely has grown from our estimate of about 3 million gross acres earlier in the year to about 4.8 million acres in October.
Oxy's share of this acreage grew from about 1 million acres to about 1.7 million acres during the same period.
The attached conference call presentation slide shows our current acreage position in the Permian.
In California we have a very large acreage position with diverse geological characteristic and numerous reservoir targets.
As a result development opportunities range from conventional to steam floods to water floods and shale drilling.
The drilling cost and expected ultimate recoveries also vary for each area.
In mid-2010 we shifted our development program to conventional and unconventional opportunities outside the traditional and more mature Elk Hills areas.
As a result we have experienced strong production growth in these new areas although traditional Elk Hills had experienced some decline.
As you can see on the attached conference call presentation slide traditional Elk Hills production dropped from 41 000 barrels per day in the fourth quarter of 2010 to 37 000 in the third quarter of 2012.
Liquids production growth in the rest of California more than offset this decline during the same period growing from 49 000 barrels a day to 69 000.
Traditional Elk Hills gas production declined from 22 000 equivalent barrels per day to 19 000 during the same period which was mostly offset by an increase in gas production in the rest of California from 21 000 equivalent barrels a day to 23 000.
Recently we further modified our programs to emphasize oil production in light of depressed gas prices and associated liquids.
As a result gas production in all of California declined in the third quarter of this year.
Total California growth on a BOE basis is slower than we thought it would be in part due to the higher-than-expected declines at Elk Hills permitting issues and more recently low gas prices.
On a positive note overall performance of the new resources has been consistent with expectations including our unconventional opportunities for which well performance is similar to the type curves we showed you a couple of years ago.
I would also note that over the last several years we spent $370 million on the new Elk Hills gas plant.
The plant went into operation in early July and not withstanding initial startup issues is positively affecting our operational efficiency and production including higher liquids yields.
The plant operated optimally for about 1 month in the last quarter and has been operating as expected since.
We will continue to focus on higher return low-cost opportunities in California and as I mentioned this is a very diverse opportunity set.
For example one of the projects we haven't talked about much in the past is a major steam flood project in Lost Hills.
We expect to achieve significant production growth about 15 000 barrels a day in several years from the current 4 000 barrel a day rate.
Total oil in place is estimated to be about 500 million barrels.
Using reasonable assumptions we expect to recover over 50 million barrels net to Oxy.
Our drilling cost in this area average in the low $200 000 per well and we expect to bring this average cost down over time.
In the Williston basin in North Dakota we currently have over 310 000 net acres of significant resource potential which we estimate to be about 250 million net barrels.
Our production in the basin has tripled since we entered the area over 1.5 years ago.
We have recently slowed our drilling activity and significantly reduced our rig count in the basin as a result of cost pressures.
While well costs have subsequently declined modestly we will only increase our rig count when costs come down enough to make returns competitive with the rest of our portfolio.
We believe that over the long term our resource base in the Williston basin represents a significant opportunity for the company.
In the Mid-Continent including our assets in South Texas we have significantly reduced our gas drilling.
However we could ramp up our gas production rapidly and meaningfully if prices for gas and liquids improved from their current level on a sustained basis.
Internationally our most significant businesses are in the Middle East region where our operations are characterized by limited duration contracts with high rates return on invested capital during the contract term.
Our primary focus in the Middle East is United Arab Emirates Oman and Qatar which includes Dolphin.
Most of our international capital is allocated to these countries and we derive a very substantial portion of our international earnings and free cash flow after capital from Qatar and Oman.
Going forward the UAE where we are developing the Al Hosn gas project is also expected to make a significant contribution to earnings and free cash flow.
The Al Hosn gas project is approximately 61% complete and is progressing as planned.
The project made up about 11% of our total capital program for the first 9 months of this year.
While capital spending is running higher for 2012 than our initially anticipated levels total development capital for the project is expected to be in line with previous estimates.
Currently the Al Hosn project is consuming sizable amounts of capital during its development phase.
We expect to see a significant shift in late 2014 when the project changes from being a cash consumer to a cash generator.
Once the project becomes operational early free cash flow should generate -- should be approximately $600 million annually at roughly current oil prices and conservative sulfur prices.
The project has the potential for additional production in later years which would significantly increase its cash flow.
We're going to spend approximately $1.2 billion on the Al Hosn project this year.
Once the project becomes operational our free cash flow should increase by the difference in the capital -- between capital consumption and generation.
Based on our 2012 capital spend for the project this would equate to a $1.8 billion increase in our annual cash flow.
Lastly we are focusing on improving our returns through a comprehensive effort to reduce operating expenses and improve capital efficiency.
As we indicated in the past our operating costs have been increasing for some time for a variety of reasons: including industry inflation; our desire to take advantage of high product prices by accelerating production through workovers which pay for themselves over a short period of time; and our recent rapid growth which has caused some short-term inefficiencies.
We are embarking on an aggressive plan to improve our operational efficiencies over all cost categories including capital with a view to achieve an appreciable reduction in our operating expenses and our drilling cost to at least last year's levels.
We believe that we will start seeing the benefit of this plan clearly in the first quarter of 2013 and achieve last year's cost levels by the end of the next year on a run rate basis.
Several initiatives have already begun and we are seeing good early results.
For example during the third quarter we reduced our drilling cost by over 15% in parts of Elk Hills.
Our goal next year is to reduce U.S.
well costs by about this amount.
I will now turn to guidance for the fourth quarter.
Our fourth quarter capital spending will slow from the third quarter level to a run rate that we believe will be in line with next year's total capital program.
Our intention was to reduce capital spending meaningfully starting in the third quarter.
However this would have resulted in inefficiency in areas where we were seeing positive results such as the Permian parts of California and Oman.
As we discussed in prior quarters we are sharply reducing our pure gas drilling and have more recently cut back our drilling in certain liquids-rich areas as well.
We are also in the process of eliminating our less productive rigs to improve our returns.
Our focus on much higher-return oil drilling will result in a decline in our gas and to a much lesser extent NGL production in the future.
Turning to production expectations in the fourth quarter.
Over the last year we achieved our goal of increasing domestic production by 6 000 to 8 000 barrels equivalent per day quarter-over-quarter.
We expect our fourth quarter oil production to grow by about this much.
However the expected decline in gas production resulting from the change in our capital program focus I discussed earlier may offset some of the increased oil production on an equivalent barrels per day basis.
Internationally at current prices we expect production to be approximately flat with the third quarter while sales volumes will increase slightly.
We expect fourth quarter exploration expense to be about $100 million for seismic and drilling in our exploration program.
The fourth quarter is typically the chemical segment's weakest quarter.
We estimate fourth quarter earnings will be about $140 million or slightly lower than the third quarter.
Along with seasonal factors weak global demand from the European and Asian economies and rising natural gas costs will keep pressure on the margins.
We expect the worldwide tax rate for the fourth quarter in 2012 to increase to about 40% to 41%.
In closing we believe that we have a deep portfolio of development opportunities that will allow us to continue to deliver returns that are 5 to 6 points above our cost of capital.
Total return to our shareholders is a combination of appreciation in stock price and dividends.
We have long believed that the job of management is to convert earnings that are retained into stock market value.
For example if we retain $1 billion we should be able to give the shareholders at least $1 billion increase in the market value of the company.
Historically we have generated closer to $1.5 in value for each $1 kept.
This is a challenging proposition over time as the company continues to grow.
An old Wall Street maxim is that "The market is a voting machine over the short term but a weighing machine over time." We hope that this is true as we firmly believe that our program of investing in a longer-than-usual for us timeframe will reap rewards for our shareholders.
If for some reason our investment plans do not generate acceptable stock market results over the next few months we will return more of our retained earnings to our shareholders.
We have increased our dividends at a compounded rate of 15.8% over the last 10 years through 11 dividend increases.
We expect to increase our dividends again next year and in the future at a rate that would maximize return to our shareholders.
I think we're now ready to take your questions.
[Operator Instructions] And your first question comes from Doug Terreson of ISI.
Research Division</strong> Your emphasis on returns on capital was pretty clear from today's comments.
And on this point I wanted to better understand the point about achieving 2011 cost levels by the end of '13.
First is is that the correct interpretation? And if so does that imply the pretax cost savings will be above $1 billion maybe $1.5 billion? And if so are there some specific compartments from which those cost savings will emanate that you can highlight to us today? Yes there's 2 elements of the cost saving.
One is operating cost.
And I think it's fairly straightforward to take the current $15 rate and subtract from last year's number and multiply by 275 million barrels which is roughly the annual production.
That will give you an idea of sort of the savings.
I hope to beat that frankly.
We should be able to but I think that's what we're going to say for now.
There may be some G&amp;A savings too but we haven't really baked that in.
On the capital I think it's fairly straightforward to say that the capital program for the U.S.
business if we say 15% on wells the capital for the U.S.
business will decline sort of by that amount.
So with the cash flow savings you're right about where that will be.
We may decline the U.S.
business by more than that frankly.
But it just depends on how well they're converting dollars into returns.
We can delay drilling where the returns aren't as good as we would like and I'm going to be more aggressive in the capital program than I've been in the last year.
So a lot more negative feedback to the unit.
So I think you should look to lower capital levels next year for the U.S.
business.
International business is a little more complicated because a lot of that's really not in our control but similar levels.
About the only increased area I see is in the midstream where we're going to build a pipeline from our gathering system and our pipelines in the West Texas to the Houston area and that will cost us about $400 million.
And we hope to capture a fair amount of the differential and improve our returns that way.
But we're going to focus a lot more starting this quarter but in the quarters ahead on improving the returns and translating more of the volume growth into profits.
Your next question comes from Doug Leggate of Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> Steve I've got a couple if I may.
The first one is really on your very last comment about -- I don't want to paraphrase you too badly here but if your current strategy doesn't translate to shareholder returns or better shareholder return to the share price I guess you're going to take a different track.
Can I just ask you to elaborate on that a little bit because obviously there has been as you're well aware material underperformance of the stock.
And I'm just wondering how tolerant you're going to be of that on a go-forward basis before...
Not too tolerant I think is the short answer.
I don't know whether -- I don't know the form it will take.
But dividends are the easiest form because that way everybody knows.
They actually get the check.
If the stock is trading at crummy levels there'll be more emphasis on share repurchase than we've done historically.
But my tolerance level is modest.
If we don't see -- if I don't see real improvements in the returns in the next couple of quarters strategy will change.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
My follow-up is really as you're well aware there's been a fair amount of -- I'm not going to call it misinformation but there's been a lot of questions on specifically around the California assets given perhaps the fact that you haven't given a lot of disclosure.
I'm curious when you talk about reallocating capital if your type curves are still per your presentation in 2010 and your liquids mix is as per your presentation and of course your costs presumably are down and now you've got the gas plant I could go on and on and on about all the things that have lined up here.
It seems to us anyway that those have got to be some of the more compelling returns in the portfolio.
So I'll just ask you to explain why are you not getting after that a little more aggressively now that you've got the gas plant in place the cost down and so on and accumulated permits in place? And I'll leave it at that.
Yes.
The permitting process well is working pretty well in the fields that is the existing fields.
Extending beyond the fields is still slow.
And so and some of the plants -- there's some air quality permits that are slow in coming.
The permitting process is a lot better say in Elk Hills field or Buena Vista field or some of the other fields.
Outside of the field it's still slower than it used to be.
The only way I can assure that there's -- getting the squeal out of every dollar that they spend is to tighten their capital rather than give them more money.
And so they will probably suffer less in the capital tightening but they can still take their costs down considerably.
And the more capital -- I don't know how to say it but discourages prudent spending.
So I think their capital program will not be as affected as some others but will still be affected some.
And there are clearly some efficiencies that are needed there.
I think they're operating costs are way too high and they need to bring their operating cost by a whole bunch.
And I understand that -- and to some extent I'm pushed and pulled.
I got half the shareholders think I should spend $2 billion a year on capital and the other half think I should spend $20 billion a year.
So I'm trying to maybe probably unsuccessfully sort of weave our way through that.
But I think that -- if this thing doesn't -- if they don't get their operating cost down which is what I'm most focused on because that translates immediately to profits then I'm going to continue to tighten there and there'll be some other changes there in the business unit.
The same thing frankly in the Permian where their operating costs are still too high.
And the operating costs affect the profits right away and affects our cash flow right away.
The capital affects it over time and our drilling -- we're simplifying our program we'll be drilling fewer different types of wells next year and that should make us more efficient.
I think we can improve the capital efficiency a fair amount.
But where I'm looking for it is is in the operating costs because there I can affect it more quickly.
And if they don't do it soon there's going to be widespread changes in the operation.
Research Division</strong> Let me ask you a very quick follow-up.
There seems to be a perception that you've got something pardon me for being direct but you've got something to hide in California with your failure to be more transparent.
Would you care to address that? And then I'll leave it at that.
Yes sure.
I think the way -- I've tried to think about how to show this.
We're effectively the only one drilling in California.
So you can't look at somebody else which is what you can do in the Permian or something like that.
We show you the actual -- again this quarter we take out old Elk Hills and we show you the growth in the other business.
That's really the best way to look at the total business.
The acquisition program doesn't add much in California because there really isn't any volumes to buy.
And so that's growing at a very high rate and if that were a standalone business you would think it was terrific.
This is the best way to show what's going on.
There's really nothing to hide.
We aren't drilling as many shale wells as somebody would like.
And the reason is and it goes back to this capital efficiency question if I could bore you for a second.
A shale well has a very high decline rate maybe 30% 40% the first year maybe more.
Okay so I could boost this year's production by drilling a bunch of shale wells.
But in order to keep the production flat next year my capital program has to go up because I got to drill more wells.
I mean -- and so that goes against the capital efficiency that people are looking for and the free cash flow.
So I'm trying to do more conventional drilling which has a lesser decline rate to keep the capital from bloating in California and I don't want it to bloat.
There's really nothing to hide and we show you this number excluding Elk Hills.
The disappointment has been at Elk Hills where the decline rate has been worse than we thought.
And maybe the gas plant will make it better maybe it won't.
It's doing fine now and we'll just have to see.
But there's really nothing to hide.
I disclosed the Lost Hills numbers for a reason.
In some report somebody sent me I don't know where it came from the guy estimated that the Lost Hills wells were costing $3 million each.
They cost roughly $200 000 each.
So either the guy doesn't know anything about California or it was deliberately designed to make the numbers for the total of California look worse.
Did somebody think we would drill 120 wells that had a $250 breakeven? So we disclosed that.
And if you either take Lost Hills out of the numbers or put the right numbers in there it doesn't really look so bad.
While we could track the number of wells that were in that report we couldn't track the other numbers that he used.
So I don't think there's anything to hide.
We've shown you what in aggregate is going on which is all you really should care about.
Your next question comes from Ed Westlake of Crdit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> I guess I'll try another one on California.
And I know that's just because obviously there have been a lot of research reports that may or may not have been correct.
So you say that you have to reduce costs before you want to put more assets to work.
I mean is that a concern that you have of the average IPs they're not as good as you are hoping? I mean is there any statistical well data you could share with us this morning? It isn't really the IP rates.
The IP rates have actually gotten better.
The operating costs has reduced the margins to a point where they're going to overspend on operating costs and it doesn't make sense to encourage that.
And so we're not going to -- with the reductions in the capital program in the cost of the wells that they say they can achieve and that they will achieve they'll be able to drill more wells for the same money which is the true objective.
The leases aren't going anywhere.
So that's where -- I'm a steward for this money.
I'm not -- the goal is not volume growth per se but profit growth.
And we focused on volume growth and the profit growth sort of went away.
So that's not -- and California is a big piece of the total.
And you can't change the company without improving California.
So for the near term -- oil guys I think I tell people this all the time only half jokingly can only work on one thing at a time.
So if you tell them you want volume growth they'll give you volume growth but some of the other stuff doesn't show up.
And if you say well what I want is something else it's only one thing at a time.
So I guess I'm going to have to be more agile in giving them objectives.
Maybe I have to give quarterly objectives not annual ones.
But the operating costs that they're running in California doesn't make any sense to me.
They were running a lot less half 2 years ago.
And they need to be back to that.
If they do that they'll have plenty of capital to drill the wells.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then a follow-up on the CapEx side.
I mean this is focused more in the midstream.
$1.4 billion I guess this year which is obviously ramped up.
Some of that's Shah some of it's integrity in the domestic business.
But as you look at your plans and I think you said that CapEx will go up next year because you want to build this additional pipe.
But is there a year at which that as you look at the forward plans that you've done enough of that spend and it will fall to free up some free cash as well? I would -- once we're through this pipeline and the Al Hosn project the spending on the plant will basically end in 2014.
It will fall the next year.
Because you shift from a plant phase to a drilling phase.
So the actual spending on Al Hosn will decline some next year and more on the following year as you go from drilling to building out the plant.
I think Chris showed you a picture of the plant in the presentation there.
This is not a small plant.
So it's going to take -- so spending will decline some on the plant next year and by the following year it will be down considerably.
And we'll be through with the pipeline next year.
It's a 1-year program really.
So that will fall off pretty sharply.
Unless there turns out to be -- you should understand that if this arbitrage continues where you can buy oil in our pipeline system at $85 and sell it on the Gulf Coast at $100 we'll probably spend more gathering other people's oil and shipping it through our lines and that's -- until we do enough of it that the arbitrage goes away.
Your next question comes the line of Paul Sankey of Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Steve that was very interesting and your words were interesting about quite specifically if things don't change within the next few months which came not long after you had said how the market is a voting and weighing machine depending on your timeframe.
Are you saying that if the stock price doesn't improve over the -- relative performance doesn't improve over the next few months you would essentially radically change the strategy if you like the long-term strategy? Or are you saying that if you don't get the cost improvements over the next few months you would radically change your strategy? Well I think we're saying some of each.
If the relative performance doesn't improve then we'll return more money to the shareholders one way or another.
Research Division</strong> Relative stock performance? Relative stock performance.
I think it's also useful to note that we have a 75% or so correlation to WTI as a stock which is a lot more than other people.
So to some extent some of it's caused by the decline in WTI I think.
But putting that aside the costs are how I intend to make the performance of the stock do better.
So you got to say what's the tool to make it so? The tool is bringing the costs under control and improving the profitability.
If that doesn't work that is to say the profitability improves and the stock continues to be a dog then we'll have to rethink the whole thing.
Research Division</strong> To use your words that the stock's been a dog over the past year I'm not sure why you haven't for example A changed the dividend most recently but B why there's been so little buyback in the recent months? The buyback is -- basically when we know what the earnings are we stop buying back.
And so a lot of the decline for whatever reason shows up in the month before the earnings call.
But buybacks are as far as raising the dividend we raise it once a year.
And it's whatever 16% compounded growth in the dividend over a decade starting not from 0 like some companies.
So I don't know what the complaint would be.
But fundamentally dividends are raised once a year once we -- and it goes with setting the program.
So we go to the board we set the program we figure how much we're going to spend and we figure out how much the dividends go with it.
So it's all done together.
I think doing the dividends in a vacuum doesn't give the board the kind of oversight that it should have.
Research Division</strong> No I guess my point was that your balance sheet would suggest you could do both.
I mean you could be buying back stock aggressively as well as pursuing the cost.
We could.
Research Division</strong> Now in the past you've talked about I guess this is going to be a pretty obvious answer but in the past you said you have a vision of the value of the stock on any given day.
And I think what you're saying obviously is that you feel it's poorly valued relative to what you think it's really worth.
But again I still don't understand why the buyback has been so muted given that.
The buyback is done on a formula basis.
And if -- at the current levels our current levels this morning anyway when I woke up you get one set of numbers at higher levels you basically buy less back.
If you look at the -- we don't look at relative performance when we do the share buyback.
The share buyback is against absolute value.
And so the lower the stock falls the more shares are bought back.
Research Division</strong> Right.
And then finally for me it sounds like the action you would take would be a radical let's say radical I don't know if that's the right word financial approach probably cutting CapEx aggressively probably significantly raising the dividend possibly buying back stock.
Is there an alternate strategy that would be for example to split the company sell the company anything in  the other direction? I don't know if anybody's got enough money to buy it.
Research Division</strong> Then I'll ask about splitting.
Splitting you got to be -- if you split it you really have to have assets that would be valued materially differently than the overall.
And it's very difficult right now to see -- I don't know what an international business would trade for.
So I think that before you go down the splitting the company route you got to see whether -- you got to see whether you can bring your costs under control.
Research Division</strong> And the last very last one for me would you consider special dividends or do you want to make those a regular? Regular dividends work better.
Your next question comes from Arjun Murti of Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Steve just kind of following up on that last point there.
So if there's the possibility if the underperformance continues that you cut CapEx and raise the cash returns to shareholders I mean the Al Hosn project that CapEx is going to be what it's going to be.
You've added acreage in the Permian.
You've added acreage in the Bakken.
You've got a huge acreage position in California.
Presumably it doesn't make sense to just sit on these assets.
Asset sales joint ventures bringing in others to drill this stuff is that part of the plan? Practically speaking what does it really mean to cut CapEx when you've been building up these big acreage positions over the years? In the poorer performing or the lower opportunity areas you might think of doing something like that.
In the stuff that's got long term very strong potentially you don't really want to sell your futures.
So but you could cut the cap -- for example you could cut the capital.
We haven't really added much acreage in the Permian.
All we're showing you here is that the areas that we think that have resource potential have grown.
We haven't really bought the acreage.
That's just recharacterizing what we own.
You don't know but you don't really -- if you have stuff that has long-term potential you don't really want to sell your futures if you can avoid it.
But if you looked and you said well okay for the next -- you could cut the -- the U.S.
business especially long-term leases or ownership outright you could cut the capital and then as the Al Hosn project comes on in a couple of years suddenly you got a $1.8 billion swing and so you could bring your capital you could use some of that then.
So I view it as sort of a deferral mechanism rather than just sort of cutting it.
But if they can't -- if they can't generate the returns in some of the assets we might farm some out to people who might operate more efficiently.
Research Division</strong> Absolutely.
So I know you've worked on the organization over the years.
And I think it was a couple of years ago you were pretty honest about -- classically you guys are an EOR company not a shale drilling company.
You're now kind of again going after that same operational execution ability.
Do you have to acquire a company that can do this stuff for you? I mean...
No I don't think so.
It was 2 years ago we had this exact conversation in New York.
And I said that we were shifting the business from a -- for want of a better word an EOR/acquisition company to something that was more operational and more traditional.
And I said that was not going to be easy and I was right.
And we've lowered -- I don't know how to say it the average experience level I guess is the politically correct way of saying it of the people.
And so some more mistakes have been made than might otherwise have been made.
But I think we're getting there I hope we're getting there.
I'm just in a hurry because I'm older than the average.
So it's taken longer and been more difficult to change the organization to operational efficiency.
One of the issues we have is outside the United States our competitors have names like Shell and Exxon and BP and they operate differently than a small company might operate.
We spend a sizable percentage of our capital on environmental health and safety issues similar probably to the percentages that Exxon or somebody like that would in both the U.S.
and internationally.
The smaller producers simply probably doesn't do that.
And so we're never going to be the absolute best because of the fact we're more environmentally focused than some small producer can be.
On the other hand we can be a lot better than we are.
And it's been more difficult there's no question about it and it's come -- I knew it would be difficult.
And we've made a number of changes in the people that are running the assets brought more aggressive people and if need be we'll make more changes.
Research Division</strong> Just the final one on this point Steve.
I think for any larger company there's really no great examples of being able to grow at a fast rate and generating good returns.
Sometimes over a few years luck happens and it can happen.
But you've had a 5% to 8% growth objective you've historically had top quartile returns on capital is this really just an acknowledgment that having both of those goals is just not possible and you are picking returns right now? Pretty much a lot of the growth is baked in for the next few years with the capital we've invested.
But we need to do it with returns.
It isn't just about volume growth.
At some point in size the need for capital becomes so -- a typical E&amp;P today whatever they say I mean they may sell assets to fund it is spending I don't know 150% of its cash flow on capital.
We obviously aren't spending anywhere near that nor would we.
So you can't grow as quickly as they do.
We spend more on capital as a percentage than are generated [ph].
So it's attempt to do both.
I don't know where you come out in the percentages.
Obviously if we said well we're going to grow 15% a year that wouldn't be something we could do.
But we need to grow at a moderate rate because I think the business -- if you don't grow at least some and on a regular basis I don't mean by saying well in 2014 -- in 2017 we're on track for our 2017 program.
We're going to grow in 2017 meanwhile we're going to deplete 5% a year.
That's not what I call growth.
But regular growth you have a hard time attracting people investors tend not to like it they tend to compare you to basically depleting businesses.
So you got to have a fair amount of growth.
I don't know what the right percentage is.
Right now it's 5% to 8%.
We're running really about 5% currently.
And there'll be a boost in 2015 from the Al Hosn project which will bring the growth rate up.
Over a long term we're not going to just make the -- if you continue to drill high-decline wells your capital will soar because if your wells are declining 30% 40% you need huge amounts of cash to keep -- to replace the 40% and grow.
And so we're shifting the program to more stable things so we can keep the capital under control.
And that's really what we're doing underneath the hood if you were to look at it that way.
Instead of drilling as many high-decline wells we're drilling more -- we're doing more stuff that has a lesser decline rate which is what we historically did.
Your next question comes from Matthew Portillo of Tudor Pickering Holt.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just a few quick questions for me.
You mentioned that on the release the Q4 CapEx.
And I was just curious if you could give us a specific number that you're looking at for Q4 CapEx? Since my reliability on this has been crummy the only thing I'll give you is that in September we ran about 785 and we're coming -- on a month that's a monthly number.
And it's coming down from that as the wells come -- as it comes down.
So that would give you sort of a feel for it.
And I think that's a -- I've missed it so many quarters I'd just as soon not miss it one more.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Sure.
And then just on the M&amp;A front could you talk a little bit about the M&amp;A market today and kind of your interest level? It sounds like -- kind of with the packages in the market today there may not be that much interest but just curious on your views.
We always look at stuff in our core areas.
Really right now the only area I would call core right now is the Permian.
There's a rush to do -- by private people to do something by the end of the year lest their tax rates go up.
There might be some things but they would be oily and basically in the Permian if there was anything.
There's some other stuff going around it's pretty gassy.
And I'm not sure we would do that.
The market is not good for sellers particularly.
It may not be good for buyers either but it's definitely not good for sellers.
So especially for larger packages I think you can do a $100 million deal and get 25 people to bid.
At $500 million you're lucky if you attract one.
And I think that's really where the market is today where there's money for small deals and really no money for large deals.
The larger being $500 million deals.
We don't have any appetite for large-scale M&amp;A.
We've said that for several quarters.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Perfect.
And just a last question for me.
Could we get just I guess a quick update on maybe where your rig count is roughly in the Permian California and Mid-Con Bakken? And then as we think about that 2013 program can you give us just a rough direction on maybe where those are heading either up or down just directionally trying to get a better sense of that capital allocation? I don't -- as far as next year goes we sent the team back several times as you could probably tell from the tone of my voice.
So I'd hate to talk about what next year is going to look like at this point.
We've cut back materially I think in the -- Bill in the Williston how many rigs are you running? We have 4 running right now Steve.
And we peaked at? We peaked at 14.
14 so that gives you a feel for the Williston.
California it varies a lot.
We might drop -- and the type of rigs run.
And so we're running about...
20 in California.
About 20 about 20 in California.
Permian also there's been some rigs dropped and we peaked at? Peaked at around 32.
And we're sort of 1/2 that.
We're at 21 now.
21.
Okay.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> And is that just a function of kind of where we are in the capital spend for this year? Or is that really as we think about your program and I know that you said you continue to go back to the drawing board.
But just trying to get a sense of is that activity going to accelerate a little bit into next year or you're pretty happy with the level? I think the way I'm thinking about it at this point is is that more or less going into next year it's going to look like this.
My current plan would be to withhold a fair amount of capital from the units that is drilling at these levels.
Until I can see which units are doing well and which ones are not.
And those that do well will get some more rigs to run and those that don't won't.
And so I think going into the first quarter you'll see sort of this level because that's the way we sort of manage it at this point.
Beyond that we'll just see.
Your next question comes from Faisel Khan of Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> I'm just trying to reconcile some of the comments you made on California.
My understanding is the opportunity in California for you is supposed to have amongst the lowest breakeven sort of oil prices in those sort of projects or those sort of wells that you're drilling but CapEx is running about $2 billion a year.
You seem to say you're having higher declines in Elk Hills and costs in California are higher and it seems like you're trying to rein in some of those costs.
So what is it that's -- if this is such a great opportunity what is the -- is it now what you thought it was 2 years ago when you first started out on the program? The operating costs have doubled.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So is the resource opportunity not the same also? No.
The resource opportunity's the same.
It's the cost to extract it.
And if you thought that was fundamental that's one thing.
And then you say well okay.
But it's not I think it's fixable.
Research Division</strong> Does that mean the F&amp;D cost that you kind of talked about maybe a couple years ago of $5 a barrel $10 a barrel are more like closer to $20 right now in the current environment? They're below $20.
But they've come up with the well costs.
And so they need to bring those down closer to where we were and they need to bring their operating costs down.
And the only way to do that is not to give more money to drill wells even though the wells are economic more than economic.
Gas prices here are a little higher than the rest of the country and oil prices are higher.
To throw more money at it is simply the wrong solution.
Research Division</strong> Sure I understand that.
And the rig count in California is 20 rigs now? Weren't you at 35 kind of a little bit earlier in the year? So it sounds like you've done like an about-face on that program.
It was around 30.
Around 30.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So within a short period of time you've cut 10 rigs out of the operation? Because we didn't like the cost of the wells.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And once again the type of wells that you're drilling this is all kind of the same depth homogeneous sort of opportunities? Or is it kind of different opportunities spread across? It's different opportunities.
And again as I said earlier we shifted the program to lower decline wells.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So I mean the shale program that you guys had outlined before has kind of been pulled back? Some not a lot.
Research Division</strong> And the exploration program that you guys were running in California? The exploration program has been slowed by the permitting process.
We're well behind on the exploration program by the way.
So we're 2 years behind where we thought we'd be.
Research Division</strong> And then if I were to look at your returns on capital employed you're talking about a 13% sort of number for 2012.
How would that split between international and domestic? I don't know.
International generates higher returns on capital employed.
And that's really -- that's how the company is structured.
I said it from the beginning the high returns on invested capital come out of the international business the highest.
And in domestic business -- because the leases are forever and then the oil in the international business are basically cut off by the life of the contract so the upside if you will in the reservoirs over time and the long-term product price goes largely to the country but you generate good returns meanwhile.
Domestically you get to keep all that.
So you generate more money domestically but the returns are less.
And that's the balance in the company and that's how you generate the above-average returns compared to an E&amp;P which are well into the mid-single digits.
Research Division</strong> Okay fair enough.
And then the last question for me so going into next year given this focus on returns and given where the rig count is do you still think you can grow production year-over-year? Yes.
Your final question comes from John Herrlin of Societe Generale.
Just a few quick ones.
You've been complaining about returns now for several quarters.
Why weren't you more proactive with the organization or why do you it just takes them that long to react? I don't know.
I don't know why I wasn't -- it wasn't that I didn't try it just didn't -- apparently it didn't translate.
Okay that's fine.
And I've made some changes in the management structure.
Yes.
Regarding the Permian you had about a 36% working interest.
Given the potential there why not higher because it seems like it's probably kind of your historic level? Sorry? With the Permian acreage your working interest was about 36%.
Oh I see.
The gross and net using the play acreage.
Yes correct.
Why not higher because it seems like it's probably more your historic level? Yes.
It would be nice if it were higher.
We acquired some properties in the last couple of years in the areas that we historically hadn't been active and those tended to be smaller interest.
So you wound up with a lower average working interest in the new plays and that's really -- it's just a result.
We would like to have higher interest.
In the end when you drill a well you might wind up with a higher interest by the way.
Sure.
Last one for me is on the Bakken.
You've also kind of complained about those operations as well.
Is that really critical to you going forward long term? I think in the remarks I pointed out the large amount of resource base there.
I believe that the product prices on a relative basis have improved recently.
One of the issues is at least partially on its way to resolution.
The other issue is that the wells cost too much and we need large-scale reductions in the cost.
If we can get the large-scale reductions then the assets clearly -- an asset we could -- that will be fine.
If you can't achieve the large-scale reductions in costs that are required then it's something for study.
And with that I will hand the floor back over to Christopher Stavros for closing remarks.
Thanks everyone for dialing in this afternoon.
And I expect you'll be calling us here in New York.
Thanks.
Thank you.
This does conclude today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good afternoon.
My name is Christie and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Occidental Petroleum Fourth Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the call over to Christopher Stavros.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Christie.
Good morning and welcome everyone and thank you for participating in Occidental Petroleum's Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
Joining us on the call this morning from Los Angeles we have quite a sizable group: Steve Chazen Oxy's President and Chief Executive Officer; Cynthia Walker Oxy's Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; Bill Albrecht President of Oxy's Oil and Gas Operation in the Americas; Sandy Lowe President of our International Oil and Gas Business; Willie Chiang Executive Vice President of Operations and Head of Oxy's Midstream Businesses; and our Executive Chairman of the Board Dr.
Ray Irani.
In just a moment I will turn the call over to our CFO Cynthia Walker who will review our financial and operating results for last year's fourth quarter and full year 2012.
Steve Chazen will then follow with comments on our plan to improve our operational efficiencies and reduce our operating costs a discussion of our capital program for this year as well as our outlook for production and also some preliminary data of our year-end oil and gas reserves.
As a reminder today's conference call contains projections and other forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws.
These statements are subject to known and unknown risks and uncertainties that may cause our actual results to differ from those expressed or implied in such statements and our filings.
Our fourth quarter 2012 earnings press release Investor Relations supplemental schedules and conference call presentation slides which refer to both Cynthia's and Steve's comments can be downloaded off of our website at www.oxy.com.
I'll now turn the call over to Cynthia Walker.
Cynthia please go ahead.
Thank you Chris and good morning everyone.
Core income was $1.5 billion or $1.83 per diluted share in the fourth quarter of 2012 compared with $1.6 billion or $2.02 per diluted share in the fourth quarter of 2011 and $1.4 billion or $1.70 per diluted share in the third quarter of 2012.
The improvement from the third quarter reflected the effect of higher liquids production higher realized NGL and domestic gas prices and reduced operating expenses in the oil and gas business.
It's partially offset by lower earnings in the midstream segment.
In the fourth quarter we recorded pretax charges of $1.8 billion representing $1.1 billion after-tax or $1.41 per diluted share.
Almost all of the charges were for impairments in the oil and gas Mid-Continent business units over 90% of which were related to the natural gas properties that we acquired more than 4 years ago on average.
While the performance of the properties was generally as expected natural gas prices have declined by approximately 50% since the acquisitions.
Also in 2012 natural gas prices and NGL prices used for reserve calculations were significantly lower than prices used in 2011 resulting in declines in economically feasible reserves in these properties.
In addition despite the recent modest increase in natural gas prices drilling in many of the gassy areas remains uneconomic.
As a result we continue to operate at minimal levels in these areas as we've communicated previously.
The charges related to the natural gas properties reflect the impairment of such properties to approximate fair value.
Net income after the fourth quarter charge was $336 million or $0.42 per diluted share.
I will now discuss the segment breakdown for results of the fourth quarter.
Oil and gas earnings for the fourth quarter of 2012 excluding the charge were $2.3 billion compared to $2 billion in the third quarter of 2012 and $2.5 billion in the fourth quarter of 2011.
We delivered a quarter-over-quarter improvement despite a decline in WTI prices as a result of higher liquids production higher realized NGL and domestic gas prices and importantly lower operating expenses.
Oil and gas production costs were $14.99 per barrel for the 12 months of 2012 compared with $12.84 per barrel for the full year 2011.
Our fourth quarter production costs were $14.95 per barrel which was $1.04 per barrel lower than the third quarter level.
I would note that these reductions occurred during the course of the quarter and our year-end exit rate on a per-barrel basis was lower than the fourth quarter 2011 average and well below the fourth quarter 2012 level.
This gives us confidence in our operational efficiency efforts as we begin 2013.
Steve will review the drivers of the performance and our expectations for 2013 in more detail.
The fourth quarter 2012 total daily production on a BOE basis was 779 000 barrels a new record set by the company.
This was up 13 000 barrels per day from the third quarter of 2012 and up 4% from the fourth quarter of 2011.
Our domestic production was 475 000 barrels per day an increase of 6 000 barrels per day for the third quarter of 2012 and now the ninth consecutive quarter of domestic volume production.
Production for the -- Production was 6% higher for the fourth quarter of 2011 almost all of the net sequential quarterly increase in production came from oil in California and the Permian Basin.
Domestic gas production was down slightly from the third quarter which was offset by higher liquids production resulting from higher yields from our new Elk Hills gas plant.
Latin America volumes were 32 000 barrels per day which was flat compared to the prior quarter in the same period in 2011.
In the Middle East production was 272 000 barrels per day an increase of 7 000 barrels per day from the third quarter of 2012.
Higher spending levels in Iraq and Oman resulted in 8 000 barrels per day higher production.
Dolphin production as with the last quarter was lower due to the full cost recovery of pre-startup capital.
Other factors affecting production sharing and similar contracts including oil prices did not significantly impact this quarter's production volumes compared to the fourth quarter of 2011 or the third quarter of 2012.
Further details regarding other country-specific production levels are available in the Investor Relations supplemental schedules that we provide.
Fourth quarter realized prices were mixed for our products compared to the third quarter of the year.
Our worldwide crude oil realized price was $96.19 per barrel a slight decrease from the third quarter while worldwide NGL prices were $45.08 per barrel an increase of about 11%.
And domestic natural gas prices were $3.09 per million cubic feet an improvement of 25%.
Fourth quarter 2012 realized prices were lower than the prior year fourth quarter prices for all of our products.
On a year-over-year basis price decreases were 3% for worldwide crude oil 18% for worldwide NGLs and 14% for domestic natural gas.
Realized oil prices for the quarter represented 109% of the average WTI price and 87% of the average Brent price.
Realized NGL prices were 51% of the average WTI price and realized domestic gas prices were 92% of the average NYMEX price.
At current global prices a $1 per barrel change in oil prices affects our quarterly earnings before income taxes by $37 million and $7 million for a $1 per barrel change in NGL prices a change in domestic gas prices of $0.50 per million BTUs affects pretax earnings by about $30 million.
These price change sensitivities include the impact of production sharing and similar contract volume changes.
Taxes other than on income were generally related -- which are generally related to product prices were $2.39 per barrel for the full year of 2012 compared to $2.21 per barrel for the full year of 2011.
Fourth quarter exploration expense was $82 million.
We expect first quarter 2013 exploration expense to be about $90 million for seismic and drilling in our exploration programs.
Our fourth quarter DD&amp;A rate was $14.47 per barrel and we expect full year 2013 to be approximately $17 per barrel.
In the chemical segment earnings for the fourth quarter of 2012 were $180 million compared to $162 million in the third quarter of 2012 and $144 million for the fourth quarter of 2011.
The sequential quarterly improvement reflected higher caustic soda and PVC prices partially offset by higher energy and feedstocks.
The year-over-year increase reflected higher export volumes for caustic soda and VCM and lower feedstock cost.
For the first quarter of 2013 chemical segment earnings are expected to be about $150 million.
Typical weak seasonal demand particularly in the construction and agricultural market segments combined with the recent increases in ethylene and natural gas costs may tighten margins in the first quarter.
Midstream segment earnings were $75 million for the fourth quarter of 2012 compared to $156 million in the third quarter of 2012 and $70 million in the fourth quarter of 2011.
The 2012 sequential quarterly decrease in earnings was caused by lower marketing and trading foreign pipeline and power generation earnings.
The worldwide effective tax rate on core income was 37% for the fourth quarter of 2012.
The rate was lower than the prior quarter and our guidance largely due to a higher portion of domestic income in the fourth quarter than foreign income.
Our fourth quarter U.S.
and foreign tax rates are included in the Investor Relations supplemental schedules.
We expect our combined worldwide tax rate for the first quarter of 2013 to increase to about 40%.
Now turning to cash flow.
In the 12 months of 2012 we generated $12.1 billion of cash flow from continuing operations before changes in working capital.
Working capital changes reduced our full year cash flow from operations approximately $800 million to $11.3 billion.
Capital expenditures for the 12 months of 2012 were $10.2 billion of which $2.5 billion was spent in the fourth quarter.
The fourth quarter 2012 capital spend was approximately $100 million lower than the third quarter of 2012 driven by an approximately 12% reduction in oil and gas spending partially offset by increases in the chemical and midstream segments.
The higher capital at chemicals was related to the construction of a new membrane chlor-alkali plant in Tennessee which is expected to be completed by the fourth quarter of 2013.
Midstream capital was higher mainly due to the Al Hosn gas project.
Total year capital expenditures by segment were 80% in oil and gas 15% in midstream and the remainder in chemicals.
Acquisitions for the 12 months of 2012 were $2.5 billion of which $1.3 billion was spent in the fourth quarter on domestic oil and gas properties.
Financial activities which included 5 quarterly dividends paid stock buybacks and a $1.74 billion borrowing earlier this year resulted in a net use of cash of $850 million.
These and other net cash flows resulted in a $1.6 billion cash balance at December 31.
During the year we bought about 7.5 million of our own shares at a cost of approximately $580 million.
Approximately 5 million of the shares were purchased in the fourth quarter at an average price of $76.15.
The weighted average basic shares outstanding for the 12 months of 2012 were 809.3 million and the weighted average diluted shares outstanding were 810 million.
The weighted average basic shares outstanding for the fourth quarter of 2012 were 807.1 million and the weighted average diluted shares outstanding were 807.7 million.
At the end of the year we had approximately 805.5 million shares outstanding.
Our debt-to-capitalization ratio was 16% at year end.
And finally our return on equity in 2012 using core results was 14.6%.
And the return on capital employed was 12.6%.
Copies of the press release announcing our fourth quarter earnings in the Investor Relations supplemental schedules are available on our website at www.oxy.com or through the SEC's EDGAR system.
I will now turn the call over to Steve Chazen to comment on 2012 performance as well as year-end oil and gas reserves and discuss our 2013 capital program and provide guidance for the first half of the year.
Thank you Cynthia.
Oxy's oil and gas -- domestic  oil and gas segment produced record volumes for the ninth consecutive quarter and continued to execute on our oil production growth strategy.
Fourth quarter domestic production of 475 000 barrel equivalents a day consisting of 342 000 barrels of liquids and 800 million cubic feet of gas per day was an increase of 6 000 barrel equivalents per day compared to the third quarter of 2012.
The increase in our domestic production over the third quarter in 2012 almost entirely in oil which grew from 260 000 barrels a day to 265 000.
Gas production declined 12 million cubic feet a day on a sequential quarterly basis mainly in the Mid-Continent which reflects the reduction in gas-directed drilling we have mentioned over the past couple of quarters.
Higher natural gas liquids volumes resulting from better yields from our new Elk Hills gas plant offset the decline in gas production there.
Our total domestic production grew from 428 000 barrels a day in 2011 to 465 000 barrels a day in 2012 or about 9%.
Our total domestic oil production grew by 11% from 230 000 barrels a day in 2011 to 255 000 barrels a day last year.
The company's total daily production reached a record of 779 000 barrels a day in the fourth quarter and 766 000 barrels for the full year.
This resulted in a 5% increase for the year.
We have embarked on an aggressive plan to improve our operational efficiencies over all cost categories including capital with a view towards achieving an appreciable reduction in our operating expenses and drilling costs to at least 2011 levels in order to create higher margins from our production.
With regard to driving efficiencies in our cash operating costs we are running well ahead of my earlier plan.
We recognize that cost efficiency is a result of many decisions that are made at all levels of the organization in particular numerous decisions that are made at the field level.
All of our business units stepped up to the challenge of reducing our costs and involved their personnel at all levels from business unit management all the way to field level personnel to generate ideas to improve cost efficiency.
Our employees have responded well to the challenge.
The business units generated many good ideas large numbers of which were generated by field level personnel.
Many of these ideas have already been implemented and the results are apparent through reductions already realized in operating costs.
There are still many more big and small ideas that are in the process of being implemented which we believe will result in additional improvements.
In the fourth quarter the company's total production cost were $1.04 per barrel lower than the third quarter.
Improvements were realized across most business units most notably the Permian and Elk Hills.
The reductions resulted from efficiencies achieved across most cost categories including savings in surface operations reductions in the use of outside contractors curtailment of uneconomic downhole maintenance and work-over activity as well as related overhead.
In 2013 we expect to realize further improvements in all of these categories.
We expect our production cost per barrel to be under $14 in 2013 which is significantly lower than 2012 average costs.
Many of the steps already taken in the fourth quarter which is only partially reflected in the quarter's average costs along with additional measures being implemented early in the year to result in meaningful additional cost reductions in 2013 and beyond.
We are also seeing strong early results from our efforts towards improving drilling efficiency and cutting our well costs through simplification of our well design focusing on activities in fewer geologic plays and favoring high return -- higher return conventional activity.
Our goal for 2013 is to reduce our U.S.
drilling costs by 15% compared to 2012 and we are approximately halfway towards that target with further improvements expected during the next couple of quarters.
We've increased our dividends at a compounded rate of 15.8% over the last 10 years through 11 dividend increases.
We expect to announce further dividend increase after the meeting of the Board of Directors in the second quarter of February.
As a result of our consistent long-term record of growing our dividend we are proud to have been selected for inclusion in Mergent's Dividend Achievers indices for 2013.
This is a highly regarded series of indices that track companies with long -- strong long-term dividend growth.
We haven't completed our determination of our year-end reserve levels but based on our preliminary estimates we produced approximately 280 million barrels of oil equivalent in 2012.
Our total company reserve replacement category from all categories including revision was about 143% or about 400 million barrels.
Depressed domestic gas prices and changes in our plans for drilling on gas properties resulted in negative revisions to our domestic gas reserves.
Natural gas reserve reservations represented approximately 60% of the total revisions.
If gas prices recover in the future a portion of these reserves will be reinstated.
Additionally we experienced some negative revisions due to reservoir performance.
Our 2012 development program excluding acquisitions and revisions replaced about 175% of our production with about 490 million barrels of reserve adds.
Our 2012 program including acquisitions but excluding revisions of prior estimates replaced 209% of our production.
We believe these latter 2 approaches are an appropriate way to evaluating the progress of our overall program.
At year end we estimate that 72% of our total proved reserves were liquids.
Of the total reserves about 73% were proved developed reserves.
I'll now turn to our 2013 outlook.
Domestically we expect oil production for all of 2013 to grow by about 8% to 10% from the 2012 average.
With lower drilling on gas properties we expect gas and NGL production to decline somewhat.
Planned plant turnarounds in the Permian CO2 business will cause additional volatility production in the first half of the year.
Internationally at current prices we expect production to be lower in the first quarter due to a planned turnaround in Qatar.
Production should be relatively flat for the rest of the year compared to the fourth quarter although there is some possibility for growth.
In our capital program we are currently in an investing phase in many of our businesses where a higher-than-normal portion of our capital is spent on good longer-term projects.
In 2013 we expect to spend about 25% of our total capital expenditure on projects that will make a significant contributions to our earnings and cash flow over the next several years.
I previously talked about the excellent Al Hosn gas project.
We've also started the construction of the BridgeTex pipeline which we'd expect to start operations in 2014.
This pipeline is designed to deliver crude oil from West Texas to the Houston area refineries which will open up additional markets for oil from the Permian region and improve our margins.
We're also investing in gas and CO2 processing plants to expand the capacity of these facilities to handle future production plants and in a new chlor-alkali plant in the chemical business.
Our total capital spending is expected to decline by approximately 6% in 2013 to $9.6 billion from the $10.2 billion we spent in 2012.
The reduction in capital will come entirely from the oil and gas business where the fourth quarter spending rate was already close to the level planned for all of 2013.
Almost all of reductions will be made in domestic operations.
Midstream capital spending will increase mainly for the BridgeTex pipeline.
The 2013 program breakdown is expected to be 75% oil and gas 11% in the Al Hosn gas project 9% in domestic midstream and the rest in chemicals.
The following is a geographic review of the 2013 program.
In domestic oil and gas development capital will be about 46% of our total capital program.
We expect our average rig count in the United States to be about 55 rigs during 2013 compared to 64 rigs in 2012 a decline of about 14%.
We've eliminated our less productive rigs to improve our returns.
Our total domestic oil and gas capital is expected to decrease about $900 million compared to 2012.
Permian capital should remain flat.
In California we expect to reduce capital about $500 million from 2012 levels which represents ongoing well cost reductions and efficiencies and a modest shift towards more conventional drilling opportunities and the constraints of the current environment.
To improve the efficiency of our capital spending in California we have planned our 2013 program level based on what we know we can execute with our existing and the conservatively anticipated permits.
We may revise our program during the course of the year if we can gain more certainty about the environment.
In the Mid-Continent we expect to reduce spending by about $400 million from 2012 levels.
We reduced activities in higher-cost unconventional levels specifically in the Williston and the lower-return gas properties mainly in the Mid-Continent and Rockies.
The modest decline in rig levels compared with well cost reductions lead to an overall U.S.
oil and gas -- a decline in the U.S -- overall U.S.
spending compared to 2012.
However as a result of planned efficiencies we can drill a similar number of wells as we did in 2012.
Compared to 2012 split we will spend a higher percentage of our 2013 capital on oil projects.
As a result U.S.
oil production is expected to grow -- continue to grow this year.
Internationally our total Al Hosn gas project will decline modestly from 2012 levels and will make up about 11% of our total capital for the year.
While Iraq's spending levels continue to be difficult to predict reliably capital in the rest of the Middle East region is expected to be comparable to 2012 levels.
Exploration capital should decrease about 15% from 2012 levels and represent about 5% of the total capital program.
The focus of the program domestically will be in the Permian Basin and California with additional international drilling in Oman.
The midstream capital will increase by about $400 million due to the BridgeTex pipeline project.
Chemical segment will spend about $425 million which includes construction of a new 182 500 ton per year membrane chlor-alkali plant in New Johnsonville Tennessee that we expect to begin operations in the fourth quarter.
In summary assuming similar oil and gas prices into 2012 and our expectation of comparable chemical and midstream segment earnings expect our 2013 program will generate cash flow from operations of about $12.7 billion and invest about $9.6 billion in capital spending.
In 2012 we returned $2.3 billion in total cash to shareholders in the form of dividends and share repurchases excluding the fourth quarter accelerated payout.
Our dividends excluding the fourth quarter accelerated payout in 2012 was $1.7 billion.
We expect this amount to increase in 2013 on an annualized basis by amount comparable to our recent dividend growth rate.
We expected a $5 change in our realized oil prices will change cash flow from operations by about $450 million.
We're now ready to take your questions.
[Operator Instructions] And your first question comes from Doug Terreson of ISI.
Research Division</strong> Steve it sounds like the teams have been very successful in identifying some of these expense opportunities and at a pretty surprising pace.
So my question is whether or not their early success indicates that there may be greater potential than you guys had originally envisioned? And you talked about several cross-categories in your commentary and the second question is were you surprised by the opportunities in particular areas or were the savings fairly broad based and spread out? Bill will answered in more detail.
But on the overview we've been -- I think both Bill and I have been stunned by how the people especially in the field operations have responded to this.
So a lot of great ideas some of them maybe a little off in left field but a lot of great ideas.
And so we've been very pleased with this.
I think Bill can give -- and it's really spread over a lot of categories.
There's no one thing we can point out and say it was caused by this or that.
And I think maybe I'll let Bill talk about it here for a minute because Bill's been out talking to the people in the field.
Doug can you hear me? Hello? Okay.
Very good.
Like Steve said these savings have been generated both on the capital side as well as the operating cost side.
And on the capital side as Steve mentioned in his remarks we're well on our way to achieving our targets.
We're about halfway home on the capital side.
And on the operating expense side which is where our field people really do come into play and very important that those folks that are closest to the well had embraced this they really have.
I mean we're actually more than 50% toward our goal on the operating expense side more like 2/3 of the way there.
And it's across a lot of different categories.
Just top to bottom not just one specific thing.
I'd like to go back Doug.
I mean the goal here is not just cutting the costs but making more margin.
And so it isn't just about you cut the cost by closing down a facility or something but the goal is creating more margins so so far we haven't seen any reduction in our production as a result of this.
Your next question comes from Evan Calio of Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> It's actually Drew Venker.
I just wanted to ask you guys there's been a number of shareholder initiatives in the past few months targeted mainly at option companies revolving around separating business lines to boost valuation.
So one could argue that your chemicals and midstream business could receive a similar valuation uplift? What are your thoughts around separating those segments from the upstream? We're open to any ideas that will generate real value.
The midstream segment is I hate to use the bad word but integrated with our mostly Permian operations.
And we believe that our oil company gets better prices for the product the oil.
And putting it in a form where some third party shared in that may not be the best thing to do.
Chemical companies -- this is a chlorine and caustic business -- chemical companies as a [indiscernible] group don't generate huge multiples.
So I mean there's other things people could talk about doing that -- and we look at all this stuff regularly to see whether there's real value here that could be created.
So both Ray and I are large shareholders in the business.
We're not here to collect salaries.
And so from our perspective most of our net worth or at least I'll say it for me is tied up in this.
So from our perspective we're perfectly aligned with the shareholders in this.
And our goal is to make the shareholder -- the stock go up and increase our net worth that way rather than through 5% increase in our salary or something.
So I think that -- I think we're perfectly aligned.
A lot of people I know in the business don't have a lot of stock but we're perfectly aligned on this and we continue to look at things that make sense that will increase value.
But those 2 segments are small compared to the total and so -- but I'd be very cautious about the midstream because it's so heavily integrated into our margins in the Permian.
Because one of the advantage we have in the Permian is we control our own infrastructure and to be a fiduciary -- you still could control it.
Being a fiduciary is not necessarily what you want to be.
We can -- Willie -- Willie Chiang who runs that business can maybe talk about it a little bit.
I'll may make a comment on just the what we're seeing in the fourth quarter and first quarter.
The differentials you can see how they've been significantly depressed fourth quarter because of turnarounds and pipeline maintenance out of the Permian we were seeing significant discounts.
And I think a good example of what Steve talked about is our project that we're working with Magellan on BridgeTex to get access to the Gulf Coast through Colorado City which is essentially midland.
And as you all well know when you have constrained supply that's not a good thing.
So price signals work infrastructure gets built and we're able to match supply with demand and get access to other markets.
And I think to do that without control in a midstream company is a little more difficult but we see it as a real real advantage that we have.
Your next question comes from Doug Leggate of Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> A couple please Steve.
Steve on the cost cutting you signaled earlier this year the competitive conference side of this had been going.
But a couple of months ago when I had the opportunity to travel with you you also signaled that you've had a 50% increase in cash OpEx between first quarter of '11 and the third quarter of '12.
And I suggest there could be a lot further to go.
Could you give us an idea of just how you're feeling about getting back to that early '11 cash OpEx numbers as a stretch goal and then what you might do with the incremental cash flow that clearly would be quite significant coming out of that? And I have a follow-up please.
Yes I hate to overpromise here so I think we'll stick with our current outlook.
We've been -- both Bill and I have been surprised and even -- and in Sandy's operations too.
I'm surprised at a lot of the ideas that have been generated.
So while I'm I don't know if the word is euphoric; for me euphoric about what we're doing I just don't want to get ahead of ourselves.
We'll deliver what we say and hopefully a bit more.
I really don't want to go into overstating it but it's certainly looking very strong right now.
What are we going to do with the cash? We talked about this forever.
When the stock was poor after the last call we took -- we stepped up and bought a fair number of shares.
And had I known it was going to respond so quickly to stock I would have bought more shares admittedly.
But my ability to predict the stock price is modest on a good day.
So there could be some of that.
There could be higher dividend growth.
But the goals are still the same.
When the stock price doesn't reflect the reality of the business that'll be used.
And when people get negative about the stock for usually short-term reasons we'll deal with that.
And dividends are important part of the business.
So exactly what we're going to do I don't know.
But even with the numbers I've given you you should understand with the numbers of the cash from operations less the capital there's $3.1 billion of difference and that's really last year's product prices.
And that I think I've been reasonable if you will in figuring that number out.
So I think that with the dividends taking a little more than half of that it still leaves a fair amount left and I would expect over time that number will widen.
The Al Hosn project which if somebody asked about it we'll get Sandy to talk about it the Al Hosn product is going to add a lot of cash flow to the company and obviously reduce our capital spend.
So as we look forward to 2015 and late 2014 maybe but 2015 for sure company's cash flow will grow.
We can't treat our business the same as the small producer.
Small producer takes all his money and drills wells with it.
So his current production may look a little better.
But we have to spend a fair amount of our money on the long term and the projects like Al Hosn and maybe additional projects in the Middle East will help our business over time and you suffer a little bit now.
But on the long run these are things that build the company out.
So if that answers your question.
Research Division</strong> That was a very long answer but yes it answered.
My follow-up will be a little quicker.
The transition to a little bit more conventional drilling in California I guess this is kind of a bread-and-butter exploration you guys talked about a couple of years ago.
Can you just elaborate a little bit as to what you're seeing in terms of the split of activity and what expectations you have out of that program? I'll leave it there.
It's a slight shift actually.
It's not a huge shift.
The program -- one of the issues we had -- I had really last year was that as we tried to boost the program we couldn't really -- we counted on being able to drill.
And if we didn't get the permit or whatever you wound up with a fair amount of rig inefficiency because you couldn't drill the rig.
You couldn't the well.
You had to find some other location for the rig.
So we put in a very conservative program this year that can be delivered fairly straightforwardly without a lot of problem with decent results we think and better results than we had last year.
As the issues clarify later in the year and if we see good opportunities we could shift.
But I think right now we want high certainty good returns and that's what we're doing in California and in the Permian.
So I mean that's really the goal of this year.
And if we see better opportunities later on we'll do that.
Your next question comes from Ed Westlake at Crdit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> The first question is just on depreciation.
Obviously you've given a guidance of $17.
Now you're obviously spending more and you've got the Al Hosn unproductive CapEx.
As you look out a bit further beyond this year do you think depreciation will just continue to rise with the capital spend or are there some moving levers to expect DD&amp;A to flatten out at some point? I think it's likely to flatten out.
We're very close.
If you look at the program and forget the revisions if you just look at the program and the overall finding and developing cost of program once you see those numbers you haven't seen them yet of course you'll see the $17 is very close to what we're doing worldwide.
And when Al Hosn comes on the depreciation expense per BOE is going to fall for the company so -- because you're going to get low depreciation barrels.
So I can't say it won't vary a little bit.
But I think as we roll through this year we ought to be okay.
I think our F&amp;D on the program basis again ignoring revisions is actually pretty good.
And I think that this is -- you don't really know of course but we're very close here.
So I think we had to sort of suffer through it this year.
And as we roll into next year and the year after we ought to see improvements in the DD&amp;A just from what we have in our portfolio.
In addition we should pick up some margin on our oil barrels in the Permian as that market equilibrates.
And so I think that -- and some additional chemical earnings from the new plant.
So I think our overall cash from operations and earnings will get better but I think we're close here on the DD&amp;A.
I don't think there's not really much more -- and we've taken out some -- in the charge we took out some of the things that were a drag on it.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then shifting to the Permian Permian capital is flat.
California capital is down.
I think from the presentation you released earlier this year the net share of Permian acreage is increasing.
So could you just give us an update on sort of the rig program that you planned actually in the Permian and maybe some of the EURs and rig cost that you're seeing in the horizontal program in particular.
And I guess a follow-on would be how much production you think you'll get from the acquisitions that you made in 2012 and '13? I'll answer the last part and let Bill talk about the Permian program.
Last part is we picked up a few thousand barrels a day in the Permian in the fourth quarter under 5 000 surely.
3 000 or 4 000 a day I would guess by the time we're through.
And we picked up a little gas in California.
I did sell forward or whatever the form of art [ph] is for that the gas that we bought at the lower $4 an Mcf for 15 months so we get about 1/3 of our money back in the 15 months that we put into it.
So in that basis a reasonable cost.
And that's really all you'll probably see.
Bill can talk about our Permian program and a lot smarter than I am.
Ed we're looking to average somewhere between 25 to 27 rigs in the Permian.
And roughly 1/3 of that program will be in the Wolfberry which we've spoken to you about in previous calls.
Another 1/3 is going to be mainly in the Delaware Basin.
And then the remainder will be centered around several other anchor-type programs.
And of course the well cost that you mentioned horizontals depends on a lot of things lateral length the depth of the well and those sorts of things.
But what we've seen is about a 50% or so overall weighted average capital cost reduction in a number of our anchor programs in the Permian.
Research Division</strong> So that's 5-0 or 15 sorry? I meant to say 15.
Research Division</strong> He has new target now.
Great okay.
No it's 15.
There's some guy in the Permian who just had a heart attack.
Your next question comes from Leo Mariani of RBC.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just hoping for a little bit more detail on the Permian.
Are you guys planning on significantly increasing horizontal Permian activity in 2013 versus 2012? Bill can answer that.
Yes Leo really not so much.
Only about 15% to 20% or so of our wells in the Permian are going to be true horizontals.
Now having said that we do drill a number of highly deviated wells but those are still not horizontals.
It's only in certain specific limited plays where we're drilling horizontal wells.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just in terms of the Bakken it sounds like that's an area you guys made probably the most significant cuts if I'm not wrong in that statement.
Just any thoughts around when that activity could pick back up? If you guys get to your cost reduction targets will you expect that to pick back up later in 2013? Just any color you had around that would be helpful.
Yes we've already seen some sizable actually reductions in the costs but we're not where we need to be.
And so we're going to continue to drill at a moderate rate there and see what goes on.
But we're down to sort of all right numbers.
And of course the product price is now better there than it's been.
So -- but I think we'll hold this level -- we'll likely hold this level this year of drilling and work on reducing our costs and spending less time moving rigs because there's a lot of money we spent on moving rigs around.
So if you concentrate your program in a few places we can I think get better results.
Once we see better results I think we can boost the program next year.
We're trying to keep the capital under control this year.
There's always more money that could be spent.
We could spend some more money here.
We could spend more money there.
We're trying to keep the program under control this year.
Next year as the capital needs of some of the longer-term projects start to roll over then we can look at what's the best use of the capital.
For this year I think we're trying to be conservative and only spend the money on the best things we can.
LLC Research Division</strong> All right that's helpful.
And I think Steve you mentioned potentially other projects in the Middle East.
Is there anything kind of looming in 2013 on the near-term horizon? Sandy? We're working on projects small incremental additions in Oman and bringing on our Block 62 properties.
We're also in the queue hopefully for more Abu Dhabi-related projects.
But nothing exactly on the horizon in 2013.
Middle East should be viewed -- I view it like the Permian in some ways.
You go through long periods in the Permian where it's quiet and then all of a sudden something new comes along and you get a period of growth and then you go through another period.
For the Middle East we're in the building phase.
Then as the time progresses it'll again be the star for a period and something -- and then it'll come down again.
The whole business is cyclical.
This isn't a business that's -- and fairly long term.
In the Middle East I think you really have to take a long view of it and focus on those things that you can manage and things that will generate long-term returns because once one of these projects is running they generate a lot of cash and earnings for the company.
You just have to invest to get there.
Your next question comes from Paul Sankey of Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> On the volumes Steve in the past you talked about 5% to 8% at a global level.
This may be an unnecessary detail but it's not a number that you -- you haven't put out a total volume target.
I'm not sure it particularly matters but I guess implied you would be a kind of a 5% company level growth for next year.
Is there any particular reason that you're not specifying that 5% to 8%? Yes there is.
The target still exists let's not argue but the target's there because if we grew about 5% last year and if we look ahead to the Al Hosn project going on you'll be -- for the multiyear period you'll be there.
The reason I'm not is as we cut back on the gas drilling the outlooks that we have are difficult to measure exactly because they tend generally to overstate the decline because of the way they compute it.
And so it's really about the U.S.
gas and that's the only thing that I view as -- and that's why we're not -- I wish you guys would stop talking about BOEs or at least convert it 25 to 1 or something.
But that's really our issue is that our gas production you just don't know what's going to happen exactly.
We can predict the oil production I think reasonably well because the program is focused on that and it's pretty reliable and designed to be conservatively estimated.
The gas is just hard and so that's why we're staying away from the BOE sort of calculation.
But as far as profitability goes this is where the money is.
If somebody thinks we ought to drill some gas wells to break even I suppose we could do that to make some BOE numbers.
But I mean the money right now is in oil I mean black oil.
I don't mean NGLs.
And so that's why we're doing it.
Research Division</strong> Yes perfectly understood.
In the past you've also been -- you're frank about how difficult it is to forecast the gas number.
You said the same thing about the international volumes.
How confident -- I mean within ...
No just Iraq.
The reason in Iraq is we don't know what the capital is because it's not in our control.
I mean there's another operator there so if they spend more money you'll get more production.
And if they spend less you'll get less production.
But on a cash flow basis you get the money back so quick.
Let's say you put another $200 million or whatever the number is into capital you'll get the $200 million back within 6 months.
So it's sort of -- and that's the number that I -- it's not in our control.
The things that are in control we could at least more or less figure but things that are not in our control and in the control of somebody else it's just very hard.
And so you can wind up a lot more or fewer barrels in Iraq depending on what they spend.
Nobody should be bothered by that really but it's not something -- it's like gas decline and not something I can estimate.
But it's even more out of our control because it's a third-party operator operating in a difficult environment.
Research Division</strong> Yes I totally understand.
On acquisitions you talked about transitioning to an organic -- more of an organic approach.
A couple of years ago we hit highs of $5 billion of acquisitions per year.
You said this past year it was $2.5 billion.
Can you talk a bit about where acquisitions will fit in in 2013 again best guess? It just depends -- we can't create acquisitions.
Somebody has to want to sell.
And at the end of last year for tax reasons or whatever we had to rush people in the fourth quarter.
So if you want to run a lot of acquisitions you ought to go to people in Washington and talk about raising capital gains taxes or something and we'll get more acquisitions.
We can't really predict it.
$1 billion $1.5 billion is probably sort of there at some point but we don't see anything this quarter that amounts to anything.
There's really no activity and nothing really that amounts to anything on the horizon.
Right now in the areas we would acquire which is basically the Permian we've got our -- we've got a full program when we can manage of acquisitions right now especially capital-intensive ones which is almost all of these are now are not a high priority.
Research Division</strong> Yes and disposals.
What about the Bakken? Well anything that adds value we would look at.
Bakken is a -- if costs were a little better and it's a place where there's a lot of oil in the United States.
The differentials have gone away but if somebody liked to buy my desk and they pay the right price they're more than welcome to it.
There's not much in the drawers.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then just finally for me if I could while we got Willie Chiang there as well.
You referenced that the Midland differentials but you've also spoken about good realizations essentially for the company.
There's the midstream element just sort of squaring the circle.
I think what you're saying is that you'd get already a relatively premium price in the Permian because of the infrastructure access that you have and that we shouldn't look too hard at these Midland differentials as being that meaningful for you.
But at the same time you're adding more pipeline capacity to further avoid any risk of -- how should we kind of put all of that together? Yes we'll let Willie answer that.
Paul I think if you look at the infrastructure in the industry right now industry is -- the infrastructure has lagged the prices signals.
Price signals haven't been there.
People haven't built out.
We all wish we would have built more infrastructure earlier.
We don't deal only with the Brent-TI spread.
We also have the Midland the Cushing spread.
And so if you're limited in pipeline capacity takeaway as we are currently in the Permian we saw some huge differentials fourth quarter with combined turnarounds as I talked about in some pipeline on maintenance.
So again we're trying ...
Research Division</strong> I guess my question was -- sorry I was just going to interrupt and just say that so  the point is that you did suffer from those differentials? Oh yes yes.
We didn't suffer much that's true.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Keep going Willie sorry.
Well my point is yes by putting more infrastructure in and making sure we have access in different markets.
I think going forward you should see that we won't get as impacted with any of these abnormalities between -- the basis difference between regions.
Research Division</strong> Right.
And then finally Willie I guess you expect LLS prices to be pressured down and Permian prices to rise in some combination.
What is your thoughts? And I'll leave it there.
I think there's a lot of other people kind of looking at LLS prices in different basis differentials.
Our key is getting Permian to the Gulf and making sure we get the highest prices possible.
We're not good at oil price forecasting.
Your next question comes from Matt Portillo of Tudor Pickering Holt.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just 2 quick questions for me.
In terms of -- as we think about your free cash flow growth in the outer years and kind of the near-term focus on reduction in capital spend Steve I think you alluded to the fact that kind of the incremental capital or the incremental free cash flow may go to dividend increase? And so just trying to understand how you guys are thinking about that relative to the historical growth rate and should we expect the potential see that accelerate over the next few years as you roll off some of these major projects? First of all it's a board decision not mine.
I'll have a view but it's not really mine -- not my decision to make.
Everybody here is committed to dividend growth and exactly what it'll be just depends.
It just depends on how predictable it is.
It also depends on the stock price to some extent.
If you get downward movement in the stock price we may shift some more money to buying in some shares.
So you should expect double-digit growth in the dividends going forward but whether we know exactly what it'll be in any one year is hard to say.
But I think as we look through this whole process in the next 2 or 3 years we ought to see increased free cash flow and the ability to pay higher dividends.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then just a second question for me on -- just looking through the slides quickly here.
Approximately 60% of the reserve revision was related to gas price.
The other 40% I guess was related to reservoir performance.
Could you give a little more color around where we should have just expected regionally to see that revision on the reservoir side and any color as to what drove that revision downwards? Yes I think the Mid-Continent had some performance issues in some of the gas reservoirs which we -- that way.
And then there's an old reservoir in old Elk Hills which underperformed.
I think those are the 2 major areas where there was performance revisions.
Your next question comes from Faisal Khan of Citi.
Research Division</strong> Just a few questions.
You mentioned before that you had a high level -- high number of contractors earlier in the year and that part of the cost-reduction effort was getting removing some of those contractors from the cost structure.
Can you give us an idea of what the number of contractors where at the beginning of this cost-reduction effort and where they are today? Contractors are difficult number because there's guys out in the field that are contractors.
You hire Halliburton or something that's really not what we're talking about.
These are mostly office-related contractors.
And the numbers I think...
It's in the hundreds.
Yes hundreds of them how many of we let go.
That's how many we've let go Steve.
It's in the high hundreds.
High hundreds.
And that's maybe 20% 25% of what's there.
But these aren't the contractors like the Haliburtons out.
This isn't work over -- guys doing work over.
These are guys primarily in the offices.
Research Division</strong> And is there more of these kind of cutting to go or is there -- you think you're kind of done at this point with this part of the cost structure? You're never done looking at costs.
It's like nobody's ever done.
When you take a layer out you look at where you are you see what's going on you see if you're hurting your production hurting your margins and then you go look at it again.
These are -- you take the things that you know you can handle first and then you move down the road.
Getting done with looking at costs it just never happens.
So nobody really -- there's no plan that says every month you're going to fire 100 contractors or something.
It just -- we're trying to do it in a way that's not done with a meat axe but with a scalpel.
Research Division</strong> Okay understood.
And on the reserve additions I think previously you had not booked anything for the Shah gas project.
And at this point I'm not sure if you have or haven't but was that part of the reserve additions the $400 million? Yes it was.
Research Division</strong> And how much -- was it a big part of it or...
Yes it was.
We've spent $2.6 billion I think so far isn't that right Sandy? We spent $2.6 billion on it so far.
So I would assume that there'd be some reserve additions associated with the spending.
We've only booked maybe 1/3 40% at best of the reserves and we spent -- Sandy? We spent about 70% of the money.
So we're pretty far behind booking relative to the spending.
So you should expect to see more additions over the next 2 or 3 years.
And really beyond that as the project matures and there's more opportunity for gas delivery I think you'll see a lot more additions.
So I think we're very early in the booking here and this is about as little as we could actually book given the facts.
Research Division</strong> Okay understood.
And then on the $2.5 billion of acquisitions you made this year how much production did that add to your portfolio during the year? In what geographies or how much acreage did you guys pick up in those $2.5 billion? I don't really know.
Most of it was done in the fourth quarter so it didn't add anything.
So you picked up a little bit in the early part of the year but virtually all of -- nothing really of a few thousand barrels a day maybe in the last year.
But almost all of the production basically closed at the end of the year.
So last year was sort of nothing.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And was this mostly centered in the Permian or also into California and other parts? The production -- it's always the same.
Permian is the largest piece.
Hopefully every so often you find a piece in California but it gets harder and harder for us.
And some occasionally in the Bakken if you can get the right price.
It doesn't really change the strategy the plan the acquisitions don't change very much.
Occasionally you find something in South Texas maybe that adds to what we have but those tend to be pretty small.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then on your production growth guidance for domestic oil volumes the 11% -- 10% 11% sort of number that you have out there is that -- I take it that's also mostly -- most of that growth is coming from the Permian or what's the -- what do you expect California to contribute to that growth? No no no.
The oil production will come from Permian and California both and maybe a little out of the Bakken even.
But I mean that's -- we're spending the money in the Permian so that's what you're going to see it.
But we're also spending a fair amount of money in California and again they're focused on oil drilling.
Our California oil production as we get through -- as we head into '14 will grow sharply as some of these steam floods and other things start to come on.
So once we get through the permitting phase of that activity you'll see some more volume oil volume growth into '14 and '15.
Your next question comes from Roger Read of Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just a quick question for you.
As we look at the Permian Basin and the view of relatively let's say as a percentage compared to the industry low horizontal drilling what is it you need to see out there to get more aggressive on the horizontal side? Is it strictly a cost-per-well issue is it the decline rates that continue to hold you back? I mean kind of walk us through that if you would.
Well it's all of the above.
I think we've said this before but if you over drill high decline wells while it may excite you for this quarter or next quarter or something it makes next year more difficult because you're faced with high decline wells.
So our program is a balance of all those activities.
And so it's designed to make a sustainable program not one that gets a big big big level right off.
LLC Research Division</strong> Well I understand that.
But if you're looking at it and I know you look at your overall portfolio from very much the return criteria I mean if the returns were the same for the horizontal wells or potentially even better would you move more aggressively towards that? Or is it the decline rates and the year-over-year comps have become tougher that keeps you from ...
We'll let Bill answer.
He knows more about it than I do.
Roger really what dictates an increase in horizontal drilling is the reservoir and the targets that you're going after which is why in the Permian as I said earlier you really don't see a huge proportion of your wells being horizontal because we've got other targets multiple pay-type targets and reservoirs that are more amenable to vertical drilling as opposed to horizontal.
So really what dictates it more than anything is the target.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
So that kind of falls into my next question.
I mean if we look at a lot of the other operators out there they're talking about moving to say 50% horizontal 75% horizontal.
If we separated out the CO2-related drilling out there and really just sort of look at the highly deviated wells and the horizontal wells how would you compare to that? I'm just trying to understand where you fit in where you will be fitting in over the next say 12 to 24 months? Well I think as some of these unconventional plays prove themselves up I think you could expect to see a little bit more increase in horizontal drilling.
But as I said before 1/3 of our program is in the Wolfberry which is vertical drilling essentially.
And another 1/3 is in the Delaware Basin which again is largely driven by vertical drilling.
So as some of these unconventional plays mature then I think you'll see a little bit more in the way of horizontal holes in those reservoirs.
We're not -- we have a lot of acreage.
We're not trying to spend the maximum amount of money right off the bat.
We're trying to learn from what other people are doing cutting through it.
While other people have maybe less acreage or less opportunities they're basically into this and we'll learn from them and we'll begin some of their wells because of our large position rather than go and be the experiment or we can actually learn for a relatively low cost to figure out whether these things make sense.
These plays are relatively new.
Determining the ultimate recoverable reserves of a play that's 1 year old or 18 months old when you have huge decline initial decline rates is very difficult and we tend to be fairly conservative of how we look at it because we don't know how it's going to flat -- how the curve is going to flatten.
And that's maybe just us but we can afford to wait be patient and thoughtful about this.
And we're maybe less convinced than other people about the ultimate recovery.
But we'll find out here in the next year or 2 as these plays mature and our position is good enough that we can do that.
Your next question comes from Eliot Javanmardi of Capital One.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I think many of the questions have been asked already but I did want to ask you one more.
You had mentioned that it looks like you're now 2/3 of the way through your cost-cutting goals.
I just want to get some clarification around what number we're looking at to start with and where that -- and what number we're trying to end with just from a clarifications standpoint? Could you help me out there? Bill will answer that.
I mean on an absolute dollar basis Eliot we're looking at $450 million to $500 million of reduction in absolute OpEx.
That's on the domestic side.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And what was the time frame to meet that target? It was mid-year or for '13 or...
That's an overall average target for 2013.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So your 2/3 ...
So as you think about it it's a little less than the beginning and so the exit rate will be different it will be higher.
Otherwise you won't make the average.
Your last question comes from John Herrlin of Societe Generale.
Couple of quick ones.
With the cost savings it's all the Oxy initiatives no help on the services side at all? Very little but we're starting -- we're not ignoring that.
But right now it's really all within our power.
And we're not planning that but there's clearly some out there.
So we would hope to get some from that but what we're planning on is what we could do within our control.
Okay.
With the Elk Hills plant is that now fully operational? Are you running it full? Yes and you can see how it's generating more NGLs.
As for the gases you can't see it exactly.
But the gas is down at Elk Hills.
But the equivalent amount of BOEs were converted into NGLs.
So even though we're getting good -- not good gas prices but relatively good gas prices in California you get better prices for NGLs.
Thanks very much for joining us today.
And should you have further questions please call us here in New York.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
This does conclude today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good afternoon.
My name is Christy and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to Occidental Petroleums First Quarter 2013 Earnings Release Conference Call.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers remarks there will be a question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions) I would now like to turn the call over to Chris Stavros.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Christy and good morning and welcome everyone and thank you for participating in Occidental Petroleums first quarter 2013 earnings conference call.
Joining us on the call this morning from Los Angeles are Steve Chazen OXYs President and Chief Executive Officer; Cynthia Walker our Chief Financial Officer; Bill Albrecht the President of OXYs Oil and Gas Operation in the Americas; Sandy Lowe President of our International Oil and Gas Business and Willie Chiang our EVP of Operations and Head of OXYs Midstream business.
In just a moment Ill turn the call over to our CFO Cynthia Walker who will review our financial and operating results for this years first quarter.
Steve Chazen will then follow with an update on the progress were making towards our ongoing efforts to improve our oil and gas operating costs as well as our capital and drilling efficiencies and as part of our effort to improve our financial returns.
Steve will conclude the call with some comments around guidance for the second quarter.
A highlight of this quarters conference call will be an in-depth discussion from Bill Albrecht focusing on our non-CO2 drilling program in the Permian Basin and additional details on our drive to improve capital and drilling efficiency and reduce our operating cost throughout the domestic oil and gas business.
As a reminder todays conference call contains projections and other forward statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws.
These statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ from those expressed or implied in these statements and our filing.
Our first quarter 2013 earnings conference call press release investor relations supplemental schedules and conference call presentation slides which refer to you our prepared remarks can be downloaded off of our website at www.oxy.com.
Ill now turn the call over to Cynthia Walker.
Cynthia please go ahead.
Thank you Chris and good morning everyone.
Core income for the quarter was $1.4 billion or $1.69 per diluted share in the fourth quarter of this year  the first quarter of this year compared with $1.6 billion or $1.92 per diluted share in the first quarter of 2012 and $1.5 billion or $1.83 per diluted share in the fourth quarter of 2012.
Compared to the fourth quarter of 2012 the current quarter results reflected higher realized oil prices reduced operating expenses in the oil and gas business and higher earnings in the midstream segment.
These were offset by lower volumes in the Middle East and North Africa region due to planned maintenance turnarounds and higher DD&amp;A rates.
Ill now discuss the segment break down.
Oil and gas core earnings for the first quarter of 2013 were $1.9 billion compared to $2.5 billion in the first quarter of 2012 and $2.3 billion in the fourth quarter of 2012.
On a sequential quarter-over-quarter basis higher realized oil prices and lower operating expenses were offset by lower Middle East/North Africa volumes and higher DD&amp;A rates.
Our sales volumes in the Middle East/North Africa were lower compared to the fourth quarter of 2012 due mostly to the timing of liftings as well as the effect of the maintenance turnaround in Qatar and full cost recovery under our contract in Oman.
This reduced our 2013 first quarter earnings by about $200 million after tax compared with the fourth quarter of 2012.
Cost associated with the turnarounds pipeline disruptions in Columbia and other factors further reduced our earnings by about $30 million after tax.
Combined with these factors reduced oil and gas segment earnings by approximately $450 million on a pre-tax basis.
Oil and gas production costs were $13.93 per barrel for the first three months of 2013 compared to $14.99 per barrel for the full year of 2012.
Production cost at this level already beats our previous full year 2013 guidance.
The lower costs were attributable to our domestic operations where production costs were $3.37 per barrel lower in the first quarter of 2013 from the full year of 2012.
In our Middle East/North Africa operations operating cost increased by about $2.50 per barrel on a sequential quarterly basis.
This increase was due to the plant maintenance turnarounds in our Qatar North Dome and South Dome fields and to a lesser extent the plant turnaround in Dolphin.
The first quarter 2013 total daily production on a BOE basis was 763 000 barrels which was 16 000 barrels per day lower than the fourth quarter of 2012 and 8 000 barrels per day higher than the first quarter of 2012.
Approximately 13 000 barrels of the total sequential decrease in the quarterly production came from Qatar and Dolphin where the plant maintenance impacted production.
I am pleased to say the turnarounds were executed successfully and production has returned to normal level.
Our domestic production was 478 000 barrels per day an increase of 3 000 barrels per day from the fourth quarter of 2012 and this now marks the 10th consecutive quarterly domestic volume record for the company.
Production was 5% higher than the first quarter of 2012.
Almost all of the net sequential quarterly increase came from production in the Permian.
Focusing on liquids production it was flat with the fourth quarter reflecting the drop in production in our Long Beach operations resulting from the effect of lower spending under our production sharing contract there and slightly lower production elsewhere in California in the [streamside] operations.
This was offset by higher production in other areas mainly in the Permian and Williston.
Latin America volumes were 31 000 barrels per day which was 1 000 barrels lower compared to the fourth quarter and 5 000 barrels higher in the same period in 2012.
The reduction from last quarter was due to heightened level of insurgent activity in the region.
In the Middle East/North Africa production was 254 000 barrels per day a decrease of 18 000 barrels from the fourth quarter of 2012 and 20 000 barrels from the first quarter of 2012.
The planned maintenance turnarounds in Qatar reduced our production 13 000 barrels per day.
The impact of full cost recovery and other factors affecting production-sharing and similar contracts reduced first quarter production volumes by an additional 5 000 barrels per day compared to the fourth quarter of 2012.
Details regarding other countries specific production levels are available in our investor relations supplemental schedules.
Middle East/North Africa volumes were further lower than production volumes in the first quarter due to the timing of liftings.
First quarter realized prices were mixed for our products compared to the fourth quarter of 2012.
Our worldwide crude oil realized price was $98.7 per barrel a 2% increase from the fourth quarter while worldwide NGLs were $40.27 per barrel a decrease of about 11%.
And domestic natural gas prices were about flat at $3.08 per million cubic feet.
First quarter 2013 realized prices were lower than the prior year first quarter prices for crude oil and NGLs.
On a year-over-year price decreases were 9% for worldwide crude oil and 23% for worldwide NGLs.
Domestic natural gas prices were higher by about 8%.
Realized oil prices for the quarter represented 104% of the average WTI price and 87% of the average Brent price.
Realized NGL prices were 43% of the average WTI price and realized domestic gas prices were 91% of the average NYMEX price.
For the first quarter of 2012 the comparable percentages were 105% of WTI 91% of Brent for oil and 51% of WTI for NGLs and 100% of NYMEX for gas.
At current global prices $1 per barrel change in oil prices affects our quarterly earnings before income taxes by $37 million and $7 million for a $1 per barrel change in NGL prices.
The change in domestic gas prices of $0.50 per million BTU affects quarterly pre-tax earnings by about $30 million.
These price change sensitivities include the impact of production sharing and similar contract volume changes.
Factors other than non-income which are generally related to product prices were $2.63 per barrel for the first quarter of 2013 compared to $2.39 per barrel for the full year of 2012.
The 2013 amount includes California greenhouse gas expense of $0.05 per barrel.
First quarter exploration expense was $50 million.
We expect second quarter 2013 exploration expense to be about $100 million for seismic and drilling in our exploration program.
Chemical segment earnings for the first quarter of 2013 were $159 million compared to $180 million in the fourth quarter of 2012 and $184 million in the first quarter of 2012.
The sequential quarterly decrease was due to higher ethylene costs and increased competitive activity particularly in the domestic caustic soda markets.
This was partially offset by higher VCM and PVC prices.
The Chemical segment second quarter 2013 earnings are expected to improve to about $170 million benefiting from higher and seasonal demand in the construction in agricultural markets.
Midstream segment earnings were $215 million for the quarter compared to 2013 excuse me for the first quarter of 2013 compared to $75 million in the first quarter of 2012 and a $131 million in the first quarter of 2012.
Over 70% of the 2013 sequential quarterly increase in earnings resulted from improved marketing and trading performance.
Remainder of the increase came from improved margins in the gas processing and power generation businesses and higher earnings from foreign pipelines.
The worldwide effective tax rate on our core income was 38% for the quarter.
This included a benefit resulting from the relinquishment of an international exploration block.
Our first quarter U.S.
and foreign tax rates are included in the Investor Relations supplemental schedules.
We expect our combined worldwide tax rate in the second quarter to be approximately 41%.
In the first three months of 2012 we generated $2.9 billion of cash flow from operations before changes in working capital.
Working capital changes reduced our cash flow from operations by about $200 million to $2.7 billion.
Capital expenditures for the first quarter of 2013 were $2.1 billion.
This capital spend was $440 million lower than the fourth quarter of 2012 with about half of the decrease in the Oil and Gas business.
First quarter capital expenditures by segment were 80% in the oil and gas business 15% in Midstream and the remainder in Chemicals.
These and other net cash flows resulted in a $2.1 billion cash balance at the end of March.
The weighted average basic shares outstanding for the three months of 2013 were $804.7 million and the weighted average diluted shares outstanding were $805.2 million.
We had approximately $805.6 million shares outstanding at the end of the quarter.
Our debt to capitalization ratio was 16% at the end of the quarter.
Our annualized return on equity for the first three months of 2013 was 13.4% and return on capital employed was 11.4%.
Ill now turn the call over to Steve Chazen to discuss other aspects of our operations and provide guidance for the second quarter of the year.
Thank you Cynthia.
Occidentals Domestic Oil and Gas segment produced record volumes for the tenth consecutive quarter and continue to execute on our liquids production growth strategy.
First quarter domestic production of 478 000 barrel equivalents per day consisting of 342 000 barrels of liquids 817 million cubic feet of gas per day with an increase of 3 000 barrel equivalents per day compared to the fourth quarter of 2012.
We are executing a focused drilling program in our core years and today were running ahead of our full-year objectives in our program to improve domestic operational and capital efficiencies.
For example we have reduced both our domestic well and operating costs by about 19% relative to 2012.
This is ahead of our previously stated targets of 15% well cost improvement and a total oil and gas operating costs below $14 a barrel for 2013.
While we are still in the early stages of this process in making a longer-term projection is difficult our goal is to sustain the benefits realized to-date achieve additional savings in our drilling costs and reach our 2011 operating costs level over time about a loss in production or sacrificing safety.
Purpose of these initiatives is to improve our return on capital.
I will now turn the discussion over to Bill Albrecht who will provide details of our domestic drilling programs and of the capital and operational efficiency initiatives that we have implemented.
Thanks you Steve.
This morning Id like to share with you the three main objectives of our 2013 domestic program.
First delineate our core or anchor drilling areas in the Permian Basin.
Weve accumulated more than $1.7 million net acres covering both relatively established and emerging plays in the Permian.
This year were focused on delineating incremental opportunities in the established plays as well as testing the potential of many emerging plays.
Second drive capital efficiency particularly in our core drilling programs.
We believe that the results of our capital efficiency improvement program are not only scalable across our core programs because these results are also sustainable and third enhance our cash margins through operating expense reductions.
Turning now to our first objective our Permian Basin activity as we said in the past under current market conditions our growth will come largely from oil.
The Permian will play a key role in that growth.
In 2013 we expect to spend $1.9 billion in the Permian.
Approximately two-thirds of this capital will be spent in our non-CO2 business.
In this business well drill approximately 300 wells 90% of which will be focused in four plays; the Wolfberry Yeso Delaware Sands and Wolfbone.
The Wolfberry has been a solid core play for many years in OXY and represents the largest proportion of our activity.
In 2013 well drill a mix of infill wells in already established core areas and step out wells in emerging areas of the play.
We expect step-out wells to pretty much mere the solid results were seeing in drilling 100s of Wolfberry wells in the last several years.
The Delaware will be about a quarter of our activity in 2013.
Were seeing increased opportunity to enhance economics utilizing horizontal drilling and completions to develop established tight-sand reservoirs.
We expect to drill 12 horizontal wells targeting the Delaware Sands this year.
Our emerging Yeso play in New Mexico has demonstrated encouraging results.
As a result in 2013 we expect to increase drilling activity by 30% from 2012 levels.
The Wolfbone play in Reeves County Texas is the newest of the plays.
Throughout 2012 we were able to acquire a meaningful mostly contiguous acreage position.
We drilled a handful of wells in 2012 and well increase our activity this year as we further delineate our acreage position.
Because of the multi-pay nature of the play whereas well be mostly vertical at this stage although well drill a number of horizontal wells and sweet spots of this multi-pay interval.
Early results are encouraging 30-day IP rates are averaging between 170 and 235 barrels of oil equivalent per day depending on the area.
The key to success is a low cost structure.
Weve been drilling for less than a year in Wolfbone and weve already seen substantial improvements in well costs.
As we build infrastructure and establish a steady program we expect to see further progress in our costs.
In addition to these four core programs we believe we have opportunities in several other emerging plays.
We plan to drill 20 to 25 wells testing horizontal potential in the Bone Spring Wolfcamp and Cline across our acreage position.
Ill now turn to our second objective driving capital efficiency.
There are essentially four elements of our overall capital efficiency strategy.
These are locking in our drilling programs modifying well objectives and designs improving operational execution and improving our contracting strategies.
We are measuring our progress by comparing our 2013 well costs to 2012 using the 2013 program attributes.
In other words for our benchmark year of 2012 we are using costs that we incurred for the same mix of well locations in types being drilled in 2013.
By implementing all four elements weve already achieved more than a 19% reduction in our well costs relative to the 2012 benchmark across our domestic assets.
The most important improvements were achieved in the Williston the Wolfberry and shale drilling at Elk Hills where costs have dropped by 32% 20% and 22% respectively.
Let me describe each of the four elements in more detail.
First we found that locking in our drilling programs for appropriate lead times results in significant efficiencies.
This has allowed us to have for fit for purpose drilling rigs in each core area minimize the number of drill site contractors and minimize drilling and mobilization times as well as rig move distances.
To this end as we developed our drilling programs for the year we locked in our drilling plans for two to three months in advance depending on location across all our assets.
Consequently weve reduced our rig downtimes by 20%.
For example in the Williston our optimized drilling schedule designed to minimize rig mobilizations has reduced move cost by 33%.
The second element is modification of well objectives and design.
For example in our Wolfberry program we now run only two strings of casing instead of three which has saved approximately $250 000 per well.
Weve also reduced costs by 47% per frac stage for Wolfberry well without any degradation in production.
At Elk Hills and our anchor shale program we are running mostly slotted liners instead of cemented liners saving $1.5 million per well again with no degradation in production.
In the number of our programs we've reduced the amount of gel loading and resin coated sand thus reducing completion costs.
In short we are seeing the benefits in the form of reduced drilling and completion times and reduced and more efficient use of materials and supplies.
Let me now turn to the third element improving operational execution.
While were making numerous incremental changes in our day-to-day activities everywhere we made significant improvements specifically in the Permian and Williston business units.
In both areas were optimizing our use of water in completion operations by using flow back-end or produced water in stimulations which is generating substantial savings this year.
In the Williston more of the wells were drilling have been trouble free particularly due to improved directional tool reliability.
And finally weve made a fundamental change in the way and the extent to which we use contractors and outside consultants to manage and supervise our drilling programs.
A heavier reliance on our own personnel for these tasks has already resulted in efficiencies while providing more growth opportunities for our people.
The last element of our capital efficiency effort is contracting strategies.
In this regard principally in the Permian Williston and at Elk Hills weve reduced our stimulation contract pricing.
Weve also reduced our fluid hauling costs by implementing a trucking cluster concept whereby certain trucking fleets are dedicated to specific core areas.
Overall weve improved our completed well costs in the Williston from an average $10 million per well as recently as just four months ago to $8.2 million currently.
We believe that were now top quartile in well costs in the play and our current goal is to bring average Williston well cost down to $7.5 million.
We believe at this level well have the flexibility to focus on continuing development of our Russian Creek acreage where we plan to drill 46 wells in 2013 concentrating on the sweet spot of our acreage there.
Our development will be mainly in the middle Bakken with other wells testing both the Pronghorn and Three Forks formation.
And another one of our anchor programs the Wolfberry were seeing sustained reductions in completed well costs where costs are down from $3.5 million to $2.6 million.
Lastly Id like to discuss the third objective of our overall domestic strategy and that is enhancing our cash margins through reductions in operating costs.
While our operating costs have also benefited from some of the actions taken for capital efficiencies that I just described weve taken additional steps specific to reducing our operating costs especially in the areas of downhole maintenance and workovers which together make up the bulk of our costs.
Id like to share a few examples with you of the actions weve taken toward achieving our goal.
First in order to optimize our well servicing rig costs were eliminating inefficient workover rigs.
While this has caused an overall decline in our workover rig count were finding that through better planning and scheduling we are able to perform a similar number of well servicing jobs as we did with a larger fleet.
As a result weve not seen any production fall off from these reductions.
Second through a more rigorous review of wells that are repair and maintenance candidates weve been able to reduce our workover needs by dropping uneconomical wells from our list.
These wells will be subject to ongoing evaluations based on market conditions.
Third were evaluating the efficiency of our maintenance crews and prioritizing the most efficient ones through more direct on location supervision more efficient crews optimized maintenance scheduling to allow better planning and tighter controls over spending limits and job approvals.
Weve already been able to reduce our well intervention times and maintenance and workover costs.
Fourth were also focusing on our surface operations which constitute another large cost driver and weve been able to achieve efficiencies in our use of chemicals water handling and disposal activities.
Water handling and disposal is a major cost for the company therefore its a key area of focus for us.
In some locations weve been able to find what is to recycle more of our produced water reducing our sourcing as well as disposal cost and as a result handling water in a more environmentally conscious manner.
Were also working with our suppliers to address the cost of these supplies and services.
In addition were working on optimizing our use of injectants in energy.
For example were improving our CO2 and steam utilization through ongoing pattern surveillance and evaluation of injectant to oil recovery ratios and we are reducing our energy costs through maximizing the use of self generated energy and rate renegotiations.
As a result of our efforts compared to 2012 levels our downhole maintenance and workover costs have dropped 36% and our overall surface operations costs by 16% contributing to a 19% reduction in our operating costs on a BOE basis across all of our domestic assets.
Our total domestic operating cost per barrel dropped from $17.43 per barrel in 2012 to $14.06 per barrel in the first quarter of 2013.
We believe our ongoing efforts will yield additional improvements going forward.
Id like to add that the great success weve had to date in achieving our capital efficiency and operating expense reduction goals is the result of implementing literally 1000s of small ideas suggestions and decisions being made everyday mainly at the field level.
Im extremely pleased that our personnel at every level have stepped up in a big way to achieve our stated goals of achieving 15% capital efficiency gains and so far exceeding this goal and reducing our annualized operating expenses by a minimum of $450 million.
While weve made progress in both our capital efficiency and operating cost reduction efforts were still in the early stages of this process and therefore our data is based on a relatively small portion of our overall program.
In addition we executed a relatively trouble free drilling program in the first quarter.
Nonetheless given our results to-date and our peoples effort in this endeavor were optimistic we can sustain and further improve upon the results achieved today.
Id like to emphasize that our overarching goal is to make sure we achieve these improvements without in anyway compromising the safety of our operations and of our people and without impacting our growth plans.
Ill now turn the call back to Steve Chazen.
Thank you Bill.
With regard to the total return to shareholders in February we increased our dividend by 18.5% to an annual rate of $2.56 per share from the previous annual rate of $2.16.
Weve now increased our dividend every year for 11 years a total of 12 times during that period.
This 18.5% increase brings the 11-year compounded dividend growth rate to 16% per year.
Ill now turn to second quarter outlook.
Production; domestically we continue to expect solid growth in our oil production for the year as a result of the nature and timing of our drilling such as steam flood drilling in California.
We expect second quarter liquids growth to be modest the higher growth coming in the second half of the year.
We just received word today that weve got permits for three new capacities for our steam flood program one is already on.
So I think were going doing well in California on this just a slow start this year.
The first quarter of 2013 our base gas production did not decline as much as we had initially expected.
the result of our reduced drilling on gas properties and natural decline as well as a number of gas plants turn around scheduled in our Permian business for the rest of the year.
Internationally excluding Iraq at current prices we expect production to be higher in the second quarter back to around the fourth quarter 2012 levels the increase coming mainly from resumption of production cutter.
Iraqs production is directly correlated to quarterly spending levels which continue to be volatile.
We expect international sales volumes also to get back to about fourth quarter levels based on our current lifting schedule.
Our first quarter capital spend was $2.1 billion.
We expect the second quarter rate to be higher.
Our annual spending level is unchanged and expected to be in line with the $9.6 billion program I discussed in the last call.
As you can see the business is doing well and we are continuing to make progress in our operational and financial goals.
Im very pleased that employees at all levels have stepped up to the challenges we presented to them and are focused on their jobs.
Weve not seen any significant negative turn over trends in our workforce.
As I stated before I remain committed to staying through the succession process.
Were now ready to take your questions about the performance of the business.
However we do not have anything to add beyond our public announcements about the on going Board activities and succession process.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) And your first question comes from Doug Terreson of ISI Group  Congratulations on your results everybody.
Thank you the guys the people in the company did a great job.
They sure did.
So my question regards the sequential decline in earnings of $450 million which was highlighted I think on slide 3 and specifically whether you can provide any additional insight into the components which is likely to be transitory meaning some of the elements were identified but how much of sequential decline relates to factors that are not normally recurring like maintenance and pipeline disruptions and lifting variances et cetera? I think Cynthia has that variance so let her answer.
Okay.
Yeah sure.
Thanks Doug.
Really the only component of the quarter-over-quarter decline that we expect to be recurring is the Oman contract impact which is about $50 million of the $450 million the rest of it all relates to timing of liftings as well as the Qatar turnaround which you mentioned Qatars turnarounds and the pipeline disruptions in Columbia.
Okay great.
Thanks a lot.
Thank you Doug.
Your next question comes from Doug Leggate of Bank of America.
Thanks good morning everybody.
Good morning.
Ive got a couple if I may Steve.
On the cost fees if I look at the cost on the U.S.
you obviously broke that out for us and I think your commentary about the total company.
It looks to me at least the international cost was up a couple of maybe $2 to $3 a barrel.
Im wondering so that sounds about right? So basically when the production comes back on in the second quarter does that mean your run rate is now below $13 and if you could help us with where you think the (inaudible) on the operating cost and Ive got a follow up.
Well let Cynthia give you the first part and Ill answer the second part.
So what is that run rate?  Yeah in the second quarter there will be some other factors likely offsetting things but we wouldnt expect to get substantially below the levels that we are currently; we wont be below $13 a barrel in the second quarter.
Some of the activity that we didnt do in the first quarter will come into the second quarter.
[Multiple Speakers] Sorry? Sorry.
We expected that the U.S.
business makes maybe some profile for you.
We expect the U.S.
business to  we are going to be cautious on the operating cost here to make sure we are not affecting safety in production.
So we expect those costs to continue to go down but obviously not as quickly as it did in this quarter.
So the international costs will come back into line.
They were up this past quarter but we think they will be down next quarter.
Yeah and by putting money into the  what weve done is turnarounds to increase the reliability and we should actually do better on a gross basis.
there might again there might be some additional turnarounds not in the Middle East but in the U.S.
Sandy do you want to comment on the Middle East? Yeah Doug in Qatar we are actually producing to record levels over the past  since the past few years of 118 000 119 000 barrels and the actual extra money we spent on the turnaround that we get much higher reliability.
We have records in Oman right now of 235 000 barrels a day gross and we actually are reducing OpEx per barrel there but still paying attention to production reliability and safety issues may give you more answer on your thought I guess sir.
No that was very helpful.
Steve my follow-up and I hope youre going to forgive me for this one ahead of time.
I realized you dont Im very  Ive become more forgiving in my old age.
Okay.
I realized you dont want to talk about the Board situation however my question relates to you on  in terms of your intentions.
When we followed in the past youve always stated that you saw yourself being in position for a quite a while and executing a strategy that ultimately took you towards the million barrels a day.
Should we rule out the possibility of you staying around a bit longer just the Board for example had a change of heart? And what is your strategic vision for the company in longer-term? Im not going to answer the first question.
Thats really outside the purview of what we want to talk about.
On the strategy issue the company as we get  the company is really executing well.
I mean every day Im sort of happy to talk about the operations.
And I think the company is doing real well.
I think well continue to grow nicely.
We have little bumps in the road in the quarter but fundamentally I really couldnt be happier about the progress were making as a company.
The million barrels a day I think is a reasonable objective.
What were going to do Paul the call is well Bill would like to talk this time well let somebody else talk next quarter and maybe well talk about California next starter and have Vicky come and talk.
So well try to give you more detail one call at a time rather than try to flood you with it.
So I think youll see that the strategy of building a large domestic business together with a highly profitable international business will work for us.
So I think the vision is right now sort of that one.
So unless you want to ask the same question another way.
Well Im just thinking would you ever see the  theres more the speculation about structural changes for separating one par or another whether it be MLPs or whether it be California getting split off is that something that even enters into the discussion right now or is it just not on the table? I think we always are looking for ways to improve the return to the shareholders.
And I think we and I mean everybody in the company is committed to that.
And whatever actions if we can find actions that are meaningful and are accretive to value well do those things.
All right.
Ill leave it at that.
Thanks Steve.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from Leo Mariani of RBC.
Hi guys.
And it looks like youve certainly kind of gotten more optimistic on some of these new plays here in the Permian.
Wanted to get a sense on how much that is attributable to your recent cost reductions and how much maybe attributable just to better well performance? I think the key to the Permian in my views is costs repeatable low drilling costs.
And that the change in the returns by these reductions is market.
Bill you want to comment on the returns? Yeah.
Leo across the plays that Ive mentioned were seeing solid 15 20 plus percent returns.
And as Steve said whats really been a big enhancing factor is what weve done to take dollars out of our cost structure there.
So the better  the ITs the ultimate recoveries same as our experience.
But I think by driving the cost down  by returns were not doing the IRR sort of returns.
This is sort of more sustainable kind of returns.
IRR has to do with how fast you get your money back.
So I think were doing real well.
Were very please with the progress in the Permian Basin.
Okay.
So just to clarify on the returns thats more of an after tax corporate Absolutely yeah.
Unfortunately when you make a lot of money you pay a lot of taxes.
Okay.
And I guess just a question on California; you mentioned being able to reduce some of the costs by about $1.5 million for a well.
I think you said in Elk Hills and the shale program.
It sounds very substantial just trying to get a sense of how much that can improve your economic there? California were doing well.
Weve got more to go here in California.
I think were in the early phases of cost reduction in California again.
But people who work there are doing a fabulous job.
And so I think were trying to get the cost down to even lower sustainable levels before we boost the number of rigs at work.
So we need to get our cost down to what we think is sustainable levels which will be lower than were showing here.
And then well build the program up from there.
But I think theres more room here.
Im very optimistic about the capital the well cost program the 19%.
It would be disappointing if thats all that turned out of this.
Okay thats really helpful.
And I guess in terms of the first quarter you guys talked about 5000 barrels a day internationally that you loss (inaudible) and get production sharing contract payout just curious to whether or not theres going to be any further impact during 2013 from PSCs and project that you have? I dont think much.
I think were probably at for this year where we need to bid and what wont be.
As you know youve got to go to another level of payouts pretty much the program are  the big programs are pretty stable.
Okay.
Thanks a lot.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from Arjun Murti of Goldman Sachs.
Thanks.
Steve just a follow-up on some of the California unconventional comments I know the plan is to get some of the well costs down.
I guess if you look back a few years ago and some of the early results the relationship between costs and what look like could be the EURs and production per well was very very favorable.
Maybe the costs got a little bit higher now you are trying to bring them back down.
Can you comment on what the wells results look like and whether part of the issue here is just maybe the geology is obviously different or not as robust as before really any color around and again talk about the unconventional in California? Yeah I think thats we havent been able to drill where we wanted to drill all the time.
And so some of its related to that and thats created some inefficiencies and the well costs got markedly higher than we would like and didnt make them terrible certainly sort of wistful.
So I think as far as the results are concerned I think they are in line with what we said before of IPs sorts of things.
But we have shifted the focus to more conventional drilling to give more or less decline and the program was underlying decline so I think the decline is what well be trying to fight against.
With the declines unexpected I mean usually unconventional does come with quick declines or is it just Its been I think more than we originally thought.
Yeah got it.
Got it.
Any update on the permitting process in California I know its always a challenge that  any improvement there at all? The permitting I dont think this is North Dakota so I think the permitting process here continues to be weve made a lot of progress in the last year or so and  but also continues to be hard to predict from a quarter-to-quarter basis.
So you get some good news you get some not so good news.
I think that weve built a program this year that doesnt rely on the permitting process to deliver the results.
Yeah.
And so well be able to deliver a good set of results this year I think low finding costs and reasonable growth.
Hopefully we will build a backlog of permit so we could do the same thing next year but at a higher level of spending.
Yeah.
And then just finally thank you.
On the Bakken it looks like the well costs have come down quite a bit.
This has always been an area for you guys where youve kind of been on the bubble of whether you are kind of in or out.
It sounds like you are little optimistic on the Bakken is this now on kind of the right side of the return threshold or still more work to do in the Bakken? More work to be done.
Yeah.
What kind of rig count are you looking at there this year Steve? Yeah (inaudible) at six should be between six and seven.
Got it.
And then we are going to be able to obviously do more work with six or seven rigs than we might have done last year with nine or ten.
Yeah.
So the goal is to get the organization and the people to get more efficient with the rigs before you add more rigs.
Part of this gain or a lot of this gain is having the best crews on the rigs.
So as you add the new  another rig you may diminish the quality of the crew.
So the goal here is  were trying to make company as efficient as possible before we do any major increase in spend.
And then just lastly and I apologize for all the questions.
Given Thats okay.
Thank you.
With the stock cheaper than it once was what is it that your thought or your CFOs thought on stock buybacks and how excited or unexcited you are to do those at this point? Stock obviously is cheaper than it once was.
And we think that the  some stock buybacks are probably in our future.
Care to quantify? No.
Thats fine.
Thank you very much Steve.
Really appreciate it.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from Paul Sankey of Deutsche Bank.
Hi good morning everybody.
Good morning.
Steve in the past youve spoken about the difficulty in finding values from for example splitting the company.
Is that still the way you think that essentially with the stock having traded off and relatively cheaper could you now see benefit of the Middle East/North America split? Thanks.
I think thats something that we consider all the time.
Obviously the cheaper the stock the more you have to look at other alternatives.
And so valuing each pieces maybe fairly straightforward to do the U.S.
valuing the international standalone is really more complicated because theres not a lot of good comps.
So I think that well look at everything but obviously with a lower stock price things that might not have worked before might work now.
That isnt any kind of forecast or anything.
Its just sort of a tautology.
Yeah Ive got you.
I guess the other issue at the Middle East that it would be prolifically somewhat difficult I imagine to for example sell the whole business? I think that generally if you went and sold individual countries you would have to gain the consent of individual country.
So if you wanted to sell I dont know in some country generally the contract requires somebody else to  the country to approve the sale.
However if the business were split off or something may be not take so much effort.
Yeah that makes sense.
Theres a lot of speculation around the potential for an MLP of the Midstream can you just talk a little bit about how you see that? Thanks.
I think we look at virtually everything and we know shortage of suggestion.
I think you start looking for things that move the needle a lot rather than things to fine tune.
Well you mean an MLP would be a fine-tuning or would be a  Yeah I think an MLP would be a fine-tuning rather than a major mover.
Thats something one can think about over time.
But MLP is hopefully low cost capital.
So I mean presumably the play would be sell the MLP take the proceeds and buy the shares.
And so I but we also have been borrowing 2.5%.
You just look at for things that at least initially are things that move the needle a lot rather than tweaking  were tweaking things.
A tweak for example were simply selling our joint venture in Brazil and well get like $250 million or some like that for that.
And so that will close here in a few weeks and we can use some of that money to reduce the share count.
There are lots of tweaky things that one can talk about.
But again first of all focus is on things that really change value.
Yeah I guess that would be selling the whole of OXY or splitting it right? Well selling the whole of OXY that wont take many phone calls to line up to find out if there are buyers.
One I think its probably one call isnt it? Yeah one call.
Youll probably not  who knows.
So we dont want you to hire a lot of investment bankers to study the call.
So I think thats an improbable outcome.
Okay.
So you have  that its basically  I mean what else is the needle there other than splitting? Well I dont know.
But there may be other things.
There maybe assets we could sell that arent contributing to much of the business.
I mean there are lots of things we could do that are different than just splitting but I mean and maybe even splitting doesnt move the needle.
But the first thing you need to focus on thats what really matters and then you can focus on things to improve it slightly.
But I think you dont want to go down the path of sort of a delicatessen approach to this where you slice a piece of baloney off and you throw it to the wolves.
no question is your future.
You really have to address this question of how long do you think its going to take to find a CEO and how much longer you are going to be doing this job? Were not (inaudible) going to answer that.
I think weve  look at the press releases and the board and our statements speaks for themselves  Okay a technical question.
If the Chairman and some board members are not reelected how long is it before they are replaced and how does that process work technically speaking.
Its really a decision for the board to make as something that you could read proxy in detail but its really a board decision.
Okay Steve.
Ill leave it at that.
Thanks for your comment.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from Matt Portillo of Tudor Pickering Holt.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
</strong>  Good afternoon.
Hi.
I think its morning for us.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
</strong>  Just a few  Its always morning in California.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
</strong> Just one additional question in terms of the potential for share repurchase could you talk a little about your capital structure and how you think about kind of the appropriate leverage for your balance sheet today.
Just tying to get a better sense of how much capital that you have to access on a potential repurchase or other opportunities you are looking at to enhance shareholder value? I dont think we probably want to wander into the exact capital structure.
For a commodity based company you need a strong balance sheet to withstand the ups and downs so that you could react to opportunities that occur in an ugly market.
And then our operations in Middle East its very important if youre going to sign for a long-term project 30 years or something like that do you have a solid balance sheets of they believe youre going to be around.
I dont  that sort of qualitative view.
What the exact number is I just dont know but we have a lot of financial flexibility Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
</strong> Okay Weve got the very strong balance sheet for that.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
</strong> Perfect and then just two quick asset level questions I was wondering if you can give us some color the Wolfbone sounds like a new play you are focusing on.
If you can give us a little bit of color on how youre seeing well costs and potentially returns to EURs there? And then I have one quick follow-up on the midstream side.
Bill? Yeah Matt on the Wolfbone what were seeing for  these are completed well costs including hookup we are in the $3 million to $3.5 million range in the completed well costs.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
</strong> Thank you and then just a last question on the midstream side of business you obviously saw a pretty significant up tick in operating profit for the quarter just trying to get a little bit better sense and how we should think about that midstream and marketing and trading part of that business to $100 million you guys generated there and how that should trend over the rest of the year or how volatile that maybe as we move into the second and third quarter? Well start well say  Willie will answer the question but you should view it as volatile.
Go ahead Willy.
I think you saw last years number; we were kind of in the low 400s.
And as Steve said a lot of the wells for the whole year and a lot of what we do rids on arbitrage opportunities and market prices.
We keep reinforcing that one of our key roles is to make sure everything that we produce gives access to the highest markets.
So weve done things like renegotiated contracts to uncouple them from things like WTI.
Youll see us take a lot more capacity in pipelines to get out of constrained areas particularly the Permian.
And if you look at our first quarter results a lot of that was due to the arbitrage opportunity between Permian and the Gulf Coast.
And its because of our storage capacity that we had as well as transport capacity that allowed us to capture that.
So we hope we can maintain that pace going forward but again a lot of this is market based.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
</strong> Thank you very much.
A very little of it was from the fiber operation.
Almost all of the gain was from gas plants and arbitrage between  with our capacity to move oil around.
So instead of showing up in the oil segment because it wasnt our oil it will show up in the segment.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
</strong> Thank you.
Thanks.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from Faisel Khan of Citigroup.
Thank you good morning.
Good morning.
I was wondering if you could back to California a little bit and discuss the CapEx trends there.
So I guess in the middle of the year you were trending in about $550 million in CapEx a quarter and now youre down to  close to $300 million in CapEx.
Is this the new trend through the year? I think were budgeting $1.5 billion in California this year.
Okay.
So then should we see that number sort of pickup as we Thats right.
Actually all of the capital we had a slow start in spending this year not all of that by the way.
So we had a slow start everywhere costs are coming down and you will see the capital spending go to the nine six-ish level for the year for the whole company.
So well start to see a pickup of it in the second and third quarters.
Okay.
And then I want to go back to also comment you made earlier you said that some of the declines you were seeing in California were higher than what you expected initially.
Is that what resulted in the reserve revision you guys took in the 10-K? The reserve revision largely was a single old conventional oil part of Elk Hills filed.
And it has a different kind of production driver.
And the wells there have declined (inaudible) its not conventional.
So it fell off the curves so we took the write down on reserves but its not unconventional its hourly the shale its a reservoir thats probably producing almost 100 years and will probably produce for another 100 years.
Okay understood.
And then just if you could on the rig count its been kind of bouncing around the last year or two you were kind of 50 rigs on average in 11 and then you were at 60 somewhat rigs on average for 12 but then at the end of the year you were at 41 rigs so whats the trend for this year? We believe 50 55 rigs.
Yeah in the Americas  50 to 55 pretty stable.
Yeah.
Okay.
So I am just trying to reconcile that with the 10-K we talk about 41 rigs at the end of the year At any time these rig numbers how many you have we answer it almost too truthfully and so its exactly the  what it is that day or the day before.
And it could be three rigs or four rigs higher or lower the next day.
So I wouldnt make too much of the exact number.
Okay understood.
The one last question in terms of  if I look at the year-over-year growth in volumes and the lower 48 how much would you say the volume growth was attributed to the acquisitions you made last year?  A little bit.
We made a gas acquisition in California at the end of last year.
So I think some of that was California and then a little bit else where but its very hard.
Most of what we acquired was pud locations.
Okay understood.
Thanks for the time I appreciate it.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from Sven del Pozzo of IHS.
Yeah good morning.
Good morning.
Im trying to quantify I know its a hard question to answer because its driven by third-party operators.
But how much do you budget for rather the $1.9 billion in the  you said two-thirds of $1.9 billion in CapEx in the Permian and non-CO2 businesses? Thats right.
601.3 as I remember.
Oh that would be operated versus non-operated? No no.
Thats total.
The CO2 business is almost all our operated.
The 1.3 include some of the non-operated ones.
We have to estimate that number obviously.
Its not our choice.
Yeah.
So in relation to that non-operated estimate I was wondering what kind of exposure you have to non-operated wells and I would imagine with cost cutting efforts going on that perhaps you might decline to participate in third-party wells and how much exposure do you have to third-party business in the Permian? We clearly have some you might decline.
What the  generally the results what I would like to have from them is the results they tell the street rather than the AFPs we see.
Would it be possible to quantify of your 1.7 million net acres that you consider perspective for these emerging plays how much of that is non-operated acreage and how much is operated? I dont think we could do that here on the phone.
Okay.
Yeah.
You can see the gross in that.
Well show you a gross in that so you get some idea of our percentage.
So I mean that may help you some but we dont actually keep our records that way.
Okay.
Yeah I saw 2.5 million net acres in the Permian on your website for the total acreage number? Thats right.
Does that include what you acquired in Reeves County was that last year for the WolfBone stuff? Whatever is  whatever there on 12/31.
Okay.
And there were just some comments I was just looking over the fourth quarter call that talked about CO2 maintenance might that I mean is that on the horizon or has it already  have we already seen the maintenance in the first quarter? Yeah Bill will answer that.
Yes and weve got a one of our major CO2 recycling plants getting ready to undergo a turnaround.
Its going to start I think next Saturday last about two weeks.
All right.
Well thanks everybody.
Thank you.
Chris? We have one last question.
Okay thank you.
And your final question comes from Pavel Molchanovi of Raymond James.
Hey guys just one more on the cost side.
I mean clearly youre running ahead of schedule on your cost productions.
But since the end of the quarter weve seen WTI and Brent both coming down about $10.
What would it take for you to accelerate or lets say upsize your cost production target for the year? We might do it internally well show you actuals.
Okay.
And I mean anecdotally have you seen some softening across the value chain in the last lets say four weeks? Are you talking about cost? We contract on a longer basis in that.
Certainly the cost from suppliers is  what theyre charging has come down.
And but we dont do a lot of daily sorts of activities.
Most of our stuff is contracted for a period.
So its really hard for us to tell about the last month.
Okay fair enough.
Ill take that off-line thanks.
Thank you.
Thanks very much for joining us today.
If you have further questions please call us here in New York.
Thanks again.
Have a good day.
Thank you.
This does conclude todays conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Christie and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Occidental Petroleum Second Quarter 2013 Earnings Release Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the call over to Christopher Stavros.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Christie.
Good morning everyone and thank you for participating in Occidental Petroleum's Second Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
Joining us on the call this morning from Los Angeles are Steve Chazen Oxy's President and Chief Executive Officer; Cynthia Walker our Chief Financial Officer; Vicki Hollub Executive Vice President and Head of our California Oil and Gas operations; Willie Chiang Oxy's EVP of Operations and Head of our Midstream business; Bill Albrecht the President of Oxy's Oil and Gas operations in the Americas; and Sandy Lowe President of our International Oil and Gas business.
In just a moment I'll turn the call over to our CFO Cynthia Walker who'll review our financial and operating results for this year's second quarter.
Steve Chazen will then follow with an update on our production growth strategy progress on our operating costs and capital efficiency initiatives and guidance on our production and capital program for the back half of the year.
Certainly the highlight of this quarter's conference call will come from Vicki Hollub who will provide a thorough review of our California oil and gas operations including the abundant opportunities we have to grow that business over the long term while providing strong financial returns.
As a reminder today's conference call contains projections and other forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws.
These statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ from those expressed or implied in these statements and our filings.
Our second quarter 2013 conference call press release Investor Relations supplemental schedules and conference call presentation slides which refer to our prepared remarks can be downloaded off of our website at www.oxy.com.
I'll now turn the call over to Cynthia Walker.
Cynthia please go ahead.
Thank you Chris and good morning everyone.
Thank you for taking the time to join us on our call today.
During my comments I'll reference several slides in the conference call materials that as Chris mentioned are available on our website.
Overall in the second quarter we continued the trend of solid execution seen in the first quarter.
We produced 772 000 barrels per day essentially in line with our expectation adjusting for certain events during the quarter.
Our operating cost and capital efficiency programs remain on track.
We had core earnings of $1.3 billion or $1.58 per diluted share.
For the 6 months of 2013 we generated $6.4 billion of cash flow from operations before changes in working capital and we ended the quarter with $3.1 billion of cash on our balance sheet.
If you turn to Slide 3 you'll see a summary of our earnings for the quarter.
As I just mentioned core income was slightly under $1.3 billion or $1.58 per diluted share.
Compared to the first quarter of 2013 the current quarter reflected improved oil and gas results driven by higher oil volumes offset by lower earnings in the marketing and trading businesses largely due to commodity price movements during the quarter and higher equity compensation expense resulting from an improved stock price.
I'll now discuss the segment performance for the oil and gas business and begin with earnings on Slide 4.
Oil and gas earnings for the second quarter of 2013 were $2.1 billion.
And as you can see this was an increase over both the first quarter of 2013 and the second quarter of 2012.
On a sequential quarter-over-quarter basis improvements came from higher oil volumes in particular in the Middle East and North Africa business following the resumption of production after facility turnarounds in Qatar and Dolphin.
We also experienced better realized domestic oil and gas prices although they were offset by lower realized international oil prices.
Improvement in domestic realized prices is mainly attributable to the easing of oversupply in the Permian.
This significantly improved differentials for our Permian oil production.
There was also a modest increase in exploration expense.
Moving to Slide 5 you'll see a breakdown of production changes during the quarter.
As I mentioned production was 772 000 barrels per day.
This is an increase of 9 000 barrels over the first quarter and 6 000 barrels over the year-ago quarter.
On a sequential quarterly basis these results reflect the resumption of production in Qatar and Dolphin and growth in our California business as a result of our drilling program.
Elsewhere domestically we saw the impact of natural decline due to our reduced natural gas drilling activity.
Also reflected are the impacts of weather and planned gas plant turnarounds in our Permian business as well as insurgent activity in Colombia.
These events combined to reduce production by about 7 000 barrels per day during the quarter.
Also on a year-over-year basis full cost recovery and other adjustments under our production sharing and similar contracts reduced production by about 8 000 barrels per day.
The impact on a sequential quarterly basis was not significant.
Overall while there were a number of events that impacted production this quarter we see the underlying business is performing essentially as we expected.
If you turn to Slide 6 I'll discuss our domestic production in a bit more detail.
Our domestic production was 470 000 barrels per day a decrease of 8 000 barrels per day from the first quarter of 2013 driven by the factors illustrated on the previous slide.
And this was an increase of 8 000 barrels per day from the second quarter of 2012.
Focusing on our commodity composition our oil production was essentially flat versus the first quarter adjusting for the effects of the severe weather in the Permian.
Our natural gas and NGL volumes were 5 000 barrels per day lower than the first quarter excluding the impact of planned gas plant turnarounds.
This reduction primarily reflects natural decline in the Mid-Continent due to lower drilling activity and third-party processing bottlenecks in the Permian.
In total sales volumes were 764 000 barrels per day in the second quarter of 2013 compared to 746 000 barrels per day in the first quarter.
Middle East/North Africa sales volumes were 31 000 barrels per day higher mostly due to the timing of liftings as well as the effects of the first quarter maintenance turnarounds.
Our overall sales volumes were lower than production volumes during the quarter due to the timing of liftings.
The pickup in insurgent activity in Colombia caused a delay in 2 large liftings scheduled around the end of June.
In total delayed liftings reduced the second quarter pretax earnings by approximately $75 million or about $0.06 per diluted share on an after-tax basis.
We expect the third quarter liftings in Colombia to be at their normalized level barring any pickup in insurgent activity in the third quarter.
Our realized prices for the quarter and the comparison to benchmark prices are summarized on Slide 7.
Compared to the first quarter our worldwide crude oil realized price was almost flat.
As you can see the reduction in Brent was offset by improved realizations for our Permian production.
We continued to experience weakness in NGL pricing domestically which contributed to a 4% decrease in worldwide NGL realized prices while domestic natural gas realized prices experienced a 24% increase driven by improvement in the benchmark.
You'll also note that we updated our price sensitivities.
Next I will cover production costs on Slide 8.
Oil and gas production costs were $13.40 per barrel in the second quarter.
For the first 6 months of 2013 production costs were $13.66 per barrel compared to $14.99 per barrel for the full year of 2012.
The largest improvement was seen in our domestic operations where production costs were $3.26 per barrel lower in the first month -- first 6 months of 2013 from the full year of 2012.
This represents annualized cost savings of over $500 million exceeding our previously stated goals.
International production costs have remained fairly consistent with 2012 levels excluding the impact of facility turnarounds in Qatar and Dolphin which affected the first quarter.
Taxes other than on income which generally relate to product prices were $2.66 per barrel for the first 6 months of 2013 compared with $2.39 per barrel for the full year of 2012.
Second quarter exploration expense was $78 million.
We expect third quarter exploration expense to be about $90 million for seismic and drilling in our exploration programs.
Now turning to the chemical segment core earnings on Slide 9.
Second quarter earnings were $15 million lower than the first quarter.
This is primarily the result of lower caustic soda export volumes due to weak economic conditions in Europe slowing demand in Asia and reduced demand for alumina in South America.
We expect third quarter 2013 earnings to improve to approximately $170 million benefiting from the higher seasonal demand and continued strong PPC sales into construction markets.
On Slide 10 is a summary of the midstream segment earnings.
They were $48 million for the second quarter of 2013 compared to $215 million in the first quarter of 2013 and $77 million in the second quarter of 2012.
The sequential quarterly and year-over-year decrease in earnings resulted mainly from lower marketing and trading performance driven by commodity price movements during the quarter.
Our worldwide effective tax rate on core income was 41% for the second quarter of 2013 and we would expect that our combined worldwide tax rate in the third quarter will remain at about the 41% level.
And finally on Slide 11 I'll discuss our year-to-date cash flow performance.
For the first 6 months we generated $6.4 billion of cash flow from operations before changes in working capital.
This amount includes an approximate $380 million cash inflow from the collection of a tax receivable.
Working capital changes decreased our cash flow from operations by about $200 million to $6.4 billion.
Net capital expenditures for the first 6 months of 2013 were $4.2 billion of which $2.2 billion was spent in the second quarter.
We generated approximately $270 million with the sale of our investment in Carbocloro in the quarter and we used $225 million for acquisitions of domestic oil and gas assets of which about $125 million was during the quarter.
After paying dividends and other net outflows our cash balance was about $3.1 billion as of June 30.
Our debt balance remains unchanged and our debt-to-capitalization ratio was 15% at the end of the quarter.
Our annualized return on equity for the first 6 months of 2013 was 13% and our return on capital employed was 11%.
I'll now turn the call over to Steve Chazen to discuss other aspects of our operations and provide some additional guidance for the third quarter.
Thank you Cynthia.
Occidental's domestic oil and gas segment continued to execute in our liquids production growth strategy.
Our first half domestic oil production of 262 000 barrels a day was an increase of about 7% from the first half of 2012 production of 246 000 barrels a day.
Second quarter domestic production of 470 000 barrel equivalents per day consisted of 338 000 barrels of liquids and 792 million cubic feet of gas a decrease of about 8 000 barrel equivalents per day compared to the first quarter.
Liquids production decreased slightly due to planned gas maintenance turnarounds in the Permian which impacted natural gas liquids production.
Plant turnarounds also impacted our gas production which coupled with lower drilling on gas properties.
Natural decline comprised the bulk of the total domestic production decline.
A number of severe storms affecting the Permian region also lowered our domestic production.
Second quarter domestic production was generally in line with our expectations except for the impact of storms.
We're executing a focused drilling program in our core areas.
And to date we are running ahead of our full year objectives to improve domestic operational and capital efficiencies.
For example we have reduced our domestic well cost by 21% and our operating cost by about 19% relative to 2012.
This is ahead of our previously stated targets of 15% well cost improvement and total oil and gas operating cost below $14 a barrel for 2013.
We believe we can sustain the benefits realized to date achieve additional savings in our drilling costs and reach our 2011 operating cost levels over time without a loss in production or sacrificing safety.
The purpose of these initiatives is to improve our return on capital.
I will now turn the discussion over to Vicki Hollub our Executive Vice President in charge of our California operations.
Prior to her current role she ran our Permian enhanced oil recovery or CO2 business.
She will provide details of our strategies for the next couple of years considering the current California operating environment.
She will also discuss the results of our capital and operational efficiency improvement programs.
Vicki? Thank you Steve.
We are a California company and we are committed to being a responsible partner in the numerous communities in which we operate spanning from north of Sacramento to south of Long Beach.
We're the state's largest producer of natural gas and the largest oil and gas producer on a gross operated barrels of oil equivalent basis.
We provide locally sourced energy to help Californians cool their homes and drive their cars.
Since 2010 we have created 3 000 new jobs invested over $8.5 billion in the state and paid $900 million in state and local taxes.
We're also the largest oil and gas mineral acreage holder in North California with more than 2.1 million net acres in some of the most prolific hydrocarbon-producing areas of the state.
Our vast acreage position has diverse geologic characteristics and numerous reservoir targets providing us with development opportunities that range from conventional to steam and waterfloods and unconventional.
We plan to continue investing in providing energy for the state for decades to come.
This morning I would like to give you a look at the progress we've made in California this year.
When we started the year our overall objective was to position our portfolio for a long-term profitable growth while achieving immediate wins to have a successful year.
Our specific goals were: deliver a predictable outcome for this year given the constraints of working in California; advance projects with solid returns low execution risk and long-term growth; reduce our drilling and completion cost to improve our finding and development cost and our project economics; reduce our operating costs without affecting production to improve our current earnings and free cash flow; build a growing and highly predictable lower-declined base of production; test out various exploration development concepts both from a cost improvement and execution predictability perspective.
In 2012 we restructured our business units to create teams organized around the unique characteristics of each of our asset groups resulting in a fifth business unit dedicated to managing our heavy oil properties.
This heavy oil team has added the expertise necessary to accelerate the development of our existing steam floods and to evaluate new opportunities.
In addition we created 3 technical teams to better manage the complex geology of the reservoirs in California.
One team is dedicated to the design of new waterfloods or the optimization of existing floods.
Another will look exclusively at the aggressive application of the EOR technologies including steam floods where they are technically and economically feasible.
The third team will focus on unconventional development opportunities to optimize recoveries from the Monterey and other key shale plays in California.
We believe this structure gives us the ability to grow our California operations more efficiently maximize the benefits from the improvement in operating and capital costs that we've already achieved and drive additional improvements in our cost structure.
As you know we're engaged in a companywide effort to reduce our operating cost and improve capital efficiency in order to improve our returns.
In California we have significantly reduced operating as well as drilling costs exceeding our targets.
And we expect to save at least $175 million this year in operating costs through these efforts.
On the last call we provided a thorough breakdown of the efforts being made in all domestic assets and we have achieved similar success in California.
We've reduced our overall operating expenses by $3.50 per BOE from $23.20 in 2012 to an expected average of $19.70 for all of 2013.
Almost half of these reductions have been in well servicing as a result of high-grading our well service rigs and eliminating less efficient ones better planning and scheduling of jobs reducing lower value-adding jobs and adding Oxy supervision through reduction of contract wellsite operators.
Improvements and innovations in service operations account for another 35% of the reduction.
Activities contributing to these reductions include optimization of the use of chemicals improved water handling fuel and power cost reductions and lower rental equipment use.
In capital efficiency we've also improved by about 15% year-to-date compared to the full year 2012.
This success was achieved by focusing on 4 key elements of our capital program.
First we have locked in our drilling programs for a minimum of 2 months and in some areas up to 9 months.
This reduced our nonproductive times associated with rig moves and third-party services and helped to reduce our equipment rental cost.
Secondly we've revised well designs to more appropriately fit the wellbore characteristics and production expectations for each well.
Third we have optimized drilling equipment and fluids to reduce the time required to drill wells.
Finally we have improved our contracting strategies to incentivize our service providers to optimize overall performance through integrated service applications while reducing unit costs.
In many instances such as in the Rose Field we've been able to generate significant savings through the application of one or more of these concepts I just mentioned and then apply those same concepts to other wells across the state which has allowed us to duplicate the savings.
Many innovative ideas are being generated and implemented by our California teams across the state.
As we have stated several times before many of these ideas are being generated by our people at the grassroots level which tend to generate individually modest cost improvements that accumulate to significant amounts across all of our projects as successes are replicated.
Our people have embraced this effort and are committed to improve operations of our assets at every level by reducing cost and continuing to improve safety everywhere we operate.
While the results we have seen so far are very positive and impressive we believe that we can achieve even more improvements in both operating and capital costs going forward.
After reviewing our California assets as a whole and taking into consideration market conditions we adjusted our capital strategy at the start of the year to allocate a higher percentage of our annual budget to lower-declined projects project such as our waterfloods and steam floods.
For this year we plan to spend almost 65% of our capital program on water and steam floods or approximately $625 million on waterfloods $370 million on steam floods out of the total $1.5 billion capital.
We will spend about 25% of the capital on unconventional projects and the remaining 10% on primary drilling projects.
Further given the market conditions we have increased a portion of our capital on oil and gas liquids development which represent about 99% of our California capital for this year.
California has unique opportunities with diverse and complex geology.
This geologic complexity leads to a broad spectrum of hydrocarbon fields and reservoir types.
The depth quality and drive mechanisms of the reservoirs vary across many of the producing basins and within individual basins as well.
Those varied characteristics along with product prices costs and returns determine the mix of the type of projects to be included in our program each year.
The significant strides we have made in reducing our capital and operating cost that I've described have given us the flexibility to include a large number of potential projects in our development pipeline.
For example depending on the type of project and location our drilling costs in California including completion and hook-up costs range from $250 000 to $7 million with expected ultimate recoveries of 30 000 BOE to 550 000 BOE per well getting us a wide range of opportunities and variability.
Given our diverse portfolio of opportunities in California we have sufficient inventory to sustain the strategy in the future for at least another 5 years and probably even for 10 years or more while adjusting the liquids versus gas mix as conditions warrant.
We believe this approach will provide the best opportunity for growth of the California operations and make it a significant growth engine for Oxy.
Now I would like to share some highlights about each of those project types beginning with waterfloods.
Waterfloods are among our core competencies.
We have several new waterflood projects in progress this year in various stages from screening to implementation in addition to a number of floods where we are engaged in redevelopment expansion or optimization activities.
We will spend most of our waterflood capital to further optimize our most developed project the giant Wilmington Field where our Long Beach business unit is continuing to have success in reserves recovery.
Wilmington is a long-standing waterflood where the keys to redevelopment success are effective reservoir characterization performance surveillance reservoir modeling and advances in directional drilling technology.
This year we will drill 135 new wells including 35 horizontal wells targeting attic oil and fault-isolated zones within this multi-play reservoir.
In Wilmington we have used a combination of vertical and horizontal wells depending on the location.
Vertical or slant wells can be cost effective in certain locations.
And in others horizontal wells are drilled to target specific sand intervals within the larger waterflood zone which have not been effectively swept by the injected water.
These wells have an average initial production or IP rates of over 3x higher than similar vertical wells at a cost of just 20% more than the comparable wells.
We believe there's still significant potential to be realized in the Wilmington field.
For example since we acquired this asset in 2000 proven reserves have steadily grown.
In fact year-end 2012 proved reserves remained slightly higher than 2000 levels despite 12 years of production resulting in more than a twofold proved reserve increase during this period.
We currently have an inventory of over 1 000 future well locations in the Wilmington field.
We believe that a successful development program focused on these wells over the next 7 years will deliver reserves of up to 100 million BOE.
Just south of Wilmington we are starting the redevelopment of the Huntington Beach Field with 2 new fit-for-purpose rigs an onshore rig which has an enclosure specifically designed for drilling in urban areas and an offshore rig.
We expect both of those rigs to arrive and start drilling towards the end of the year.
So far we have identified 128 well locations to drill which will take 4 to 5 years using the 2 rigs we currently have committed.
We expect to add more well locations as we learn more through our reservoir modeling and surveillances as we have done in the analog Wilmington Field.
We believe that we can increase our production from this field by 10 000 BOE per day and develop reserves of at least 50 million BOE.
Another significant project for us is the waterflood expansion at Buena Vista Field where we expect to drill more than 150 wells over the next 5 years.
We believe we can increase the Buena Vista production by 4 000 BOE per day and deliver reserves of 28 million BOE.
In addition our Vintage unit which is the team that manages our San Joaquin Valley and Ventura County waterfloods gas properties in the Sacramento Valley and unconventional projects outside of Elk Hills they have several waterfloods in the pilot phase this year several under evaluation for redevelopment and a long list of potential projects going through the waterflood screening process.
In total we will spend around 40% of our 2013 California capital on waterflood projects that are expected to generate returns exceeding 20% on average.
In addition to waterfloods our steam flood activities have also been a sizable focus for us this year.
Our steam floods in California are highly profitable taking advantage of the gas versus oil price spread allowing us to use cheap gas to generate steam which is then used to inject into the reservoir to produce oil.
We believe these projects can deliver attractive returns with the combination of gas prices as high as $6 per Mcf and oil prices as low as $80 per barrel.
Typical rates of return for these projects are expected to be 25% or better.
The 2 largest steam flood projects for 2013 are in the Kern Front and Lost Hills fields being managed by our newly formed heavy oil team.
These 2 fields contain over 1 billion barrels of oil original oil in place on a combined basis with an estimated 870 million barrels remaining in place.
We're in the process of expanding our steam generation capacity in both fields and these projects are progressing as expected.
We have drilled 100 wells in these 2 areas year-to-date.
And with the recent addition of 2 rigs we expect to drill an additional 200 wells in the second half of this year.
As a result of our activity in these projects production from our heavy oil business unit is expected to increase by around 3 000 BOE per day by the end of this year over our 2013 entry rate.
Full development of these steam floods is a multi-year endeavor and we believe that over time we can increase our heavy of production by 15 BOE per day developing reserves of 120 million BOE.
We're also preparing to pilot 2 smaller steam floods in Oxnard and the Midway Sunset Area by the beginning of next year.
With the success of these projects we expect to be able to develop an additional 45 million BOE of reserves.
Our total steam flood spending will constitute about 25% of our total California capital in 2013.
Over the next 5 years we expect to drill 1 500 steam flood wells.
As we shift capital to greater water and steam flood opportunities we expect a lag of about 6 to 9 months before we see sustained production growth as the flow of new projects reaches a steady level.
We're in this transition period but are now beginning to see the initial phases of growth from these projects.
In addition to shale plays our unconventional opportunities include those reservoirs that have low permeability and require special recovery processes to flow.
Currently about 1/3 of our California production is from unconventional reservoirs.
This year we plan to drill more than 70 unconventional wells.
We have more than 1 million prospective acres for unconventional resources which we believe contain up to 7 billion BOE of recoverable reserves.
We have drilled approximately 1 300 unconventional wells in California since 1998.
More than 1 000 of these have been in and around Elk Hills including the Monterey and other key shale plays.
Our current plan includes 53 unconventional wells from multiple shale plays around Elk Hills with varying costs and expected performance depending on the well's location and its particular structure.
All of these 53 wells are a part of continuing development programs that are delivering better than 20% rate of return.
Our ongoing program around Elk Hills is expected to increase our ultimate recovery by about 150 million BOE.
An example of unconventional opportunities we are pursuing outside of Elk Hills includes drilling and development at the Rose Field.
We purchased this field in late 2009 and drilled 1 appraisal well in 2011 8 development wells in 2012 and 6 horizontal wells this year with plans to continue drilling.
Results have been very good with average IP rates exceeding our expectations and estimated ultimate recoveries of approximately 155 000 BOE per well on average.
We believe our returns from this field will be around 25% over the course of the development program.
We also plan to drill additional unconventional wells in South Belridge and the Buena Vista areas this year.
Success in these areas could ultimately provide more than 100 well locations and up to 35 million BOE in net reserves.
A discussion of the future potential of California will not be complete without a separate discussion of Elk Hills which we acquired in 1998.
At that time Elk Hills had gross proved reserves of 545 million BOE 424.5 million BOE net to Oxy.
Now cumulative production since our acquisition in 1998 combined with our current proved reserves is almost double the proved reserves for Elk Hills at the time of the acquisition which shows that we continue to generate ways to get more out of these reservoirs and we're not done with Elk Hills.
In recent years our growth in California has come from projects outside of Elk Hills.
This is due to our big challenge at Elk Hills where the underlying base decline without any capital expenditures would be around 25%.
However we are now looking at additional opportunities which we expect will further increase the reserves at Elk Hills and help to mitigate the decline rate possibly reducing it by as much as 50%.
These opportunities include waterfloods steam floods as well as potential polymer and CO2 floods that could be implemented over the next 3 to 10 years.
These significant operating and capital efficiency improvements made by the Elk Hills team will improve the profitability of these waterfloods and the EOR opportunities.
I would also like to point out that our plant operations team at Elk Hills has done a great job of optimizing runtime and reliability from our new cryogenic gas plant.
Currently the team is operating the plant at greater than 90% uptime and they have extracted record volumes of NGLs from the gas streams this year.
Elk Hills still has more than 900 million BOE of remaining reserves and resources that can be recovered through waterflooding and current proven EOR technologies in which we have considerable expertise so we're going to continue our development efforts at Elk Hills.
Our California exploration program has delivered solid results over the last 5 years since we ramped it up.
From 2007 through 2012 we have drilled over 100 exploration wells across the California basins in both conventional and unconventional plays.
A full 2/3 of our wells have found hydrocarbons and a large portion of these successful wells resulted in commercial production.
We have been busy over the last few years acquiring 3D seismic over a significant portion of our acreage and this has contributed to our high rate of success.
Access to this new seismic data and working closely with our operating groups has allowed our exploration staff to build creative and innovative programs.
Last year for instance we made a significant unconventional discovery in the San Joaquin Basin.
Continued appraisal and drilling and testing this year established reserves and resources of approximately 50 million BOE.
The full development of this discovery is expected to require drilling 100 wells.
In addition to the 50 million BOE we've established we are testing and/or planning wells in late 2013 and 2014 that if successful will double this volume.
Further this concept has repeatability and we plan to extend this play through much of our California acreage.
Our 2013 exploration program which includes 15 wells is on track to deliver results consistent with prior years and we continue to build inventory to ensure we have a robust exploration program going forward into 2014 and beyond.
Finally I would like to briefly touch on our gas development prospects in the state.
In the Sacramento Basin of northern California we have established a sizable natural gas position with over 318 000 net acres and 66 million cubic feet a day of dry gas production.
We estimate that we operate through our Vintage business over 80% of oil production in the region.
Our current focus in the area is to optimize our current production mostly with inexpensive workovers and a modest drilling program of 8 new wells in 2013 and 14 wells in 2014.
We believe that the range of possible projects that are available in our acreage gives us the ability to ramp up our development efforts with attractive returns at prices around $5 per Mcf.
Currently we have identified total reserves and continued resources of about 300 Bcf.
We believe that our acreage held about 10 Tcf of original gas in place with about 2 Tcf currently remaining.
As you can see we have a large inventory of waterflood steam flood and EOR opportunities in California in and outside of Elk Hills as well as significant upside in unconventional opportunities.
All of these opportunities will continue to be an important part of our California development plans for the future and will make California a significant growth asset for Oxy.
The mix of projects in the next couple of years will be similar to this year as we continue to commit a larger portion of our capital to lower decline projects to manage our capital program more effectively and control escalation and spending while achieving healthy production growth.
In closing I would like to summarize the progress we have made against the goals we established at the beginning of the year.
We are executing a $1.5 billion capital program this year which takes into account the constraints of working in California.
We expect to generate free cash flow after capital in excess of $1 billion.
Our program incorporates opportunities resulting from improvements we are already seeing regarding permitting in the state.
We shifted our development program towards a higher percentage of low decline projects such as our water and steam floods.
With continued improvements in permitting we should be able to grow our capital spend to around $2 billion in 2014 with further increases beyond that reaching around $2.5 billion annually on a sustainable basis.
With this program we expect to grow at least within the corporate target rates of 5% to 8% annually over the next 10 years while earning returns of better than 20%.
We've improved our capital efficiency by about 15% year-to-date compared to the full year 2012.
We expect to further improve on these results going forward which will improve our finding and development costs and returns.
We have reduced our overall operating expenses by 350 BOE from $23.20 in 2012 to an expected average $19.70 for all of 2013.
This reduction translates to cost savings of over $175 million for the year contributing to our earnings and cash flow.
We have identified at least 5 500 well locations and we'll add more as we continue to evaluate additional acreage and project opportunities.
We're working on several new waterflood projects in addition to a number of floods where we're engaged in redevelopment expansion or optimization activities.
We're taking advantage of the gas versus oil price differences and expanding our steam flood opportunities giving us a highly profitable set of projects to work with going forward.
We're continuing our focus on a number of unconventional opportunities across the state including the Monterey shale to give us further growth prospects.
And finally we're continuing our focused exploration in 3D seismic acquisition program which has delivered a high percentage of commercially successful projects the most recent example being our significant unconventional discovery in the San Joaquin basin.
We have a large and diverse portfolio of opportunities available to us across the state.
We're very excited about the future of our California operations and the role that it will play in contributing to the company's overall growth.
I will now turn the call back to Steve Chazen.
Thank you Vicki.
I'll now turn to our third quarter outlook.
Domestically we continue to expect solid growth in our oil production for the year.
Based on nature and timing of our drilling programs this year such as the steam floods in California and timing of several gas plant maintenance turnarounds in the Permian we expect the production growth to occur in the second half of the year.
We have achieved the drilling targets we set in the first half of the year.
As a result we expect our second half average domestic oil production will be about 6 000 to 8 000 barrels a day higher than the first half average the increase coming mainly from the Permian and California.
We expect modest declines in our domestic gas and NGL production that we have seen in the second quarter to continue as a result of our reduced drilling on gas properties and natural decline as well as additional gas plant turnarounds scheduled in our Permian business the rest of the year.
Internationally we expect more cost pool depletions in our contracts in Qatar and Yemen which will result in less cost recovery barrels from those locations.
However we expect total international production to be about flat in the second half of the year compared to the second quarter volumes assuming no renewed pickup in insurgent activity in Colombia and stable spending in Iraq.
We expect international sales volumes to increase in the second half of the year and recoup well over half the underlift we've expected in the first half.
In the first 6 months capital spending was $4.2 billion with $2.2 billion spent in the second quarter.
We expect second half of the year spending rate to be higher.
Our annual spending level is expected to be generally in line with the $9.6 billion program we have previously discussed.
The positive effect of our capital efficiency efforts has started to become noticeable in our spending patterns.
As a result we believe there is a reasonable possibility our total spending may be somewhat lower than the program amount I just mentioned while still drilling the number of wells we set out as a goal at the beginning of the year.
As you can see the business is doing well and we're continuing to make progress on our operational goals.
With regard to our strategic business review we have presented various options to our Board of Directors.
Our review of these operations is progressing well although it is not yet complete so the board will continue to evaluate the alternatives.
We expect to have additional information regarding our plans towards the end of the year.
Finally an affiliate of Plains All American filed a registration statement yesterday with the SEC for a public offering of interest in Plains' general partner.
We own 35% of the general partner's interest and we expect to monetize a portion as a part of our proposed offering.
Now we're ready to take your questions.
[Operator Instructions] And your first question comes from Leo Mariani of RBC.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just a quick question overall on production.
It looks like just kind of looking at the overall company going to be sort of flattish in 2013 versus 2012.
Obviously you've got a lot of new initiatives in California going here.
Looks like that is going to accelerate next year.
I know you guys also increased your Permian rig count earlier in the year.
Should we expect much better growth on production overall for Oxy in 2014? And maybe any kind of ballpark number we could look for for growth next year? Well of course I think the oil production will continue to do well in the back half of the year and into next year because almost all of the drilling is focused on oil.
California will do much better as the year progresses and into next year.
International production Iraq aside sort of flattish because of the cost recovery issues.
So if you look at just the oil I think you'll see reasonable growth and better growth next year.
Some of the turnaround -- we won't have the turnarounds we had this year in the plants so we should do better that way.
Gas is a different issue.
Gas production it's hard to justify spending a lot of money on gas production.
So on a BOE basis I think you won't see much out of the gas probably some decline.
But I wouldn't -- I don't think spending money on gas is money well spent at this point.
LLC Research Division</strong> Any price out there you think you need to spend money on gas? Vicki talked about $5 in California.
California is probably the -- California maybe South Texas are -- and maybe a little bit in the Peons [ph] are the highest return but I think you'd probably need around $5 to excite us.
I mean the margins are pretty good in oil right now.
I think if you look at sort of $100 oil you make these huge margins and so trying to squeeze a few more bucks out of gas just to make some BOEs strike me as not money well spent.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I guess how about the Bakken? Is that an area where you guys have started to pick up at all given the strength in oil? I think Bill can answer that.
Yes we're right now we're running 5 rigs in the Bakken and adding another rig in August.
We'll go up to 6 but I don't see much of an increase beyond 6 rigs for the rest of the year.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I guess how about Al Hosn? Is that still on track for production kind of late 2014? Sandy can answer that.
Yes.
The Shah Field gas will come on at the end of 2014.
We expect to see pretty much full production in 2015.
Your next question comes from Paul Sankey from Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Steve the comment you made on the strategic business review seems to indicate that -- well it directly indicates that we won't get the plans until later -- much later this year.
I was thinking we would have more of an update on for example the Middle Eastern sales process.
Potentially it seems to be that you're teeing up for a California spin here.
And then ultimately I thought there was some fairly clear plans about your intentions for the remaining co[ph].
Can you just sort of go back through how we've ended up here with you saying there's now a number of different options and where things may be different from the way I perceived them to be potentially? Well one of the things that was easiest was the Plains' partial sale and then ultimately full sale.
So there's a fairly large number in that.
We didn't say anything had changed.
I think as you enter in discussions with people about various things I think it's best that those discussions not be in the public domain and rather be handled privately.
And so when we have a definitive thing to talk about in the Middle East we'll talk about that when it's definitive.
As far as the rest of it goes you can make your own judgments about California based on what Vicki said.
Research Division</strong> Yes so I guess we could continue to consider that that will become a separate -- a standalone company.
That seems to be the way.
Well it's certainly one of the options.
I didn't mean to imply that there were now 400 options.
We're just considering various options.
And the board has really just been exposed to this in detail at one meeting and so it will take a little while and we want to consult fully with them and weigh all the alternatives for them.
But clearly some things are going ahead quickly.
Research Division</strong> And the -- I mean I guess we still assume that the overall process needs to be complete before you close your career at Oxy at the end of '14? Well that would be my hope so.
Research Division</strong> Okay and just the final -- my final question on this would be the towards the end of the year timing I guess that's conservative.
It just seems that you don't have a huge amount of time to complete this process.
Well it doesn't mean that the process wouldn't proceed without an announcement.
So I mean there's some things we could do without -- I'd prefer to announce things that are not ideas but well along in the process.
So you could move ahead on any of this without some formal announcement.
Research Division</strong> Right.
And my understanding is that things -- you visited the Middle East things went well.
You may be selling more of the Middle East business than previously.
I think it had been the idea of 20% to 30% sales for not less than $25 billion total value.
Are those reasonable? Well I don't want to comment.
I don't want to comment on discussions we might have with those -- over there.
The trip went well and they were very pleased with our people and our operations and they want us to stay in the region and want to do things to help us stay in the region.
Research Division</strong> Right.
And then my final question is as regards California it feels a little bit like the movie that we saw in 2010.
You described a lot of upside and potential in California at that analyst meeting.
It didn't really deliver.
We've seen volumes down here sequentially in California.
How can we get conviction that this enormous upside potential will be delivered when the recent track record is being -- that we think...
I think actually we're up sequentially this quarter.
But now you just have to see the production as it goes.
Your next question comes from Ed Westlake of Crdit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> I guess my first question is just on breakeven.
So you gave some numbers for the steam floods but just on sort of...
Steam floods you should use that as a ratio rather than exactly those numbers.
Research Division</strong> Yes yes.
But on that...
That wasn't breakeven.
That was economically work so that's different than breakeven.
I don't know what the breakeven number is.
So basically what we're saying in California is that those are -- that ratio works and we would continue to exploit at that ratio.
Research Division</strong> All right.
And then what about the nonconventional wells and the waterflood? I mean any sort of rough range for sort of economically working oil prices? Vicki? I would say that for the waterfloods certainly we -- those are some of our better margin productions and projects.
So our breakeven prices on the waterfloods could go down as oil price is down to probably the $60 to $65 range.
Research Division</strong> Right.
And then just on the nonconventional side I mean obviously your 7 billion barrels of reserve sounds like a great number.
I mean At the current rate it probably takes about 200 years to drill that.
So when you...
199 I thought.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
But when you're looking at the types of fields that that's contained I mean is it fields like Rose North Shafter that area? Is it infill drilling around Elk Hills or is it the deep basin? I'm just trying to get an understanding of what the technical breakthroughs are to actually unlock that at an oil price that works.
First before Vicki answers I think you need to understand that we've couched this entire discussion around in the current environment and those are things other than just oil and gas prices.
So Vicki can answer now.
Currently we only drilled and developed on less than 5% of our unconventional prospective acres so we're still learning a lot about the Monterey shale.
We're in the -- what I would still say is even though we've drilled 1 300 wells we're learning a lot about the Elk Hills area and the Rose and North Shafter areas.
We're taking those learnings and applying those to our evaluations of the remaining potential.
And the creation of this technical team that we have and working with our [indiscernible] we expect to be able to start expanding out beyond those areas and expect to see some variability but we'll be able to apply a lot of what we've learned thus far.
Right I mean I think the short answer is for the next year or 2 you'll see the areas that she has pointed out.
And then as this thing -- we're looking for higher predictability.
And so what you'll see is this thing will build out over time rather than sort of leap over time.
Because again we're looking for predictability and outcome here so their cash flows would be predictable going forward.
Your next question comes from Arjun Murti of Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Apologies if I'm simply repeating the questions here.
But you do talk about 7 billion barrels of opportunity in California.
But I guess it sounds like there's still a lot to study over such a large acreage position.
How do we think about how risked that 7 billion is? Is the issue in the pace? And I know the regulatory constraints is one of them but just that that's sort of an unrisk number and you just had to do a lot more work on it? It's just kind of putting these things together here.
Vicki? That number is based pretty much on what we've seen in the areas that we've been developing thus far so that number is taken from the actual performance we've seen in the Elk Hills area with respect to our shale play there and also taking into account what we've learned in the Rose and North Shafter area.
So we feel comfortable about that number.
What we are trying to do is work on techniques to actually improve the percent recovery of the oil in place.
And there are some techniques that we think we can start to apply and we're starting to see some success on things that we're implementing thus far and those are results that we hope to be able to share with you in the next -- in the coming quarters.
Research Division</strong> That's a great...
I think her answer is that it's a risk number.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
No I know.
I got that.
So then I guess the pace on the one hand there can be regulatory constraints.
On the other hand you're still trying to learn more.
I don't know how you can weigh between these 2 things.
But I think there's just this ongoing question of why not go faster in these areas? Neither -- we want to make sure this California company has stable solid cash flow going forward and the regulatory environment will take a while to develop.
This is not North Dakota.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
And then just a follow-up on the strategic business reviews.
I think you've said it Steve but a lot of companies when they announce these things do present basically ideas of what they then want to accomplish.
It sounds like whether it's before year end or some other time frame it'll be much more conclusionary for you or perhaps much more concrete in terms of what you'll actually be announcing at that time.
Perhaps actual sales...
If you look at the PAA action we could've said something about that a year ago or 6 months ago or something like that.
We said it when it was concrete.
And the problem with ideas is that you telegraph your attentions to other parties and without -- and I don't think that's necessarily the right thing to do.
Research Division</strong> Steve of your 35% of PAA GP how much is going as part of this IPO? I've been told I can't answer that.
You have to call Barclays to get the prospectus.
So maybe they'll send you one.
Your next question comes from Douglas Leggate of Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> Steve back to California.
So it sounds like what you're seeing by you want the California business to have stable cash flows...
Stable and growing cash flows.
Research Division</strong> Right.
But if go drill a bunch of wells and then you don't have the permitting let's assume is that really what's holding you back from stepping up that program? Is it still permitting? It's a combination of permitting and technical evaluation.
We could certainly if we had a different permitting environment we could spend a lot more money probably not enough to satisfy you but certainly spend more money.
And so I think that this is not -- this is still a very difficult environment.
There are bills in the legislature that will have a negative impact on us.
And so I think we want to be cautious about what we promise.
Research Division</strong> So looking at your slide presentation you're indicating like a $500 million step-up in spending maybe going all the way up to...
Next year.
Research Division</strong> And maybe you're going all the way up to spending your cash flow.
So what -- where is that...
Hopefully the money we invest will generate more cash flow so we really won't spend the cash flow.
Research Division</strong> Right.
But where there is the incremental activity? Is it waterflood steam flood or is it unconventional? It's probably going to be mostly unconventional.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Final one on California.
The rates of return 25% -- up 20% 25% I think that's what you said in the slide pack.
Considering you have the royalty and given the numbers you've given to us before like 350 000 barrels a day -- sorry 250 barrels a day with 250 000 EOR on the cost that you give us those returns sounds conservative.
What -- is that -- I mean am I reading something wrong there? Or those numbers -- something changed from the [indiscernible]...
Well I think first of all it's not IRRs.
It's basically accounting returns.
So it won't show up in our financial statements about what's -- as opposed to what shows up in our imagination as IRRs.
The IRRs are a lot higher because you get your money back real quick so they're probably not exactly comparable.
We didn't write those numbers to be exact.
We just said well those are what we have.
We're pretty confident being able to deliver.
Research Division</strong> I see.
So it's more like a return on capital type of number.
That's right.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Very last one for me.
I know you don't want to elaborate probably on the restructuring at this point.
But can you help us with frame on order of magnitude for how you see share buybacks when you do get to the point where you're going to do a [indiscernible] auction? An order of magnitude would be great.
Well it just depends on how much is raised.
But clearly as we raise money a sizable share buyback is an order.
I don't think -- I think under 10% wouldn't be viewed as sizable.
Your next question comes from Roger Read of Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just following up on California.
Given the commentary about spending in terms of the I guess call it more the conventional waterflood the EOR side focusing on lower decline rates yet the incremental spending will be on the unconventional side I mean how exactly does that reconcile in terms of production growth? Well you build the base from your steam floods and your waterfloods.
That's what the 1.5 billion area does.
Once you've got the base you can afford to step up the higher decline drilling.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
So that's how California ultimately is going to fund itself? That's how you would expect California to fund itself.
LLC Research Division</strong> And would California if put as a separate unit however it does occur would it be -- would it take a percentage of the debt? Would it take on new debt and that would be a way to raise cash for the parent corporation? Any light you can shed on that? I think it's premature to speculate about what we might do there.
That's something that you roll out near the end rather than you start with.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
I'm just trying to get kind of a feeling for where it can all come from.
And the last...
Well it isn't going to -- I mean if it were separated it would have a capital structure similar to E&amp;Ps not a capital structure similar to ours.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then my final question as you've made progress on lowering the OpEx is there any help you can give us in terms of understanding how much of that is a function of maybe not spending on the natural gas side and NGLs as opposed to spending on the crude side just given that the overall investment in drilling is clearly continuing to grow on the crude oil here in the U.S.? Yes.
The gas workovers are cheaper.
So it's more of a struggle to lower it than given how oily we are than say somebody who's really gassy.
So I think that on a BOE basis gas would clearly be cheaper.
So I think it's more of a structure.
I mean even this quarter the increase is almost entirely due to energy price increases electricity and that sort of thing.
So I mean to do this in a very oily company is much more a struggle than it is say a gas company.
If we look at our pure gas production the areas that are almost pure gas I mean they're doing great on this.
They've got really low numbers but they still don't make a lot of money because the gas price is low so I mean their operating costs are really nothing.
But it's the oil stuff where you struggle because you've got electricity and other costs that make it really out of your control.
So I think given oily nature of the company I think the people in the field have done a great job.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then how much more progress do you expect at this point on the cost reduction front? Well we show you the targets in one of the slides.
And so it will be -- it can always be lumpy in any quarter.
You can have one more or a few more workovers or you can have a field problem.
So operating costs can be lumpy in any one quarter and again there's electricity costs really out of our control.
But you can see it in the slide.
LLC Research Division</strong> Well that's kind of what I was trying to get to.
I'm wondering if you've got some of the items are out of your control what's within your control? How does that line up with the target? We continue to do better on the items that are in our control.
If we broke out the stuff within our control you'd see even more of a sharp improvement.
Your next question comes from Faisel Khan of Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> I just have a few follow-up questions.
On Slide 31 you guys talk about the significant discovery in the San Joaquin Basin.
I just want to understand the full development that you guys talk about 100 wells what's the -- what would be the cost of each one of these wells? Is this the sort of $250 000 per well or is it the $7 million per well sort of cost that you guys talked about? It's probably neither.
Vicki? Yes it's more on the $2.5 million to $3 million range for that development.
And were starting to drill -- towards the end of this year we'll be drilling the more appraisal wells.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And if you could help me a little bit to understand how the permitting process kind of works for all these different play types you've discussed in California.
I suppose that when you're drilling in areas you're already producing from those are sort of easier permits to get.
But then as we move out of these areas it's kind of more difficult to get sort of those permits.
So I guess for this particular discovery is it pretty easy to get the permits you need to drill up this inventory and realize this discovery? Or how does that work from play to play? Vicki why won't you tell him where we are in the permitting process there? Yes for that particular area because it is a new area we are in the permitting process and you're correct.
For new areas it takes longer a little more difficult.
And that's why our current appraisal program has not already begun.
However we're in that process now.
We've submitted our permit applications and expect to have the approvals of those by the end of Q3.
And worst case we're thinking Q4 so we should be able to proceed as we expect.
But you're right.
It's in the new areas that we have the delays.
But we started this a year ago Vicki? So I mean it gives you a feel.
So we've got a permit to drill a well or 2 and so once we decided we needed to expand it it's been more than a year.
Research Division</strong> So to give you a kind of general sort of rule of thumb is it from discovery to production of -- or realization of the discovery to production it's kind of like a year or 2? A year before you can start.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then another year before you can get to full production? Well no.
You've got a year of doing nothing or very little testing the wells that you've got.
Then you get -- hopefully get your permit in a year or a little more than a year.
And even that isn't necessarily the full field development but it might be close to where you are.
You have maybe some quality issues that you have to deal with depending on the size of facilities you want to build.
This can stretch on for a while.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So it sounds like the incubation period is like about 2 to 3 years from...
Yes I think from when you start and as you -- as the field -- if you're unlucky enough in some ways to find more than you thought you need to go back for more permits because your production facilities aren't big enough.
And that will start another period of study by the state.
I think the state is doing the best it can given the environment in the state the political environment in the state.
I think the state government's doing what it can.
But no one should underestimate even when you're successful how long it takes to convert it into production.
Your next question comes from John Herrlin of Societe Generale.
Just some quick ones.
How much were the well costs at Rose? The well cost at rose was $3.9 million.
Okay.
With respect to your waterfloods why are you not doing polymer at Wilmington or Huntington Beach? Or you didn't mention that anyway.
Yes that's under consideration.
Our technical team is looking at the possibility of polymer flooding not only at Wilmington but also at Elk Hills.
The answer is the plain waterflood at Wilmington is working great.
And there's no real -- I mean that's a true technological victory here over the years.
And so I think it's -- before you do heroic things you ought to do stuff that's sort of simple.
Okay that's fine Steve.
With respect to your response times you said 6 to 9 months.
I assume water is more -- as layer is more protracted than the steam? Or is that incorrect? It depends on the type of waterflood.
Some are quicker responders than others.
But based on what we're trying to develop now it's looking like 6 to 9 months.
But we're in some areas we're seeing responses already.
His question really is about water versus steam.
Is there any difference? Right exactly.
No the steam there is a lag there too because you've got to heat up the reservoir so that does take a while.
Correct.
Last one for me Steve.
Acquisitions you haven't spent much this year versus the not-too-recent past.
Is it an issue of price or dearth of properties or just your current strategic review? I think all 3.
There are not a lot of properties for sale.
You've got a curve -- oil price curve.
I think the average oil price in the curve is like $85 for the next 3 years.
Meanwhile the current price is $105 or $104 whatever it is.
So that doesn't actually lead to a lot of deals because as you look forward you're talking about at least the market's expecting $85.
The seller's looking at checks for $105.
That doesn't actually lead to a lot of closure.
There's really not a lot of oil properties or properties that we would be interested in for sale and given where we are in the overall process I'm building -- we're building cash for other uses.
At this time I will turn the floor back over to Christopher Stavros for any final comments.
Thanks for joining us today and please call us in New York with any follow-up questions from the call.
Thanks again.
Thank you.
This does conclude today's conference.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
And welcome to the Third Quarter 2013 Earnings Release Conference Call.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers remarks there will be a question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions) Thank you Mr.
Stavros you may now begin.
Thank you [Tamica].
Good morning everyone.
And thank you for participating in Occidental Petroleums third quarter 2013 earnings conference call.
On the call with us this morning from Los Angeles are Steve Chazen Oxys President and Chief Executive Officer; Cynthia Walker our Chief Financial Officer; Willie Chiang Oxys Vice President of Operations and Head of our Midstream Business; Sandy Lowe President of our International Oil and Gas Operations; Bill Albrecht President of Oxy Oil and Gas in the Americas; and Vicki Hollub Executive Vice President of Oxys U.S.
Oil and Gas Operations.
In just a moment Ill turn the call over to our CFO Cynthia Walker who will review our financial and operating results for this years third quarter and provide some guidance for the current quarter.
Sandy Lowe will then provide a brief overview of our Oil and Gas operations in the Middle East focusing on key countries for Oxy as well as our strategic objectives for the region.
Steve Chazen will then follow with a decision of our strategic initiatives and some of our growth opportunities.
As a reminder todays conference call contains projections and other forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws.
These statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ from those expressed or implied in these statements and our filings.
Our third quarter 2013 earnings press release Investor Relations supplemental schedules and conference call presentation slides which refer to our prepared remarks can be downloaded off of our website at www.oxy.com.
Ill now turn the call over to Cynthia.
Cynthia please go ahead.
Thank you Chris and good morning everyone.
My comments will reference several slides in the conference call materials that Chris referenced are available on our website.
Overall in the third quarter we continued the solid execution seen in the first half.
Total company production was 767 000 BOE per day and importantly we produced 267 000 barrels of oil domestically.
This is on track to achieve our second half growth objectives.
In addition with three quarters of successful execution behind us we are confident that we will exceed the goals we set for the year for operating cost and capital efficiency.
We had core earnings of $1.6 billion or $1.97 per diluted share and for the first nine months of 2013 we generated $9.4 billion of cash flow from continuing operations before changes in working capital and enter the quarter with $3.8 billion of cash on our balance sheet.
If you turn to slide three you will see a summary of our earnings for the quarter.
Core income was approximately $1.6 billion or $1.97 per diluted share.
As you can see this is an improvement over both of the prior quarters.
Compared to the second quarter of 2013 the current quarter results reflected improved Oil and Gas segment earnings driven by higher realized oil prices and domestic volumes as well as higher core earnings in the Chemical segment and improve performance in the Midstream segment driven by higher margins in the marketing and trading businesses largely due to commodity price movement.
Now I will discuss the segment performance for the Oil and Gas business and begin with earnings on slide four.
Oil and Gas earnings for the third quarter of 2013 were $2.4 billion an increase over both the second quarter of 2013 and the third quarter of 2012.
On a sequential quarter-over-quarter basis improvements came from higher oil prices and domestic volumes.
Volume increases resulted largely from higher oil production in California the Permian and Williston and improved Columbia liftings.
Moving to slide five you will see a summary of production changes during the quarter.
As I mentioned total production for the quarter were 767 000 barrels per day a decrease of 5 000 barrels per day over the second quarter and an increase of 1 000 barrels per day over the year ago quarter.
On a sequential quarterly basis these results reflect domestic oil production growth as a result of our drilling program as well as resumption of Permian production following plant turnarounds and weather interruptions in the second quarter.
As you can see we also experienced an improved environment in Colombia although disruptions continue to impact production in the quarter and weve seen the same early in the fourth quarter.
MENA production was lower primarily due to the impact of full cost recovery under contract in Yemen lower spending in Iraq some maintenance in Qatar and labor issues in Libya.
Excluding certain of these impacts under disruptions in Colombia our overall international production was in line with our guidance on the last call.
On a year-over-year basis full cost recovery and other adjustments under our production sharing and similar contracts also reduced MENA production by about 7 000 barrels per day.
If you turn to Slide 6 Ill now discuss our domestic production in a bit more detail.
Our domestic production was 476 000 barrels per day an increase of 6 000 barrels per day from the second quarter of 2013 and an increase of 7 000 barrels per day from the third quarter of 2012.
Focusing on our commodity composition oil production increased 6 000 barrels from the second quarter driven by California the Permian and the Williston basin.
For the first nine months of 2013 our domestic oil production has increased by 13 000 barrels per day.
This is a 5% increase versus the same period in 2012.
NGL production increased 2 000 barrels per day versus the second quarter.
Natural gas volumes were lower by about 11 million cubic feet a day compared with the second quarter almost entirely in the Permian as a result of third-party processing bottlenecks.
Moving to our realized prices for the quarter and the comparison to benchmark prices you can see the summary on Slide 7.
Compared to the second quarter our worldwide crude oil realized price increased about 6% primarily reflecting changes in benchmark prices.
We experienced improvement in NGL prices domestically which contributed to 5% increase in worldwide NGL realized prices while domestic natural gas realized prices experienced 14% decrease driven by the decline in the benchmark.
Youll note we also included updated price sensitivities.
Next I will cover production costs on Slide 8.
Oil and gas production costs were $13.60 per barrel in the third quarter and $13.64 per barrel for the first nine months of 2013 compared to $14.99 per barrel for the full year of 2012.
As you can see domestic operating expenses increased slightly from the second quarter of 2013.
This was due to the timing of certain plant workover activities.
International production costs have remained fairly consistent with 2012 levels excluding the impacts of the facilities turnarounds in Qatar and Dolphin that affected the first quarter of this year.
We are very pleased with our performance on operating cost this year and will be our full-year target.
Taxes other than on income which are generally related to product prices were $2.61 per barrel for the first nine months of 2013 compared with $2.39 per barrel for the full year of 2012.
Third quarter exploration expense was $68 million and we expect fourth quarter exploration expense to be about $100 million.
Turning to chemical segment core earnings on Slide 9.
Third quarter earnings of $181 million were $37 million higher than the second quarter primarily driven by strong caustic soda export volumes and lower energy and ethylene costs.
Looking ahead to the fourth quarter demand for chlor-alkali products is typically lower due to seasonal factors.
We expect fourth quarter 2013 earnings to decline to approximately $100 million driven by the seasonal factors coupled with lower Far East demand and lower caustic soda spot and export prices.
Slide 10 is a summary of midstream segment earnings.
They were $212 million for the third quarter of 2013 compared to $48 million in the second quarter of 2013 and $156 million in the third quarter of 2012.
The 2013 sequential quarterly improvement in earnings resulted mainly from higher marketing and trading performance driven by commodity price movements during the quarter.
Year-over-year improvement was driven by improved margins in our pipeline and gas processing businesses.
The worldwide effective tax rate on core income was 40% for the third quarter.
The lower tax rate and guidance resulted from lower volumes in Libya where tax rates are significantly higher than our overall effective tax rate.
We expect our combined worldwide tax rate in the fourth quarter of 2013 to remain in the 40% to 41% range.
Slide 11 summarizes our year-to-date 2013 cash flow.
In the first nine months of 2013 we generated $9.4 billion of cash flow from continuing operations before changes in working capital.
Working capital changes increased our cash flow from operations by 400 million to 9.8 billion.
Capital expenditures for the first nine months of 2013 were 6.4 billion of which 2.2 billion was spent on the third quarter.
We generated approximately $270 million of cash from the sale of a chemical investment and used 340 million for acquisitions of domestic oil and gas assets.
After paying dividends of $1 billion and other net flows our cash balance was 3.8 billion at September 30.
Our debt to capitalization ratio remained at 15% at the end of the quarter.
Our annualized return on equity for the first nine months of 2013 was 14% and return on capital employed was 12%.
Last Ill turn to the fourth quarter outlook.
With respect to production domestically as I mentioned we are on track to achieve our second half oil growth average of 6000 to 8000 barrels per day increase over the first half average.
Our natural gas and NGL volumes are expected to decline modestly in the fourth quarter due to lower drilling on gas properties and natural decline coupled with the effect of a major turnaround in the Permian.
Internationally we expect total production to be about flat with the -- in the fourth quarter compared to the third quarter excluding the impact of insurgent activity in Columbia.
We expect international sales volume to increase in the fourth quarter -- the deferred listings we experienced earlier in the year.
Our annual capital is expected to be about $9 billion.
This is about $600 million lower than the $9.6 billion program we previously discussed.
Of this reduction approximately 200 million resulted from achieving better than plant efficiencies in our oil and gas program particularly in our drilling costs and additional 200 million resulted primarily from the deferral of certain oil and gas facilities in mid-stream projects into 2014 and the further $100 million from lower than planned spending in Iraq.
We are particularly pleased that we are on track to meet or exceed our planned drilling activity levels for the year while spending less capital than planned as a result of efficiency initiatives.
I will now turn the call over to Sandy Lowe who will provide an overview of our Middle East North Africa operations.
Thank you Cynthia.
As you are aware weve had a successful involvement in the Middle East North Africa region for over 40 years.
We are active in key major oil producing countries in the region and have formed excellent relationships with all of them.
The countries in which we operate include Oman Qatar United Arab Emirates Iraq Iran Libya and Yemen.
We have a diverse set of projects in the region and manage all of our projects by safety standards creating local jobs and development opportunities for people in those communities.
Our current producing operations have generated over $20 billion net free cash flow in the past 15 years and our currently generating annual free cash flow of around $1.6 billion excluding Al Hosn Gas project capital which is currently running in about $1 billion annually.
We recently expected that our Middle East business would generate over $2 billion free cash flow annually once the Al Hosn Gas project becomes operational.
We have invested $9 billion of capital in the Middle East region since 2010.
75% of which has been spent in Oman Abu Dhabi and Qatar.
We have drilled over 2500 wells in the region during this time and currently have 37 drilling rigs running.
We have also spent $300 million on exploration since 2010.
Our projects make a significant contribution to the economies of these countries employing around 15 000 full time employees and contractors outstanding workforce at the Al Hosn Gas project which is currently over 34 000.
We have drilled several types of wells throughout the region.
These include onshore oil wells in Oman offshore wells in Qatar and soar wells onshore Abu Dhabi.
The production from our wells ranges from 200 to 4500 barrels of oil per day and our gas rates are as high as 120 million standard cubic feet per day.
Our Middle East operations are designed to leverage our technical expertise based in central support groups such as project management engineering exploration and drilling.
We apply this knowledge locally to successfully execute on our projects.
We have used the central support of project effectively in the areas of reservoir characterization flood implementation drilling and completion techniques and management of major projects.
This enables us to apply best practices across region while minimizing the deployment of western expatriates and maximizing opportunities for nationals in each country.
We expect net Middle East production for 2013 will exceed 260 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day representing about 35% of Oxys total production worldwide.
When the Al Hosn Gas project reaches full operational status in 2015 it should add net production of over 60 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day.
Our 2013 Middle East development capital is expected to be about $3 billion with about 44% spent on water flood projects 34% on the Al Hosn Gas project 12% on steam floods and 10% on primary production.
We will drill over 750 development wells this year and plan on around 665 wells next year.
Our strategic goals for our Middle East business can be summarized as follows.
Continue to be a growing profitable and vibrant business in the Middle East region continue to be a preferred strategic partner with the host countries where we operate expand our Middle East area business by partnering with local investors to secure strategically important growth projects continue to successfully execute projects achieve returns in an excess of 20% on our invested capital continue our investment philosophy where our presence makes meaningful contributions to the host economies and makes a positive difference to the lives of the people in the local communities including increased education and employment opportunities for nationals.
We have a strong track record in each of the goals summarized above and believe we will be able to deliver successfully on each of these going forward.
In particular we have developed and nurtured close relationships with key partners in the countries we operate.
We have always been respectful of the interest expertise and values of the host countries.
This philosophy has overtime led to mutual respect and helped us grow our operations processes.
I will now provide a brief summary of our operations in three of the countries in the Middle East region which collectively make up 70% of our current production 85% of our income from operations and nearly all of our free cash flow.
We spent about 75% of our Middle East capital in these three countries as well.
Oman weve been present in Oman for 34 years and operate in Blocks 9 27 and 62 in the North of Oman and Block 53 which is the Mukhaizna Field.
We are the largest independent oil producer in Oman and have a highly skilled and loyal national staff.
Our nice staff has grown from 246 in 2005 to 1 858 today.
Most of our national employees have developed their skills and experience within Oxy including opportunities to train and work on Oxy projects in the United States and other countries.
As a result over 81% of our employees are Omani nationals and Omani citizens now hold most of the high levels executive positions including the President of our Oman business unit.
Oxys gross production is expected to be about 230 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day in 2013 with a net of 76 000 in [09].
Our Oman operations are a significant free cash flow generator.
We expect to continue to achieve returns well in excess of 20% from our Oman projects.
Northern Oman in Northern Oman a combination of development wells exploration success and the application of water flooding techniques has led to an increase in gross production from 92 000 to 106 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day since 2010.
We have a large pipeline hub in gas plant at Safah associating with the producing wells in Northern Oman.
This infrastructure enables us to rapidly and efficiently bring new wells into production.
Most wells initially free flow and later having the gas lift or electric submersible pumps installed.
We have maintained our gross average operating cost at around $5.50 per barrel with the key drivers being down-hole maintenance surface operations and support cost.
We have drilled 107 out of our 153 plant wells for this year.
These are typically horizontal wells with lateral length in between 1 800 and 3 500 feet.
Recent production rates have been as high as 3 800 barrels of oil equivalent per day with an average for 2013 of around 550.
During 2014 weve planned to drill another 125 development wells.
Over the next five years our plans include drilling 400 development and water injection wells.
We expect our annual drilling capital to be between $250 million to $300 million per year.
We believe our developments program will increase gross production to about 125 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day during this period.
Our exploration program in Northern Oman has been one of our most successful ever as a company with the Discovery rig of greater than 60%.
We attribute this success to our use of technology such as horizontal drilling state-of-the-art 3D seismic as wells as the development of new plate concepts.
Our discovery this year mostly coming from horizontal wells have an average production of 3000 barrels of oil equivalent per day and produce over 70% oil.
We continue to expand our technical understanding and have a robust inventory of future drilling prospects.
In addition we are nearing completion of a 2000 square mile 3D seismic program which should further enhance our growth portfolio.
This new seismic data and over block 927 should yield many attractive prospects and enable us to continue exploring in these areas for many years.
Over the next five years we expect to drill more than 50 exploration wells 13 of which are planned for 2014 and could generate more than 250 new development drilling locations.
Our Block 62 development is in the early stages of engineering with a number of gas producers already drilled.
We are planning to further delineate one of the largest structures by the end of this year allowing an updated development plan to be presented to the government during 2014.
Mukhaizna Mukhaizna is one of the worlds largest steam flood projects.
At the end of 2012 it ranked third in the world in terms of steam flood production ahead of the large best known U.S.
steam floods.
Oxys involvement in the Mukhaizna field began in 2005.
Since that time we have increased gross production from 8000 to 125 000 barrels of oil per day and produced 160 million barrels of oil from the field.
We have drilled over 2000 wells in which 825 are producers.
The steam wells enable injection in over 500 000 barrels per day.
Waste heat recovery systems on power on power generators account for 20% of our steam.
We continue to optimize the development plan of this field with the government and our partners and we expect to continue executing our infill drilling program.
The anticipated peak production is estimated to be between 135 000 and 140 000 barrels of oil per day.
We expect to drill 340 wells this year.
Recent rates have been as high as 830 barrels of oil per day with an average for 2013 of around 330.
We plan to drill another 300 wells in 2014.
We currently have six rigs running in Mukhaizna in addition to the main Mukhaizna reservoir as we are delineating the extensive Kahmah fractured carbonate heavy-oil reservoir which lies above the main pay in Mukhaizna.
We presently have one rig dedicated to this activity another milestone will be reached in Mukhaizna next year with the drilling of our first deep exploration well in the field.
Qatar we presently operate three shallow water offshore oil fields in Qatar.
The Idd El Shargi North Dome Idd El Shargi South Dome and Al Rayyan.
We also have an interest in the Dolphin project which has been a great success since its start.
Through our plans for various projects in Qatar we expect to achieve returns well in excess of 20%.
In nearly 20 years in Qatar we have invested $4.3 billion and produced 680 million barrels of oil.
Our operations in Qatar provide significant free cash flow.
Current production is around 106 000 barrels of oil per day for 2013 from the three fields netting 67 000 barrels of oil per day to Oxy.
Dolphins current production net to Oxy is about 38 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day.
In Qatar as in Oman we are focused on the development of national staff and have successful national employees in all levels in the company.
Oxy has established itself as an active and committed member of the community.
During our presence in Qatar we have forged strong and effective relationships with a number of organizations in the focus areas of health education arts and culture and sports.
Examples include partnering with the Supreme Education Council and the Weill Cornell Medical College in the promotion of a healthy lifestyle which is aligned with Qatars 2030 national vision.
Other initiatives relate to specific causes such as diabetes cancer working with the Al Noor Institute for the Blind and partnering with the Qatar Museums Authority and supporting a number of sporting events.
In Idd El Shargi North Dome we will drill 17 wells in 2013 from jack-up rigs in a water depth of around 130 feet.
Over the course of our involvement in Qatar since 1994 we have drilled 268 horizontal producing wells and over 100 horizontal water injectors.
Recent well production rates in Idd El Shargi North Dome have been as high as 4 500 barrels of oil per day with an average for -- average 2013 around 1 460.
As part of approved Phase -- as part of our recently approved Phase 5 development plan we will drill another 205 wells at the cost of $1.2 billion.
We plan to drill 36 of these wells in 2014.
The development plan includes the installation of new wellhead platforms the compression and power platform and various pipelines in related facilities.
We believe that as a result of this development we will be able to continue the plateau of gross production of 100 000 barrels of oil per day for many years to come.
We also have new development opportunities being planned for the Idd El Shargi South Dome and Al Rayyan fields.
Dolphin the Dolphin project remains one of the flagship projects in the region and it has been a great success since coming on the screen in 2007.
The project involves production from wells located on two off shore platforms in the north field of Qatar.
Wet gas flows to the onshore gas plant at Rasputin where weve process and to Condensate natural gas liquids and Sulfur.
The dry gas is exported on under a long term contract to the UAE via a 48 inch 230 miles subsea pipeline.
In addition to the two 2 billion cubic feet a day of contracted gas from Qatar we transport additional gas on an interruptible basis to customers in the UAE.
While meeting a significant portion of the UAEs gas needs Dolphin also provides gas to Oman.
Were currently expanding gas impression facilities in Rasputin to achieve the maximum pipeline capacity of 3.5 billion cubic feet per day to handle additional volumes.
We believe substantial opportunities remain in the region to sign up additional customers to provide gas transportation up to the full capacity of the Dolphin pipeline generating additional midstream revenues and cash flows.
We expect our 2013 net production from Dolphin to be around 38 000 barrels while equivalent per day with significant free cash flow which we believe will grow overtime as we take on new customers.
United Arab Emirates.
Oxys initial experience in the UAE was as a partner in offshore exploration during the 60s.
Most recently Oxy has had a presence in the UAE since 2000.
Since then our Abu Dhabi office has developed into a regional hub supporting our Middle East assets with engineering geoscience business development operations supply chain and finance resources.
During this time the Dolphin midstream infrastructure has continued to expand and the pipeline system now extends with 475 miles throughout the UAE and into Oman.
The Al-Hosn gas project where were partnering with the Abu Dhabi National Oil Company -- ADNOC involves the development of the Shah Sara gas field in the western region of Abu Dhabi.
Production from the field contains natural gas and condensate along with high concentrations of hydrogen sulfide and carbon dioxide.
A large processing plant currently under construction with an average 34 000 workers at the site this is a world scaled mega project with the involvement of major engineering construction and manufacturing companies from around the world.
It remains on schedule and on budget.
When completed the plan will be able to process about 1billion cubic feet a day of gas from the field and then separated into sales class condensate natural gas liquids and sulfur.
Oxys mid share production is expected to be over $200 million in cubic feet a day of sales gas and more than 20 000 barrels of NGLs and condensate.
By the end of 2013 the project will be about 92% complete and will start up next year.
The 2013 of this year of Al Hosn capital is expected to be about $1 billion.
Total project cost is expected to be on budget and about $10 million with Oxys share of $4 billion.
We expect production from the project to start in the fourth quarter of 2014.
Once the field achieves steady state annual average free cash flow to Oxy should be approximately $600 million at current liquid prices.
Currently we are spending about $1 billion per year to steady state operation should provide a net cash flow swing of $1.6 billion annually.
As we have recently announced were currently looking to tell a minority interest in our Middle East North Africa operations.
We believe this will give us an exciting opportunity to possibly partner with key regional players.
This sale will reduce the Middle East/North Africa share in our overall portfolio.
We believe a partnership with regional investors will align us with local interest in our existing operations and on new opportunities throughout the Middle East to achieve future growth from a lower base.
In summary we believe we are well positioned to meet each of our strategic goals in the region.
Specifically we have a highly profitable vibrant and growing business.
We have developed strong and lasting relationships with host countries where we are welcome and invited to stay.
We will continue to be a preferred strategic partner to them in the years to come.
Our plan to sell a minority in our Middle East/North Africa operations will assure that we will continue to grow our Middle East/North African business profitably over time by securing strategically important future projects.
Our development and operating plans will ensure continued success in executing our projects.
We will continue to achieve returns in excess of 20% of our invested capital.
We are continuing to apply our investment philosophy where our presence makes meaningful contributions to the host economies and makes a positive difference in the lives of the people in the local communities including increased education and employment opportunities for nationals.
In closing I would like to emphasize we are very excited about our presence and our opportunities in the Middle East.
We believe that our excellent relationships and partnership with key regional players coupled with our long regional experience and our track record of timely project execution will allow us to continue to enhance our rich growth potential of the region.
I will now turn the call over to Steve Chazen who will discuss our strategic initiatives.
Thank you Sandy.
Earlier this month we announced the initial phase of the companys strategic review as part of an effort to streamline and focus our operations in order to better execute the companys long-term strategy and enhanced value for our shareholders.
As a result of the initial actions Oxys Board of Directors has authorized the following to pursue a sale of minority interest in the Middle East/North Africa operations in a financially efficient manner that Sandy just discussed pursue strategic alternatives for selective Mid-continent assets including our oil and gas interests in the Williston Hugoton Piceance Basin and other Rocky Mountain assets and the completed sale of a portion of our 35% interest in general partner of Plains All-American Pipeline.
This resulted in pre-tax proceeds of $1.4 billion.
This initial sale process is concluded and weve received the proceeds.
Our cash balance of $3.8 billion at end of the quarter does not include these proceeds.
Oxys remaining interest in the Plains All-American Pipeline based on the IPO price is valued at approximately $3.3 billion.
As we indicated these are our first formal steps in our effort to streamline the business concentrate in areas where we have depth and scale and improve overall profitability.
Our goal is to become a somewhat smaller company with more manageable exposure to political risk.
We will continue to seek additional strategic alternatives for the company to maximize total returns to our shareholders.
These actions are expected to generate a significant amount of proceeds together with the excess cash on the companys balance sheet.
These funds will largely be used to reduce Oxys capitalization.
While we expect to use a substantial and a vast majority of these proceeds to repurchase our shares we also anticipate paying down some of our debt on a proportional basis.
We expect to retire $600 million of bonds due in December.
We also expect to reinvest a portion of these proceeds in high-return growth opportunities throughout the business several of which I will discuss in a moment.
We continue to make steady progress and expect to complete the strategic view in the coming months and will disclose material developments as they occur.
Approximately a year ago our oil and gas business embarked on an aggressive plan to improve our operational efficiency across all cost categories including capital with a view to achieving an appreciable reduction in our operating expenses and drilling costs.
Our teams are to be commended for doing a superb job on this front exceeding our initial goals we continue to run ahead of our full year objectives to improve domestic operational and capital efficiencies.
For example we have reduced our domestic well costs by 22% and operating costs by about 18% relative to last year.
This is ahead of our previously stated target of 15% well costs improvement and total oil and gas operating cost below $14 a barrel.
Total annualized savings from these operating cost and capital efficiency initiatives amount to $1.2 billion compared to last year.
We expect these savings to result an additional development opportunities as previously marginal project are now economic.
The purpose of these initiatives is to improve our return on capital or continue to execute a focused drilling program in our quarter core areas and grow our domestic oil rates.
The benefits of these cost savings cannot be overstated as they will result in a year-over-year improve in our F&amp;D cost leading to a more stable DD&amp;A rate.
We believe we can sustain the benefits realized to date achieve additional savings in our drilling cost receive and reach our 2011 operating cost level overtime barrel loss in production and sacrificing safety.
We are particularly pleased that we are on track to meet or achieve our drilling activity levels planned for the year or spending less capital on plan and result of these deficiencies.
These achievements have generated higher margins giving us confidence to allocate additional capital for profitable growth opportunities.
As Vicki discussed in last quarters call were the largest oil and gas mineral acreage holder in California with more than 2.1 million net acres we have a large and diverse portfolio of opportunities available to us across-the-state.
Weve reduced our overall operating cost in California by more than $4 a barrel equivalent youd expect an average of under $19 for all 2013.
Improvement in our operating as well as our drilling costs as exceed our targets and should allow for combined savings at least $300 million this year compared to 2012.
The result of these improvements and combined with more favorable permitting we planned to increase our capital spending in California by about $500 million to approximately $2.1 billion next year.
Most of this increase will be directed towards unconventional drilling opportunities where we have more than $1 million perspectives acreage for unconventional resources.
In Permian basin weve accumulated more than $1.7 million net acres covering both relatively established emerging place anchored by our high our core free cash generating CO2 flood reservoirs.
Weve recently created an exploitation team who is mandate is to optimize our drilling capabilities and accelerate the development of unconventional opportunities throughout the basin.
This year we are focused on delineating incremental opportunities and establish plays as well as to actually (inaudible) with many emerging plays which included the drilling of approximately thirty horizontal wells.
Weve also succeeded in reducing our drilling cost by more than 20% which increased our ability to enhance our economics utilizing horizontal drilling multi-stage completions to develop establish unconventional reservoirs.
As a result of these efforts you can now shift our development strategy expect to spend an additional $500 million in capital next year largely directed towards increased drilling horizontal wells.
The step-up in capital will allow for additional four rigs which will be dedicated to drilling horizontal wells in our focus plays of Wolfcamp both on a bone springs in the Delaware Basin as well as Wolfcamp in the Midland basin.
As an example as we recently completed a well in our South Curtis Ranch area which is near our (inaudible) acreage it was completed in the Wolfcamp would be in access of just over a 1000 barrels of oil a day 77% of which is oil 15% NGLs with a small amount of remaining natural gas.
We have over 17 000 net acres that is perspective from this in the area.
This represents a major change in our Permian 9 CO2 development strategy with a number of horizontal wells drilled next year well count it for more than 50% of total wells compared to only 10% 32013.
Turning to our international operations our 30 plus year history of operating Columbia as provided us unique insight around heavy oil product matured oil field development opportunities.
Historically this has been among Oxys most profitable operations.
Experience associated with steam flood development is a core competency at Oxy a skill that fits well with Colombias strategy to grow its crude oil production.
Going forward we intend to focus our efforts on applying our expertise towards pursuit of high-additional high-return oil redevelopment projects and we expect to participate in several more steam flood projects in the coming years.
In our Middle East/North Africa business and as Sandy discussed the majority of the value of our production income and cash flow is derived from three key countries Oman Qatar and U.A.E.
Majority of our regional capital is also deployed in these countries.
And we expect our MENA business will generate more than $2 billion of annual free cash flow after the Al Hosn Gas project becomes operational.
We feel fortunate to have many successful years operating in the region.
Part of this we believe is a result of successfully executing on a number of challenging projects.
We also feel that it is in part due to the mutual respect we have for our partners the host countries in which we operate and for the people who reside there.
Although a sale of a minority interest will reduce our share of MENA within our overall portfolio we expect to remain a major participant in the region with a focused presence.
Our track record of success and strong relationships should allow us to compete for new projects and provide us with future growth off of a smaller base.
We look forward to forging new partnerships in the region which will allow us to continue our profitable growth strategy.
Opportunity for high growth is also present in our chemicals business where we plan to pursue a 50-50 joint venture with Mexichem to build a world scale ethylene cracker at the OxyChem plant in Ingleside.
As part of this long-term strategy strategic supply relationship between the companies essentially all of the ethylene produced from the cracker will be consumed by Oxy in the manufacture of vinyl chloride monomer utilizing our existing VCM production capacity.
The VCM will then be delivered to Mexichem to produce polyvinyl chloride PVC and PVC piping systems.
Using the cracker OxyChems overall operations effectively consume more than one-third of Oxys domestic natural gas and NGL production.
A significant benefit of this project is that it provides higher levels of integration from the wellhead through to VCM production and sales.
The project is just one example of several we plan to pursue in our effort to capture greater value in the downstream portion of the natural gas and the NGL chain versus an independent upstream gas producer.
Construction on the Ingleside cracker project is expected to begin in mid-2014 with the facilities becoming commercially operational in 2017 and we expect it will have a material benefit on our chemical earnings.
OxyChem is also expected to continue to be free cash flow positive throughout the investment phase of the project.
In the Midstream segment our investment in the BridgeTex Pipeline continues on track for scheduled start-up in mid-2014.
The roughly 450-mile-long pipeline will be capable of transporting approximately 300 000 barrels a day of crude oil between the Permian region and the Gulf Coast refinery markets.
We are confident that these and other opportunities to deploy our capital will be meaningful drivers of our earnings growth over the coming years.
I think were now ready to take your questions.
Tamica can you please poll the line for questions? (Operator Instructions) Your first question comes from the line of Doug Leggate Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Thanks.
Good morning everybody.
Steve Ive got a couple if I may.
Good morning.
Starting with the Middle East there has been a lot of speculation over the potential value that may or may not be associated with this asset.
I know you cant give specifics but could you frame for us given the relative lack of transparency in terms of -- youve done a good job today of laying out the businesses but reserve bookings and so on are still somewhat lacking transparency.
So could you help frame for us what you think a realistic acceptable range of volume might be and whether or not the Midstream would be part of that? Ive got a couple of follow-ups please.
Yeah.
The Dolphin Project would be part of the sale process.
So that piece of our Midstream business would be part of that sale.
There are confidentiality agreements between the three -- in each of the countries.
So we cant actually give you more transparency without violating the confidentiality agreements.
So for example we cant tell you the details in Oman or Qatar or Abu Dhabi.
I think its fair to say that we book only to the life of the lease and as the extensions come obviously more research come.
We also appreciate basically over the [lease] of the earnings that someone understated.
I think if you look at the cash we view it as an ongoing business that is to say its not a pile of asset that were going to deplete.
The extensions on ongoing business we expect receive a price of reflexive value with ongoing business not really price of a depleting asset or the reserves or necessarily the reserves are there.
The countries can see the long term reserves so I dont think theres a lot of issue with them not understanding what the long term outcome is.
I dont really get -- we dont really want them to negotiate with myself on the values.
Okay.
A related question then Steve on the buybacks the potential -- I mean theres been a number of bond that they run in the pass of $8 billion from Middle East but like to see the amount is reasonable.
I believe theres some tight issues around what you can bring back as a -- on optimum level but if you then look at claims on potential mid coincident sale can you help frame for us what you see the scales the buyback like would be and (inaudible) coming to this acquisitions in the Permian Basin seems to have slowed down I guess probably in relation (inaudible) to do that youre generating a lot of cash.
So how should we think about buybacks on a go forward basis to maybe enhance your per share growth? I think buybacks have been important not only though for share growth in the next -- to certainly next few months.
We have a lot of cash in the balance sheet.
We had $3.8 at the end of the quarter plus the money from the sale of the midstream assets.
We would expect to begin a repurchase of some shares too shortly.
As far as the scale goes were not going to build cash.
Were not going to pay down the debt reduction to be proportional.
So if we sell 10% of the assets maybe the debt will go down 10%.
We only have about of $7 billion of debt so approximately a big looser these projects will not probably allow us to still stay within our cash from operations next year.
This is probably not going to drain a lot as far as acquisition is concerned.
I think the issue in the Permian is about -- youre just not allowed for sale and that which is for sale is not that interesting.
Companies -- we have a lot of acreage are just highlighted now just one small area where were doing well a lot of acreage.
And so the need to drive the business through large scale acquisitions is pretty modest at this point.
So you should expect the bulk of the proceeds to go towards share repurchases and else were not going to build cash.
So I think you should -- I cant tell you exactly the number and one of the reasons why were -- once we could frame this more fairly as to how much money is involved and we can talk about the last steps in this but I think were going to see where we are.
Our goals are really two fold.
Well make sure we continue to operate well because thats really good price value and we need to execute the things weve announced.
So I think thats what were trying to do but once we get that leased and safe then well talk about further restructuring stats.
Okay.
Last one for me so far (Inaudible) or not.
I guess were locking specific Steve so obviously I think market is kind of telling you to the locking specific.
So I guess well have to wait until you can give more color but if I could try one final one if I may.
In your press release the other day sales dimension in California it continues to be a dragon frankly see it under performer I guess in the end of the market.
What are the parameters that you think may or may not contribute to your decision on whether or not California can do better on its own I think that is clearly one of the key gating items for the mark issue on the restructuring on a go forward basis.
Ill leave it there thanks.
Yeah I think if you go back to the question about where we -- you could come up with a very high number without me telling you exactly what it is or for a share repurchase I mean so you might be of a $1 billion or$2 billion.
If thats about all of then you could use the numbers that are floating around up there.
If you could guess what the proceeds from the Mid-Continent sale would be or within a few $100 million then obviously you would we see how much cash we have now.
I dont think anybody should be off very much in computing how much the share repurchased would be as the debt reduction and the other stuff is not large in comparison to that.
As far as California is concerned the fundamental question is can it operate better as a standalone business with a different model? The different model if you are just going to operate just like it does now and it might be better off staying where it is.
But if it operates better with the different model than as a higher capital model and basically literally no dividends and with a more entrepreneurial background then I think that it would be better separated from the company.
More to the point I think is that separating California from the rest could enhance visibility and attractiveness of the remaining business.
And I think thats -- I think they are enough for now.
Once we get some slightly better numbers on the proceeds of these two various areas that we are working on now then we can size California.
We are going to do it appropriately.
Thanks for taking my questions Steve.
Okay.
The next question comes from the line Doug Terreson with ISI.
Good morning everybody.
Congratulation on your results.
Thank you.
Yeah.
Steve you do highlighted on some of the strategic review slides a major change in strategy in the Permian today.
Its going to be driven by this new exploitation team and on this point I want to say whether you could provide some color or whatever color you might have on this new unconventional drilling group in the Permian.
And also -- you also just mentioned a few minutes ago about the Plains All-American position and the question there is whether there is any strategic or operating rationale as to why the remainder may not be divested in the future? So two questions.
The second one is easier to say.
It will be divested in the future.
Thank you.
So there is no -- when we entered into it it was a private business.
Yeah.
And I dont have any problem investing in a private business if shareholders cant access if I think it makes sense for us.
Once it becomes public and you can duplicate the ownership with yourself there is no reason for us to hold it.
Im going to let Vicki answer the question about the operational group.
Okay.
First I would like to say thanks to our current Permian unconventional team thats gotten us to where we are today because currently we are running seven horizontal rigs.
We expect to ramp that up to 16 next year.
So we are now being more aggressive with our properties in the Permian because we now understand them a little bit better.
This exploitations team is going to be one that we have developed to get us into a position where we are more entrepreneurial and much more aggressive in the way that we attack our entrepreneurial opportunities in the Permian.
So this group we expect to start helping us to more accelerate those opportunities so within two to three years out in our typical development schedules.
This team also will focus on ensuring that we provide the technical support to the business unit to make sure that we are spacing our wells correctly that we are adequately drilling our horizontal wells and the correct direction and spacing.
So the bottom line is we just expect this to be a technical support to help us get more aggressive.
Great.
Thanks a lot.
Your next question comes from the line of Ed Westlake with Credit Suisse.
Yes.
Good morning Steve.
Good morning.
There is a statement in your slides on Slide 35 saying expect to complete strategic review in the coming months.
Is that a statement just around the overall thinking about the business or is that around the timing that you might expect for making some of the disposals in the Mid-Continent and valorization in the Mid-East that youve discussed? And the decision about California right.
Okay.
Thats intended to -- so thats intended to be as soon as I didnt get clarity about the proceeds.
All right.
Okay.
And then very disruptive and I dont know people dont understand it.
We put out the announcements so we could go do the work because you cant go secretly go sell 9% of your assets.
Once thats done then well look at the next step what we need to do but you cant just (inaudible) disrupt the whole organization all at once with sort of this massive idea without some pretty specific numbers.
And then a question that maybe youll be able to answer on the Middle East obviously there -- seems like theres a decent amount of growth still to go for and thanks for the slides? Is there some sort of recovery factors that you can give on these fields at present to give us some kind of a geological understanding you think you cant talk about reserve bookings that could help us think about the long-term for these fields particularly Oman Yeah.
Unfortunately -- yeah unfortunately thats part of what were supposed to keep secret.
Theyre very high recoveries by U.S.
there or by current U.S.
mandates.
Theyre like fields that we started with the U.S.
in the 30s not the like fields that were discovered last few years.
Okay.
And then the final one the (inaudible) chemical cracker I mean world scale is sort of $5 billion to $7 billion is that the right ballpark for your No no.
Nowhere near that.
This is under $1 billion of our share.
Okay.
Great.
Thanks very much.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Leo Mariani with RBC.
Hey.
Just question on the Permian here just looking at your oil production its kind of been flattish there for the last handful of quarters.
Clearly youre accelerating activity in 2014 talked about an incremental 500 million to drill horizontal largely unconventional.
You guys also talked about clearly significant proceeds coming in the door soon I mean ballpark its probably if it could get to something like 10 billion type of number should we expect that is if you guys have success as we get through 2014 that 2015 and 16 can see a lot more incremental capital on the Permian given how big your acreage position is here? Yeah.
Certainly hope so.
If it isnt then it hasnt been successful but we expect Permian to be self-funding because theres so much cash coming out of CO2 business.
Okay.
I guess in terms of your activity there you kind of mentioned that acquisitions were didnt seem like they were as paramount.
I mean do you think there is still potential for that down the road if stuff becomes available that looks more attractive to you guys or do you think you have enough acreage to really drill this aggressively for many years to come? I dont think we need to do any acquisitions no no obviously something attractive comes along thats different but we shall not going to press acquisitions.
Okay.
Were better off frankly buying the shares with the money than doing the acquisitions.
Okay.
Thanks a lot.
Appreciate it.
Your next question comes from the line of Paul Sankey with Deutsche Bank.
Hi.
Good morning everyone.
Steve do you think you can complete the Middle East deal by the end of the year? Complete no there is we got sign a lot of factors factors probably fill a room.
So I think that well -- I expect we will have clarity as to the proceeds by the end of the year and probably signing on completion in the first quarter.
And when you talk about a minority I think the previous guidance was 25% sale is that still I think you should think of it as being focused on how much money we can bring back in efficient manner rather than the exact percentage.
Yeah.
And thats being reported as sort of Some amount of money there is a sizeable number that we can bring back in an efficient manner.
The Middle East business generates a sizable amount of foreign tax credits.
So we have a probable those that we could use.
It will continue to generate foreign tax credits.
Its a shelter of the income going forward.
So if you exceed what you have you pay taxes U.S.
taxes on money that you would otherwise not be tax assigned.
So we are mindful of that and this rate.
I understand.
I know that sounds more confusing but No.
I think people have been talking about $8 billion type numbers being the ultimate proceeds in the work around percentage share towards that.
And then I think the year-end guidance that youve kind of given at least what more matters is the numbers is in line with what were hoping? Were not going to give exact numbers.
(inaudible) thats useful again negotiate with ourselves on the phone.
Yes.
I understand and the options of California is that a spin IPO what are you thinking there? Thanks.
We really havent decided what the options are.
Generally simpler is better.
Increased complexity is probably not something I must up for at this point.
So would that imply a spin then? Whats the simplest thing to do.
There are two simple things to do.
And only two simple -- everything else requires lot of brainpower and were perhaps short of that right now.
Fair enough.
I think Ill leave it there.
Thanks Steve.
Thank you.
The next question comes from the line of Sven del Pozzo with IHS.
Good morning.
Weve seen a big run-up in Delaware Basin stocks over recent months.
And I know you guys have lot of acreage there.
So do you think that -- I think it is based on a relatively small number of successes in horizontal Wolfcamp such as you had mention on your call.
Im wondering where do you think we stand in making this play more repeatable in the Delaware basin? Vicki do you want to take a shot at that.
Thats true.
There are relatively few wells.
We are encouraged about whats going on? So Ill let Vicki talk here.
And again thats part of what the exploitation teams will be doing working with our current business units that is to look at the data in the Delaware.
We do believe that there is potential there and it is repeatable.
And one of the things that were going to focus on trying to do is determine what drives the variations within the reservoir.
This team has the skill sets we believe to work with the business units to accomplished that.
And so its just a variability that we want to understand a little bit better but we do believe that success is repeatable.
In your opinion is it more upside in the Wolfcamp formation or Bone Springs or equal just as an idea.
And then secondly Wolfcamp and the Midland Basin how would you compare the two kind of answering the question the same way just like you did now? I think that the upside in both Wolfcamp and the Bone Springs will be ultimately pretty equal and the Wolfcamp and the Midland Basin certainly weve had some recent success there that -- but based on information we see from a couple of wells were drilling now and from offset operators where were starting that thats going to be very successful.
Thank you.
Then moving over to Bakken for a moment most of your drilling as I think its been in Southwestern Dunn county.
Is that to hold the acreage by production or is that just your own choice because youve got a lot of acreage outside of that area as well.
And Im just wondering what your plans are.
Were developing that under acreage? Weve been focused on holding the production -- holding it by production? Okay.
And then .
The majority of the drilling is done for that purpose.
Okay.
Thanks.
And then Pronghorn Sand in Bakken you mentioned that in your last press release have you had any successful wells in Pronghorn Sand.
I know that there is offset operators that have had success there.
Im wondering when you guys plan to drill Pronghorn Sand or if you have already? Bill is going to answer that.
Yes.
Weve build a -- weve build a couple of Pronghorn wells.
Weve been very pleased with the success that weve seen so far.
So I think you could expect more of that.
Okay.
And then finally just a little bit of data points if you could help me what the Dolphin project equity income.
I know you have disclosed that in the past but as a while back and just to bring me up the speed on what that is on an annualized basis and if that equity income number -- if its a pre-tax number or post-tax number and you can get me that later if you want to if you know I would appreciate it? Roughly 60% of the income in the Midstream business is split between Dolphin Midstream pipeline and the Plains interest.
So if you take our Midstream income for a year I wouldnt use any quarter numbers.
For a year about 60% comes from those two and its maybe quite equally divided but something like that.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
Your next question comes from the line of Faisel Khan with Citigroup.
Hi.
Good morning.
Good morning.
On the $2 billion of annual free cash flow you expect to generate the MENA portfolio after the -- closing the startup can you discuss if that free cash flow number sort of assumes that you continue to spend the capital on growth projects and if -- you can also discuss if that the CapEx number has embedded in that free cash flow number if thats enough to sort of replace reserves? The answer is we continue to expend it on growth projects and it would be enough to replace reserves.
So it includes that some of the projects you are looking at in the UAE and in Oman some of the It includes projects that are in hand now that we think we have.
If we want to do something brand new they might have a different effect.
But thats -- but if you look at what we have in hand and projects in Qatar and Oman and Abu Dhabi that sort of includes all of that.
But if you said well you can have some projects some other place.
Its radically different than -- maybe different outcome.
But this includes enough to replace production.
Okay.
Understood.
And then your comments on the sort of favorable permitting environment in California is that a result of the law that was signed into or the legislation that was signed to law by Jerry Brown or was it -- is there something else thats going on in terms of how you are lining up the permitting process in the state? Vicki you can answer that I think.
Yes.
I would say that the division of Oil and Gas and Geothermal Resources for the State of California has been trying diligently to ensure that there is more certainty around the permitting process.
And so they have been processing permit applications as quickly as they can granted it still takes a while in the States because of their personnel resources.
But recently weve also been trying to anticipate if the application of details from Senate Bill 4 that was just passed and we are trying to ensure that we stay ahead of the anticipated specific requirements of that bill to ensure that we are not negatively impacted by that.
So the Senate bill does it help provide more transparency to the process or does it make the permitting process more difficult? It will provide more transparency but it will also require more monitoring from the operator standpoint also more reporting and we are hoping that the requirements are not so stringent as they overload the staff at DOGGR.
And thats the degradation for us is that increased permitting requirements is going to be a load on their staff.
Okay.
Okay.
Thanks for that color.
And just last question from me could you give us the sort of what you envision the capital cost being for the ethylene plant the gross cost? Well as I said that half of that would be under $1 billion dollars.
Okay.
And so And more -- So whether its $750 million or $800 million or something like that thats sort of the range.
Were half of it.
Okay.
And are -- Do you have all the permits in hand the air permits and the CO2 permits? Yes.
I think we are about set to go.
Okay.
Great.
I appreciate the time.
Thank you.
We will be spending -- well be spending some money this year but it will build up in 2014 15 and 16.
Okay.
Understood.
Thank you for the time.
Thanks.
We do have time for one more question.
Your final question comes from the line of John Herrlin with Societe Generale.
Hi.
Two quick ones.
Given more of an unconventional focus should we expect to see your PUD count go up in the U.S.
Steve? PUDs as a percentage of proven I understood.
Okay.
The actual PUD count is very large how much they actually but there were always very reluctant to book PUDs and youve got to put a gun to their head to get them to book PUDs.
So I would suggest that the PUDs are likely not to change very much as a percentage.
It doesnt mean there arent PUDs but just.
They feel I mean just to tell you why they feel theyre borrowing from next years program.
So if they book a PUD they book the barrels now and the money gets funded next year.
So they are afraid of just hurting their F&amp;D costs next year.
So basically that you have the steady state of PUDs and [PEP] adds and therefore your F&amp;D costs are from perspective of deeply being more predictable.
We can argue with them but there is more PUDs out there but they tend to take a very conservative view of it.
I dont think there is any question about that not the end of the world or worse things you could do.
Okay.
Thats fine.
I just was wondering whether youre going to be more like your peers because you are more conservative about that? No.
I think it requires brain surgery and we are not up for that as part of my liabilities that get older.
Okay.
On the bottom these are peeping next question.
With California youre spending more on J&amp;J and you said your rent do more unconventionally.
Are you going to be outside existing areas for your unconventional activities what Im trying to get out is in terms of volume recruitment will production activities be more protected if youre not within your existing field areas or TVD? I think we are going to build out from our field areas rather than go off part of building efficiency is to build out from your existing infrastructure and one keys to the next year or so is to keep the efficiency strong so we will build out from where we are.
Okay.
Great.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Chris? Please give us a call if you have any questions further questions here in New York and thanks for joining us today.
Thank you.
Thank you.
And this concludes the third quarter 2013 earnings release conference call.
Thank you for joining.
You may now disconnect your line.
Good morning.
And welcome to the Occidental Petroleum Corporation Fourth Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
(Operator Instructions) I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Chris Stavros.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Emily and good morning everyone.
Thanks for participating in Occidental Petroleums fourth quarter 2013 earnings conference call.
On the call with us this morning from Houston are Steve Chazen Oxys President and Chief Executive Officer; Vicki Hollub Executive Vice President of Oxys U.S.
Oil and Gas Operations; Cynthia Walker our Chief Financial Officer; Willie Chiang Oxys Vice President of Operations and Head of our Midstream Business; Bill Albrecht President of Oxys Oil and Gas in the Americas; and Sandy Lowe President of our International Oil and Gas Operations.
We are going to change things up a bit this quarter and begin the call with comments from our CEO Steve Chazen who will review some of the achievements we realized last year with respect to the fundamentals of our business and our strategy and plan for 2014.
Vicki Hollub will then provide a thorough discussion on the strategy and outlook for our operations in both the Permian basin and California.
In order to provide a little more current for discussion around our domestic oil and gas operations we will not directly address our fourth quarter results on the call.
However Cynthia Walkers detailed commentary on the fourth quarter as well as forward looking guidance items can be found in the conference call slides sent to you following Vickis remarks and beginning with Slide 46.
As a reminder todays conference call contains projections and other forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws.
These statements are subject to the risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ from those expressed or implied in these statements and our filings.
Our fourth quarter 2013 earnings press release the Investor Relations supplemental schedules conference call presentation slides as well as Cynthias detailed commentary on the fourth quarter results have been posted and can be downloaded off of our website at www.oxy.com.
Ill now turn the call over to Steve Chazen.
Steve please go ahead.
Thank you Chris.
We just finished a successful year meeting or exceeding many of the goals we set out for ourselves and are looking to continue our performance into 2014.
Let me give you a brief overview of the key 2013 highlights.
We grew our domestic oil production by 11 000 barrels per day over 2012 to 266 000 a day.
We exceeded our capital efficiency goals reducing our drilling costs by 24% from the 2012 levels reduced domestic operating costs by 17%.
We added about 470 million barrels of reserves equivalents achieving overall replacement ratio of 169%.
Our total costs incurred associated with those reserve adds were about $7.7 billion resulting in repair and finding and development costs of under $17.
We increased our return on capital employed from 10.3% in 2012 to 12.2% in 2013.
Turning now to some of the specifics of the key accomplishments of last year.
As a result of our development program we improved our capital efficiency by 24% domestically over 2012 which translates to about a $900 million reduction in capital for the wells drilled in 2013.
Of this improvement 50% came from the Permian basin 25% from California and 25% from the rest of domestic assets.
We accomplished these improvements while successfully completing our program by drilling approximately what we had planned.
We also reduced our domestic operating costs by 17% or about $470 million compared to 2012.
About 48% of this improvement was in the Permian basin 46% was in California and the remainder was in their other domestic assets.
While we focused on these efficiencies we also grew our domestic oil production by 11 000 barrels a day.
With respect to reserves we had a very successful year in growing the companys reserve base by adding substantially more reserves than we produced.
Over 90% of which was added to our organic development program.
We ended the year based on preliminary estimate with about 3.5 billion barrels of reserves which represent an all-time high for the company.
Our total company reserve replacement ratio from all categories before dispositions was about 169% or about 470 million barrels of new reserves further [ph] 278 million barrels we produced during the year.
In the United States our reserve replacement ratio was 190%.
Replacement ratios to California properties and the Permian non-CO2 properties were similar to the overall ratio.
Our reserve replacement ratio for liquids from all categories was 195% for the total company and 228% domestically.
This reflects our emphasis on oil drilling instead of gas.
Our total costs incurred related total reserve additions for the year on preliminary basis of about $7.7 billion.
Over the last several years we have built a large portfolio of growth oriented assets in United States.
In 2013 we spent larger than normal portion of our investment dollars in development of these assets.
Our GReNeC reserve replacement for the year reflects the positive results of these development efforts.
Our 2013 program excluding acquisition replaced 168% of our domestic production with about 291 million barrels of reserve adds.
In addition we transferred a 115 million barrels of proved undeveloped reserves to proved developed category domestically as a result of the program.
Our acquisitions were at a multiyear low of $550 million providing reserve adds of 32 million barrels.
At the end of the year we estimate that 73% of our total proved reserves were liquids increasing from 72% in 2012.
Of the other total reserves about 70% were proved developed compared to 73% last year; 2012 that is.
Increasing the share of the proved undeveloped reserves compared to last year with all the reserves added of the Al Hosn Gas Project.
We expect to move these reserves to proved developed category at the end of this year once the initial production starts in the fourth quarter.
Through the success of our drilling program and capital efficiency initiative we lowered our finding and development cost over recent years as a result we expect our DD&amp;A expense to be around $17.40 a barrel only a small increase from the $17.10 in 2013.
This is consistent with our expectation that DD&amp;A rate of growth should flatten out as recent investment come online and finding and development cost come down.
Because of our organic reserve additions and the efficiency weve achieved in our operations demonstrates the significant progress weve made in turning the company in a competitive domestic productive.
One of our long-term goals domestically has been achieved a 50% pre-tax margin after finding and development and cash operating cost so as to generate solid returns.
We believe were achieving that now and expect to continue to do so in the future.
Consistent with what weve said our focus in 2013 was to enhance the shareholder value through our results.
For this goal our program was heavily focused on growing our domestic oil production improving our capital efficiency that is improving our finding and development cost and lowering our operating cost.
We met or exceeded these goals in result have increased our return on capital to 12.2% a significant improvement from the 10.3% of last year and a testament to the hard work and dedication of all of our employees.
We expect to see further improvements in our returns in coming years as a result of the recent investments.
Turning to this year our 2014 program is designed to improve on last years strong performance.
Let me highlight the key elements of the 2014 program which I will discuss without reflecting any of the effects of our strategic review initiatives.
We expect our 2014 program to be about $10.2 billion compared to the $8.8 billion we spent in 2013.
The increase includes about $400 million of additional capital allocated to each of our Californian Permian operations largely for additional drilling to accelerate their development plans and production growth.
An additional $100 million will be spent in these and other domestic assets for facilities projects that were deferred from 2013.
The domestic oil and gas capital program will continue to focus on growing oil production and the entire increase in capital will go to oil productions in California and in Permian Basin.
We also expect to continue to find growth opportunities in our key international assets mainly in Oman and Qatar and complete the Al Hosn Gas Project.
Our capital for 2014 for Oman and Qatar will increase by about $300 million over last year.
Our exploration capital will increase by about $100 million; in part due to spending that was deferred from last year.
Our midstream capital increased by about $100 million as a result of spending on the BridgeTex Pipeline and two new terminals at Ingleside.
Our chemical capital increased also by about $100 million; the Mexican joint venture we announced last year and we complete the new Johnsonville chlor-alkali facility.
Our success in improving our capital efficiency and operating cost structure has provided us with the ability to expand our development opportunities that met our financial return targets.
The capital program production growth that I outlined it reflects the benefit of our streamlined structure and our commitment to continue fuel growth by exploiting our large portfolio primarily in California and in Permian Basin.
We expect to our 2014 we expect our Company-wide production volumes to grow to between 780 000 and 790 000 barrel equivalents a day compared to 763 000 in 2013 with the fourth quarter exit rate of over 800 000 barrels a day excluding the planned Al Hosn production.
This increase will come almost entirely from domestic oil production while we expect to see a continued modest drop in our domestic gas volumes.
Our domestic oil production is expected to grow from 266 000 barrels a day in 2013 to between 280 000 and 295 000 barrels a day in 2014 or about a 9% increase.
This growth will come fairly evenly from our California and Permian operations.
Internationally excluding Al Hosn we expect production to grow slightly.
While the elements of the 2014 program that I discussed assumes no changes to Company structure or its mixed of assets.
We do expect the Company will look significantly different by the end of the year.
Strategic view we are undertaking will result in large changes to the Companys asset mix.
Our capital program production expectation and other elements of 2014 program will be adjusted as the related transactions are concluded.
Finally some of our longer lead investments we have been making over last couple of years will start contributing to our results this year specifically the Al Hosn Gas Project we expect to start its initial production in the fourth quarter and start contributing to our cash flow.
We expect the BridgeTex Pipeline to come online around the third quarter and to start contributing to our midstream earnings and cash flow.
The new Johnsonville chlor-alkali plant is expected to come online early this year and will make a positive contribution to the operations for our chemical business.
With respect to the initiatives outlined in the first phase of the Companys strategic review announced last year we completed a sale of a portion of Companys investment in the General Partner of Plains All-American Pipeline in October resulting in pre-tax proceeds of about $1.4 billion.
After this sale we continue to own about a 25% interest in the Plains General Partner which at current price should be valued at about $4 billion.
We have made steady progress in our discussions with key partners in the countries where we operate in the MENA region for the sale of our minority interest in our operations there.
Due to the scale and complexities of potential transaction we expect these discussions to continue through the first half of this year.
We have made good progress in our pursuit of strategic alternatives to the select Midcon assets we expect to provide further information on any transactions as they conclude some around the end of the second quarter and well announce material developments as they occur.
In the fourth quarter we used the Plains proceed to retire $625 million of debt reducing our debt load by about 9% and to purchase almost $10 million shares of the Company stock of a cash outlay of $880 million.
We ended the year with a debt-to-capitalization ratio of 14%.
At the Februarys Board Meeting we will review the Companys dividend policy status of strategic alternatives and share repurchase authority.
Many of the steps weve taken in 2013 including our success in improving our efficiency and the action that our board has authorized lay a ground work for stronger results for this year and beyond.
The operational improvement we expect to achieve in 2014 coupled with the strategic action we expect to executive this year should place the Company in a position to improve its returns while continue to grow and increase its dividends to maximize shareholder value.
Vicki Hollub will now provide a more detailed discussion of our California and Permian operations.
Thank you Steve.
This morning Ill review two of our largest domestic operations: our Permian and California businesses  describing our 2014 plans as well as longer term growth opportunities.
In 2013 we implemented an important transition plan in both of these businesses.
And the success we achieved built a solid foundation for long-term growth.
In 2014 the specific goals of our operations are continue the development of our large anchor projects in each of our operating areas.
Which will enable us to allocate a significant portion of our capital to projects with solid returns low execution risk and long-term growth further reduce our drilling and completion cost to improve our finding and development cost and our project economics.
Continue to optimize operating cost without affecting production to improve our current earnings and free cash flow.
Build on our successful exploration efforts in each of our core areas.
Evaluate data and test various new concepts in our pilot areas which will setup the anchor projects of the future.
We manage our Permian Basin operations through two business units.
The Permian EOR business which combines CO2 and water floods and the Permian Resources business which is where our growth-oriented and unconventional opportunities are managed.
I will refer to the CO2 water flood business as Permian EOR and the other business as Permian Resources.
The Permian Basin designation will be for the combined operations.
In the Permian Basin we spent over $1.7 billion of capital in 2013 with 64% focused on our Permian Resources assets.
In 2014 we plan to spend just under $2.2 billion overall in the basin.
The entire $450 million increase will be spent on our Permian Resources assets representing about 70% of our total capital spend in the basin.
We expect the Permian EOR business to offset this decline in 2014 and to actually grow 1.4%.
The Permian Resources oil production is expected to grow faster in the range of 20% to 25% and its total production by 13% to 16%.
On a combined basis for the Permian Basin this should translate to oil production growth of over 6% in 2014 and total overall production growth of over 5% while generating $1.8 billion of cash flow after capital.
2013 was a pivotal year for our Permian Basin operations.
First we improved our capital efficiency by 25% and reduced our operating expenses by $3.22 a barrel or 17%.
We also began transitioning to a horizontal drilling program.
We drilled 49 horizontal wells with 47 completing and producing.
The combination of improvements in well cost our own results and those of neighboring operators have given us the opportunity to dramatically shift our program to more horizontal drilling in 2014.
Our Permian Resources team will average running about 21 rigs of which 17 will be drilling horizontal wells.
We plan to drill approximately 345 total wells or about 50% of which will be horizontal.
This compares to 330 total wells drilled in 2013 around only 15% were horizontal.
We have two main goals for our Permian Resources business in 2014.
First we intend to continue the evaluation of the potential across our full acreage position and second we plan to pilot various development strategies including optimal lateral link frac design and well spacing both laterally and vertically.
We believe this will position us for accelerated development as we exit 2014 and go into 2015.
We believe we have one of the most promising and underexploited unconventional portfolios in the Basin.
In 2013 we added 200 000 net prospective acres to our unconventional portfolio and now have about 1.9 million prospective acres.
This is a prime position in the Permian Basin.
Our acreage in the Midland Basin Texas Delaware Basin and New Mexico give us exposure to all the unconventional plays which is unique.
This will give us flexibility to develop our most attractive opportunities first and to mitigate risk.
Based on the work weve done to-date we have identified approximately 4 500 drilling locations across our portfolio representing 1.2 billion net barrels of resource potential.
We believe weve made conservative assumptions regarding prospective acres well spacing and expected ultimate recoveries but expect these numbers will grow as we learn more.
We see the largest near-term growth in the Midland Basin which represents about two-thirds of our currently assessed resource potential.
However our Delaware Basin prospective acreage is significantly larger and potentially there should be room to grow.
We believe our measured approach to our unconventional portfolio has worked to our advantage.
Our Permian Resources production comes from about 9 500 gross wells of which 54% are operated by the producers.
On a net basis we have approximately 4 400 wells of which 15% are non-operated.
This has given us the opportunity to observe the results achieved by other operators in the basin learn from those results and optimize our approach to maximize the opportunities on our acreage.
The success of our capital and operating cost efficiency efforts in 2013 has enabled us to significantly improve our cost structure which has increased our opportunities there.
For example a typical well in the coli [ph] area that had an IRR of 24% before our capital and operating cost reductions now yields IRR of 48% using the same product prices to achieve similar success in all of our most active areas across the business unit.
Finally we have established a multi-step methodical process for our unconventional acreage in the Permian Resources business that includes step one exploration to establish the presence of a commercial resource; step two testing and data gathering to optimize well completion design; step three pilot programs to assess variability of well performance to design and full field development plans; and step four transition to manufacturing mode for full field development.
This process is helping us prudently develop our acreage maximizing cash flow and returns.
As a result we are now prepared to accelerate our activities in the Permian Resources business where we believe the opportunity in front of us is one of the biggest in the basin.
Now Ill review our program in more detail beginning with the Midland Basin.
Weve been most active with our horizontal activity to-date in the Midland Basin where weve drilled 16 wells.
In 2014 we plan to spend $790 million to drill 147 wells including 74 horizontals.
We expect the average eight rigs in the area during this year.
Our largest opportunity here is in the Wolfcamp Shale where we have tested Wolfcamp A and B benches and plan to target our activity to test the remaining benches.
One of our most successful pilot projects in this basin is South Curtis Ranch which has now gone into full field development mode.
This is the property that we acquired in 2010.
We have drilled 63 vertical and 6 horizontal wells to date and plan to drill over 200 additional wells on this acreage.
Results so far have been as expected with initial 30-day production rates where the horizontal wells averaging approximately 800 boe per day.
In the Midland basin we also believe there is substantial potential in the Cline which is currently under evaluation.
We have drilled 6 horizontal Cline wells so far and plan to drill another 5 to 10 in 2014.
Preliminary results indicate we may have the opportunity to drill up to 450 Cline wells in the basin.
Another pilot project is horizontal drilling in the Sprayberry where we plan to drill our first horizontal well in the first quarter and we will evaluate next steps with the results.
In addition to the horizontal activity we also plan to continue our legacy vertical Wolfberry development.
In the Texas Delaware basin we plan to spend approximately $370 million in 2014 to drill 91 wells including 48 horizontals.
We expect the average five rigs during the year.
And our horizontal activity will be focused in the Wolfcamp where we believe the A B and C benches will prove to be the most prospective.
We drilled and participated in three horizontal Wolfcamp wells in 2013 and we will increase that to 45 in 2014.
Our activity is centered in Reeves County where we historically have drilled vertical Wolfbone Wells.
Early horizontal results are proving to have better economics but there are some plays where vertical development is still more efficient.
In our Coli [ph] area we plan to drill 43 vertical wells targeting the Bell and Cherry Canyon formation.
This represents the continuation of the one-rig program we executed in 2013.
And in Mexico we plan to spend approximately $370 million to drill 97 wells including 50 horizontals.
We expect the average four rigs during a year.
The Bone Spring Formation in New Mexico is the second largest opportunity in our portfolio behind the Wolfcamp Shale.
In 2013 we drilled 16 horizontal wells testing the first second and third Bone Spring sand intervals.
Our results were very encouraging and we expect to increase the program to drill 30 horizontal Bone Spring sand wells in 2014.
Of the $2.2 billion to be spent in the Permian basin in 2014 $660 million will be allocated to our Permian EOR business.
As I previously mentioned this business unit is a combination of CO2 and water floods.
It is symbiotic to manage these assets together as they have similar development characteristics and ongoing monitoring and maintenance requirements.
For the last couple of years we have actually spent more capital on water floods as we mature the next CO2 developments.
In 2014 25% of the $660 million will be spent on current water flood development and the remainder on CO2 floods.
Further we have 1.4 billion net barrels of oil equivalent and reserves and potential resources remaining to be developed in the Permian EOR business.
We believe we are the efficiency leader in the basin in applying CO2 flood technology to develop this potential.
We have the ability to accelerate growth in our EOR projects as more CO2 becomes available.
As a result of our efficiency advantage many projects that dont work for others work for us.
Over the last several year the focus of our Permian exploration program has been to identify unconventional opportunities which are then transitioned to full field development through the process I explained earlier.
Our approach has been very successful giving us a large opportunity set that we are now working to fully develop.
We continue to see the addition of new plays in the basin and see years of exploration drilling opportunities ahead in our 2 million prospective acre position.
Now that I have gone through some of the specifics of the program for the Permian basin I will explain our overall business strategy.
We are approaching our development program with the multi-pronged strategy that first maximizes the field resource potential.
Second controls cost to optimize returns.
Third gives us a strategic advantage to improve our realizations.
We are using targeted horizontal and vertical drilling as appropriate optimizing development completion plans from lateral length to frac efficiency as well as lift strategies to maximize recovery.
We are making heavier infrastructure investments like power water handling and gas processing to pre-plan for field success.
These strategies coupled with our successful exploration program accomplished the first of our objectives.
We will continue to manage costs and take advantage of our progress along the learning curve with leading technologies and execution efficiencies to accomplish our second objective.
And we are also investing in additional takeaway capacity including the completion of the BridgeTex Pipeline and build out of our gathering systems which will give our crude the strategic advantage to reach either the Houston Ship Channel or Corpus Christi Markets.
Finally I would like to comment on our plans for the Permian basin over the next several years.
With the combined businesses we have more than 2.5 billion barrels oil equivalent and reserves and potential resources.
Within each business we have the flexibility to shift capital among projects within that business as well as the flexibility to shift capital between the two businesses as needed.
Our large and diverse portfolio creates opportunities for a variety of growth options.
In the Permian resources business at our current pace we believe we have over 15 years of development and growth opportunities.
Given that the Permian EOR business is generating significant cash flow and we expect our opportunity set to continue to grow we plan to double our rigs for the next three years to accelerate the development of the Permian resources units growth opportunities.
We expect this to result in the doubling of our resources units production from approximately 64 000 boe per day in 2013 to more than 1 20 000 in 2016.
In Permian EOR while it is large with a somewhat slower growth curve we have significant opportunities going forward with continued positive cash flow to fuel the growth of the resources unit.
Combined with EOR growth opportunities we expect our overall Permian basin production to grow by roughly 10% compounded annually growth rate through 2016.
Now we will shift to California.
In 2013 we spent $1.5 billion of capital.
Our main goals were to deliver a predictable outcome advanced low-risk projects that contribute to long-term growth reduce the cost structure lower our base decline create a more balanced portfolio and test exploration and development concepts.
We achieved every one of these objectives.
We produced 154 000 barrels oil equivalent per day generated $1.3 billion of free cash flow after capital.
We progressed the development of our steam floods and current front low field and started the redevelopment of our Huntington Beach Field.
We improved our capital efficiency by 20% versus 2012 and also reduced the operating costs by $4.70 per BOE or 20%.
Overall in 2014 we intend to continue the capital strategy shift initiated last year which was to focus the majority of our capital on low decline projects.
Our goals for this year are to accelerate the rate of production growth and maintain our lower cost structure.
We have also continued to advance several low risk high return long-term growth projects and capitalize on our exploration successes.
In 2014 we plan to spend $1.9 billion of capital of which 40% will be spent on water floods 20% on steam flood and 40% and non-conventional and other developing plays.
We expect to average about 27 rigs in California in 2014 compared to an average of 20 rigs in 2013.
We plan to drill around 1 050 wells in 2014 compared to 770 in 2013.
We expect this program to deliver around 11% oil production growth or over 4% total production growth while generating $1 billion of free cash flow after capital at current prices.
We believe the rate of growth will further accelerate in 2015 and beyond as the number of the steam and water flood projects reach full production and the base decline is lower due to relatively less natural gas development higher investment and lower decline in oil projects and a larger share of higher growth lower decline projects in the asset mix.
Let me now share some of the highlights of the program for this year beginning with the water floods.
In the L.A.
basin we plan to spend $500 million in the Wilmington and Huntington Beach Fields.
Our Wilmington Field development in 2013 exceeded expectations.
We drilled 135 wells and we will increase that by 7% to 145 wells in 2014.
Our horizontal program was particularly strong and horizontal wells will represent an even greater percentage of wells in 2014.
In our Huntington Beach redevelopment we have successfully brought online our two new [indiscernible] for purpose drilling rigs and drilling completed our two wells in the project.
In 2014 we plan to drill 30 wells and we will ultimately drill at least 128 wells.
Our Heavy Oil business was the key focus area in 2013 it will be again in 2014.
We plan to spend $315 million to drill about 420 wells compared to 324 wells in 2013.
We will also continue a multiyear development of current front and loss field [ph] steam floods and we will pilot some new projects.
I would also like to highlight that the business achieved record production in the fourth quarter producing 19 000 BOE per day which is an increase of 4000 barrels per day from the first quarter of 2013.
In Elk Hills our key objective is to lower the high decline rate and weve made significant progress toward this goal.
In 2014 we plan to spend $600 million in capital to drill 325 wells which is an increase of $170 million over 2013.
About 55% of Elk Hills capital would be targeting our shale reservoirs for our capital efficacy efforts in 2013 had a significant impact we experienced an average of 23% decline in oil cost for these programs and 21% decline in operating costs which dramatically improved the economics and increase the opportunity set.
For example a typical well that generated 30% IRR prior to our efficiency initiatives now delivers 50% IRR using the same product prices.
In 2014 we will drill around 130 shale wells at Elk Hills an increase from 80 in 2013.
The remaining Elk Hills capital will target continued development in the shallow oil zone in Stephen [ph] sand.
Our California exploration program has delivered solid results for over five years.
The 2014 California program will continue to explore both unconventional and conventional targets.
The unconventional program target several prospects similar to the 2013 discovery.
The conventional program will target prospects in and around our existing production in both the San Joaquin Valley and Ventura County.
Our extensive proprietary 3D seismic surveys are yielding an exciting inventory of leads and prospects which will provide years of drilling opportunities.
Lastly I would like to give you some perspectives on our development plans over the next several years in California.
We expect to continue the capital strategy we initiated in 2013 to shift the lower decline and lower risk steam and water flood projects.
We believe we can grow our California production from 154 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day currently to 190 000 in 2016 or roughly a 7.5% compounded annual growth rate.
Our steam and water flood projects will contribute 80% of that growth.
In fact 90% will come from projects that are already online.
We think this positions California as one of the lowest risk growth profiles in the industry.
Further we are targeting primarily oil drilling which will make our portfolio more oily contributing to the solid margin expansion going forward.
We expect to grow our oil volumes by roughly 15% compounded annual growth rate through 2016.
Over the long term we expect our California growth prospects to benefit from changes in our asset mix.
Elk Hills and THUMS while having the potential for years of continued production have lower growth prospects due to the mature state of both of these fields.
On the other hand our water and steam floods as well as our unconventional opportunities should continue to give us double digit growth for years to come.
The share of our production from Elk Hills and THUMS has shrunk from 64% in 2009 to 44% in 2013.
This shift will continue going forward and the largest share of higher growth projects will further accelerate the growth rate in coming years.
Other than the Permian basin we are continuing to test new ideas and to further improve our drilling completion and development efficiency in all of our projects.
Were also working diligently to comply with the new regulatory requirements created as the result of the passage of Senate Bill 4 in California.
We have a dedicated team addressing the associated issues and currently we dont except significant delays in our development plans.
As you can see while the Permian basin and California stories are different they are both very exciting.
The hard work and dedication of our people have put both of these assets in a position for continued success and 2014 is the year that both of these businesses will begin to accelerate their growth as we have completed the transition to a focused growth oriented development program and were set for long-term growth.
Ill now turn the call back to Chris Stavros.
Emily can you please open the line for questions were ready to take questions thanks.
(Operator Instructions) Our first question from Doug Terreson of ISI please go ahead.
Good morning to everybody.
Steve Oxys returns on capital rose last year by almost 20% which I think was the objective or the hope anyway but your capital spending looks like it's going to rise by another 16% or so this year.
And so my question is how does management prevent capital misallocation and then retrenchment from occurring again as it did a couple of years ago? Meaning have there been changes to the capital allocation process or in other areas of corporate planning that might enhance the result in the current scenario?  Yeah sure.
Thank you first remember that this number is for unchanged business.
All right.
And thats really not going to happen so the actual spending will be some other number a lower number because some other businesses wont be here by year-end.
Right.
Were being  weve changed the process I think Vicki has pointed out that the change in the domestic business and how were  what were focusing on returns are lot better and were not  I think it's basically a lower risk portfolio and will generate more certain returns.
We expect the returns were not actually excited about the 12% return on capital employed.
I think we need to be closer to in excess of 15% and so our goal is to make sure thats right.
Were -- it's like were very great caution on my part that Ive allowed additional spending in Permian and California theyve had to convince me that theyre going to stay on the straight and narrow here.
So Im pretty sure were under control but if it turns out because were going to watch this monthly because thats what we do now we watch it monthly.
It turns out and get off to the wagon and theyll  the beer will be turned off.
Okay one more questions you guys also were.
Or the fine wine whatever theyre drinking you know.
So you guys were obviously very successfully with your cost program that helped the result last year and so most of the complete is there more work to do there on the cost product program?   For sure while Im  I think we exceeded our goals.
Right.
Well set new goals.
I think my main focus just so we were real clear the long-term business depends on low F&amp;D operating costs are fine but they affect the current year but we have to develop a long-term low F&amp;D rate and go back to what we said forever.
If we have the F&amp;D and the operating cost and local taxes we need to be below the 50% of the selling price of the product.
And if youre going to do that you have pre-tax margins of 50% and youll generate good returns and thats really the objective and so we need to continue to drive as the reservoirs become more challenging need to cost or cost need to be watched very carefully.
I think you know weve used this year 2013 at this to really horn our ability to control costs and I think were there.
Weve gone through a multiyear transition of the company from you know from a very good international producer and you know an okay domestic one to a much stronger domestic business and this has been a not an easy or quick transition but I think at this point we have the people in place to accomplish those goals going forward.
Were giving them more money this year but I hold myself and them responsible unlike football teams the coach gets fired not the assistant coaches in this.
Well if you guys can make 15% returns on capital thatd be fantastic.
Thanks a lot.
I think well be there.
Nice thanks.
Our next question is from Doug Leggate of Bank of America Merrill Lynch please go ahead.
I have a couple also if I may.
Telefonia [ph] has I guess been judged to some extent as not been able to execute because of lack of visibility so do you believe thats in targets this morning obviously that suggests the stepup in activity but what comfort can you give that you have got the permitting you have got the rig count.
And Im just curious as to where youre headed in terms of how  whether or not separating California still a viable option and one that you think would benefit the balance of the portfolio? Yes Ill answer the last question first and then well let Vicki assistant coach here get ready to answer how certain she is.
At California and the Permian and the rest of the company are quite in some ways different businesses.
California can benefit a lot I think.
My higher capital spending will generate more growth.
We established a base with we might call boring if you want steam flood and those kind of projects so they will have enough cash flow to go ahead.
I think it could be managed differently than we would and I think it has good prospects I think the issue that we need to have a team together that is more aggressive growers maybe less concerned about dividends and more like E&amp;P small E&amp;P.
No one will lever -- three producers or 85% of the production in California and that isnt going to change.
And so there is never going to be a comp and make people to believe and for the management of that business to deliver it's probable but they should be separate.
Is that clear enough? Yeah.
That is clear enough.
With respect to our efficiencies I feel like in California certainly we have a lot of potential as we outlined in detail in the earnings call a couple times ago.
So we have the resources available.
We have now put together a team out there that's structured in a way that gives them the best opportunity of success.
We have great people we have very experienced people who are -- who know a lot about operating in California who know a lot about the types of projects that we're developing that's our core business.
We know water floods we know steam floods and that's the bulk of what we're doing.
So our team understands quite clearly how to do that and they are among the best in the industry.
And so we're accomplishing what we've said we would do and what we're doing going forward that with this increase in capital is we're being very disciplined about how we evaluate and design our projects and implement our projects.
So I'm quite certain that we're not going to lose our efficiency around execution and with the resources that we have I feel confident that we're going to continue to see the same results that achieved in 2013 going forward.
Given that you have been fairly clear about how this could play out Telephone [ph] has not been spending its cash flow up until now.
So as a standalone company would there be an intangible drilling cost uplift to the operating cash flow in your estimates? And I guess if I could lay on it very quickly latest stuff thoughts on the scale of a potential Dutch tender buyback if that's still in your thinking and I'll leave it here.
Thanks.
Obviously California would spend more money and drill more wells until they could generate a lot of tax shelter if that's the question.
Yeah.
A separate business who competes with  a separate oil company that competes with other medium size or whatever you want to call on producers obviously is a business that would generate you basically burn you use its cash flow.
California has the flexibility however so that it could cut back its capital and use money to repurchase shares or something like that if the right sort of environment came down.
Unlike some other things it's a pretty complete business that has -- fair amount of gas opportunity when that's available.
It has all saves [ph] long term oil and has some exciting oil things to do too.
So I think it's a fairly complete business and its a business where if things get bad for regulator regions or price or whatever it can cut its capital back still do well doesn't get caught on a cred mill of higher decline could even buy back shares.
I don't think it's going to be a big dividend producer but I think I think on share repurchase it could do that if conditions warrant but if conditions dont warrant I am sure they will spend all that money.
The process of repurchasing the shares from whatever we do it just depends on the situation at the time.
When we have the money we'll figure it out when we have the money in the hand we'll figure out exactly what the process will be.
But Id point out that we repurchased around 10 million shares in the fourth quarter we wouldn't have done that with the shareholders money if we thought that all this wasn't going to happen.
So I think the process of doing it remains to be seen because you might have -- one oil one stock price you might do one thing and another you might do something else.
But theres no other place to put it.
I mean its either some kind of share repurchase or  you know there isnt really any debt that we can do much with.
So I think weve taken down the debt.
I think the next maturity is in 2016 and Im not up for you know some kind of windfall for bond holders.
Ill let someone else jump on.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Ed Westlake of Credit Suisse.
Please go ahead.
Yeah.
I mean I guess I got a bigger picture question just on Permian and then some follow-ups on California.
So those two question and just on your Permian I mean how do you think youre going to get a fair price for the light oil that youre producing in Permian? What is Oxy going to do about it over and above what youve already announced you know with the BridgeTex Pipeline extension? Thanks.
Were going to let Willy answer that since hes the expert in oil.
Yeah Ed.
Obviously weve seen a lot of disruptions in pricing between regions and were seeing a lot of infrastructure getting built in and when we look at our production of roughly 15 million barrels a year or 150 000 barrels a day out of the Permian between the BridgeTex Pipeline which goes from essentially Midland or Permian directly to the Gulf Coast as well as taking capacity on other pipelines down to Corpus we essentially go from a two market business Midland and Cushing to ultimately getting to Houston Ship Channel as well Corpus and then we also get the ability to go to U.S.
East Coast and lots of different places.
So I think the infrastructure is going to help us tremendously in that area.
As a follow-on.
I guess people are concerned that when the crude goes down to the Gulf its still going to be impact.
Any thoughts around that what work youve done on that? Well the thing everyone looks at is the Brent/TI.
And as I think about it Brents really tied to world prices and I think what youre going to see is all the grade as well TI kind of come to transportation parity.
Okay.
So no major discounts in your thoughts for the crude once it gets down to the Gulf other than quality and logistics? No I think prices fix the price issues.
Okay.
So just  Ill also point out that I thought you might.
Yeah.
That you know $97 is probably okay for us.
I mean this isnt some bargain basement price.
So yeah we feel pretty comfortable that we could be reasonably profitable at $97 and much lower so.
You know sometimes you lose sight of the absolute price in all this talk about differential.
Yeah its a good point.
Just on California then.
I mean you gave us sort of some initial resource estimates for the Permian would you be willing to give us the resource estimates for California? I know people are obviously trying to have confidence and resource numbers from yourselves would obviously help their confidence.
I think what I prefer to do is leave that for another day and another kind of announcement.
Okay.
Well thanks very much.
Our next question is from Arjun Murti of Goldman Sachs.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
Just another follow-up on California where you have a nice growth trajectory here.
It sounds like the greater confidence and it is there is a bit of a mix here where some of the stuff thats declined is now smaller and youre shifting more to water and steam floods which youve historically been very good at and maybe less reliance on the unconventional at least in the scope of the years presented here is that accurate? And I guess if so where are you on the unconventional from the confidence standpoint? Thank you.
Ill let Vicky answer about the unconventional but just so you understand I think youve got it but you know we have the high decline and really no decline  high decline at Elk Hills and really no decline at THUMS which was the bulk of the production of the Company and originally was nearly 100%.
And so whats happened is that the little wedge has grown and weve made a lot of progress in improving the decline rate in Elk Hills so were not fighting as big a decline curve.
And so what were doing is were filling it in with things that are real certain so that the business has sufficient cash without being on a treadmill with the go forward.
And Ill let Vicki talk about the unconventional here since shes more knowledgeable than I am for sure.
This year were drilling 170 unconventional shale wells versus 111 that we drilled last year.
So we increased the number that we are drilling this year and actually we had hoped to drill even more than we currently have on the schedule.
But we felt like that from a regulatory standpoint it was best to take a more conservative approach this year and be our best before.
We do have some exciting unconventional projects that are in the permitting process and we expect to bring those on in 2015.
So basically part of its permitting just trying to get the permits in line and ready to go.
The other part of it is that we are continuing with the strategy that we developed and that is to as weve said lower our decline and build up a larger solid base of those types of projects.
And that really helps prop us up for the unconventional development.
Is it a question Vicky of the scope of what you have there? You arent sure you have enough running room between confidence in the resource and the ability to get permits or are there still questions on all those points?  Yeah there are questions on all of them.
We do have as I said unconventional plays that we feel very comfortable with the development of because there are things that we understand that weve already started the process of development.
So there is a portfolio that we feel like we could move forward at a fairly fast pace if we had the permitting in place.
There is still some shales that we havent really tested and evaluated yet and were taking the same approach in California as we are in the Permian where we are doing a more measured approach to go out drill a few wells do some evaluation then start some pilot projects and then from there progress to full field development.
So we are trying to be very prudent in the way that we approach our shale plays that are outside where were currently drilling.
Steve maybe just a follow up on the MENA comments.
I certainly appreciate the scale and complexity here and thats going to take some time.
Can you comment that you have identified maybe a partner group which is a key group you are negotiating with and these things can still take time or is it earlier stage than that where there is still multiple parties that are involved here?  No there is a partner group.
Thats great.
And then just a final one on the stock buyback.
Should we think about this primarily as asset sale proceeds are used for stock buyback or your balance sheet is strong that it can be an ongoing program even without proceeds? The business fundamentally the overall business or whatever remains in the company is able to generate free cash.
And so we should see a part  I think I said it at your conference part of the program will continue to grow the dividends at a healthy pace.
Well have a little more share repurchase than weve done historically.
You will see share reductions from whatever happens in the asset sales or whatever dividends we might take from anything we separated from company.
So I think youll see the share count come down and therefore the dividend requirement the dollar amount of dividend requirement come down.
So I think youll see a mix but were very  Im very focused on the value of the stock were buying.
It isnt just about buying shares for fun certainly easier than drilling wells.
But I think that were  and youll see us come and go as the stock price changes and of course there are periods when we cant buy where we have material information.
So there may be periods when we cant buy.
But generally you should expect to see a regular program at some level but also some fairly sizeable reductions over the next year I would expect.
Great.
Thank you so much.
Thanks.
Our next question is from Faisel Khan of Citigroup.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
Good morning.
Steve I was wondering if you could clarify some of the comments you had around return on capital employed.
So are you saying that  and you guys have made a tremendous effort in getting return on capital employed up over the last 12 to 24 months.
But I want to make sure I understand.
So are you saying that with CapEx going up next year and with sort of the double end of the rig count in the Permian over the next few years and adding seven rigs on California overall youre seeing ROC should trend up over the next one to two years all else being equal? Product prices aside yes.
Okay okay fair enough.
And then in terms of your comments on California given that most of your growth in California is sort of longer life production and some of your growth in the Permian has sort of a higher decline rate I mean doesnt it make more sense to kind of keep those assets together as a portfolio? Whats the  Im just trying to understand like how you balance the cash flow and decline rate over the two portfolios over time.
Remember the Permian is respectively two businesses there is the EOR business which generates large amounts of free cash flow.
So the question really is how do you  and it has a potential to add this high growth stuff but still generate large amounts of free cash flow as a business we can manage that reasonably well.
California the potential is currently managed to generate free cash flow and it will generate a base ultimately of these long lived projects which basically the way answers to some extent your question about the returns because you could turn on a long live project your D&amp;A rate will be relatively low and so your earnings will be better because you got a lot of reserves over long period.
But  and so every business a standalone business has to have a base of money to pay for itself now I understand there is a whole bunch of companies out there that dont.
But thats not the way to build the long term oil business.
So California can spend more fairly I think easily and continue to grow.
And in the Permian there is a lot of competition for rigs and people and so I think its a little more challenging in the Permian.
I think California I have a map in my office from 1679 which shows California as an island and there is some proof to that.
Do you guys have an estimate for the return on capital employed for California at the end of the year? I dont think so.
I think we will leave those kinds of questions for some other announcement.
Our final question will come from Roger Read of Wells Fargo.
You mentioned in the preview part the costs and the learning curve issues have you done anything in particular to hire people out there or has it been learning by watching learning by sharing info and data with some of your partners out there.
I think Vicki went through a long  we have got a lot of gross wells that  bulk of the production and outcome comes from our own net wells.
So we see enormous exposure what other people are doing.
We dont actually have to experiment or hire other people we can actually see what they are going.
We hire people all the time but we are not hiring people from radically different cultures.
We need people who are trained in a return driven free cash flow kind of culture.
And to hire somebody from some small company they really have a different kind of culture theyre more an IRR getting their money back quick and drilling more wells culture.
So we dont want to destroy the notion that this is a business by generating money and generating returns and we are not going to spoil  were not going to spoil the stew with a bunch of others [ph].
I guess as a follow up even to those comments if I remember correctly we are in a new CEO search mode here.
Is there any update you can provide on that front? I think the board will have something to say about that next month.
But I expect that Ill be doing significantly more earnings calls than I had planned.
In the interest of time this concludes our question and answer session I would like to turn the conference back over to Mr.
Stavros for any closing remarks.
Thanks everyone for joining us today and please call us with any follow up questions in New York.
Thanks again.
The conference has now concluded.
Thank you for attending todays presentation.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
And welcome to the Occidental Petroleum Corporation First Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
All participants will be in a listen-only mode.
(Operator Instructions).
Please note this event is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Chris Stavros.
Mr.
Stavros please begin.
Thank you Emily and good morning everyone.
And thanks for participating in Occidental Petroleums first quarter 2014 conference call.
On the call with us this morning from Houston are Steve Chazen Oxys President and Chief Executive Officer; Vicki Hollub Executive Vice President and Head of Oxys U.S.
Oil and Gas Operations; Cynthia Walker our Chief Financial Officer; Willie Chiang Oxys Executive Vice President of Operations and Head of our Midstream Business; Bill Albrecht President of Oxys Oil and Gas in the Americas; and Sandy Lowe President of our International Oil and Gas Operations.
In just a moment Ill turn the call over to our CFO Cynthia Walker who will review our financial and operating results for the first quarter and also provide some guidance for the current quarter.
Our CEO Steve Chazen will then provide an update on the progress of our strategic initiatives and also some comments on the composition of the remaining Oxy after the separation of our California business.
Vicki Hollub will then conclude the call with an update of our activities in the Permian Basin.
As a reminder todays conference call contains certain projections and other forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Federal Securities Laws.
These statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ from those expressed or implied in these statements and our filings.
Our first quarter 2014 earnings press release the Investor Relations supplemental schedules and the conference call presentation slides can be downloaded off of our website at www.oxy.com.
Ill now turn the call over to Cynthia Walker.
Cynthia please go ahead.
Thank you Chris and good morning everyone.
My comments will reference several slides in the conference call materials that are available on our website.
In the first quarter were off to a strong start in our domestic oil growth strategy.
Domestic oil production was 274 000 barrels per day an increase of 4 000 barrels from the fourth quarter of 2013.
Overall production was 745 000 boe per day.
We had core income of $1.4 billion resulting in diluted earnings per share of $1.75 for the first quarter.
This is an improvement over both the prior and year ago quarters.
We generated $2.9 billion of cash flow from operations before changes in working capital and repurchased 10.5 million shares ending the quarter with $2.3 billion of cash on our balance sheet.
Now I will discuss the segment performance for the oil and gas business and begin with earnings on slide 3.
Oil and gas core earnings for the first quarter of 2014 were $2.1 billion.
As you can see this was essentially flat with the fourth quarter of 2013 and an increase of almost $200 million over the first quarter of 2013.
On a sequential quarter-over-quarter basis we saw improvements from higher domestic realized prices on all of our oil and gas products and higher sales volumes in Columbia which were offset by lower sales volumes in Iraq.
In Columbia while we recoup liftings in January which had slipped from the fourth quarter of 2013 in search and activity continues to challenge both our production and listings in our Llanos Norte fields.
Production from the fields was shutdown in April.
However now pipeline repair work has begun and we look forward to have normal operations in May.
In Iraq operations were as expected although liftings continue to be lumpy.
We had no liftings in Iraq in the first quarter.
Turning to slide 4 total production from the current quarter was 745 000 boe per day.
A decrease in daily boe production of 5 000 from the fourth quarter and 18 000 from the year-ago quarter.
On a sequential quarterly basis these results reflect domestic growth of 4 000 boe per day mainly in the Permian Basin offset by lower production in California.
The Permian Basin improvement reflected recovery from fourth quarter severe winter weather and new production from our drilling program.
California production was essentially flat excluding one-time benefits which positively impacted the fourth quarter of last year.
In MENA production was 9 000 boe per day lower primarily due to a scheduled plant turnaround in Dolphin and the remainder in Bahrain due to contract terms.
If you turn to side 5 I will discuss our domestic production in more detail.
Focusing on our commodity composition on a sequential quarterly basis we saw oil production grow 4 000 barrels per day with increase coming from all of our business units.
NGL production increased 2 000 barrels per day almost entirely in the Permian.
Natural gas volumes were 10 million cubic feet per day lower or about 2 000 boe per day with the decline coming from California partially offset by higher production in the Permian and Mid-continent.
Turning to slide 6 our oil and gas operating cash margins improved by $0.20 per boe on a sequential quarterly basis.
Our first quarter of 2014 worldwide realized oil prices were essentially flat compared to the fourth quarter of 2013.
Although domestic realized oil prices improved slightly despite widening differentials in the Permian Basin.
We also realized higher NGL prices domestically due to seasonal factors and experienced a 37% increase in natural gas prices reflecting an improvement in the benchmark.
Oil and gas production cost were $14.33 per barrel in the first quarter of 2014 compared to $14.13 per barrel in the fourth quarter of 2013.
Domestic operating expenses were higher in the first quarter compared to the fourth quarter due to higher energy and CO2 and steam injecting costs.
Controllable costs were essentially flat on a sequential quarterly basis.
MENA production costs decreased in the first quarter due to under-liftings in Iraq which have higher operating costs.
First quarter exploration expense was $55 million and we expect second quarter exploration expense to be about $80 million.
Turning to chemical segment core earnings on slide 7 youll see first quarter earnings of $136 million this was $8 million higher than the fourth quarter and exceeded our expectations primarily driven by volume improvements across most products in preparation for a strong spring demand.
This improvement was in part offset by the run-up in natural gas cost due to the extreme winter cold.
We expect second quarter 2014 earnings to be about $130 million a seasonal up-tick in demand in construction and agricultural markets is anticipated although profitability will be somewhat negatively impacted by a number of routine planned outages by both OxyChem and its customers.
On slide 8 is a summary of midstream segment earnings.
Youll see there were $170 million for the first quarter of 2014 compared to $68 million in the fourth quarter and $215 million in the first quarter of 2013.
The 2014 sequential quarterly increase in earnings resulted mainly from higher marketing and trading performance driven by commodity price improvements during the quarter.
Higher income in the gas processing businesses which were negatively impacted by the plant turnarounds in the fourth quarter of 2013 partially offset by lower pipeline earnings which included a plant turnaround in Dolphin.
The worldwide effective tax rate on core income was 40% for the first quarter of 2014 and we expect our combined worldwide tax rate in the second quarter of 2014 to remain at about 40% rate.
Slide 9 summarizes our cash flow for the quarter.
In the first three months of 2014 we generated $2.9 billion of cash flows from operations before changes in working capital.
Working capital changes decreased our cash flow from operations by about $240 million to $2.7 billion.
Capital expenditures for the first quarter of 2014 were $2.2 billion net of partner contributions.
And after paying dividends of $515 million buying back stock of $945 million and other net flows.
Our cash balance was $2.3 billion as of March 31.
Our debt to capitalization ratio was 14% at the end of the quarter.
Our 2014 annualized return on equity was 13% and return on capital employed was around 11%.
Lastly Ill turn to our guidance for the second quarter.
On April 30 we closed the sale of our Hugoton assets for $1.3 billion.
In the first quarter the Hugoton operations produced 18 000 boe per day invested $17 million in capital and contributed $46 million to our pre-tax segment earnings.
For the full year our previous domestic and capital expenditure guidance is unchanged adjusting for Hugoton.
In the second quarter excluding the Hugoton business we expect domestic production will increase between 6 000 and 8 000 boe per day on a sequential quarterly basis.
We expect oil production to grow between 7 000 and 9 000 barrels per day or approximately 3%.
NGL volumes will be roughly flat with the first quarter levels and a modest decline in natural gas production resulting from continued limited drilling.
Internationally our current prices excluding Columbia and Libya we expect total production to increase around 10 000 boe per day in the second quarter primarily from the recovery of the Dolphin plant turnaround and activity in Oman.
We expect Middle East liftings to also increase about 10 000 boe per day in the second quarter primarily as a result of our production increases in Dolphin and Oman.
I will now turn the call over to Steve Chazen who will provide an update on our strategic initiative.
Thank you Cynthia.
I want to focus on two topics this morning our progress today in executing strategic initiatives we announced earlier what our business will look like after the completion of some of these initiatives.
Starting with our progress to date we closed the sale our (inaudible) for pre-tax proceeds of just over $1.3 billion.
We sold in the fourth quarter of last year about 25% of interest in Plains pipeline for pre-tax proceeds of $1.4 billion the remainder interest in Plains is worth over $4 billion at current market prices.
We continue to explore options to monetize the remaining interest in the financially efficient manner once the restrictions on market transaction lapse.
Were continuing to explore strategic alternatives to our P-Ons (ph) assets and decided to keep our interest in the Williston Basin as they are currently more valuable to us for the true-value in the cash asset sale market.
We continue to make progress in our discussions with our partners in the Middle East for the sale of a portion of our interest in the region.
The separation of our California business from the rest of the company which will be in the form of distribution of at least 80% of the companys California stock to Oxy shareholders untracked.
And the necessary work is rapidly moving forward.
We expect to file initial Form 10 in June announced California management team in the third quarter.
Completion and separation of California is expected to occur in the fourth quarter of this year.
We have repurchased more than 20 million of the companys shares since the announcement of our strategic initiative in the fourth quarter of 2013 of which 10.5 million shares were purchased in the first quarter of 2014 26.5 million shares remain in our current repurchase program which we planned to complete with the proceeds from the Hugoton sale and excess balance sheet cash.
Now discussing what the business will look like going forward.
As a standalone company which will be called California Resources Corporation we expect our California operations with exciting growth oriented business large resource space and self sufficient cash flow.
This business will be a pure California resource company that will be able to spend virtually all its cash flow to grow its production reserves and earnings.
Currently the California business spends about half of its capital on conventional water and steam floods and the other half on unconventional other development projects.
Business is expected to initially increase its high margin high return conventional spending such as water and steam flood investments to grow its production by 5% to 8% in the double-digit oil growth.
As the floods reach their steady state in the near term they are expected to generate significantly more cash flow which the company expects to use the increase the amount of share of its capital spend on unconventional programs to grow its production higher rates on a sustainable basis.
Business were well positioned to accomplish our strategy as it generated operating cash flow before capital spending of $2.6 billion in 2013.
The capital spend in 2013 was $1.7 billion and we expect to spend about $2.1 billion this year.
We expect the California company will have around $5 billion of debt proceeds from which will be distributed to Oxy to use primarily to repurchase shares.
After completion of the strategic initiatives Oxys most important assets will consist of a significant leading position in the Permian Basin round it up of the Al Hosn Project Dolphin and a smaller business in the rest of MENA our operations in Columbia our midstream and chemical business and other domestic oil and gas operations.
Each of these businesses supports our ability to grow our dividends for our shareholders.
Further one of Oxys objectives will be to grow earnings and cash flow per share and these businesses have already identified opportunities to do so.
Permian resources is the cornerstone growth operation for the domestic business.
Our substantial acreage position in the Permian has a significant resource development potential.
We have used our knowledge of the geology at the area and our experience to gradually shift our program towards horizontal drilling in efficient manner.
Weve already made significant progress in this process and on track to execute to shift this plant.
Were starting to see the positive results of our horizontal drilling program plus the resources business to grow production rapidly similar to what some other operators in the basin have been able to achieve.
We believe this business could increase its production by 13% to 16% this in excess of 20% going forward.
EOR business in the Permian Basin which is primarily CO2 assets along with the rest of the companys businesses continue to be significant free cash flow generators.
In 2013 excluding the California assets Oxy generated operating cash flow $10.3 billion while spending $7.2 billion on capital expenditures.
2013 capital included $950 million spent for Al Hosn and $370 million for the combination of BridgeTex Pipeline New Johnsonville chlor-alkali plant.
We expect all three major projects to come online at various times in 2014 spurring up significant amounts of capital while starting to contribute to cash flow generation.
Assuming current market conditions and similar product prices once fully operational these three assets should generate at least $700 million in annual operating cash flow.
We expect this higher level of cash flow coupled with significant reductions in capital needs for long lead-time projects were more than offset loss of cash flow generated by the California assets and provide a significant boost of free cash flow going forward.
Our chemical midstream business will also continue to be meaningful cash flow providers in the future.
The strong cash generation and combined with fewer shares outstanding will enable us to continue to increase our dividend from the current rate of having sufficient funding to increase our investments domestic growth assets.
We also expect Oxys remaining businesses to deliver higher returns going forward.
As a result of our investments strategic initiatives and assuming similar commodity prices we expect to improve capital efficiency and operating cost structure to start up the Al Hosn BridgeTex and Johnsonville plant along the separation of California business to provide a natural uplift to our return on capital employed.
In addition we continue to execute our strategic initiatives and use proceeds from executive transactions such in the sale of (inaudible) and the monetization remaining portion of plants to repurchase our stock which will be able to further increase our ROCE going forward.
Our ROCE was 12.2% in 2013 and we expect it to rise to around 15% as we exit 2015.
We have already repurchased more than 20 million of the companys shares since the end of third quarter of 2013 we expect that we will be able to further reduce our share count by 40 million to 50 million shares through dividends in the California separation and by around 225 shares through the monetization of our remaining interest in the Plains pipeline.
Coupled with the buyback of 26.5 million shares in our current repurchase program we should be able to reduce our current share count by 90 to 100 million shares or about 12% of our currently outstanding shares.
These amounts do not include the opportunity to repurchase additional shares through a sale of a portion of our interest in the Middle East or share reductions from the exchange of any remaining portion of interest in the California business.
But they do reflect a modest amount of debt reduction.
We are excited about the value propositions of both our California and remaining Oxy businesses with a differentiated with focus business models positioning both companies to maximize shareholder value.
Now I will turn the call over to Vicki Hollub to update you on our Permian activities.
Thank you Steve.
This morning I will update you on the activities to date in our Permian resource business where were off to a good start in 2014.
In the first quarter Permian resources produced 67 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day an increase of 5% over the fourth quarter of 2013.
Capital expenditures were $328 million was approximately 75% spent on drilling and completing company operated wells.
The average 22 rigs during the quarter of which 15 more horizontal rigs this allowed us to drill 67 wells including 25 horizontal.
About three fourth of the 25 horizontals are currently on production.
As I indicated in the last call we have two main goals for our Permian Resources business in 2014.
First continue evaluating the potential across our full acreage position and second pilot development strategies to optimize their ultimate returns.
Today Ill focus on the progress we made in areas where we are targeting the Wolfcamp Shale and one where we are targeting primarily the Bone Spring.
Those areas are at South Curtis Ranch and Dora Roberts Ranch in the Midland Basin (inaudible) and the Texas Delaware Basin and South East New Mexico.
These make up the core of our horizontal program thus far.
Our Wolfcamp activity in the Midland Basin is focused in two operating areas South Curtis Ranch and Dora Roberts Ranch where we have identified about 800 drilling locations.
In the Wolfcamp we brought 12 wells on production during the quarter and now have a total of 18 producing wells.
Although one of these wells are completed in the Wolfcamp B the others completed in the Wolfcamp A the initial production rate through averaging around 750 boe per day.
While this is a good start we believe we can improve on this result by increasing the lateral links of our wells and improving the efficiency of our fracs.
The wells drilled thus far have an average lateral length of around 6 000 feet.
We are piloting increase lateral links up to 10 000 feet.
In addition we have transitioned from gel fracs to slick water fracs which has improved well performance and weve adjusted our cluster spacing from 60 feet to 95 feet for this area.
Were also evaluating lift alternative.
Today we have primarily used gas lifts and ASPs.
The ASPs averaged 1 020 boe per day initial production rate versus 680 per day for the other wells which are flowing or on gas lift.
The rate benefit of the ASPs may prove to be economically equivalent to gas lift but we are closely monitoring potential impact of the reservoir.
Average drill time for the horizontals was 27 days per well and total cost for drilling and completion has been averaging around $6.5 million per well.
But these changes to the completions that I mentioned initially cost may increase slightly but we expect to bring them down as we further progress the development program.
While the program and we have more to learn we continue to be encouraged by the results that we see.
We are currently drilling our first horizontal well and maybe ranch where we hold over 9 000 acres.
This is an area that we expect to have similar potential to South Curtis Ranch which is of similar size.
Were also drilling two horizontal Sprayberry wells in South Curtis Ranch and expect to bring them up to production by the end of the second quarter.
Shifting to the Wolfcamp and the Delaware Basin in Texas we brought our first five wells on to production during the quarter and the results have been very strong.
Two of the wells were completed in Wolfcamp B one at Wolfcamp A and two in the Wolfcamp C.
The initial production rate for the Wolfcamp A and B wells averaged 1 150 boe per day.
And these wells are located on our Barilla (ph) Draw area in Reeves County.
Given the size of this development opportunity were investing early in infrastructure our exploitation team in Permian resources business unit have worked together to design and construct Barilla Draw water distribution project which will provide an economic alternative to trucking water to support drilling and completion operations in Barilla Draw and the surrounding Oxy operated leases as we move into full scale development mode.
The project plan includes over 50 miles of pipeline and 25 water ponds networked together to allow Oxy to aggregate and transfer the water required to execute all operations including Zipper fracs by expediting water deliver to all of our locations.
But the ability to incorporate a more efficient completion strategy we can reduce time to market decrease cost and accelerate to move the pad drilling operations.
This project is expected to result in the 4% capital cost savings per well through reduction of water handling cost of more than 75%.
And it will become the standard water handling template for future horizontal well developments.
In the Delaware Basin drilling and completion costs are averaging close to $8.5 million per well due to the greater depth pressure and holding stability associated with drilling the Wolfcamp C.
Recently managed pressure drilling was successfully utilized to mitigate the whole problem.
This technique will be evaluated for broader deployment in the other areas.
We appreciate the efforts of our Permian resources business unit and the exploitation team as they have successfully ramped up our activity while continuing to efficiently manage operations and cost.
In addition they have identified several key ways to improve the performance of our wells in all areas beginning with a switch from gel frac to slick water fracs which as I mentioned has already begun in South Curtis Ranch.
We are transitioning to slick water fracs in other areas as well.
In addition we recognize that the appropriate cluster spacing is dependent on the reservoir characteristics for each area and were evaluating and then optimizing in all areas.
Just as we have done in South Curtis Ranch were also continuing to evaluate the lateral links of our wells in other areas and expect to find opportunities to continue to increase links in multiple areas.
We expect these initiatives to have a positive impact on the performance of our future wells across Permian.
Our most mature horizontal program is in South East New Mexico where we began horizontal drilling at the end of 2012.
We put seven new wells on production in the quarter and now have a total of 26 horizontal wells on production in this area.
Of those 17 are in Bone Spring intervals and the other nine are Brushy Canyon wells.
The first and second Bone Spring wells averaged an initial production rate of 700 boe per day three of the Brushy Canyon wells were put on EST with average initial production rates of 1 100 boe per day and four other  others averaged 300 boe per day.
Average drill time for the horizontal wells was 30 days per well and total cost for drilling and completion averaged $5.6 million.
Looking forward we expect to average 26 rigs during the second quarter and well peak at 27 rigs in the third quarter of which 18 will be horizontal.
For the full year we remain on track to spend $1.6 billion and drilled approximately 340 wells.
We continue to expect Permian resources to grow a total production for the year about 13% to 16%.
As you can tell there are a lot of exciting things happening in the Permian resources business and the teams are working incredibly hard to increase our knowledge to move faster at the learning curve.
I will now turn the call back to Chris Stavros.
Thank you Vicki.
Emily were now ready to pull for questions.
Thank you.
We will now begin the question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions).
And our first question is from Doug Leggate of Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Please go ahead.
Thanks good morning everybody.
Steve I wonder if I could take a couple please.
First of all thanks for all the disclosure on the share buyback plan.
But there was obviously fairly large omission from the discussion which is MENA on the differential proceeds from MENA.
So Im wondering if you could give us an update as to where that process stands and how that may impact the buyback plan also? And then I have a follow-up on the Permian please.
Yes I think we continue to make progress in it from both parties that are or both groups or parties if you want to think of it that way that are involved and rather than speculate on the amount we will just say that would increase perhaps materially the share buyback program.
But I think its not helpful at this point with the parties to speculate on what the amount might be.
I understand.
Could you maybe help us a little bit with the time line because obviously one of the things that we have talked about backwards and forwards is whether or not you would be prepared to sort of pre-fund the debt for California and buy back shares or are you going to wait until that process is complete? So when you consider Plains as well is this kind of an 18-month kind of time line that you are talking about for the buyback or would you be inclined to accelerate it? Well just see how the stock responds.
If we see an opportunity we could accelerate it.
If not we will wait.
But you should expect continued reduction in the share count through the rest of this year and into next year.
Okay.
My follow-up is really kind of related I guess because youve given us an idea what the free cash flow could look like for the residual company.
And obviously it would seem that even with this step-up in spending in the Permian youre still going to have substantial free cash available especially from this business.
So I guess what Im kind of thinking are what are your plans on a go forward basis? The Permian is going to grow but would you expect the growth per share would be the kind of metric and the buybacks to become a more ratable piece or are the acquisitions in the Permian something that is still appealing to you over time? And I will leave it there.
Thanks.
Yes.
On the acquisitions right now it is really not accretive.
Generally speaking the public markets are way ahead of the cash markets.
The public markets could be right and the cash markets could be wrong.
But right now I dont find acquisitions to be particularly interesting and were not doing anything that is dilutive.
So I think as far as acquisitions I think thats unlikely.
As we look forward in our cash flow we expect our earnings per share fees starting with the current levels to continue to grow.
We hope it will grow this year and we expect it to grow going forward.
We expect our cash flow per share if you want to use that metric to continue to grow and we expect the dividends to grow.
Share repurchase I think for the next several years I doubt if the company will need to do a large scale any kind of major acquisitions.
I mean there are always little pieces to be picked up.
But I think the company will continue to use the cash flow to grow dividends where its predictable cash flow growth and to repurchase shares where it is less predictable.
Some modest debt reduction to go with the smaller scale of business.
But thats  I think what people should expect they should expect better earnings better returns on invested capital they should expect some continued reduction in the share count at a modest more modest rate after this process is done and growing dividends.
I appreciate that.
Thanks Steve.
Our next question is from Paul Sankey of Wolfe Research.
Please go ahead.
Good morning everyone.
Thanks for making the effort to get on the call all of you.
Steve could you just talk a little bit more about the decision to pull the Bakken sale the process around that and what your plans are for that business going forward? Thanks.
Yes were not doing wealth destructive divestitures.
So if we got a price that was sort of comparable the way we trade I think thats one thing.
But the cash market is just simply not that strong right now.
And so our plan it makes around 20 000 a day of production.
We restarted our development program.
And so I think it will grow modestly over the next year or two.
We dont have  and well just see what the markets give us going forward.
Im sort of  we could either grow it or we could divest but right now the cash just doesnt get the kind of proceeds that we think are intrinsic in the business.
Could you remind us why you wanted to sell it? The scale.
It is 20 000 a day the scale was below what weve been wanting.
We probably need about a 40 000 or 50 000 a day business.
The business has actually done better on an operational perspective over the last year than it had done historically.
And so I think its sub optimal scale.
Perhaps at some point in the future there might be an opportunity to merge it in with somebody else.
But right now I think well just keep it there.
Its not doing any  it may be doing some modest good and not doing any harm right now.
I guess the obvious follow-up is that if youre not seeing the right prices to sell stuff wouldnt you want to buy stuff there to get up your scale? If there was stuff at the same price.
The market is not  its not a robust market.
And so the companies trade for much more than relative basis than people offered us for the asset.
So what they were trying to do is do accretive acquisitions for their company Im sure but with multiple differences  difference.
Yes.
And then just to finish up on that and that will be it for me on slide 11 just to finish up on that particular paragraph could you talk a little bit more about the P-Ons as well because its this does explore strategic alternatives.
I wonder what is worth and Ill leave it there? Thank you.
Yes on the P-Ons were in discussions with a private party to create a joint venture.
They have a fair amount of interest in the P-Ons we have a fair amount of the current plan as to put them together run them as a private business for a while and then at some point in the future they would have enough scale to go public.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Leo Mariani of RBC.
Please go ahead.
I just wanted to follow-up a little bit on some of these asset sales.
I appreciate some of the color here but could you give us a little bit more color potentially on timing of sort of the rest of the Plains GP when you think that might exit the portfolio? A and then I guess I think there were maybe some other small U.S.
non-core assets wasnt sure if you guys were still selling some other little things here that might be off the table as well? There is always small things for sale but nothing thats moved the needle a lot.
The Plains thing I think it expires at the end of the year toward the end of the year and we will be looking to see what we can do early next year.
Okay.
And I guess just in terms of the Permian you guys are creeping up the horizontal rig count 17 now it is like going to 18 I think you said another quarter or two.
And can you just give us maybe a better sense of where maybe that could get to you over the next couple of years? Do you have kind of a multi-year kind of rig ramp planned on the horizontal side in the Permian any color on that would be appreciated? Vicki would be glad to talk about that.
We expect to double our rig count from this year and two years to double so going from the 23 peak that we will have this year to possibly 46 in 2016.
For horizontal rigs this year as you know as you just said in Q3 we will be going to 18 horizontal rigs and expect to end the year this year with about 21 horizontal rigs.
Well increase that from the end of the year 21 going up toward 2016.
We dont have an exact number as to what the horizontal rig count will be of that total but we expect it to be about double.
Okay thats helpful.
And I guess you guys specifically kind of highlighted this Barilla Draw acreage here in your slide.
I just want to get a sense of kind of how much acreage that is in total and maybe you could just talk a little bit more about sort of the areas of the Midland that you think are kind of the most prospective in terms of the total acreage size there? In the Texas Delaware I can talk about basically what we expect our well potential to be.
Its going to be in that area we expect to drill over 1 000 Wolfcamp wells depending on the productivity of some of the benches that we have yet to test.
So this is the over 1 000 is based on the benches that we feel pretty comfortable with today.
That would be in that Barilla Draw area plus the surrounding acreage.
So that would be for all of Texas Delaware.
All right.
And I guess just also similar question on the Midland you highlighted a number of kind of small kind of acreage parcels here sort of in largely Martland and Midland and some in hector.
Just want to get a sense that there is kind of an acreage number that you guys could kind of throw out there in the Midland in terms of what you think is kind of the high graded stuff thats most prospective for horizontal drilling? In the Midland Basin we expect that the acreage that we have listed there for the three areas that we show we expect our prospective acreage to be about that for the Midland Basin from what we know today from the appraisal work that we are currently doing.
Okay.
Thanks thats helpful.
Our next question is from Roger Read of Wells Fargo.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
Good morning.
A lot of this stuff has been hit.
If we could talk a little bit about the share repurchase pace again youve mentioned several times where there is flexibility in terms of the pace of share repo.
Maybe give us an idea assuming California goes out on the schedule you expect the way you think about it is it stock price driven.
Is it cash flow on hand? Is it combination of the two and getting back to the earlier question about would you be willing to put the balance sheet to work here? Its stock price driven.
Just that simple? That simple.
Okay.
Well thats helpful.
And then in the Permian obviously I understand everything going on in the spending front here could you talk a little bit about the infrastructure you need.
Weve heard from various sources that some of the challenges are more in the gathering systems than in the trunk line systems.
Kind of how youre addressing that issue? Maybe well let Willie to talk about  were a large gatherer in the basin.
Maybe we could talk a little bit about our gathering system in the Permian.
Sure.
We really havent had too much problems in getting the gathering done.
The big challenge as youve seen is really the trunk lines which we think is going to resolve itself here with the startup of our BridgeTex pipeline later this quarter early third quarter.
So from the infrastructure piece on gathering.
Okay well I guess one of the questions along that along is if you are having issues with crude versus condensate versus gas handling and then maybe what your spending will do on that front and are we going up in concert with the rig count or something more or less? Yes we may be looking at some more gas processing facilities but on the natural gas side we feel its adequate.
Weve got a big gathering system so we will probably have more flexibility maybe than somebody who doesnt have their own gathering system.
Willie how many miles of gathering system do you have roughly? Weve got close to 3 000 miles of pipe for the Permian.
Permian.
So were a big gatherer not just of our own but other peoples crude and we may have more flexibility than maybe some of the smaller producers.
Okay.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Sven Del Pozzo of IHS.
Please go ahead.
Yes hello.
Wanted to  whats your take on macro forecast for California gas because were  and I know you guys have those fields you bought from Benaco Rosetta.
So you must be one of the biggest potentially have the biggest fields for gas.
And also those older discoveries you had I dont know 6 7 years ago that were gas and condensate that Im not sure if you got around to developing them because gas prices were not strong enough.
So what is your take on the local gas market in California and how you might use your gas assets to take advantage of that? Right now we have a lot of gas potential in the state.
We could increase our gas production substantially.
Right now the oil drilling has got significantly better margins and significantly better returns.
If that changes gas prices go up some more some of our stuff Im sure is economic in the 4.00 4.50 area but just not as economic as $100 oil.
And so I think right now well keep our gas drilling modest in California but clearly when a California company is separate they could take a different view of this and maybe have somewhat different return standards than we do.
All right.
So then the gas production drop we saw in California sequentially from the fourth quarter to the first quarter is that  what kind of a decline is that? Could you consider that a base decline or you said it is going to flatten out now in the second quarter.
So Im just trying to get a feel of how those  what the legacy decline rate of those gas assets might be if you stop drilling? Yes.
Were pretty much stopped.
So Vicki can answer the rest of it.
Some of the decline of our gas assets was in excess of 25% and thats why we made the switch to move to more towards some of our conventional EOR projects and water floods.
Weve had some gas declines that were actually greater than 30% as well.
So were trying to lower that decline and weve now been able to lower the decline of Elk Hills over the past few years by switching more towards our heavier liquids drilling and development.
Well thank you.
And then one last question.
When you mentioned the Permian unit if Im correct and repeating what you said I think you said you spend about 1.6 billion to drill and complete about 340 wells.
Was that a gross number thats in 2014 was that a gross number and if so could we get a net number? Currently the number of wells is a gross number and the capital is a net number.
We dont quite have here in front of us the net number on the wells.
And the gross number doesnt include the third party wells? Right.
Gross operated? Yes those are gross operated and the capital is sort of a mix.
And but it doesnt include the non-operated wells because we dont know what that will be.
Okay.
All right all right.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Ed Westlake of Credit Suisse.
Please go ahead.
Hi yes good morning.
Yes I just wanted to get a little bit more color on how you see the Permian developing.
Youve given us some extra disclosure on the Midlands.
You got 40 000 acres there plus you say you could double or 80 000.
Youve given us a 1 000 locations as the number for Barilla (ph) Draw.
And then you got this large sort of acreage position in New Mexico.
I guess the concern people have is that as you accelerate the rig counts you guys dont have as much inventory as some of the say pure plays in the region.
So Im just trying to get a sense of where apart from what youve disclosed today we should be thinking would be the growth area in your existing organic portfolio? Vicki can answer that I think better than I can but weve disclosed how many acres we have thats prospective and we just highlighted the areas in this call that are going to affect the production over the next 2 or 3 quarters.
It wasnt intended as what might be there for the next 20 years.
But I think Vicki can probably answer better than I can.
Yes we have close to 2 million in prospective acres in our Permian resources business unit and currently weve identified over 4 400 well locations to drill.
So were not short on inventory yet because were still in the process of evaluating some of the other benches too.
So we expect the well location number to go up with time.
And I guess that just to be clear again that 4 400 or 4 500 thats the net locations operated or whats the definition of that? So we can compare that apples with apples.
Thats the gross operated well locations.
Okay.
So that would compare with the 340 sort of give about 13 year inventory.
Yes thats correct.
Right.
And so I guess Im trying to think about whats the upside to that in terms of what percentage of the acreage you have drilled out as you think about that sort of 4 500 acres? I think the important thing to remember for us is that with wells horizontal wells weve drilled to date weve really only drilled about 1% of our potential.
So if you look at these kind of plays normally that well count goes up significantly over time as you get to the other benches to appraise those.
So I think our estimate right now is conservative based on what we have available to evaluate and expect that number to continue go up as we learn more.
Okay great.
And then specific question on Barilla Draw.
I mean youve got 88% liquids just a sense of how much of that NGLs and how much of that is condensate.
IPs are looking good but just trying to get a sense of the liquid mix? Thank you.
72% of that is oil.
And do you know the API of the oil is it? I think its in the 30% to 35% range.
Okay good.
Thank you very much.
Our next question is from Pavel Molchanov of Raymond James.
Please go ahead.
Thanks for taking the question.
Steve we saw in the last several months City of Carson LA County a few other jurisdictions in California have been putting up proposals anti-fracking some cases anti-drilling? No LA County.
So its a City of Los Angeles.
Okay City of Los Angeles.
So your talks on the trends if there were trends? Well I think its a fair way to describe that its basically supposedly regulated by the State of California thats where the laws were setup in California not regulated by every town.
To the extent that towns dont want us there we wont be there.
Weve got lots of acreage in California there is lots of counties and towns that would like us there want the jobs.
Some of these places that dont want us have very high unemployment rates.
And if they dont want us there its just fine.
So far these areas are not significant portions of our total position in California.
Theyre some relatively small positions theyre being stirred up by people who dont like oil and gas.
And so I think one of the California company is up and running one of their major tasks will be to  and major focus would be on dealing with political issues in California.
But noise is sort of what California produces the political guy wants to talk about fracking or something thats certainly no one you think about it.
And just for the completeness I think the Beverley Hills City Council voted of our fracking within the borders of the City of Beverley Hills.
Now initially I thought I misunderstood what they were saying and then they were kind of outlaw their most important export product.
But actually I dont  there are wells that have been proposed to be fracking in the wells or they were I think there is one field there thats been there for about 50 years.
These are  theyre just politicians trying to make some good statement maybe to people in Beverly Hills that parked their Rolls Royces and drive bicycle going forward.
Good.
And just one more quick one in California.
When you referred to the $5 billion? You can see why Im not going to be part of the California Company.
I understood.
When you referred to the $5 million of funded debt in the income is that effectively going to be structured as a dividend $5 billion dividend to the parent? Yes.
Okay appreciate it.
Thank you.
Our next question is from John Harlan of Societe Generale.
Please go ahead.
Yes thanks.
Some quick ones how much in the Permian how much incremental costs are the ASPs for you? Obviously Im not going to answer that one so Vicki is going to answer it.
Im going to just be honest Ill have to take a guess on this.
I havent looked specifically at that number recently.
But I believed it would be about $35 000 to $40 000 incremental over the gas lift it could be a little bit more than that.
Okay.
Steve when you were in New York you said that you thought you were top cortile in terms of your drilling and completion work in the unconventional Permian is that improving at all with subsequent wells drilled? Yes I think so.
But I think well stay with the top cortile for now.
Weve got more to do.
I think that things are getting better our overall costs we didnt say it actually overall cost of the company are 9% better than the comparable wells drilled from last year and so far this year.
So I think were getting better.
But weve still got more to do more cost to be saved better completion techniques I think Vicki has been pretty forth right about what she wants to accomplish in that.
So I think there is more to do just good it will never improve continuous improvement that will never end.
Great.
Last one from me is the dividend for Oxy remain curve are you going to hold it flat or go down a little bit for the spin curve? No itll go up itll go up.
Okay.
The dividends the way this thing is set up there is a dividend from the post California company company will be able to increase its dividends at a reasonable pace going forward.
And the goal is not to have it reduce its dividend or hold it flat like some others have done people should expect the same kind of increases the percentages maybe different but the same kind of increases that theyve enjoyed in the past.
Okay.
Last one from me is on Fibro are you going to monetize that or whats the story? Yes they are out we would like to buy it.
I think its available.
So their outlook talking to investors who want to do the credit support for Fibro.
But in any case their book is declining over the next couple of quarters.
Okay thank you.
Thanks.
That concludes our question-and-answer session.
Id like to turn the conference back over to Chris Stavros for any closing remarks.
Thanks for joining us on the call today.
And please give us a call in New York if you have any further questions.
Thanks.
Thanks.
The conference is now concluded.
Thank you for attending todays presentation.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
And welcome to the Occidental Petroleum Corporation Second Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
All participants will be in a listen-only mode.
(Operator Instructions).
After todays presentation there will be an opportunity to ask questions.
Please note this event is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Chris Degner.
Mr.
Degner please go ahead.
Thank you Ed and good morning everyone.
And thanks for participating in Occidental Petroleums second quarter 2014 conference call.
On the call with us this morning are Steve Chazen Oxys President and Chief Executive Officer; Chris Stavros Chief Financial Officer; Vicki Hollub President Oil and Gas in the Americas; Willie Chiang Oxys Executive Vice President of Operations and Sandy Lowe President of our International Oil and Gas Operations.
In just a moment I will turn the call over to our CFO Chris Stavros who will review our financial and operating results for the second quarter and also provide some guidance for the current quarter.
Our CEO Steve Chazen will then provide an update on the progress of our strategic initiatives and also some comments on the composition of the remaining Oxy after the separation of our California business.
Vicki Hollub will then provide an update of our activities in the Permian Basin.
And Willie Chiang will conclude the call with an update on Oxys Midstream business.
As a reminder todays conference call contains certain projections and other forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Federal Securities Laws.
These statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ from those expressed or implied in these statements and our filings.
Additional information on factors that could cause results to differ is available on the companys most recent Form 10-K.
Our second quarter 2014 earnings press release the Investor Relations supplemental schedules and the conference call presentation slides can be downloaded off of our website at www.oxy.com.
Ill now turn the call over to Chris Stavros.
Chris please go ahead.
Thanks Chris and good morning everyone.
Beginning with this quarter the disclosure and discussion related to our oil and gas segment results will be both on a before and after tax basis.
With the oil and gas results also segregated between our domestic and international producing operations and exploration program.
Oxy generated core income of $1.4 billion resulting in the alluded earnings per share of $1.79 for the second quarter of 2014 an improvement of both the year ago quarter and the first quarter of 2014.
For the fourth consecutive quarter we continued our strong domestic oil production growth with increases coming from both our Permian and California assets.
Domestic oil production for the second quarter of 2014 was 278 000 barrels per day a new quarterly record for Oxy.
Excluding the effect of the Hugoton asset sale domestic oil production increased 21 000 barrels per day from the year ago quarter with our Permian resources business growing its oil production by 21%.
On a sequential quarter-over-quarter basis the growth was 8 000 barrels per day or about 3%.
Oil and gas core after tax earnings for the second quarter 2014 were $1.2 billion essentially flat with both the first quarter of this and the second quarter of last year.
In the second quarter of 2014 after tax core income for domestic business was $679 million.
On a sequential quarter-over-quarter basis results at our domestic operations were roughly unchanged as improvement from higher oil volumes and realized prices were offset by lower prices for natural gas and NGLs and higher operating expenses mainly its a result of increased down-hole maintenance and surface operation costs.
International after tax core income was $576 million for the second quarter of 2014 and results improved about 4% sequentially due to a lifting in Libya which had none in the first quarter and also increased sales volumes in both Oman and Yemen.
On a year-over-year basis domestic operations improved by $44 million after tax and international operations declined by $65 million as our Latin American result were meaningfully impacted by insurgent activity in Colombia.
For the six months year-over-year comparison domestic operations after tax income was $1.4 billion an increase of almost 13%.
In the same six-month period international operations core income was $1.1 billion a decline of 4%.
For the second quarter of this year total company production volumes excluding the Hugoton production averaged 736 000 BOE per day an increase of 9 000 BOE in daily production from the first quarter and down 17 000 BOE from the quarter a year ago.
Excluding Hugoton domestic daily production improved 8 000 BOEs from the first quarter this year with half of the increase coming from the Permian and the remainder from the Williston Basin in California.
On a commodity specific basis our domestic oil production grew by 8 000 barrels per day with 3 000 barrels per day each coming from the Permian and mid-Continent and the remainder from California.
Domestic NGL and natural gas production volumes were virtually flat for the quarter.
International production increased by 1 000 BOE per day on a sequential quarter-over-quarter basis.
MENA production grew 11 000 BOE per day sequentially primarily due to the scheduled first quarter plant turnaround at Dolphin higher production in Oman due to new wells coming online in the Northern blocks and in Iraq which reflected increased cost recovery barrels.
These increases were offset by 10 000 barrels per day of lower production Colombia did to pipeline disruptions from insurgent activity.
Our second quarter 2014 worldwide realized oil prices of $100.38 per barrels improved slightly compared to the first quarter realizations of $99 a barrel.
Our domestic oil price realizations were about 2% higher on a sequential basis despite continued widening differentials the Permian Basin.
Realized prices for domestic for NGL and natural gas production fell at 6% and 7% sequentially reflecting declines in benchmark prices.
Price changes at current global prices affect our quarterly earnings before income taxes by $37 million for a $1 per barrel change in oil prices and $7 million for $1 per barrel change in NGL prices a swing of $0.50 per million BTUs in domestic natural gas prices thats quarterly pre-tax earnings by $25 million.
These prices change sensitivities include the impact of production sharing contract volume changes on our income.
Our oil and gas cash operating costs were $14.68 per barrel in the second quarter of 2014 compared to $14.33 per barrel in the first quarter.
Domestic operating expenses were higher in the second quarter this year compared to the first quarter of this year due to higher downhaul maintenance and surface operation costs primarily in the Permian Basin.
MENA production costs increased in the second quarter due to higher costs related to the Libya lifting partially offset by lower surface operations and maintenance costs.
Taxes other than on income which are directly related to product prices were $2.83 per barrel for the second quarter of 2014 and $2.88 for the first six months of this year.
And our second quarter exploration expense was $54 million.
In Chemicals our second quarter 2014 pre-tax earnings of $133 million were slightly lower than the first quarter results of $136 million and $144 million in the year ago quarter.
The seasonal up-tick in demand in construction and agriculture markets in the second quarter were more than offset by routine planned plant outages and unplanned customer outages.
We expect our third quarter pre-tax earnings to be about $150 million reflecting anticipated increases in sales and production volumes.
In Midstream pre-tax segment earnings were $219 million for the second quarter of this year compared to $170 million in the first quarter of this year and $48 million in the second quarter of last year.
The 2014 sequential quarterly improvement in earnings resulted mainly from higher marketing and trading performance driven by commodity price movements during the period and higher income from the Dolphin pipeline which was negatively impacted by plant turnarounds in the first quarter of this year.
For the six months of 2014 we generated $5.7 billion of cash flow from operations before changes in working capital.
Working capital changes decreased our cash flow from operations by $100 million to $5.6 billion.
During the first six months of 2014 cash flow from operations declined approximately $650 million compared to the same period a year ago.
The first half of 2014 included a tax payment related to the gain on the sale of the PAGP units in the first six months of 2013 included a collection of a tax receivable.
On a normalized basis cash flow from operations during both periods would have been similar at roughly $5.8 billion.
Capital expenditures for the first six months of 2014 were $4.7 billion net of partner contributions.
In the second quarter we received proceeds of $1.3 billion from the sale of our Hugoton assets thats been about $240 million towards domestic Bolton acquisitions.
After paying dividends of $1.1 billion buying back $1.6 billion of our company stock and other net flows our cash balance was $2.4 billion at June 30.
Our debt to capitalization ratio was 13% at the end of the quarter.
Our 2014 annualized return on equity was 13% and return on capital employed was around 11%.
The worldwide effective tax rate on core income was 40% for the second quarter of 2014 and we expect to combine worldwide tax rate in the third quarter to remain about the same.
Lastly Ill outline some guidance for the third quarter.
In the domestic business on April 30 we closed on the sale of our Hugoton assets.
The Hugoton operations produced 18 000 BOE per day in the first quarter and 6 000 BOE per day in the second quarter.
For the third quarter excluding Hugoton we expect our domestic oil production to grow 6 000 and 8 000 barrels per day sequentially roughly 10% on an annualized basis.
We would expect this domestic oil production growth rate to accelerate over time.
Domestic NGL productions should see a modest increase although this should be somewhat offset or equally offset by lower natural gas production volumes.
We expect our total domestic production to grow between 5 000 to 7 000 BOE per day.
For the international business the current prices and assuming normalized operations in Colombia we expect total international production in sales volumes to increase by about 10 000 BOE per day from the second quarter levels.
Excluding the Hugoton total company-wide production in the third quarter is expected to increase by 15 000 to 17 000 BOE per day sequentially for an annualized rate of about 8%.
We expect third quarter 2014 exploration expense to be about $100 million pre-tax.
Ill now turn the call over to Steve Chazen who will provide an update on some of our strategic initiatives.
Thank you Chris.
We recently announced new executive management teams and responsibilities for both the California Resources Corporation or CRC and Occidental Petroleum.
Todd Stevens the President and CEO of CRC and Bill Albright Executive Chairman bring proven leadership abilities and both have played an important part in building and managing our California operations.
Mark Smith the former CFO of Ultra Petroleum was hired as Chief Financial Officer at CRC and brings an extensive background in corporate finance and deep understanding of operations had an independent oil and gas producer.
With these appointments most of the key roles in the organization have been filled.
And were confident that their ability to succeed as a standalone public company.
In addition to the developments regarding personnel we continue to make progress in the plant spin-off of the California Company.
During the second quarter we filed the initial Form 10 registration statement and have already responded to the comments received in the SEC.
CRC has initiated steps to secure its debt financing which we expect to be completed in the third quarter.
We anticipate $6 billion of proceeds from total funded debt.
The cash proceeds from CRCs debt financing will transfer to Occidental its a tax free dividend and shortly prior to completion of the spin-off which we expected to occur in the fourth quarter.
On the spin-off of CRC Occidental will retain ownership of approximately 19.9% of CRC for a period lasting up to 18 months.
During that period we intend to conduct an offer to exchange the CRC shares we retained for Occidental shares.
The California business continues to perform well and its executing on its oil and gas production growth strategy.
The second quarter of 2014 oil production grew 10% compared to the second quarter of last year and the business generated approximately $1.2 billion of cash flow from operations during the first six months of 2014.
We expect the CRC management team to present a more detailed view of the business and its growth strategy to investors as it commences its road show in the fourth quarter.
At Occidental Petroleum each of the seven members the new executive team have made significant contributions to the company.
Their individual strengths and combined leadership will shape the future of Oxy as we embark on a new chapter in the companys history.
Following the execution of CRC spin-off Oxys philosophy of disciplined capital allocation and living within its cash flow continue.
Oxys core businesses and we focused on delivering moderate volume growth generating higher earnings and cash flow per share and leading to improved financial returns.
And for completion of the strategic initiatives we laid out last fall our area focus will consist of a significant and leading position in the Permian Basin.
Our Permian resources unit will represent the key area of oil growth within our domestic business with annual production growth expected to easily exceed 20% per year over the next several years as we accelerate our horizontal drilling program.
We also expect margins in the Permian to improve as we focus on additional drilling efficiencies losing our well cost and further enhancing our oil price realizations.
Vicki Hollub will provide a further update on the Permian resources business shortly.
Our Permian Basin operation with Barilla Draw with other domestic oil and gas operations in South Texas are 24.5% interest in Dolphin project and a smaller and improved business in the rest of Middle East North America our operations in Colombia as well as our Midstream operations in the Chemical business.
Each of these businesses identified opportunities to drive earnings and cash flow growth also supported our ability to grow our dividends for our shareholders.
Operations with our profitable growth will see minimal capital spending or will be disposed of.
After several years of significant capital investment two significant projects are nearing their completion.
As Willie Chiang will describe more details shortly we expect to BridgeTexs pipeline to start-up later this quarter provide with an advantaged access to the Gulf Coast for our Permian crude oil production.
We also expect start-up of the Al Hosn Gas Project in the fourth quarter.
Assuming similar product prices these two key projects combined with growing oil volumes in the Permian resources development program should provide us with a meaningful earnings and cash flow per share growth in the 2015.
Finally as a part of our strategic initiatives well continue to focus on raising cash from our lower growth and lower margin assets.
In the Middle East we continue to make progress and negotiations with our partners we will reduce our exposure to the region.
Our goal here is to improve the businesses ability to grow profitably.
Over time we expect to achieve a similar balance in our asset mix with at least 60% of our oil and gas production coming from the United States.
Were continuing to explore strategic alternatives for assets and the Piceance in Williston Basin.
We expect to monetize our remaining interest in general partner Plains all American which is valued at approximately $4.5 billion as well as possibly some other mid-stream assets when market conditions warrant.
Since the end of the third quarter of 2013 we have repurchased more than 26 million shares of the company stock of roughly $2.5 billion and approximately 20.5 million shares remain available under the current share repurchase authorization.
We expect that well be able to further reduce our share count by roughly 60 million shares for the cash dividend from the CRC separation and about 25 million shares to monetization of our remaining interest in the Plains pipeline.
Coupled with 20.5 million shares in our current repurchase program we should be able to reduce our total share count by more than 100 million shares or about 13% of the current outstanding shares.
Most of this share repurchase-ability will occur after the spin-off of CRC.
These amounts do not include the ability to repurchase additional shares through proceeds were seeing from the sale a portion of our interest in the Middle East share reductions in exchange of our remaining interest in CRC or the monetization of other assets.
We expect Oxys remaining businesses deliver moderate volume growth result the expanded Permian resource development program and shift towards horizontal drilling to start-up the Al-Hosn gas project and our participation of several other attractive international growth projects.
These identified an intermediate growth opportunities and projects capable of more than replacing the production from the spin-off of CRC by the end of 2015.
And Oxy shareholders will still retain the value created from the spin-off as owners of CRC shares.
We expect to generate higher financial returns going forward as a result of our investment strategic initiatives.
Our improved capital efficiency and operating cost structure start-up of operations for BridgeTexs the Al-Hosn gas projects along the separation of our California business provide a natural up-lift to our return on capital employed.
Return on capital employed was 12.2% in 2013 we expect it to rise to around 15% as we exit 2015.
Now Ill turn the call over to Vicki Hollub for an update on our activities in Permian Resources.
Thank you Steve.
This morning Id like to continue the discussion of our Permian Resources business.
In the second quarter Permian Resources produced an average of 72 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day which is an increase of over 7% from last year this is 28% on an annualized basis.
We produced 40 000 barrels of oil per day for the second quarter this is a 21% increase from a year ago and an 8% increase from last quarter.
During the second quarter our capital expenditures were $490 million we averaged 24 operated rigs of which 17 were horizontal.
We drilled 87 wells including 42 horizontals.
Year-to-date we have drilled a total 67 horizontal wells of which 43 have been completed and put on production.
38 wells are currently waiting on completion or a hook-up.
In the third quarter we planned to drill 54 horizontal wells and place an additional 54 wells on production.
Ill first discuss how our Permian Resources teams are well positioned to deliver long-term growth and then Ill review the quarterly operations in more detail.
Weve been operating in the Permian Basin for more than 30 years and have considerable knowledge of the depositional history of geology.
With that base knowledge we have been and are continuing to make significant investments to assess the rock and fluid properties in our own conventional reservoirs across our acreage.
This is helping us to develop a better understanding of the key geologic parameters that drive productivity such as porosity saturation brittleness total organic content mineral and geochemical composition rock and fluid compatibility fracture distribution and stress regimes.
Our Permian resources and exploitation teams are applying this appraisal work to construct calibrated Petro-physical models to characterize perspective benches and target landing zones within each bench.
As a result of our work today we have now identified over 7 000 drilling locations across our 2 million net perspective acres.
This is an increase more than 2 500 since the beginning of this year.
We expect to continue to grow the number of locations through our successful exploitation efforts.
Were also conducting an extensive appraisal of high-potential benches to optimize our well designs and development plans.
This appraisal work includes collection and analysis of hole cores cuttings advanced log sweeps micro-size mixed surveys and 3D-siesmic surveys.
Were leveraging our learnings from our participation in more than 450 outside operated wells along with data from some of the existing 4 400 outside operated wells in which we have a working interest.
Based on our findings were testing various still development and well design alternatives including optimization of well spacing lateral length and cluster spacing.
Additionally we have also increased profit concentrations and are evaluating various frac fluids.
Our results are exceeding expectations indicating that we are quickly moving toward optimal design for the Wolfcamp A and B benches in the Midland Basin and the Delaware Basin.
For example at South Curtis Ranch in the Midland Basin we completed and put on production six wells which had average initial rates of 850 BOE per day versus prior initial rates of 750.
Our recent South Curtis Ranch 2818 well achieved a peak rate of approximately 1 100 BOE per day on gas lift.
At Barilla Draw in the Delaware Basin our recent Eagle State 28-5 well achieved peak production of 1 620 BOE per day and a 30-day average production of 1 120 BOE per day significantly higher than our average 30-day production of 830 of prior wells in the Wolfcamp A and B benches.
With respect to supply services and logistics we have secured key resources to efficiently accelerate full field development and product growth.
We have ordered long lead-time equipment and figured favorable material and service contracts by leveraging our position across our Permian resources and EOR businesses.
These contracts ensure the availability of productive resources at competitive cost in strategic areas such as drilling rigs simulation tubing casing cementing directional drilling and artificial lift.
We have contracts or options in place to expand our fit for purpose drilling rig fleet to 54 rigs in 2016.
We have expanded our completion capacity to four 24-hour frac crews and plan to further expand the fleet as we accelerate development.
On the efficiency front we intensified our efforts to improve operational execution and compressed cycle time.
In early 2014 we implemented a batch drilling program to accelerate and improve the cycle time on our horizontal wells.
In our batch drilling program we do all the vertical section of the well with a smaller fit for purpose drilling rig.
And following the vertical section we use a higher capacity directional drilling rig with specialized services to complete the more complex curve in lateral sections of the well.
This approach has allowed Permian Resources to transition our existing lower cost vertical rigs into our horizontal development programs to improve our overall cost structure.
This method enhances the utilization of specialized services to achieve reliability and improved cost.
We have reduced drilling cost in South Curtis Ranch by 24% since the end of last year.
Now for a quick update of our water management strategy.
The Barilla Draw system has been pressured up and is operational.
Today we have completed six fracs including one zipper frac using this new system.
Were achieving a cost savings of $2.50 per barrel of water.
In the Midland Basin we are duplicating this effort by installing a water distribution system at West Merchant with delivery rates up to 90 000 barrels per day.
The system will be fully operational by September and we expect similar cost savings from this investment.
These two systems are the first phases of our comprehensive water management strategy which we will discuss in more detail in future calls.
I would now like to share a few more details of our activity in each of our geographic areas.
In the Texas Delaware specifically in the Barilla Draw and Reeves County Im pleased to report that in the second quarter we drilled 10 horizontal wells and completed 7 wells with initial production rate for the Wolfcamp A and B match the 1 150 BOE per day achieved in the first quarter.
In the area highlighted on the map where we held over 35 000 net surface acres well drill an additional 27 horizontal wells in the second half of 2014.
We continue to increase efficiency and expect our average well cost of $8.5 million to improve an additional 5% by the end of this year.
We are encouraged by our success in this appraisal program.
As a result we are transitioning into an accelerated development phase in Barilla Draw.
In the Midland Basin where we held approximately 90 000 net surface acres were continuing our appraisal and development drilling efforts.
We drilled 14 horizontal wells in the second quarter and placed 21 horizontal wells on production.
We will drill an additional 55 horizontal wells in the second half of 2014.
Our average drill time for the horizontals is 27 days per well with total drilling and completion cost averaging $7 million per well.
With the knowledge gained we are transitioning from appraisal to accelerated development in our Merchant field.
As a result of the strong performance this year were increasing our 2014 production growth expectations to be between 15% and 18% from the previous 13% to 15%.
In addition we are increasing Permian Resources capital by $200 million to $1.9 billion.
The total number of wells drilled will remain roughly the same with a greater percentage of horizontal wells.
The result in production increase from the incremental capital will primarily impact 2015.
In closing our 2014 program is designed to delineate and appraise our acreage in order to maximize both ultimate recovery and financial returns.
Were on track to exceed expectations in 2014 and we have the required resources and infrastructure in place to meet our 2016 production target of more than 120 000 BOE per day.
In addition Oxy has several exciting Midstream projects related to our Permian infrastructure and takeaway capacities that is a unique competitive advantage.
I will now turn the call over to Willie to discuss in more detail.
Thanks Vicki.
Good morning everyone.
Id like to give you a very quick overview of our Midstream and marketing segment and describe how it literally connects our oil and gas production to market.
And then spend the majority of my time to share our strategies to support Permian Basin growth that you just heard about from Vicki.
We strongly believe in having multiple perspectives in house those of a large Permian producer a significant Midstream infrastructure operator and a crude NGL and gas marketer gives us a very unique advantage that differentiates us from others.
The Midstream operations not only enables us to unlock and preserve value for our core business it also allows us to utilize our assets to move third party volumes to market.
Further we have the scale to drive key strategies in the Permian Basin.
First let me provide a quick overview of our Midstream marketing segment.
The role of the Midstream group is to maximize realized value for Oxy production by ensuring access to markets optimizing existing assets and building out key assets across the value chain.
This is increasingly important with the U.S.
moving to an abundance of resource and a significant shifting of global supply and demand.
Our Oxy owned domestic Midstream assets are shown in slide 33 these are supplemented with contracted capacity on third party assets all of which allows to market substantially all of Oxys domestic oil NGLs and gas production comprise of roughly 470 BOE per day 278 000 barrels a day of crude 72 000 barrels a day of NGL and over 700 million cubic feet a day of gas.
We also market third party crude and NGL volumes focusing on parties whose supply is located near our transportation and storage assets.
These third party volumes are significant and add an excess of 200 000 barrels a day for third party crude and NGL volumes.
This aggregation of volume both service a need for producers and end-users and allows us to better utilize and optimize our assets.
We also have gas processing plants to CO2 fields and facilities.
We process equity and third party domestic wet gas to extract NGLs and other gas byproducts including CO2 and deliver dry gas to pipelines.
We produce approximately half of our CO2 requirements.
Currently we operate 1 800 megawatts of power generation the majority of these power plants are located next to our OxyChem and oil and gas facilities in order for us to share infrastructure act as a steam host and to consume power with the remaining power sold to the power grid.
Now let me go back to our key Permian Basin assets where our Midstream operations are focused on providing access to multiple markets for our Permian production.
Our equity production is roughly 150 000 barrels a day and is expected to grow significantly.
Additionally we purchase and market over 200 000 barrels a day of third party crude production.
Turning to slide 34 Centurion is a large gathering in mainline system in the Permian that we continue to optimize and significantly expand.
Our Centurion system has roughly 2 900 miles of pipeline over 100 truck stations 6 million barrels of storage and has access to most third party transportation assets that enable us to deliver crude to all Permian refineries as well as to the origin point of key pipelines taking production out of the Permian Basin.
Were focusing on two new takeaway points Colorado City which is the origin of our BridgeTexs pipeline which were jointly developing with Magellan.
In the Midland South exit which is the origin to third party pipelines Long-Horn and Cactus.
When at full capacity BridgeTex and Cactus will add an additional 500 000 barrels a day of takeaway capacity from the Permian Basin.
These new pipelines give us access to the Houston and Corps refining centers and to our own Ingleside Terminal in Corpus Christi.
It also supplements our existing access to Cushing.
Were working on options to handle the growing light crude production in the Delaware Basin in Southeast New Mexico in order to preserve the Permian crude qualities in the Midland Basin.
Currently Oxy and Magellan are in the final phases of construction on the BridgeTex pipeline which is expected to start up later this quarter.
The 450-mile pipeline will be capable of transporting approximately 300 000 barrels a day of crude between the Permian region and Gulf Coast refinery markets Oxy has a significant committed takeaway capacity on BridgeTex as well as other third party pipelines exiting from the basin.
When all planned pipelines are in operation by mid-2015 our Midstream unit will have access to long-term cost advantage takeaway capacity.
As a major producer in the Permian Basin weve been a driving force behind the construction of new infrastructure adding transportation capacity from the basin in order to benefit Permian production and avoid production constraints.
Now I want to highlight how important adequate takeaway capacity is to market value.
On slide 35 Ive shown Midland WTI pricing compared to Cushing WTI in the U.S.
Gulf Coast LLS markers for the period of 2009 through today.
You can see how the differentials were transportation parity in a market with adequate takeaway capacity.
Now note the differentials in the widening significantly as the supply and demand balance tighten in a takeaway constrained market.
We have seen Midland LLS differentials as wide as $30 a barrel in January 2012 in January 2013 during the winter refinery maintenance periods.
This year weve seen wide differentials throughout the entire year as increases in production have further tightened the supply and demand balance.
The Midland LLS discount this year has averaged just over $10 a barrel versus just under $6 a barrel during the second half of 2013.
With the upcoming completion of BridgeTex in the start-up of Cactus pipeline in mid 2015 we expect differentials to return to levels that reflect incremental cost of transportation between the Permian and Cushing or the Gulf Coast.
As youve heard in Vickis comments Oxys production growth will be significant in West Texas and Southeast New Mexico.
With our long-term capacity on multiple pipelines we will have security of placement with takeaway capacity of roughly three times our current equity production from the Permian Basin.
Well also have access to key markets and options to protect our Permian crude premiums.
Let me give you an update on our Ingleside Energy Center in Corpus Christi.
This is the formal Naval Station that we purchased in late 2012 which is located outside of the congested ship channel near the mouth of Corpus Christi Bay.
Were developing a terminal facility that will be able to handle up to 100 000 barrels a day of propane and 200 000 to 300 000 barrels a day of condensate and crude.
The site will contain 2 million to 4 million barrels of storage and also provides flexibility to accommodate future processing facility options on-site or at a nearby OxyChem complex.
We have sanctioned both projects and expect the LPG propane terminal to be complete mid-2015 in the first phase of the crude condensate terminal to be completed in the first half of 2016.
Our Midstream business has demonstrated steady earnings growth over the last few years slide 37 shows the premium or the value add from our Permian crude logistics and our marketing business.
This is in terms of dollars per barrel on equity production adjusted.
This is versus a group of six Permian producers based on the available public information we were able to pull.
You can see weve added approximately $1.50 a barrel better than the group average.
On the same basis we expect to capture an additional $2 plus of value once the BridgeTex and Cactus pipeline startup as a result of our long-term advantaged takeaway capacity.
This reinforces the importance of key infrastructure if these new pipelines were not sanctioned the entire basin would suffer continued significant discounts to market due to the infrastructure constraints.
You can see the reasons weve moved forward on these key pipeline initiatives.
I hope this gives you a better view of our Midstream business and in particular its key role in supporting our domestic oil and gas business.
This is an exciting time for our Midstream business as we continue to build out a strong platform for future opportunities.
Thanks for your attention.
Ill turn the call back now to Chris Degner.
Thank you Willie.
Operator well now pull for questions.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions).
And our first question comes from Doug Leggate of Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Please go ahead.
Thanks good morning everyone and thanks for all the additional color in the Permian.
Steve or Vicki I dont know who wants to take this if I could have one question on the Permian and then one on the restructuring process please.
Specific to the Permian my understanding is that when we look at the publicly available information your well results have been wagging what we would expect for peers in the area.
And my understanding is that some kind of reporting issues with you guys.
I wonder if you could share something with us.
And as it relates to the wells that you have drilled prior the presentation today can you isolate where in the Permian youre drilling in terms of which horizon out of these averages that you feel youve de-risked multiple sections across your acreage.
Just a little bit more color as to what your confidence level is and the repeatability of these kinds of results across the 2 000 plus locations? And Ive got a follow-up please.
Yes Doug.
Some of our reporting issues have been associated with what point in the flow back and production process of the well that we take the test.
And some of our teams have been turning in 24-hour completion initial completion rates to the railroad commission in the State of Texas that are not  when the well is fully cleaned up and not necessarily at its peak.
With that said Im going to just be honest with you that in some areas we still are lagging behind our competitors in terms of our initial rates in production.
And thats why weve been aggressively here recently trying to try new things with respect of our frac designs to improve our performance.
In the Midland Basin South Curtis Ranch we are getting better and were testing not only frac designs in terms of fluids and profit volumes rates and things like that.
All of which are helping us to improve.
But we are  we have discovered that our cluster spacing was not optimal for the initial fracs that weve done there.
So were confident that going forward our South Curtis Ranch performance is going to improve.
Now certainly the best area that we have right now is our Wolfcamp production in the Texas Delaware.
Thats where were doing best and were actually outperforming some of our competitors in the Texas Delaware.
So were confident that there weve gotten closer to figuring out the right completion technology.
And the right not only profit concentrations sand total volumes and rates but also the design of the total job.
So in the Texas Delaware weve actually increased our profit volumes by about 20% and our fluid injection volumes by about 50%.
Weve also increased our rate there.
So we expect continuing good performance and maybe even better performance there.
And in fact its in the Texas Delaware where weve added most of the 2 500 new well locations that weve added since the beginning of the year.
So while in Texas Delaware we feel like were doing a great job.
We know we still could improve it.
We see opportunities for that.
South Curtis Ranch in the Midland Basin weve changed some things and we expect to see better results here coming pretty soon.
On de-risking Vicki of the locations on multiple benches or horizons I should say? Yes most of our about  right now about 45% of the 7 000 wells are in the Wolfcamp.
And as you know we probably as an industry know more about the Wolfcamp than any other.
About 20% of our inventory right now is in the Bone Spring in Southeast New Mexico.
Those wells as you know are also doing pretty good where were seeing in Texas Delaware were seeing payout time periods of one and half years or less.
And in Southeast New Mexico were starting to see some good performance there in the Bone Spring.
So Id say that right now 65% of our inventory is probably minimal risk in terms of economics and the ability to profitably grow it.
The others are in benches that we still have some work to do.
Thank you.
And Steve my follow-up hopefully quickly is in the Middle Eastern process you have a pretty major material contract expiring in Oman next year.
And obviously things are kind of moving on this year in terms of obvious of news flow and the disposal process.
My understanding as you may have things maybe moving a little quicker than perhaps youve been prepared to see previously.
I just wonder if you could give us an update on your company as where everyone maybe getting the three separate transactions completed over the next lets say 12 months? Yes I think one of the transactions is moving on very well.
And I think well get to resolution here in the easily foreseeable future.
There is the contract extension in Oman which will have to be part and parcel of whatever goes on there because otherwise it expires in 2015.
So I think they take a little longer but pretty confident there.
The third one is I think more challenging.
And well see what can be done there.
But there are some issues that are not related to us that I hope work their way out but I think thats probably into next year.
Ill let someone else jump.
Thanks very much.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Leo Mariani of RBC.
Please go ahead.
Hi guys you referred a little bit some other projects where you may be able to grow international production outside of Al Hosn.
Is that kind of part and parcel with your many negotiations? Could you guys just elaborate on that a little bit? I think there is two parts there.
We have some new contracts in Colombia for heavy oil which I think were pretty enthused about.
And I think those are pretty much there.
So I think those will be  theyre away from some of the areas where weve had political difficulties I want to call them that.
So I think those are I think in pretty good shape.
And then obviously were principally one of the principal objectives of the program is either large scale reductions in areas where there is no growth or smaller reductions in areas where there is growth and a partnership with the local government.
So I think some of the growth will come out of the partnership with the local government in those areas where there is potential for that.
Okay thats helpful.
And I guess just in the Permian you guys clearly have a dramatic acceleration of the rig-count over the next couple of years here.
Just trying to get a sense of how much of that maybe secured at this time by contract and what are you kind of seeing there in terms of service cost? Were definitely going to be able to get up to at least 54 rigs and by 2016.
Thats  but our current plan is to go to 45 however we can  we have the options in place to go to 54.
So thats not really at risk for us right now.
We know we can achieve it on the drilling rig side.
And the reason we have that range there weve got 47 in our plan for 2016 and the reason on the slide that the seven additional are grade.
We have the option to get them.
So we know we can.
What well be doing between now and 2016 is trying to ensure that all the rest of the support services in the Permian area available and that we can secure that to get to the 54.
We feel like weve already secured the services  support services outside the drilling rig that can support 47 its just a matter of can we get to the 54 and were working on that plan now.
Surface cost were still trying to manage that cost in the basin are going up as demand increases.
But were trying to leverage our size to minimize the increases that were seeing.
Okay.
There is also productivity gains from this too.
So I think were  weve saved  we saved about 10% from last years cost already.
Thats not driven primarily by reducing the day rate but by drilling more wells per day essentially.
So I think with the productivity gains should more than offset whatever modest inflation there is in the cost.
Okay thats helpful for sure.
And can you guys just elaborate on other assets that you might be thinking about disposing we guys made a comment that said that anything thats not profitable could be up for sale.
Any more color you have around any of those processes? I think weve said that  reiterated this morning that were still looking at options for the Piceance in the Williston Basin might be a little more activity in one of those we dont know yet.
And we also said that buried in the comments was if we can get the right arrangement perhaps some of the Midstream assets where we retain the contract so we can continue to move our crude and get the margins from the trading but perhaps dispose of the underlying asset.
And let somebody else take the tariff.
Okay.
Thanks thats helpful.
Our next question comes from Ryan Todd of Deutsche Bank.
Please go ahead.
Great thanks.
If I could ask maybe a little bit more on the Delaware Basin and I appreciate all the detail.
Can you talk a little bit about your use of long laterals I mean have you drilled two-mile laterals or are you extending the lateral lengths.
And if so how much of your acreage there in the basin do you think would be conducive to longer laterals? Currently in the Delaware Basin were drilling lateral lengths of between 3 300 and 4 200 feet.
What were doing right now is some modeling with respect to the optimum lateral lengths in the basin.
As you know the Wolfcamp productivity in the Texas Delaware is much better than in the Midland Basin.
And thus far were seeing some good productivity from the lateral lengths that were drilling.
We havent really drilled much yet over 4 200 feet to the challenges there as I said at what point have you drilled so much that you start destroying value in terms of the just the friction effects of the longer laterals.
And the other thing is that you have the challenges of the acreage positions with respect to ensuring that youve setup your opportunities to go with longer laterals.
But currently were seeing that probably its more likely to meet the longer laterals in the Midland Basin rather than in the Texas Delaware.
However with that said we are trying a lot of things.
We havent gotten to that point yet.
Were trying to minimize the variations that we have per stage of evaluation to ensure that we understand what impact each thing that we change is having on our productivity.
I mean maybe a little focus than some other people.
I think we focus on our sort of our finding cost sort of calculation rather than the IP calculation.
So from our perspective in order to lengthen the laterals may cost us more money.
You might get more IP but maybe at a cost of a higher finding cost.
Were just  its not the way we think about things.
Some small producer may be more interested in IT.
Okay thats helpful.
And have you seen  I guess still on the Delaware have you seen where are you seeing from an oil and gas mix in your Wolfcamp well there and youre seeing much variation across the extent of your acreage? Were seeing a little bit of variation but typically were seeing anywhere from 72% to 80% oil in the Texas Delaware.
And in most cases were seeing above 75%.
Were a little pickier and maybe we have better acreage to some other people who are doing a fair amount they get gassier results.
Okay.
You can see that our oil is rising and our gas isnt if you just looked at the numbers weve given you.
So were basically a little pickier than some other people who are maybe thats all I got so theyre drilling gassier wells.
Okay.
Thats helpful.
And on the pace the outlook in terms of  obviously your ramp is pretty significant over the next few years.
Is the pace of development there broadly going to be governed by your view of the entire logistical system and how much capital you can put into the Basin without destroying returns? Whats going to be the primary I guess governing factors on the potential to maybe even show upside over that three-year window? We think on the production numbers weve given we have considerable upside just with the drilling were showing.
But putting that aside its a return based business.
And weve just assumed learned lot of people make mistakes and learned from them before we expand our footprint.
But there is also other logistical issues in the basin.
And yes we want to make sure that we have takeaway capacity for the oil and more concerned frankly about takeaway capacity for gas.
Youre not going to be able to flare the gas.
And the gas production the base is likely to grow sharply in the next year or two as people drill these gassier wells.
And so you could wind up with a bad situation.
So one of our major focus is just to make sure that we have gas takeaway capacity so that we dont drill wells we have to have shut in because clearly youre not going to be able to flare.
Great.
Well thanks I appreciate the help.
Ill leave it there.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Jason Gammel of Jefferies.
Please go ahead.
Yes thanks.
Maybe Ill take another stab at this Permian drilling situation more in terms of managing the drilling inventory.
And Im just going to use some very simplistic numbers at the current rig count and the number of wells that you drilled last.
You have about 20-year inventory obviously doubling the rig-count well take that back to a 10-year inventory.
But I also assume youre probably going to be adding locations over time.
So how do you actually then balance the amount of drilling inventory that you have from an MPV basis and what Im really getting out more broadly do you see divestiture opportunities within the Permian Basin as well as potential acquisitions? Yes.
If I look at the list of mistakes Ive made over the last 20 years the mistake Ive made most is investing anything into Permian Basin.
And because there is so many horizons there are so much layer there is so much oil available to the system.
So we didnt divest that much but I regret every acre.
So I think that while Im here were not going to be divesting anything.
I do think that  I think the program that Vicki has outlined is sort of the minimum program thats what we think we could achieve over the next couple of years without wasting money.
As we get better at this and the basin matures there will be more opportunities because were sort of everywhere.
I think that  I think we could accelerate the program further.
This is what were talking about right now.
As the basin matures we find more stuff to do.
The results maybe turn out a little better.
I think well go ahead.
I am concerned about infrastructure constraints over the next two or three years.
While we have as Willie pointed out lots of oil takeaway capacity lot better positioned than most people I think.
And so I think were in pretty good shape for that.
And we do control the gathering system so we can gather our own stuff.
Im little concerned about gas and so were probably going to take steps to make the gas more certain.
I think thats probably more my deeding concern is that the crowding in the business Im not really worried about cost because I think productivity improvements are more lost at the cost.
Great thats pretty clear.
If I could just ask one more on the CRC spin-out process.
It looks to me and maybe Ive just missed something but I think that your estimate on the amount of shares that youll be able to repurchase from the transaction has went to 60 million from the range of 40 million to 50 million.
And my question is is this going to be related to the just under 20% retention of equity and the exchange over time and do you still expect to take a $5 billion dividend out? No dividend $ billion.
Okay.
And so we havent counted the shares and the exchange.
So were simply our  we got our modelers out and so they divide $6 billion by $100 mop it to 60 million shares.
We didnt pay a lot for that advice.
Very good I think I understand now.
Okay thank you.
Our next question comes from Paul Sankey of Wolfe Research.
Please go ahead.
Hi everyone and congratulations to those who have new roles.
I see I kind of didnt understand Steve that last point believe it or not the exchange of it has be completed within 18 months and any proceeds from that I guess is the word would be used for buyback  additional buyback? No its actually just so you understand the shares the 19.9% shares that we own.
Our options are sort of limited because its part of a tactual link.
So if we exchange it for Oxy shares now it was  ad in the paper it says anybody who wants to can get CRC shares and they give us back Oxy-shares for it okay.
We can do that without paying any tax.
In theory if we had that kind of debt around we could exchange it for debt but there isnt that kind of munch there around to do that.
If we do anything  the third alternative would be simply distributed the shares to the shareholders if we couldnt do that  that also would be tax free.
If we sold it for money we would have to pay tax on it.
So our preference would be to do the exchange offer.
So basically its a split off of the 19.9% in terms.
So I think those are  so what we did was we sort of guessed it how much it might we havent included that number in our 60 million shares.
But there would be some number of shares that well exchange the CRC shares for Oxy shares and we do that without paying any tax.
Okay.
And the follow-on slide which is 21 where you show that the same as 60 million says clearly that you dont include anything from MENA.
I was just wondering why is that does not reflect that reduction does that mean that youre going to pay down debt as well? Well there is a small amount of debt reduction probably.
Okay.
Its just in the rounding.
Yes I figured that I just wanted to confirm that.
So the fact that your list of mistakes just maybe think of Lindsay Lohan I see funny enough.
But there you go would that involve you potentially making an acquisition in the permit further acquisitions of there? Thanks.
Actually the Permian acquisition scale is now  you have to speak to the next round of management about that.
But I sure wouldnt do that.
The prices are ridiculous far above what we traded six or seven times wherever we want to say the cash flow.
And the acquisitions are very dilutive and I cant imagine doing one.
I suppose if there is a collapse in oil price or something like that that would be a different story.
But actually a huge reduction in the public market values for these companies I cant even imagine doing one I dont imagine that hopefully my successors are well trained enough not to do anything stupid too.
Yes.
And then finally from me thank you.
And then finally from me in the past youve sort of openly debated the buyback as the benefits and the merits of a buyback.
Is there some sort of price sensitivity to this or is this going to be a fairly blind part? And Ill leave it there.
No hopefully it wont be a stupid process I think thats what youre blind I guess another word for stupid.
Well I think youve said in the past that there is a fair value that you believe? There is a fair value we believe in.
And well do what we  yes were going to buy back the shares ultimately but it also depends on the price.
We would expect that during the process of divesting of California company the stock will during the confusion will trade at the Oxy stock will trade at some what we would view as discounted value.
And we would expect that a  we could buy a lot of shares during that period.
And were pleased to be wrong but that would be a reasonable expectation during that period.
I guess what I was driving at partly as well as the potential for you to spend more money organically to grow faster probably as to buyback? More but not materially more I think is the answer.
Could you put another $1 billion to work yes could you put $2 billion to work maybe could you put $3 billion to work no.
I think we got a plan that we can execute efficiently we could probably do a little better as things progress.
So I think the answer is yes we could do that but not for very long.
Thanks very much.
Thanks.
Our next question comes from Ed Westlake of Credit Suisse.
Please go ahead.
Yes one question on the Permian Vicki just obviously youve broken out your current vertical and horizontal and then youve explained how doing the two-activity separately makes sense.
As you look at that rig count chart should we assume youre still going to have the same sort of ratio or maybe help us understand how many vertical rigs are going to be in that 47 plus 7? I dont see us having more than about 6 or 7 vertical rigs at any given time in the future.
So the bulk of the 47 to 54 that well have only I would expect only about 6 or 7 of those to be vertical.
Right.
And obviously youve given us 7 000 locations and Jason was prepping on that.
But as you ramp up the rigs your inventory is going to drop I think perhaps a little bit faster.
So at least on a forward-looking basis when we get to 2016 which is obviously a bit further in the future where would you then go next after the initial inventory? I mean it seems like youve got some good sweet spots in the Midland and fantastic sweet spot in the Texas Delaware.
It feels like a lot of your equity is over in the Bone Springs and so to maybe talk about how the returns would change as you shifted those rigs around through the program? Yes let me say that 7 000 is based on the appraisal work and the evaluations that we have done to date.
We fully expect that 7 000 to grow.
As you know we have a huge acreage position.
And what were trying to do is go to our initial step of exploration and then appraisal before were adding and some appraisal work has to be done before we add locations to our current inventory.
So Im almost thinking with what were seeing I wouldnt be surprised to see that our inventory increases by the amount of wells that we drill.
So I expect that inventory to grow fairly significantly over the next couple of years.
And I expect it to grow mostly in the Texas Delaware Southeast New Mexico although we still havent done a lot with some of the areas within the Midland Basin.
What were trying to do is stay very focused on limiting our focus area so that we can make sure that we accelerate efficiently.
And then were also limiting our appraisal areas too to make sure that we go in we get our appraisal work done and then we transition to development mode.
So some appraisal work there are some areas where we havent even begun our appraisal work.
And then just a question on the Midstream I mean I know you sort of signaled youre going to be selling the Plains All-American GP.
Well it seems like its time to build another one given the amount of Midstream assets that you are still building.
So I mean would you think of about creating a new Oxy MLP down the road to help fund the infrastructure that will be required for you and for others in the Permian? Yes I think that you just have to split the revenue streams that come out of us into two.
One is the Terra streams and those are once you build the pipeline theyre sort of not very interesting.
And the other is sort of the trading or streams ability to move the oil at different spots.
We would just assume to retain the contracted volume streams and ultimately dispose of the Terra streams if you will.
So I think as far as building another line I think we got plenty for us were three times what we currently produce.
So we got plenty for us.
Well see how it goes.
Again Im focused about putting the Midstream money right now in the movement gas to make sure thats not an issue.
When you run an MLP or any kind of Midstream business youre thinking about $1 or $0.50 a barrel.
When we look at a barrel of oil were thinking about $100.
And so our view is we need to make sure that our $100 oil gets moved.
And worry a little less about the $0.50 fee.
So were focused on making sure that the  by building this stuff out we made it better for everybody in the Basin.
And then on the gas we expect to do the same thing.
And then just a final question.
Youve seen these I guess royalty interest mineral interest stream start to get traded independently of the companies or maybe just a reminder of where your royalty position is in some of your legacy acreage? Its a complicated number to put it mildly.
First of all the king of this royalty stuff is in the California business so you probably can ask them about it when they show up.
But putting that aside we  there is royalties lets say under one of our EOR fields that we own the royalty interest there or a large piece of the royalty interest.
So if we were to dispose that in some way that would hurt our finding costs and our margins would shrink our present worth would shrink that may not make in that  and our reserves will go down because youre economic limit is reached sooner.
On the other hand we have a fair amount of production where we just get checks from third parties.
And we dont really know the number at this point I mean its not  theyre counting the checks I think they try to figure it out.
But for the  excluding California the royalty income is somewhere in the range of $300 million a year and to find some way.
We just have to go through it and figure it out.
I think where it doesnt affect our ability to manage our base business because our royalties are scattered in a number of places somebody like the basis team times cash flow.
I think were game.
On the other hand where it affects our base business we just dont keep it because I think it will hurt us in our finding cost going forward.
Thanks very clear and helpful.
Thank you.
Thanks.
Our last question comes from John Harlan of Societe Generale.
Please go ahead.
Close enough.
The operator is not French obviously.
Yes thanks Steve.
In the Permian how much of your drilling activity is pad based at this stage? Vicki.
Because of the early stage that were in and with respect to our drilling were not doing a lot of pad drilling at this point.
But the pad drilling will come its already built into the development plan.
What were doing is appraisal work and we expect to be very heavily independent drilling in 2015.
Which will also help okay.
And as you know we do a lot of pad drilling elsewhere so its not like were opposed to it.
But were in the process of drilling the appraisal parts of some of these programs.
And we will definitely go to not only pad drilling but manufacturing mode once we get beyond the appraisal stages.
Right.
I was just wondering how quickly youd be improving efficiencies.
What about staffing given the ramp in the Permian do you think you have enough people? Were adding people.
Were ramping up and we are going to have to add a few more people to our Permian resources and exploitation teams and our field execution teams.
But so far weve been able to add the people that we need as we progress.
Okay great.
Last one from me Steve you talked about addressing the Midstream.
Does this mean MLP or just outright sale? Well I mean it doesnt  if somebody would give you MLP multiple and all cash I think thats for us probably a better option.
On the other hand if you cant do it that way and we get some other way I think we can do an MLP.
Great.
Thank you.
Thanks.
This concludes our question-and-answer session.
I would like to turn the conference back over to Mr.
Degner for any closing remarks.
Hi thank you everyone for listening.
I know its been a busy day for you all.
Well be available at New York for your questions.
Thanks.
Thanks.
The conference is now concluded.
Thank you for attending todays presentation.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
And welcome to the Occidental Petroleum Corporation Third Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
All participants will be in listen-only mode.
(Operator Instructions) After todays presentation there will be an opportunity to ask questions.
(Operator Instructions) Please note this event is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Chris Degner Senior Director of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Denise.
Good morning everyone and thank you for participating in Occidental Petroleums third quarter 2014 conference call.
On the call with us this morning are Steve Chazen OXYs President and Chief Executive Officer; Chris Stavros Chief Financial Officer; Vicki Hollub President Oil and Gas in the Americas; Willie Chiang Executive Vice President of Operations and Sandy Lowe President of our International Oil and Gas Operations.
In just a moment I will turn the call over to our CFO Chris Stavros who will review our financial and operating results for the third quarter and also provide some guidance for the current quarter.
Our CEO Steve Chazen will then provide an update on the progress of our strategic initiatives and outlook for 2015.
Vicki Hollub will then provide an update of our activities in the Permian Basin.
Willie Chiang will conclude the call with an update on OXYs Midstream operation.
As a reminder todays conference call contains certain projections and other forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws.
These statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in these statements.
Additional information on the factors that could cause results to differ is available on the Companys most recent Form 10-K.
Our third quarter 2014 earnings press release the Investor Relations supplemental schedules and the conference call presentation slides can be downloaded off of our Web site at www.oxy.com.
Ill now turn the call over to Chris Stavros.
Chris please go ahead.
Thanks Chris and good morning everyone.
We generated core income of $1.2 billion for the third quarter of 2014 resulting in diluted earnings per share of $1.58 a decrease from both the year ago quarter and the second quarter of 2014.
The decline in core earnings was attributable mainly to lower realized oil prices on a worldwide production and the sharp decline in trading performance on a sequential quarterly basis.
For the fifth consecutive quarter we continued our strong domestic oil production growth.
We met our guidance and achieved the year-over-year domestic oil production increase of 20 000 BOE per day or about 8% let by our Permian and California assets.
We also repurchased 4.7 million shares of our stock during the quarter and ended the period with 2.9 billion of cash on our balance sheet.
Oil and gas core after tax earnings for the third quarter of 2014 were $1.1 billion $90 million lower than the second quarter of this year and $236 million lower than last years third quarter.
For the third quarter of 2014 total company oil and gas production volumes averaged 755 000 BOE per day an increase of 19 000 BOE in daily production from the second quarter and 6 000 BOE per day from the same period a year ago which excludes production from the Hugoton assets for all periods.
Our third quarter 2014 realized oil prices of $94.68 per barrel fell by $5.70 compared to the second quarter realizations of $100.38 a barrel.
In the third quarter of 2014 after tax core income for our domestic oil and gas operations was 538 million.
On a sequential quarter-over-quarter basis results at our domestic operations were negatively impacted by lower realized prices across all products.
Improved volumes however offset roughly a quarter of the earnings decline caused by lower prices.
On a year-over-year basis domestic operations declined by 252 million after tax which reflected the impact of lower realized oil prices partially offset by increased oil production volumes.
The lower realized oil prices were impacted by the large differentials we saw in the Permian Basin.
Willie Chiang will provide a more in depth discussion around Permian differentials later on in the call.
Total domestic oil and gas production averaged 475 000 BOE per day during the third quarter of 2014 up 11 000 BOE per day sequentially.
Domestic oil production was 282 000 barrels per day during the third quarter a new quarterly record for OXY.
Domestic oil production volumes increased by 20 000 barrels per day from the year ago quarter with our Permian Resources business growing its oil production by 26% to 43 000 barrels per day.
On a sequential quarter-over-quarter basis total domestic oil production growth was 6 000 barrels per day.
International after tax core income was $624 million for the third quarter of 2014 with results improving by 8% sequentially due to a lifting in Iraq which had none in the second quarter and higher sales volumes in both Colombia and Qatar.
Income for our international oil and gas operations remained about flat versus the year ago period.
International oil and gas sales volumes rose by 4 000 BOE per day on a sequential quarter-over-quarter basis.
The improvement was largely due to higher volumes in Colombia which experienced fewer pipeline incidents in the period.
Oil and gas cash operating cost were $14.89 per barrel in the third quarter of 2014 compared to $14.68 per barrel in the second quarter.
Taxes other than on income which are directly related to product prices were $2.64 per barrel for the third quarter of 2014 and $2.80 for the first nine months of the year.
Third quarter exploration expense was $53 million.
Chemical third quarter 2014 pre-tax earnings were $140 million compared with second quarter results of $133 million and $181 million in the year ago quarter.
Although slightly below our guidance the sequential improvement in the third quarter was due to higher caustic soda prices and volumes along with lower natural gas costs offset by lower vinyls margins resulting from rapidly escalating ethylene cost.
We expect our fourth quarter pre-tax chemical earnings to be about $115 million reflecting a historical slowdown seasonal slowdown due to the combination of maintenance outages holiday shutdowns and some customer initiatives to reduce year-end inventories.
Midstream pre-tax segment earnings were $125 million for the third quarter of 2014 compared to $219 million in the second quarter and 212 million in the same period a year ago.
The 2014 sequential quarterly decline in earnings resulted mainly from much weaker trading performance driven by sharp commodity price movements during the period partially offset by higher income from power generation and the domestic pipeline businesses.
In the first nine months of 2014 we generated $8.6 billion of cash flow from operations before changes in working capital.
Working capital changes decreased our cash flow from operations by $416 million to $8.2 billion.
2014 year-to-date cash flow from operations declined by approximately 1.6 billion compared to the same year ago period.
The first nine months of 2014 included tax payments of 570 million related to the gain of the sale of the PAGP units and our Hugoton assets and the first nine months of 2013 included the collection of a tax receivable.
Capital expenditures for the first nine months of 2014 were 7.3 billion net of partner contributions.
Our capital outlays included 410 million associated with the Al Hosn Gas project and $275 million for the BridgeTex pipeline.
During the first nine months of this year we received proceeds of $1.3 billion from the sale of our Hugoton assets and spent about $425 million toward domestic bolt-on acquisitions.
We issued 1.6 billion of commercial paper during the latter part of the third quarter as part of our short-term cash management process which has already been repaid.
After paying dividends of 1.6 billion buying back 2.1 billion of company stock and other net flows our cash balance was 2.9 billion at September 30.
Our debt to capitalization ratio was 16% at quarter end.
Our 2014 annualized return on equity was 12% and return on capital employed was around 10.5%.
Earlier this month we received cash proceeds of approximately $5 billion from the bond offering completed by California Resources.
IRS rules mandate that the use of these proceeds be restricted to share repurchases dividend payments or debt retirement.
We will be receiving an additional 1.2 billion of cash from California Resources concurrent with the spinoff in late November.
The use of these proceeds will be unrestricted.
The worldwide effective tax rate on our core income was 40% for the third quarter of 2014 and we expect to combine worldwide tax rate in the fourth quarter to remain about the same.
Lastly I will outline some guidance and a few points on our reporting disclosures for the fourth quarter.
Due to the recent sharp decline in oil prices and the completion of the California spinoff at the end of the next month it will be difficult for the financial community to predict our earnings per share for the fourth quarter.
When OXY completes the spinoff of California resources at the end of November we will reclassify the financial and operational results to discontinued operations for our core results disclosure.
As such our fourth quarter core income will exclude all of California results and income on a reported basis will include two months of California results.
Total year results on a reported basis will include 11 month contribution from our California operations classified as discontinued.
Included in the IR supplemental schedules is a pro forma table segregating OXYs sold and spun off domestic production from our ongoing operations for the historical quarterly 2013 and 2014 periods.
For the fourth quarter we expect to see continued production growth from the Permian Resources.
In addition with the startup of the BridgeTex pipeline OXY will capture a portion of the spread between LLS and WTI Midland on approximately 200 000 barrels per day of oil transported to the Gulf Coast.
Willie will discuss the benefits of the BridgeTex startup in a few moments.
We expect our international volumes to increase in the fourth quarter with the Al Hosn Gas project coming online and the positive impact to volumes for our production sharing contracts that are sensitive to the decline in oil prices.
On a go forward basis excluding California price changes at current global prices affect our quarterly earnings before income taxes by $29 million for $1 per barrel change in oil prices and $6 million for $1 per barrel change in NGL prices.
A swing of $0.50 per MMBtu in domestic natural gas prices affects quarterly pre-tax earnings by about $15 million.
These price change sensitivities include the impact of production sharing contract volume changes on income.
Our fourth quarter 2014 exploration expense is anticipated to be about $60 million pre-tax.
Ill now turn the call over to Steve Chazen who will provide an update on some of our strategic and growth initiatives.
Thank you Chris.
The overall business is operating well and our increased investment focused in the Permian Resources operation is evidenced by the 24% year-over-year growth in total production.
Other long-term investments such as the BridgeTex pipeline and the Al Hosn Gas project should also begin contributing to our results in the current quarter.
We continue to make steady progress towards furthering our strategic initiatives outlined a year ago.
The spin-off of California Resources is on-track and we expect to distribute approximately 310 million shares to new California Company to OXY shareholders at the end of November.
California Resources completed its debt financing earlier this month and distributed approximately 5 billion in cash to us as a tax free dividend on October 9th the dividend of 1.2 billion of proceeds from the term loan and credit facility will happen concurrent with the spin-off.
After the spin-off and for a period of lasting up to 18 months OXY will retain approximately 75 million shares of the California Company.
At some point during this period we intend to conduct an exchange offer for the remaining California shares for OXY shares further reducing our own shares outstanding.
Over the years OXY has made significant investments in California oil and gas and has built a solid business.
With the separation of these assets the California operations will be classified as discontinued.
The resulting impact is expect to provide lower unit rates for cash operating costs DD&amp;A and F&amp;D costs for OXY as well as improved reserve replacement ratios on both on a historical and an ongoing basis.
Regarding our interest in the Williston and Piceance Basins given the current product price environment we plan to operate these assets with less capital in order to generate free cash and shift our investment towards our higher growth and higher return on operations in the Permian Basin.
In the Middle East we continue to make progress negotiation with our partners towards a partial monetization with a goal to improve the businesss ability to grow profitably from a somewhat smaller base.
Overtime we expect to achieve a similar balance in our asset mix and roughly 60% of oil and gas production coming from the United States.
Overtime we also expect to monetize our remaining interest in the GP of Plains All-American Pipeline which is currently valued at more than $4 billion.
And this is some other midstream assets and market conditions warrant.
We expect to generate a large amount of cash proceeds from initiatives I have mentioned.
While we expect the bulk of these proceeds will be used to repurchase our own shares we also hope to invest in the business through attractive bolt-on acquisitions in our core area of the Permian Basin.
Opportunities may exist for accretive property acquisitions that have current production and growth prospects and also complement our existing acreage.
We have no intention of acquiring public companies since their current pricing reflects high oil prices and a near perfect outcome for production.
Since the end of the third quarter of 2013 we have repurchased approximately 31 million shares of the Companys stock for nearly $3 billion.
The Board recently authorized repurchase of additional 60 million shares of the Companys stock leaving the program with 76 million shares.
Were currently undergoing our annual capital budgeting process and are mindful of the recent decline in oil prices.
A significant amount of long-term investment including the capital for BridgeTex pipeline and the Al Hosn project is nearing completion.
We expect our overall capital program to decline in 2015 given the absence of California and the completion of multiple long-term projects.
We also expect significant decline in our spending in the Middle East as we begin to reap the benefits of some of our earlier long-term investments.
The vast majority of capital budget next year will be allocated to our domestic oil and gas drilling operations while we maintain flexibility in our budget.
We also expect that since the service companies were happy to raise prices when oil was going up that they would have been just as happy to have their prices lower in the future.
Some of the reductions in the program in a long-term project will be allocated to profitable growth opportunities in the Permian Resources midstream and chemicals.
If lower crude oil prices persist or fall further we will adjust our capital program to manage within our cash flow probably by reducing or not growing this quickly in the back half of the year.
We plan to provide more detailed capital program for 2015 during the fourth quarter earnings call or early next year.
Excluding California we expect to see an acceleration of total oil and gas production growth in 2015 given the ample opportunity of capital deployment in the Permian Resources and the ramp-up of production from Al Hosn.
In the United States we expect Permian Resource to deliver production growth of at least 20% in 2015 primarily from oil.
We expect the resources business to exit 2014 at over 80 000 BOE a day and to exit next year at over 100 000 BOE a day.
Our total domestic production excluding California should grow 5% to 8% reflecting a modest decline in our natural gas and NGL volumes.
In the Middle East first production of Al Hosn Gas project is anticipated later this quarter.
OXYs net share of production is expected to ramp towards 60 000 BOE a day during the first half of next year.
Company-wide and excluding California we expect our total oil and gas production to grow 8% to 10% next year.
While a recent sharp decline in oil prices may provide some headwinds to the business in 2015 our commitment to a conservative balance sheet with low cost oil production gives us confidence in our operations and the capacity to make targeted property acquisitions.
We expect our cash balance to exceed our total debt by the end of this year.
OXY has built to thrive in an environment where our core properties in the Permian EOR business and production sharing contract for the Middle East which provides relatively stable cash flow.
Following the execution of the California spinoff OXYs philosophy of disciplined capital allocation will continue.
Our core businesses will continue to focus on delivering moderate volume growth generating higher earnings and cash flow per share as well as improved financial returns.
Our Permian Resources business will represent the key area of growth within our domestic operations.
Ill now turn the call over to Vicki Hollub for an update on our activities in Permian Resources.
Thank you Steve.
In last quarters call I discussed our progress toward reaching 120 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day of production in 2016 by achieving the following goals; first correlating rock and fluid properties to production performance across OXYs entire Permian acreage position; second optimizing development strategy and design to unlock full primary development potential; and third efficiently accelerating full field development and production growth.
We made significant progress on these goals in the third quarter and continue to improve and optimize our stimulation designs for each field and bench.
In addition to testing slick water and hybrid fluid systems we are testing and analyzing other key variables such as pumping rate pad volumes propane type propane concentrations surfactants cluster count and spacing clusters per stage and alternate technologies to plug and perforate our efforts to driving significant improvements in well productivity in our Delaware and Midland Basin assets.
In the third quarter Permian Resources had daily production of 77 000 BOE per day which is a 7% increase from the 72 000 BOE per day that were produced in the second quarter.
We produced 43 000 barrels of oil per day for the third quarter.
This is a 26% increase from a year ago and an 8% increase from last quarter.
During the third quarter our capital expenditures were $472 million.
We operated 24 rigs and drilled 75 wells including 44 horizontals.
We placed 71 wells on production including 36 horizontals.
The number of wells drilled and placed on production was adversely impacted by delays attributable to flooding which occurred in September.
This impact reduced the number of horizontal wells placed on production by approximately 10.
Weve increased the number of frac spreads in the fourth quarter to address the additional carry in well inventory.
And in the fourth quarter we plan to operate an average of 30 rigs and exit the year with 34 rigs.
We expect to drill 80 wells and place 75 wells on production including 48 horizontals.
Before discussing the third quarter activity in greater detail I would like to share some more information regarding the drilling potential we see on our acreage.
OXYs unconventional plays in the Permian are spread across 2 million acres in the Midland Basin Central Basin Platform Northwest Shelf and Delaware Basin.
Our teams continue to utilize our extensive knowledge and appraisal work to characterize prospective benches and target landing zones within each bench.
To-date weve identified approximately 7 100 potential well locations.
Overall more than 92% of the locations are horizontal and our results confirm the economics of horizontal wells exceed most vertical wells.
In the Delaware Basin we have currently identified 4 250 horizontal locations with 1 450 in the Wolfcamp A and B benches.
The majority of these locations are in our operated areas in Reeves County.
The Bone Spring potential is equally as significant with 1 500 potential locations.
These are primarily located in New Mexico and could increase with further success in Texas.
In the Midland Basin weve identified 23 horizontal locations and 1 050 of these are in the development phase targeting the Spraberry Wolfcamp A and B benches.
Were highly encouraged with recent results of these benches achieved through our frac design optimization and increases in lateral lengths.
In the Delaware Basin we operated 11 horizontal drilling rigs and one vertical drilling rig in the third quarter.
We drilled 41 wells and placed 40 on production.
In our Barilla Draw acreage we placed eight horizontal wells on production in the Wolfcamp A and B benches.
These wells achieved a peak rate of 1 355 BOE per day and a 30 day rate of 1 067 BOE per day.
Our Ryman 14 5H well achieved an average peak rate of 1 600 BOE per day and a 30 day rate of 1 365.
We completed our first Delaware zipper frac on the Anna Katherine 5H and 6H reducing completion cost by $700 000 due to the efficiency gain from simultaneous operations.
These two wells achieved an average peak rate of 1 600 BOE per day and an average 30 day rate of 1 225.
The production rates achieved on our wells placed on production in the third quarter are significantly above our first half 2014 rates.
This increase is directly attributable to the breakthroughs were achieving in our optimization program including increasing sand concentration lengthening laterals and optimizing cluster spacing.
Additionally our Wolfcamp A wells are matching the 900 000 BOE type curve and production from our horizontal wells in the Delaware Basin is averaging 89% total liquids and 77% oil.
Our appraisal efforts in the 2nd Bone Spring and Wolfcamp C benches in the Delaware Basin continued in the third quarter.
Were excited to see enhanced performance from the Bone Spring and anticipate further gains as we incorporate learnings from the full core we acquired in the third quarter.
These learnings will drive improvements in 2015.
Additionally were encouraged by recent results achieved in the Wolfcamp C our Totsy 206H well achieved an average initial rate of 1 356 BOE per day and a 30 day rate of 912.
In the Midland Basin we operated eight horizontal drilling rigs and four vertical drilling rigs during the quarter.
We drilled 34 wells and placed 31 on production.
Were very encouraged with the results of the Spraberry bench plan to accelerate development of this bench in 2015.
During the third quarter we placed the South Curtis Ranch 3526H well on production this well was completed in the lower Spraberry bench and achieved an average peak rate of 934 BOE per day at an average 30 day rate of 913.
We have two additional Spraberry wells on flow back with initial production results that look similar to the South Curtis Ranch 3526.
These wells are exceeding the 700 000 BOE type curve.
In the Spraberry Wolfcamp A and Wolfcamp B we placed 11 horizontal wells on production in the third quarter with a peak rate of 731 BOE per day at an average 30 day rate of 541.
Production from these wells averaged 91% total liquids 81% oil.
We continue to gather and evaluate cores cuttings advanced slogs micro-seismic tracers and pressure data to link reservoir characterization to well performance.
We have recently acquired 474 feet of continuous horizontal core from one of our Wolfcamp B wells.
This will allow for better definition of lateral reservoir with logic variations and enabled us to tune those differences to open hole logs to optimize placement of perforation clusters and improve frac design.
Were making significant progress in our design optimization efforts and are confident this will translate into further improvements in well productivity in upcoming quarters.
For example at Dora Roberts we drilled a 10 000 foot lateral in the Wolfcamp B bench this well the Dora Roberts 4027H achieved a peak rate of 1 437 BOE per day and a 30 day rate of 671.
This well is exceeding the 650 000 BOE type curve.
Additionally we recently drilled the Hendrix 1H well in Qatar that achieved an average 30 day rate of 775 BOE per day.
In closing OXYs program in 2014 is designed to delineate and appraise our acreage in order to maximize both ultimate recovery and financial returns.
We continue to make progress translating the knowledge gained in our appraisal efforts to create value from our unconventional acreage.
We have positioned the required resources to execute accelerated development in 2015 but maintain the flexibility to optimize our portfolio and pace.
Were on target to deliver 15% to 18% production growth in 2014 and remain confident that we will achieve our target of 120 000 BOE per day in 2016.
Ill now turn the call over to Willie who will provide you an update on the Permian marketing strategy.
Thanks Vickie good morning everyone.
Id like to just take a few minutes to briefly update you on our midstream and marketing strategies in the Permian.
Its particularly important in todays market environment to maximize realized value for production and our strategy to do so is primarily by ensuring access to markets.
Now I spent some time last earnings call on our midstream strategy to show you how were trying to develop and secure takeaway capacity in the Permian Basin.
I have a Slide 29 that shows our strategy which is really focused on two new key takeaway points.
Colorado City which is the origin of the BridgeTex pipeline in Midland South which is the origin to keep third-party pipelines Long Horn and Cactus.
These takeaway points complement our Centurion gathering system by providing us the additional access to multiple markets.
Now as you are aware the BridgeTex pipeline commenced service this September and together with a start up of some additional pipelines in the next few months we expect differentials to return to levels that will reflect the marginal cost of transportation.
Slide 30 shows the pricing differentials for Midland WTI versus LLS.
During takeaway constrain periods you can see the LLS Midland differential widen to $30 a barrel and is averaged approximately $16 a barrel over the past four years.
In 2014 the LLS Midland differential has averaged $12 year-to-date and todays its currently roughly $10 a barrel.
Our unique upstream and midstream perspective to the Permian basin has enabled us to be a driving force behind the construction of new pipeline infrastructure as well as takeaway capacity from the Basin.
Slide 31 shows how we view the key value components for infrastructure projects such as BridgeTex.
As a standalone pipeline investment we look at tariff revenue to ensure a solid return consistent with our targeted rate of return for domestic midstream projects.
This can generate cash of roughly $1 to $3 a barrel.
Second value driver is when we enter into long-term and cost advantage transportation commitments on pipelines as a shipper.
This gives us sufficient access to markets compared to other transportation routes and options depending on the project advantage tariffs can add another $1 to $3 a barrel of incremental value.
However the point I want to make is that the critical value for OXY is really to avoid discounted prices that result from infrastructure constraints and unplanned outages.
The value is significant and if you look at the past four years can be $10 a barrel or more.
Now our significant takeaway commitment on BridgeTex is a great example of how we capture this value and in todays market is roughly a $1 million a day for OXY.
Our Permian Basin strategy utilizes all these value drivers to reach multiple markets and we have secured access to long-term takeaway capacity of roughly 3 times our current production from the Basin.
Now this really positions us well to continue to grow our production maximize realized prices and capture market opportunities.
Ill turn the call back now to Chris Degner.
Thank you.
Thanks Willie.
And Denise were ready to take questions.
Good morning guys.
My first question is most of your large cap E&amp;P peers are increasingly within cash flow or are more limited by their balance sheets.
Given OXYs under-levered balance sheet versus anybody other than a super major would you be willing to outspend cash flow in the downturn? And as a method to right size your balance sheet or really I guess whats the writer of targeted capital structure for OXY moving forward? Well first I would argue were better capitalized in the majors.
So I think they are over leveraged myself but anyway I think as Chris pointed out were going to have a lot of cash at the end of the year from variety of sources mostly from the California business.
Some of that of course will be used to reduce our share count maybe the bulk of that to reduce our share count.
We continue to look for opportunities to grow the business in the Permian through investment.
So well our drilling program or maybe in line with cash flow if we see other opportunities to small property acquisitions or even medium sized ones well use our balance sheet to do those.
And those would effectively be an increase in the program in excess of cash flow.
So I think weve always had a balance of drilling and acquisitions its more shifted clearly to drilling now because we have so much to do.
But so I think I dont think you will see massive changes in our leverage but you will see obviously less equity in our equity count as we buy down a lot of stock.
So I think therell always be a balance.
If there was a sharp reduction in oil prices created more buying opportunities so we wouldnt hesitate to increase our leverage to grow the business so I think that from our perspective this is sort of good times.
I sort of know what to do with $75 oil or less but I have no idea what to do with the $120.
So I think this is really good times for us may not be good times for people who use this as a proxy for oil price these are stocks or proxy for oil price but as a fundamental business matter see cyclical downturns is where you use the balance sheet to build the business.
And I think thats I am hoping a lot of happy talk now especially from service companies about how this is temporary I dont know how anybody knows that.
If I can predict oil prices Id be sitting on a beach in Gali and wouldnt come to work and wouldnt mess with this production business.
So I think that as a practical matter you got to -- this is a volatile time there may be a recession worldwide I dont really know I dont see that.
But a little lower oil prices I think could take some of the volumes out of it and gives us some opportunities to head to our business.
So our goal is to grow our earnings per share our reserves per share cash flow per share through a combination share reduction and hopefully building the business either through drilling or acquisitions and maybe both.
Absolutely well positioned for a down market maybe a related question but on buybacks you used to have a slide where you built up to 100 million share buyback.
And I guess there is two questions its not included today.
If there is any change in thought there? And secondly when you did the 100 million share a potential buyback it was determined when OXY was $100 a share its $89 today.
All things being equal it will be lower following the CRC spin.
And at the same time the elements that are funding the buyback are largely flat right? So I guess is there how do you think about that which is approximately about $1 billion delta or is it looking at your We denominated the stuff in shares because thats the way we think about it how many shares are we buying back.
Were fairly somewhat disciplined in making sure that we dont buy shares at prices that are imply that are excess of our finding and development cost.
So I think thats the way we sort of look at it.
We announced the share repurchases as we actually have the cash in hand.
Its not intended as a forecast to what we might ultimately do as more cash comes in hand you should expect the share repurchase authority would rise.
So it wasnt the 60 million shares weve added so we got 76 I think roughly left to go.
You should view that as sort of the cash in hand number not the ultimate and the ultimate will be dependent on the pace of proceeds from various things.
So I think were not trying to forecast when I say this is what we got in our hand now.
But it turns out that we have excess money because the price of stock is too low well adjust the share repurchase to higher numbers.
And do how we consider a time table? Is that for the buyback given its significantly higher than a level historically or is it still just going to be level driven program? Its driven principally by the stock price.
So we look for buying opportunities in the market when people become irrational.
Steve I have a couple of questions about the main E&amp;P business.
First from a strategic perspective there has been commentary about divestitures in Oman and other countries and so whether or not you comment on assets individually or the positions in main in general.
I want to see if we could get an update on likely strategic outcomes there and/or the environment for monetization and main in general which you have talked about in the past? And then the second question you guys mentioned that Al Hosn is going to start up on time in the current quarter which is good.
And so the second question is whether it is going to come in on budget as well? So two questions.
The second last well have Sandy answer the budget question but its sort of one word answer.
But on the overall reduction its sort of one at a time but our objective is the same one way or another to get value out of the Middle East business some by selling it and may be some by speeding up the cash out of the asset where it is more difficult.
So one way or another were basically using the business to downsize the size of that business make it less important on the company.
Still an important part but its going to be a lot of cash is going to come out of that business one way or another over the next few months.
And so I think were going along it slower than I would like of course.
But to some extent by showing being too anxious sometimes you get a worst result than you might some other way.
And so Sandy will answer the question on budget.
The answer is while I am worried yes were on budget its a well planned project and well tended the start up sequence has been initiated and we expect to have some product sales in the quarter.
Steve I also have two questions.
I guess my first one is for Vickie.
I really wanted to talk about the Permian or ask you about the Permian growth trajectory that you have provided for us.
Your run rate since you ramped up the rig count by about 5 000 barrels a day per quarter and I realize its very simplistic just to look at the absolute move sequentially.
But you are significantly accelerating the rig count and the backlog it looks like so I am just trying to reconcile a substantially higher activity level with a similar quarterly rate of growth that we -- implied by your projections for the next couple of years.
Thats my first question.
I have got a follow-up please.
Ill let her answer the question but I think I wouldnt confuse our expectations with our promises.
There is probably a wide difference between them.
Go ahead Vickie.
Yes Doug originally we had not planned to reach the exit rate this year with 34 rigs.
But weve accelerated our development a little bit and as you noticed were a little bit behind on some of our wells completed but weve added another couple of frac spreads.
So now as of 1 of November well be at 7 to address the well inventory.
And with respect to the rigs going forward we still intend to stay somewhat as per the schedule that we had showed in our last presentation.
Were just seeing a little more opportunity here to get a little bit ahead of the game.
So this not working interest issue I think in terms of subsequent wells from here having a lower working interest maybe you could give us an idea of what after working interest is? Thanks.
We kind of gave you an indication on the slide in the presentation that for the Midland Basin generally speaking our working interest is close to 92% overall and in the Delaware Basin around 76% generally speaking.
Okay thanks for that.
Steve my follow-up is really I realized were going to have to wait on the capital for the till the end of the year.
But just as an order of magnitude I wonder if you could help given all the moving parts with California going BridgeTex and Al Hosn largely done.
And what I am really trying to get at is how you think about balancing spending with the dividend as opposed to asset monetizations funding the buyback? How should we think about dividend policy and maybe a broad scale of spending for next year if you could? Thank you.
Its hard to do the budget right now because there is a number of moving parts and we have to talk with our partners in the Middle East about the size of the program there.
And I just assume that telegraph or thoughts right now.
But I think our Permian program certainly for the first half of the year will be what we told people would be.
So I dont expect any real change in that some of the other stuff maybe tweaked a little bit and some of the other programs.
We just dont know.
But as far as the dividends are concerned I think if you go back to the slide weve only shown for what I say 10 years but I think Chris who is shaking his head said that it is more it says after maintenance capital which is making the company safe.
The next line is dividends before growth and so we view our commitment to the shareholders on dividends to be part of our overall commitment.
How much exactly youre going to raise the dividend wise is remains to be seen.
And there is obviously a little confusion by with the lower oil prices.
But I think -- I dont think.
Weve raised the dividends I think for a dozen years I dont think were going to break the theme next year.
And so I assume the dividends will go up.
Weve got a lot of cash and a lot of projects to fund almost anything we want to do.
And so I dont think anybody should be concerned.
And were focused on making sure that the drilling program delivers the results its supposed to deliver.
If it delivers the results its supposed to deliver therell be plenty of money over the next two or three years for dividends dividend growth continued dividend growth and the share reduction and lots of growth in the business.
So if we deliver the results that were doing so far and our plans are pretty much on target and we have plenty of cash flow and I dont think anybody should worry about where it will be a couple of years from now.
Next year is going to be a messy year you have got comparisons against company with different set of assets were going to have some sales of things next year.
And the share count is going to be really confusing for example the performance now for this year is the average shares outstanding for the year to do the EPS calculation which is a lot more than the shares outstanding right now and that remind at the end of the year.
So lot of confusing numbers over the next year but I think if you focus if I were looking at the company I would focus on our program in Permian Resources and our cash generation and the rest of business and weve got a lot of -- and I think weve now fixed the realization issue of the Permian Basin we faced the last three or four years.
Unfortunately we may have fixed it for everybody in the Basin but we certainly -- but we fixed it for ourselves.
So I am pretty optimistic about where we are next year.
Great thanks a lot Steve.
I was wondering if you could address a little bit more the comment that you all had made about potentially moderating activity I think the phrase you guys used is if oil prices stay here or move lower and you kind of referred it to the second half of 15.
Is there any kind of more granularity you can give around that? I recognized the budget is not done yet and there is moving parts.
I know you have ambitious plans to ramp-up the rig count in the Permian.
Is there any scenario you can sort of paint whether or not you stop ramping rigs in the second half of the year? Would you actually drop rigs? Could you maybe just talk to that a little bit? I dont think we have any plans to drop rigs.
The ramp rate is what we would fall with because the business as we continue to drill wells put them on stream generates cash more cash than some people are out looking.
And so I think well be okay.
And we certainly have the financial flexibility to weather that.
On a long-term basis were fairly optimistic about oil prices over the next year or two I dont know.
But I think on a long-term basis the industry despite what people say the U.S.
business is not healthy at $70 oil.
And so I think higher oil prices are in the cards overtime.
Okay and I guess just in the Permian could you guys maybe talk to what type of well cost youre seeing on the Midland side as well as the Delaware side? Vicki can probably answer that.
Depending on the depth in the Midland Basin were seeing well costs better in the $7 million to $7.5 million range for our South Curtis Ranch and some of the areas around that.
And the Delaware Basin in Texas were seeing well cost in the neighborhood of 8.6 million to 8.7 million and our drilling costs have been improving through some of our efficiency initiatives but its really the completion costs that are driving our total well cost right now.
What weve done recently is increased the size of our frac jobs which is giving us better productivity and what we think will be better ultimate recoveries.
So when youre seeing higher well cost for us its because were increasing the size of our fracs.
Is there any kind of like approximate lateral length you can sort of put around those well costs at all? Around the 8.6 to 8.7 thats generally a lateral length of about 4 500 to 5 000.
And in South Curtis Ranch area our lateral length is around 6 100.
In terms of your Bakken and Piceance assets I guess you had it in your slides that you guys plan to limit capital there.
Could you talk about longer term plans for those assets? I know you had spoken in the past about some in the Bakken properties and also putting the Piceance assets into a JV for maybe an eventual IPO.
And I guess you also talked about additional midstream sales when market conditions warrant.
Can you maybe just talk through strategically how you are thinking about those assets? The issue in the Bakken as it simply cant compete for the returns being earned in the Permian.
Its not that they are bad assets or anything its just not competitive in our portfolio.
And the Piceance is all gas and gas is tough to compete in this environment.
So well look and I dont see any way to change.
I am not bullish about gas prices I dont see any real way to change the relative competitiveness of North Dakota versus the Permian.
We can move oil out of the Permian by pipeline.
Thats a much more efficient way to move oil than by train.
So I just think that its just well not for our portfolio it wont be able to compete so ultimately well have to deal with that.
That kind of implies an eventual disposition I would assume at some point? Yes sure.
Right now its a little noisy because its probably not the perfect time to be doing that.
An intriguing comment from Steve just on saying cash flows being under estimated I mean obviously oil price is making a lot of volatility but maybe some color on that.
Is that because you think your promise is going to be exceeded by your expectation of volumes? Do you think its because cash margins are being underestimated as you shift to drilling in the Permian.
Is it Al Hosn or is it all three and something else?  Generally I think people have underestimated the cash flow that will come out of the assets they basically take what we did this year and add 2% or something to it than adjust for price.
The Al Hosn project will certainly add.
There is other things that I think will add but I think we show you I think there is a difference without we look different without California.
And we give you some numbers to help you model that.
We dont know what the DD&amp;A rate will be next year because it depends on reserves.
But the underlying DD&amp;A rate for example without California United States is lower.
And the same thing with operating costs and other things so I think there is people are just sort of taking the old numbers because thats really all they had.
But I think as you look at it maybe a little more careful modeling with the new numbers might be more helpful for people.
And then a question on the Permian I mean obviously if you look at the Midlands you have outlined Dora Roberts South Curtis may be and these are sweet spots in the Northern Midland but its not a huge amount of acreage but it will be very productive.
And then in the Reeves Barilla Draw area youve got this fantastic results again and thats obviously a larger acreage position.
So that drives growth over the next five maybe six seven maybe even longer years.
When I look at the rest of the Permian and particularly say if oil prices did have a longer excursion to the downside.
How do you think the returns stack up and I am particularly say looking at the New Mexico Delaware? Whats the sort of breakeven oil price you need for getting an acceptable return to that? I get to take a longer view I guess because it is a smaller proportion of my age.
So if I look back two-three years ago what we thought about the Permian basin and what we thought internally for Delaware what other people were saying.
And I look at programs have been proposed now doesnt even look like the same company.
And I think as we have progressed we continue to find new things that we didnt think of before that well act considerably I think the business ultimately if oil prices stayed low or whatever you want to call the current price or at this level or lower for a extended period of time.
Margins historically have adjusted by the reduction in service costs.
I mean you are not going to get an environment where oil prices stay at say $75 or whatever you think for four to five years and service costs are going to be the same it just doesnt going to work.
And so part of the gain sharing and loss sharing will be from both parties.
So all the money isnt going to just go in the service company coffers and were going to work for free and I dont not just we but everybody.
So I think in the end it will calibrate and then well generate acceptable returns.
We think there is a lot of economic oil at $75 economic meaning we are in 15% 16% 17% returns.
Though I think there is a lot of economic oil at $50 no I dont and somewhere in that range but it also depends on service cost and so -- but if oil prices go back to 100 or whatever again service costs will rebound with that.
So I just think that this thing will take work itself out over one or two year period.
And I am I hate to say it this way but if I look forward to a little stress and some of the crazy stuff that sort of goes away for a while and that gives sort of rational people an opportunity.
And then a final question just on the 2015 production outlook thats very helpful 8% to 10% and you can see obviously the great contribution of Al Hosn which probably still have a bit of tail into contribution maybe even 16 as well at least I mean and obviously reducing activity in the mid-con.
Do you think the Permian and it seems to in the well results and the activity level.
Do you think the Permian can provide an offset to keep that production growth sort of at a similar pace in 2016 or does it just naturally slow as Al Hosn comes down? Well Al Hosn will be eventually flat yes but I think at Al Hosn I think its possible that over in the next few years the plant is larger than it needs to be for the deliverable gas.
And so and the country continues to need gas there and the result resolve in liquids of course.
So I think overtime there will be an expansion probably and separately up to the government.
And so there will be Al Hosn is not through so I think as we look at 17 and 18 and 19 well see more growth out of Al Hosn some point level off thats true.
But I think it will probably continue to grow.
Because once you spent the base money the incremental capital will have really good returns I think.
So I think that will do better.
I think the Permian Resource business has the potential to cover to continue to grow and maybe grow better going forward as we work through some of the historical issues.
So I think weve got more acreage and more will prove up and the Barilla Draw didnt really exist a year ago I mean it landed but the concept didnt exist.
And so I think there is a lot of good concepts out there some will work and some wont.
And some are I think over promoted by some but its hard to imagine that 100 000 acres youre going to have 4 billion barrels of reserves.
But I think rational expectations are good for the base and I think Permian Basin is the best basin in the United States and will be for the next 20 or 25 years.
Thanks very much.
Good morning.
First question I want to ask it refers to Slide 27 the SCR 3526H Spraberry well.
Is the early shallow decline consistent with your expectations? And does this early positive results have any influence over your Spraberry appraisal plans going forward? Were still evaluating the South Curtis Ranch 3526 and the shallow decline on that is so far good news for us.
But we still want to see a little more production data from that to determine whats causing that.
Great thank you.
And just as a broader question just looking at your plan as its unfolded in Permian over the last several quarters.
It doesnt really appear to encompass essential basin platform where some peers have drilled some noteworthy horizontal wells.
I was wondering if you have any horizontal exploration potential in that area.
We feel like we have a lot of potential on the Central Basin Platform and thats just one of the areas that we have yet to get to.
Were working on a fairly structured plan to with respect to our exploration our appraisal and our development programs.
And so what we showed you on the slide that has the breakout of the zones that are currently under appraisal and currently under development that list does not include what were doing from an exploration standpoint.
So our exploration group is one of their key areas to focus on over the next couple of years will be the Central Basin Platform where we do have significant acreage and we think there is a lot of potential there so it just hasnt gotten in the queue yet but its something that were optimistic about.
A quick question on the OpEx side a couple of years ago you started an OpEx reduction effort obviously it was successful.
This time around talking about OpEx and then last night on the call with CRC they talked about higher gas prices.
I was wondering ex-California if you could walk us through what sort of the OpEx issues are here and how m of that is due maybe to just temporary gas price increases and how much of it is a function of maybe changes in what youre doing in the Permian resources area.
Just as you look at OpEx I think there is two there is the cost of energy which is buried in that OpEx because we use a lot of electricity to run pumps and such.
And so some of thats in the energy and some of it is in basically driven by the EOR business which uses where the gas the CO2 is tied to oil price.
And these little more CO2 we expense that looks or shows up as an operating cost.
And some of it is we increased the work over activity principally in the EOR business.
So when you look at our numbers for operating costs in the United States the driver the overwhelming driver is the EOR business which is basically a low capital business but a little higher operating cost business than say the resources business which is a high capital business and a low operating cost business.
So what you see is as we put more CO2 in the ground as we try to repair the wells you get more operating costs and we try to optimize that and what we look it is the base the underlying operating cost not so much what were doing from quarter-to-quarter we cant do anything about CO2 prices or anything like that.
So I think its a mix of things but the driver for operating costs for the OXY excluding California is the EOR business which is a large business and its principle expenses are not capital but are our operating costs.
So it just looks a little different than you might be used to.
So with California soon to be gone We actually show you somewhere Chris?  We gave you a pro forma slide table in the IR schedules that shows pro forma without California and the Hugoton for cash operating cost DD&amp;A and some other metrics and also production.
So you sort of can go back and model it off of that and youll see what happened over that period of time.
And then the other question I had was along the lines of catching up on the well completions and the addition of the frac spreads in West Texas.
Any chance for upside performance in terms of production there relative to the guidance or is that all fully incorporated in the numbers? That is incorporated in our projections for production so we do expect to catch up and weve accounted for that.
What hes asking is have we been conservative in the number or not? I would say that that based on the performance weve seen thus far Id say thats a conservative number actually its an achievable number.
Couple of high level strategic questions firstly do you think you have been behind technically in the Permian? Do you think you can get ahead and do you think any kind of technical advantage is sustainable in U.S.
unconventional given the commoditization of the activity? Well start with yes we were behind.
I think somewhat earlier I said if I look at what the presentation is internally were two years ago.
Look at the quality and the detail the current presentations for next years program doesnt even look like the same company.
So I think we have made a lot of progress.
Were blessed with good acreage which compensates for whatever to some extent.
So I dont think there is much.
I always believe that its the acreage or the reservoir that overwhelms overtime technology spreads quickly.
So I dont think there is no secret sauce that lasts very long.
So I think as a practical matter we -- I think were where we need to be in technology there is always going to be improvements whether you have relative improvements against other people I dont know.
But overtime the technology spreads very quickly.
And so because we see lots of wells so its not really something thats hidden from us.
So I think were where we need to be from a skill set at this point we were behind so no argument about that.
But we are fortunate that we have an exceptional acres position which in the end the reservoirs matter.
I guess the argument there would be that you were in early relatively speaking and paid less but it bubbled the early entry allowed you to get a better acreage? Is there any other proof by the way that you have better acreage? I mean how can we show that? Maybe Vicki can tell you about that.
Id like to build on Steves comments with respect to your first question initially.
Technically we have teams here with OXY that I think to compete or beat any other teams in the Permian Basin at this time.
From a success standpoint in the unconventional plays one of the critical things is to understand what the reservoir is and what the reservoir is telling you.
We dont believe that these plays should be called statistical plays.
We think that youve really got to understand what the reservoir is.
And based on what the reservoir is you design your completions and your frac jobs.
And I think right now were probably one if not the only company one of the few companies thats actually taken a horizontal core.
And along with our vertical cores our 3D seismic our micro seismic and all the additional work that were doing around reservoir characterization I think nobody in the basin is any further along than we are with respect to that.
But I think with that said the industry as a whole still has a lot to learn.
Were all very early in the development of these unconventional plays in the Permian.
So I still think that were going to continue to learn technology will continue to advance.
And I think that as it does I expect overtime for cost to come down on at least from the drilling standpoint and possibly from the completion standpoint.
Weve got some plans in place over the next six months to do some things.
I think that that could have a significant impact on our productivity and ultimate recoveries.
But its just a matter of working those costs to make sure that they are economical for what we want to do.
And as I said technology overtime the cost comes down and so I think well be able to do some things that that will certainly help some of the areas that previously have not been as good as our Delaware Basin area.
So there is -- I am sorry now I have forgotten your second question.
No I was just saying if there is some way that we would be able to show easily that your acreage is superior to someone elses? Well weve got so much of it that some of its going to be better and some not.
I mean if you compare it to some guy that has got 100 000 acres nets his whole position and who knows.
But I think if you look at the overall result and you say we started from a standing start two years ago.
And well pass 80 000 at the end of this quarter.
And well pass 100 000 at the end of -- by the end of next year for sure.
So I just look at from a standing start two years ago well be one of the biggest producers in this unconventional in no time.
But our whole business historically had been an EOR business.
So its whatever you want to think but I think there is always somebody who has got 40 000 acres that is real good.
But the question is can you have 2 million acres that is real good.
And I think we got enough 40 000 acre pieces that we could compete with anybody.
If we took one of our 40 000 acre pieces or 100 000 acre pieces and people were saying what a wonderful company it is it is just good as the snake company or whatever its called.
I have a couple of quick ones Steve the investment in Midstream simultaneous with the sell down of the GP of Plains All-American I assume that means that you wouldnt be continuing to want to own those assets long-term.
And further to that does the deliberate naming of Permian Resources rings a bell with California Resources.
I wondered if that was a potential spin candidate and Ill leave it there? Thank you.
On the Midstream I mean our goal is to I think Willie pointed out.
Our goal is to make sure that we get the best possible price for our product and were not disadvantaged weve gone through several years of disadvantage.
If we can do that without spending capital and build pipelines were happy to do that by committing for space and reaping the advantages of owning space.
And so I think you should view it as a -- its purpose is basically to make sure we get good prices for oil.
And if we could monetize take back some of that capital someway and put it somewhere else with new higher returns and were definitely going to do that.
As far as the name is concerned thats sort of an accident I wouldnt know all that well about the California Resources name.
But I think that I dont think you should view it as a spinoff candidate at this point.
It needs right now the cash flow from the rest of the business to accelerate its drilling.
And its unlike California California is actually its a good business.
Its just -- but its sort of mature phase where you saw financing.
The resource business needs cash to grow.
And its just not the right time to even think about something like that.
Thank you very much.
Yes thank you everyone and please give us a call if you have any follow-up questions.
Have a good day.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you! Welcome to the Occidental Petroleum Corporation Fourth Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions].
I would now like to turn the conference over to Chris Degner.
Mr.
Degner please go ahead.
Thank you Emily.
Good morning everyone and thank you for participating in Occidental Petroleum's fourth quarter 2014 conference call.
On the call with us today are Steve Chazen Oxy's President and Chief Executive Officer Chris Stavros Chief Financial Officer Vicki Hollub President Oil and Gas in the Americas Willie Chiang Executive Vice President of Operations and Sandy Lowe President of our International Oil and Gas Operation.
In just a moment I will turn the call over to our CEO Steve Chazen who will review our achievements in 2014 and provide an outlook for 2015.
Our CFO Chris Stavros will review our financial and operating results for the fourth quarter and also provide guidance for 2015.
Then Willie Chiang will review our 2015 capital plan followed by Vicki Hollub who will provide an update of our activities in the Permian Basin.
As a reminder today's conference call contains certain projections and other forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Federal Securities Laws.
These statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in these statements.
Additional information on factors that could cause results to differ is available on the company's most recent Form 10-K.
Our fourth quarter 2014 earnings press release and the investor relations supplemental schedules our non-GAAP to GAAP reconciliation and the conference call presentation slides can be downloaded off of our website at www.oxy.com.
I'll now turn the call over to Steve Chazen.
Steve please go ahead.
Thanks Chris.
I would like to start with some highlights from our accomplishments in the past year.
We executed many of our strategic initiatives including the spin-off of California Resources the sale of our Hugoton gas properties BridgeTex pipeline and PAGP units.
At the end of the year our cash balance of $7.8 billion exceeded our total debt of $6.8 billion.
We grew our domestic oil production by 11 000 barrels a day over 2013 to 181 000 a day.
We grew our Permian resources production from 65 000 barrel equivalents a day over 2013 to 75 000 barrels a day this year.
The 2004 capital program added 395 million barrels of proved reserves replacement ratio of 181% before dispositions.
Our costs incurred with these reserve additions were about $6.7 billion resulted in an apparent finding and development cost of under $17 a BOE.
We added 363 million barrels of liquid proved reserves a replacement ratio of 223% before dispositions.
We completed the Al Hosn gas project on budget and on time which started production in early January.
I have two comments about the macro environment.
The confluence of U.S.
supply growth weaker Asian demand and extreme currency movements have led to significant decline in product prices.
Our company is resilient and built to weather price shocks typical to this industry.
Obviously we have the financial resource to continue drilling at the 2004 rate.
However the current service company cost structure is more reflective of a $100 oil price environment rather than the $50 environment we have today.
While service companies have offered modest price reductions they still do not reflect the current reality.
We're focused on reducing our costs which include renegotiating our supplier contracts that are not reflective of weaker oil prices.
We expect these efforts to result in a reduction in the cost of executing our capital program as well as reducing our operating expense.
It makes little sense for us to push production so as to sell our oil at $50 or less.
I would like to talk briefly about the impairments.
We have virtually eliminated our capital spending in the Williston Basin on domestic gas properties in the Bahrain and Joslyn oil sands projects as these have unacceptable returns in the current price environment.
As a result of a thorough portfolio review we have reduced the carrying value of the assets in the areas where we're minimizing development activity.
This resulted in an after tax charge of $5.1 billion.
These charges do not affect our cash position.
Chris will detail the charges.
Our policy has been and will continue to be to write-down assets to approximately fair market value when we believe that the impairment is other than temporary.
In 2015 we will focus our capital spending on the core areas we operate principally the Permian Basin.
Our capital budget is $5.8 billion which is a 33% decline from 2014 2/3rds of the capital budget will be allocated to maintenance capital and 1/3rd allocated to growth capital.
To the start of the several long term projects notably the Al Hosn gas project and the BridgeTex pipeline our to 2015 capital program was on course to decline before the recent fall in product prices.
Our capital run-rate in the first quarter will be higher than the $5.8 billion level and will decline all year unless product prices significantly improve.
Given our large acreage position deep inventory we have the flexibility to defer drilling and appraisal activity.
Although we will likely outspend our cash flow during the first half of the year we expect that by the end of the year our operating cash flow will cover our capital expenditures and dividend payments assuming a recovery to $60 oil price environment.
Willie Chiang will provide more details on our capital program later in the call.
Despite the lower capital program we expect to deliver 6% to 10% annual production growth in 2015 driven by the startup of the Al Hosn gas project and the focused development program we will run in the Permian resources business.
In the United States we expect oil production to grow about 6% partially offset by declines in NGLs and natural gas production.
Vicki Hollub will provide further details on the outlook for the U.S.
oil and gas business.
We had a successful year in growing the company's reserve base by adding substantially more reserves than we produced.
Company-wide we replaced 174% of our production before asset sales.
We ended the year based on a preliminary estimate with about 2.8 billion BOEs of reserves.
Through our organic development program we replaced 181% of our production.
This estimate excludes acquisitions asset sales and revisions of prior period estimates.
Our reserve replacement ratio for liquids from all categories before asset sales was 223%.
This reflects our emphasis on oil drilling.
Our total costs incurred related to the reserve additions for the year on a preliminary basis were approximately $8.3 billion.
As a result of our organic development program we estimate an apparent finding cost of under $17 a barrel.
Our 2004 acquisitions were approximately $1.6 billion and we booked a conservative amount of proved developed reserves.
We expect to add incremental reserves as we exploit this acreage.
At the end of the year we estimate that 76% of our total proved reserves were liquids increasing from 71% in 2013.
Of the total reserves about 71% were proved developed reserves compared to 70% in 2013.
Over the past several years we have built a large portfolio of growth-oriented assets in the United States.
In 2014 we spent a larger proportion of our investment dollars on these resources.
Our organic reserve replacement for the year reflects the positive results of the appraisal and development efforts capitalizing on the large portfolio built over time.
In the United States we replaced 266% of our production before asset sales.
We ended the year based on a preliminary estimate with about 1.8 BOE of reserves.
Through our organic development program we replaced 286% of our production.
The estimate excludes acquisitions asset sales and revisions of prior estimates.
Our reserve replacement ratio for liquids from all categories before asset sales was 306%.
Our total costs incurred related to domestic reserve additions for the year on a preliminary basis were approximately 5.7 billion.
As a result of our organic development program we estimate an apparent finding and development cost of about $12 a BOE.
Through the success of our drilling program and capital efficiency initiative we have lowered our finding and development costs over recent years.
As a result we expect our DD&amp;A expense to be approximately $15 a barrel in 2015 a decrease from $17 a barrel in 2014.
This is consistent with our expectations and DD&amp;A rate of growth should flatten out as recent investments come online and finding and development costs come down.
The success of our organic reserve additions and the efficiencies weve achieved in our operation demonstrate the significant progress we have made in turning the company into a competitive domestic producer.
Through the execution of our strategic initiative we have raised enough cash to exceed our debt at year-end.
Slide 14 outlines priorities of our use of cash.
This is the same slide we have shown for at least a decade.
After spending on maintenance capital the top priority for our cash flow is to continue to increase the dividend.
We have increased the dividend for 12 consecutive years and are committed to annual increases.
Given the uncertainty in product price decision on the size of the increase will be made on the declaration of third quarter dividend.
Our remaining cash flow will be allocated to growth capital share repurchases and acquisitions.
In 2014 we repurchased $2.5 billion of shares.
We have approximately 71 million shares remaining under our current authorization.
We will continue to repurchase shares subject to the stock price and market conditions and expect to ultimately repurchase the entire amount.
Now I will turn the call over to Chris Stavros for a review of our financial results.
Thanks Steve and good morning everyone.
Oxy completed the spin-off of California resources at the end of November.
Accordingly we have reclassified the financial and operational results for discontinued operations for our core results disclosure.
As such our fourth quarter 2014 core income excludes all the California results and income on a reported basis includes two months of California results.
Total year 2014 results on a reported basis include 11 months contribution from the California operations classified as discontinued.
We generated core income of $560 million for the fourth quarter 2014 resulting in diluted earnings per share of $0.72 a decrease from both the year ago quarter and the third quarter of 2014.
The decline in core earnings was attributable mainly to sharply lower realized oil prices on our worldwide production.
Net results for the quarter were a loss of $3.4 billion or $4.41 per diluted share.
In accordance with the successful efforts method of accounting which Oxy follows we review our proved oil and gas properties for indications of impairment whenever events or circumstances indicate that the carrying value of the oil and gas properties may not be adequately recovered such as when there is a significant drop in the futures price curve.
Under the successful efforts method if an oil and gas property's estimated future net cash flows are not sufficient to recover its carrying amount using the period end's future curve an impairment charge must be recorded.
As of December 31 Oxy recorded property impairments due to the fall in the futures curve for oil as of that date.
The 2014 fourth quarter includes after tax non-core net charges of $4 billion.
Approximately $2.7 billion of this was a result of the sharp decline in the year-end WTI price curve that affected our domestic properties.
Most notably this included a charge of $1.7 billion in the Williston Basin $600 million related to our gas and gas condensate assets and $350 million for other domestic acreage.
Foreign impairments amounted to $1.1 billion principally related to our operations in Bahrain.
Additional charges included $700 million for our interest in the Joslyn oil sands project and a $550 million mark-to-market adjustment for the carrying value related to our remaining 19% interest in California resources.
The fourth quarter also included after tax gains of $900 million from the sale of a portion of our investment in the Plains All American Pipeline GP and $400 million from the sale of our 50% interest in the BridgeTex pipeline.
We continued our strong domestic oil production growth and achieved a year-over-year quarterly production increase of 19 000 BOE per day or about 11% led by our Permian resources assets.
We also purchased 4.8 million shares of our stock during the fourth quarter and ended the period with $7.8 billion of total cash on our balance sheet.
In oil and gas our core after tax earnings for the fourth quarter of 2014 were $368 million $549 million lower than the third quarter of this year and $731 million lower than last year's fourth quarter.
For the fourth quarter of 2014 total company oil and gas production volumes from continuing operations averaged 616 000 BOE per day an increase of 21 000 BOE per day in daily production from the third quarter and 41 000 BOE per day from the same period a year ago.
This excludes production from the Hugoton and the California assets for all periods disclosed.
Our fourth quarter 2014 worldwide realized oil price of $71.58 per barrel fell by $22.68 or 24% compared to the third quarter realizations of $94.26 per barrel.
In the fourth quarter of 2014 after tax core income for our domestic oil and gas operations was $59 million compared with $310 million in the third quarter of 2014 and $391 million in the fourth quarter of 2013.
On both a sequential quarter-over-quarter and year-over-year basis results at our domestic operations were mainly impacted by lower realized oil prices and to a lesser degree lower NGL prices.
Higher oil production had a meaningful positive impact to both earnings and cash flow in the fourth quarter of 2014 compared to both periods.
In the fourth quarter of 2014 we experienced a narrowing of the differentials in the Permian Basin from what we realized in the third quarter of last year.
Total domestic oil and gas production averaged 321 000 BOE per day during the fourth quarter of 2014 up 6000 BOE per day sequentially and 26 000 BOE on a year-over-year basis.
Domestic oil production was 189 000 barrels per day during the fourth quarter an increase of 19 000 barrels per day from the year-ago period with our Permian resources business growing its oil production by 42% to 51 000 barrels per day.
On a sequential quarter-over-quarter basis total domestic oil production growth was 7000 barrels per day.
International after tax core income was $355 million for the fourth quarter of 2014 a decline of 43% from the third quarter of last year and 50% lower on a year-over-year basis.
The decline for both periods was driven mainly by lower realized oil prices with the sequential quarter-over-quarter period favorably impacted by higher liftings in both Iraq and Columbia.
International oil and gas sales volumes rose by 39 000 BOE per day on a sequential quarter-over-quarter basis.
The improvement was largely due to higher volumes in Iraq resulting from liftings that slipped from prior periods as well as higher spending levels higher production volumes in Columbia along with increased volumes in the Middle East resulting from lower prices affecting our production sharing contracts.
Oil and gas cash operating costs were $13.50 per barrel for the total year 2014 compared to $12.56 per barrel for full year 2013 and reclassified to exclude California.
The increase in costs reflects increased activity in downhole maintenance and higher cost for purchased injectants.
The DD&amp;A rate for full year 2014 was $17 per barrel.
Taxes other than on income which are directly related to product prices were $2.45 per barrel for the 12 months of 2014 compared to $2.48 for the same period of 2013.
Fourth quarter exploration expense was $59 million.
Chemical fourth quarter 2014 pretax core earnings were $160 million compared with third quarter results of $140 million and $128 million in the year-ago quarter.
The sequential improvement primarily reflected lower ethylene and energy costs partially offset by lower vinyls pricing and a reduction of volumes across most product lines due to a combination of maintenance outages holiday shutdowns and customer initiatives to reduce year-end inventories.
Midstream pretax core earnings were $168 million for the fourth quarter of 2014 compared to $155 million in the third quarter and $106 million in the same period a year ago.
Phibro's domestic trading book was closed in the fourth quarter of 2014 and we expect to wind down the remainder of the business in the current quarter.
As such Phibro's results have been eliminated from all core income periods.
In the 12 months of 2014 we generated $9.4 billion of cash from continuing operations a decline of approximately $1 billion compared to the year-ago period.
Capital expenditures for 2014 were $8.7 billion net of partner contributions.
Last year's capital outlays included $1.1 billion associated with the Al Hosn gas project including $470 million related to the rail and sulfur handling facilities and $285 million for the BridgeTex pipeline.
We received proceeds of $4.2 billion from the sale of assets which included fourth quarter proceeds of $1.1 billion from the sale of our investment in BridgeTex $1.7 billion from the sale of a portion of our investment in Plains All American Pipeline GP as well as $1.3 billion from the sale of our [inaudible] assets in the first quarter of last year.
We spent about $1.7 billion on bolt-on property acquisitions of which $1.3 billion was spent in the fourth quarter on a single acquisition in the Permian totaling 100 000 net acres and including a modest amount of oil production.
In October we received cash proceeds of $4.95 billion from the bond offering completed by California resources.
IRS rules mandate that the use of these proceeds be restricted to share repurchase dividend payments or debt retirement.
We paid the fourth quarter dividend and repurchased our shares in December using the restricted cash resulting in a $4 billion balance at December 31.
We received an additional $1.15 billion of cash from California resources concurrent with the spin-off in late November.
The use of those proceeds is unrestricted.
We returned $4.7 billion of cash to our shareholders by paying $2.2 billion in dividends and repurchasing 25.8 million of our shares for $2.5 billion.
Last year's share repurchase activity has the benefit of reducing our current dividend outlays by approximately $75 million.
Our cash balance including restricted cash was $7.8 billion at December 31.
Our debt to capitalization ratio was 16% at year end.
After excluding the impact of non-core adjustments and discontinued California operations our 2014 return on equity was 9% and return on capital employed was 8%.
The worldwide effective tax rate on our core income was 39% for the fourth quarter of 2014 and 41% for the total year.
Focusing on 2015 our capital program this year is expected to be about $5.8 billion a decrease of 33% from our 2014 spending level of $8.7 billion.
Willie Chiang will discuss the specifics of the 2015 capital program in a moment.
Using a $55 WTI and $60 Brent price curve we expect total company production to be between 630 000 BOE and 650 000 BOE per day in 2015 or an increase of roughly 6% to 10%.
Domestically we expect our oil production for the total year to grow in the 6% range with the increase coming from the Permian resources business.
We expect gas volumes to decline modestly as we cease development activities in our gas properties.
In the first quarter we expect to lose approximately 4000 BOE per day production in our Permian Basin operations due to weather-related shutdowns and freezing conditions that occurred during January.
Domestic gas production is expected to decline from the fourth quarter levels resulting in a slight sequential production decline on a BOE basis.
We expect our international volumes to increase in the first quarter with the Al Hosn gas project having started up earlier this month.
Volumes from Al Hosn should average roughly 20 000 BOE per day in the first quarter as the facilities ramp up through the first half of the year.
Full year 2015 volumes from Al Hosn should average about 50 000 BOE per day with more than 40% of the production coming from NGLs and condensate.
Production volumes should also be positively impacted from our production sharing contracts that are sensitive to the decline in oil prices.
Oil and gas DD&amp;A expense is expected to be approximately $15 per BOE this year.
Combined depreciation for the midstream and chemical segments should be approximately $675 million.
Price changes at current global prices affect our quarterly earnings before income taxes by $32 million for a $1.00 per barrel change in oil prices and $7 million for a $1.00 per barrel change in NGL prices.
A swing of $0.50 per million BTUs in domestic gas prices affects quarterly pretax earnings by about $15 million.
These price change sensitivities include the impact of production sharing contract volumes changes on income.
Our first quarter 2015 exploration expense is anticipated to be about $30 million pretax.
We expect our first quarter 2015 pretax chemical earnings to be about $140 million.
Lower [inaudible] vinyl margins are the primary driver for the sequential decrease in earnings.
Using current strip prices for oil and gas we expect our 2015 domestic tax rate to be at 36% and our international tax rates to be about 65%.
I will now turn the call over to Willie Chiang who will provide more detail on our 2015 capital program.
Thanks Chris.
Good morning everyone.
As you now know our 2015 capital program is expected to be $5.8 billion a 33% reduction from our 2014 capital program.
All business segments will see cuts in capital spending versus the 2014 levels with the exception of chemicals which is in the peak year of spending for the Ingleside ethylene cracker JV project.
Despite the lower capital program we expect to deliver the production growth in 2015 as Steve has said.
Now let me expand on the 2015 program of which 80% is in the oil and gas segment and 10% each is in the chemicals and midstream segments.
Domestic oil and gas capital will be about $2.5 billion or 43% of our total capital program a decline of about $1 billion from 2014 levels.
Overall spending levels in the Permian will decline slightly and significant reductions will come from Williston and south Texas which are most impacted by the sharp declines in product prices.
Vicki Hollub will provide more details on that later in the call.
International development capital will be about $2 billion or 33% of our total capital program.
Spending levels in the Middle East North Africa MENA region will decline by approximately $1.4 billion mostly from the Al Hosn gas project completion Qatar and other mature projects.
Exploration capital is expected to decrease significantly from the 2014 levels to roughly $150 million.
Our 2014 exploration program was successful in supporting the appraisal and delineation of a strong inventory of drilling locations which is the basis of our development program this year.
Chemical segment capital will be about $600 million which includes the Ingleside cracker project that we expect to complete late 2016 and commission in the first quarter of 2017.
We expect OxyChem to be free cash flow positive through the construction of this project.
U.S.
midstream capital will be about $600 million a decrease of about $150 million from the 2014 levels driven primarily by the completion of BridgeTex pipeline.
Key projects include the continued development of the Ingleside terminal for both propane and crude export terminaling as well as gas processing infrastructure in support of our key development programs in the Delaware basin.
The 2015 capital program I have described ramps down over this year and where we expect to end the year at a balanced free cash flow run-rate which will cover capital interest and dividend payments at the $60 oil environment.
It also allows us to develop profitable production growth and allows us to continue to develop the key strategic projects in our chemicals and midstream segments.
I would like to take a few minutes to share with you the status on our reductions of our cost structure.
Clearly lower oil price environments require lower cost structures to be competitive.
Our 2015 plan assumes a very conservative amount of pricing concessions from our suppliers of roughly $250 million for key services.
If the market environment remains where it is we expect to see this increase to $500 million or more which will give us the flexibility to increase activity.
We have been very engaged with our suppliers and service providers to capture immediate reductions in costs ranging from 10% to 40%.
In many cases we have amended existing agreements to tie discounts to oil price.
The lower the oil price the greater the discount needed to meet the market environment.
We're in the early stages of this process and have finalized agreements with about half of our key suppliers to date.
Most of the cost savings that we have incorporated are capital costs but we also expect operating cost reductions from the $15 per BOE domestic operating cost level.
Beyond what we normally look at pure lifting costs of the business there are a number of cost categories that comprise the total operating costs.
Some of these categories are fairly consistent year to year and include labor generally operating support and staff plan expenses pipeline transportation costs surface maintenance.
This activity allows us to produce our product reliably safely and responsibly.
Now highlighted are a number of categories where we do expect to see significant reductions and are much more discretionary in nature.
These include well workovers well enhancements downhole maintenance and purchased injectant costs primarily CO2.
Clearly in a low product price environment many of these activities are just not economic to pursue.
We also expect to see energy cost reductions which are linked to oil and gas prices so they too will come down in this price environment.
This should give more perspective on another key area of opportunity that we're working hard on and we will share more specifics with you as we develop more certainty around market environment and other optimization and efficiency improvements.
I will conclude my remarks by emphasizing that our capital allocation is very dynamic in nature.
We will proactively manage our program and we have ample flexibility to respond to both stronger and weaker conditions.
I will turn the call over now to Vicki Hollub who will review our 2015 domestic oil and gas plans.
Thank you Willie.
Today I will review the highlights of our Permian resources activities in the fourth quarter and then I will provide more details about the 2015 capital programs in our U.S.
operations.
In the fourth quarter Permian resources achieved daily production of 84 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day which is a 9% increase from the 77 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day that were produced in the third quarter.
With regard to oil we produced 51 000 barrels of oil per day for the fourth quarter.
This is a 42% increase from a year ago and a 19% increase from the previous quarter.
During the fourth quarter our capital expenditures were $791 million.
We operated 29 rigs and drilled 85 wells including 56 horizontals.
We placed 70 wells on production including 44 horizontals.
At year-end 11 wells were on flow-back and 61 were not yet completed.
In the Delaware basin we operated 14 horizontal drilling rigs and one vertical drilling rig in the fourth quarter.
We drilled 47 wells and placed 39 wells on production.
In our Barilla Draw area we placed 7 horizontal wells on production in the Wolfcamp A and B benches.
These wells achieved an average peak rate of 1500 BOE per day and a 30 day rate of 1 190.
We're extremely excited by the results achieved on the Peck state 258 number 6H where we optimized the landing point and cluster spacing.
This well achieved a peak rate of 2400 BOE per day and a 30 day rate of 1760.
Additionally we placed our first two 7500-foot lateral wells the Buzzard state number 9H and number 10H on production with excellent results.
Both were completed in the Wolfcamp A.
The Buzzard state number 9H achieved a peak rate of 2020 BOE per day and a 30 day rate of 1780.
We're achieving excellent initial results on our wells with sand concentrations ranging from 1750 to 2250 pounds per foot.
For example our Chevron Mineral 17-5 well achieved a peak rate of 1800 BOE per day.
In New Mexico we continue to be pleased by the performance of our Bone Spring wells.
Recently our Cedar Canyon 27 state 4H was placed online with an average peak rate of 1790 and a 30 day rate of 1030 BOE per day.
In the Midland basin we operated 10 horizontal drilling rigs and four vertical drilling rigs during the fourth quarter.
We drilled 38 wells and placed 31 on production.
In the Spraberry Wolfcamp A and Wolfcamp B benches we placed 17 horizontal wells online with an average peak rate of 950 BOE per day and a 30 day rate of 790.
To-date we have placed 10 Spraberry wells online with an average peak rate of 900 BOE per day and a 30 day rate of 850.
Last quarter we discussed our South Curtis Ranch 3526H well in the lower Spraberry.
We're excited to report the six-month average production for this well was 740 BOE per day.
In one of our new development areas the [inaudible] 1411 well achieved a peak rate of 1560 BOE per day and a 30 day rate of 1 140 from the Wolfcamp A.
The aggressive exploration and appraisal programs we completed in 2014 have helped us to clearly identify our best benches and to achieve significant improvements in well productivity and operational efficiency.
We will continue to improve these results in 2015.
Now I will provide additional details about our 2015 capital plans at our domestic operations.
Our most significant capital reduction will come in our Mid-Continent business unit which includes our Williston operations and our gas properties in the Piceance in south Texas.
We plan to spend $285 million in 2015 versus $570 million spent in 2014.
The 2015 capital program will focus on maintenance activities along with high return workovers.
This fits with our strategy to focus capital on higher margin oil production.
In the Permian Basin we have two distinct but synergistic businesses; resources and enhanced oil recovery.
Our resources business provides the unconventional portfolio and expertise to achieve accelerated growth supported by our EOR business which provides the cash flow from efficient high volume production.
In Permian resources our capital expenditures will be approximately $1.7 billion.
This is a $200 million reduction from 2014 expenditures.
We plan to operate an average of 19 rigs and drill approximately 167 horizontal wells which is equal to the number of horizontal wells we drilled in 2014.
Additionally we will drill only 48 vertical wells versus the 137 vertical wells drilled in 2014.
Vertical wells are drilled to hold acreage or to appraise new benches.
Our 2015 capital program will focus on the development of our best benches in concentrated geographic areas.
In the Midland basin our development activity will be mainly in South Curtis Ranch and Mirchett [ph].
Here we plan to drill 45 Spraberry wells where our performance is matching a 750 000 BOE type curve.
In the Delaware basin we plan to drill 67 Wolfcamp A wells and a concentrated number of leases in the greater Barilla Draw area.
Our Wolfcamp A wells in the Delaware are exceeding a 900 000 BOE type curve.
In New Mexico we plan to drill 22 Bone Spring wells.
We will execute this targeted capital program utilizing a manufacturing approach which will include the efficiencies of pad drilling batch drilling of the vertical and lateral selections of the well along with zipper fracs.
This strategy will enable us to grow our production at a higher rate with less capital than in our 2014 appraisal program.
In the first quarter of 2015 we plan to operate an average of 29 rigs.
We expect to drill 85 wells and place 108 wells on production including 63 horizontal wells.
We're on pace to have 42 wells on flow-back or on production in January.
Permian resources has a sufficient inventory of wells to continue profitable development in a low price environment.
Based on our current cost structure we have the ability to continue drilling profitable wells for several years.
We're taking the following actions to ensure we can deliver even more locations in this low price environment.
First we will continue our investment in reservoir characterization and optimization of key variables such as well bore spacing lateral length proppant concentration surfactants cluster count and spacing.
These investments drive resource recovery and are fundamental at any price.
Second we will continue to apply enhanced manufacturing principals to our development program.
This will enable us to achieve efficiencies at an accelerated pace.
Third we will continue our efforts to enhance our base management and maintenance activities.
This will ensure optimized production levels while minimizing associated operating costs.
Lastly we continue to aggressively work with our suppliers to improve operating productivity eliminate constraints and lower costs.
These actions are consistent with the long term strategy I have discussed in previous calls.
I'm encouraged by the urgency and actions our employees and contractors have already demonstrated in delivering on these initiatives.
I will now discuss our Permian EOR business.
While it hasn't drawn much attention in the last couple years with the industry focused on high growth resource programs our Permian EOR business remains very profitable.
Oxy is the leader in Permian basin CO2 flooding with over 30 active floods and 40 years of experience.
This business has weathered prior downturns with resilience and the low decline of these large properties provides a stable base for our production at an advantaged cost.
The Permian EOR business has the agility scale and cost structure to operate in an ultra-low pricing environment.
Currently our total cash costs in Permian EOR is $30 a BOE as shown on the slide.
This takes into account the cost reductions that we have already achieved.
If prices stabilize at today's level or continue to decline all costs that are linked to oil prices would also decline including energy CO2 production taxes and discretionary well maintenance activities.
For example in a $35 per barrel oil price scenario our total cost would reduce to approximately $22 a BOE.
Our DD&amp;A cost is approximately $10 a BOE.
We continue to see opportunity for investment in CO2 projects in the current oil price environment.
Last year we drilled 277 infill wells and continued construction of facilities for new CO2 projects.
When completed our new project at South Hobbs will develop 28 million barrels of oil equivalent of reserves at a cost of $10.60 per BOE.
The CO2 floods have remained a strong business through technology advancement that improves recovery from our large portfolio of conventional reservoirs.
In the Permian Oxy operates reservoirs that collectively contained approximately 18 billion barrels of original oil in place.
Hence even small improvements in recovery efficiency can add significant reserves.
An example of this has been the recent trend towards vertical expansion of the CO2 flooded interval into residual oil zones or ROZ targets.
Over the last few years we have had an ongoing program of deepening wells with 109 wells deepened in 2014 and 81 wells planned in 2015.
This activity escapes much attention because we utilize work-over rigs to drill the extra depth into additional CO2 floodable sections of the reservoir.
These low cost projects add reserves at development rates ranging from $3 to $7 per BOE.
These opportunities exist under many of our CO2 projects and thus far only a fraction of the CO2 flood wells has been deepened.
The Permian EOR 2015 capital expenditures will be approximately $500 million to continue expansion of CO2 floods and water floods.
The EOR business is expected to generate free cash flow this year even in the current oil price environment.
We will complete construction and begin injection at the new South Hobbs project.
Additionally we'll also start construction of a significant expansion at the successful North Hobbs CO2 flood where CO2 flooding has added a sustained 5 300 barrels of oil per day to the unit's production since this project began in 2003.
Our EOR business has unrisked gross resource potential of up to 1.9 billion barrels providing us with a vast inventory of future CO2 projects which could be developed over the next 20 years or accelerated depending on market conditions.
Our current strategy for this business is to investment sufficient capital to maintain current production thereby providing cash flow to support growth in our Permian resources business.
By exploiting natural synergies between our EOR and resources businesses Oxy is able to deliver unique advantages efficiencies and expertise across our Permian Basin operations.
In closing our 2014 exploration and appraisal programs have successfully set us up for a strong 2015 development program in Permian resources.
Our portfolio of high quality assets combined with our value-oriented discipline enables us to deliver efficient growth.
We will execute a focused development strategy in 2015 and continue to pursue step changes in well productivity and cost structure.
Our first quarter production of 2015 will be negatively impacted by approximately 4000 BOE per day due to the winter weather events that occurred in the Permian Basin in January.
But we do expect to deliver our previously stated target of 100 000 BOE per day from Permian resources in 2015.
Our combined EOR and resources production is significant and accounts for 15% of the production from the Permian basin.
Our development program along with the synergies delivered by our resources EOR and midstream businesses have us well-positioned to the meet the challenges of this lower price environment.
Now I'll turn the call back to Chris.
Thank you Vicki.
Now we will open the call up for questions.
[Operator Instructions].
Our first question is from Doug Leggate of Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Please go ahead.
I wonder if I could take two please.
Vicky this one is profitability for you.
I guess just to be absolutely clear in this current oil price environment not the $55 that you have put in the plan I guess has the Permian program delivering positive returns? And if you could maybe give some color as to what royalty ownership or what royalty rates you might have in the program for the current year of gas in the Delaware basin.
Yes Doug currently our program at today's prices will deliver about 15% to 20% rates of return and the reason for that is we had an aggressive program appraisal program in 2014 so we have - we're targeting in 2015 our best benches in our best areas.
And we have had really good success recently with improving our completion design.
So we expect the returns to be in the 15% to 20% range.
And if you will refer back to the chart I included in the presentation in Q3 you will see that if you look at the areas where we're developing I think I have some numbers there that generally would enable you to get to the net interest.
Okay.
Maybe just not to belabor the point Vicki but what kind of inventory in terms of what the current pace the wells would achieve the program would achieve that kind of return of $45 oil is that like high grading the portfolio or is that a multi-year inventory that you believe to achieve there? We have high graded the portfolio but we expect to be able to at least at this pace go at least 3 to 5 years with the inventory that we have and if prices continue to improve with respect to the cost structure and I don't mean oil prices oil prices I mean if our cost structure continues to improve based on prices we expect that inventory should increase.
So we expect over time to be able to increase the inventory that we have today.
But at today's pace it would be about 3 to 5 years.
My follow-up is I guess and not a lot of other questions with new operations but Steve I wonder if I could go back just to the progress on the asset sales in the Middle East.
Any updates you can provide especially now that Al Hosn is on-stream and given that the [inaudible] contract expires this year could you help us with how you see maybe things changing in this oil price environment? Well of course the countries are saying that the prices will quickly rebound once the evil shale producers stop producing.
But I think until that happens I think it's going to be slow.
I mean obviously the countries are affected by this.
I mean they are actually affected more by the decline in oil prices than anybody really.
So I suspect that it will be slow.
I think Oman will move along all year.
We just don't know what is going on in Abu Dhabi at this point.
Our next question is from Paul Sankey of Wolfe Research.
Please go ahead.
Steve talking again back to the CapEx program it seems that you have used the strip to come up with the 2015 number.
I just wondered how much lower would you have to take CapEx if we stay at the smaller $45 environment for let's say another year? Well for another year it a little more complicated.
The capital spending on the chemicals and the midstream stuff will fall out naturally going into next year.
So the capital would come down any anyway.
We have only built in the cost savings that have sort of been achieved at this point.
And there is at least another 250 million and maybe another $500 million in savings if - just from the suppliers if prices continue to be low because we basically we provide index how much we're paying to the oil price.
So I don't really know exactly what it would be but I would guess it would be used - if it's 60 we're covering everything at the end of the year.
There is some other stuff that would be reduced and it's probably a little lower than the 60 actually and so if you said okay it is going to be $10 less $10 less is a billion dollars.
So we would have to reduce the capital by a billion dollars.
Most of that we would get from suppliers but there would be some things that would have to be cut.
And then a follow-up would be have you considered selling Oxy and have you considered any major acquisitions? Thank you.
Right now people are cash flow challenged so I suspect selling Oxy is probably not real likely.
But I looked at Chevron it looks like they dont have any free cash.
So anyway if you look at - we have 690 major acquisitions.
It's way too early to be talking about acquisitions.
I think there is still a lot of whistling in the grave yard going on.
And way too early to consider any kind of acquisitions.
Again we generally are not interested in public acquisitions.
Our next question is from Doug Terreson of Evercore ISI.
Please go ahead.
I had a question about divestures as well there is some commentary in the market about possible divestiture of the Al Hosn project which you guys have just completed and so just wanted to ask you is that a possibility? Just if you could provide some color on that and again it wasn't your commentary it was that from others but can you give us an update on the strategic position attractiveness of that position? Well let's talk about what it is.
We have already spent the money.
So there is not really much capital going forward.
There might be an expansion which is really cheap capital out a year or so but putting that aside in a crappy oil price environment probably generate about $300 million of free cash and sort of a decent run about $600 million of free cash a year.
So if you multiply it out by the 25 years that remain roughly you multiply it you get Sr.
between $7.5 billion and it is $12.5 billion of cash generated over the 25 year period.
So from our perspective for a company that pays a lot of dividends and that sort of thing having that sort of asset makes good sense to us.
If on the other hand for a variety of reasons somebody wanted to buy 20% 30% of it to free up cash for something that maybe works better I guess we're open to that.
But you know only in a - if you just look at intrinsically for somebody who pays a lot of dividends you know I think it's a pretty good asset over time.
And then also there is a lot of commentary about Oxy's historical proficiency and recovery so I wanted to see how are you thinking about the opportunity in Mexico potential opportunity meaning do you consider this to be kind of an area of natural alignment for Oxy? And if you do how do you think about the opportunity in Mexico? I mean there's two issues always in foreign activities.
One is the quality of the asset being offered.
And I think if intrinsically they have some enhanced oil recovery assets on offer.
The other part of it what's the financial arrangements.
If you look at some of the other places I won't say where but look at some of the other places where intrinsically the asset might work at $20 a barrel or something like that but if you lay the contract over it doesn't really work at today's prices.
And I think thats the issue in Mexico.
While the asset may be attractive and you can get a lot of - if you had 100% of it would be something that would work pretty well but they have taken a pretty aggressive view about the contract terms.
I think they took the Chinese menu approach where they pick one from every column and everybody's contract.
So I think they got a pretty difficult contract to want to do it and we're not doing it for advertising expense.
I think we would rather frankly put the money into the CO2 projects in the United States where we have low royalties and in fact in some cases we owe the royalties than to fool around with some ridiculous contract in hopes it gets better over time.
Our next question is from Leo Mariani of RBC.
Please go ahead.
Obviously a lot of focus here in terms of how you guys can kind of conservatively manage things.
Wanted to kind of flip the question around and just get a sense if we do start to see an oil price recovery in the second half of the year in 2016 kind of how quickly you can bring rigs back in the Permian and then just additionally is there any kind of loose price framework we should think about where if we do get to 70 is that the number where you start adding rigs? Anything you can help in terms of price would be great.
I think the answer to your question is there's a lot of rigs around in the Permian and there's more available every day.
So I don't think bringing rigs back is going to be a problem.
I think the program has to be somewhat disciplined and so we will be cautious in adding rigs because oil prices may rebound may go back down again.
I'm more concerned really about the demand issues in the world than I am how much the U.S.
business is producing.
But I think if you look at it and said - clearly if we hit the $60 the program will be the way weve described it.
As you get to $70 and maybe a little more aggressive and as you get north of $70 I think we would be somewhat more aggressive.
But I really think that if you look at - if you were able to see the layers inside the company we've got it all matrix if we can actually figure what makes sense at whatever price you want and so our program going forward would reflect that expectation but right now our expectation is conservative I would guess.
All right.
Maybe could you just talk a little bit about the importance of returns on the drilling program plus kind of versus desire to stay cash flow positive or cash flow neutral when you include dividends.
Obviously you focused on getting back to this cash flow neutrality exiting the year at 60.
So as we think about a recovery case in 2016 how much are you focused on making sure you don't outspend versus hey if the returns are good at 70 we're willing to outspend.
Can you talk to that? You got to be pretty certain about your returns before you outspend.
No offense to any oil engineers but they tend to be a little more optimistic than the actual outcome.
And so the corporate management will be fairly conservative about things.
So we need some margin of error.
A lot of damage has being done in the business I think people underestimate the amount of damage being done when this cycle when this current down cycle is complete whether it's a year or two years everybody's balance sheet is going to be not quite as good as when they started.
We're starting at a good spot but I think even the large companies will have more debt-laden balance sheets and not really much to show for it.
So I think you just got to be pretty careful in this environment about what you are doing.
No one really even though the price may recover in the back half of the year I'm still concerned about world demand for oil although I'm heartened to see that in the United States at least the lower gasoline prices have created more people riding around in big cars.
So we're doing all right.
We're rides around the corner.
And I guess just lastly in terms of M&amp;A I just wanted to kind of clarify some of the comments you certainly talked about sort of a challenging market you know for acquisitions at this point in time it sounds like bid/ask spreads having a reset but they are also here in the prepared comments that you had made an acquisition in the fourth quarter of 2014 of 120 000 acres in the Permian of around for $1.3 billion.
Can you give us more color on what you picked up there and what you think about it? It was early in the quarter probably a little early in the acquisition I think the acquisition cycle.
We got we think a price that works in this environment.
It's good acreage.
And we picked up a modest amount of production.
So the goal of the acquisition program in the Permian is to add to our current position so we can drill more efficiently and it's not really to get more acreage.
We have got plenty of acres.
I mean the question really is can we fill in our play what we currently own and allow us to drill more efficiently without moving the rigs so much.
So this sort of acquisition was designed with that intent that we could - that would allow us to be more efficient.
Without efficiency gains I think acquisitions are not very interesting.
Our next question is from Jeffrey Campbell of Tuohy Brothers Investment Research.
Please go ahead.
First just a couple of quick Vicki questions.
I noticed that the Delaware basin second spring had been re-rated from appraisal to development from last quarter to this one.
Is that the zone that youre focusing on in New Mexico? Yes it is.
We're only going to drill second Bone Springs wells in New Mexico in 2015.
It sounded like the reduced vertical drilling is tied to less appraisal work.
Can you identify which appraisal zones are likely to be most affected by the reduced 2015 CapEx? It would really be the zones the benches that are away from our current development areas.
So for example we appraised the benches at South Curtis Ranch and several in the Barilla Draw area so what we're really going to try to do now is focus on the development in those areas.
And our appraisal program is so far ahead we still know a lot about some of our other areas.
We just wanted to get to manufacturing mode so that we can improve our cost efficiency.
So we're still - we're pretty much way ahead with our appraisal program right now.
The thing that we want to do next is to continue to improve on our completion efficiency.
And Steve this is the last question you have spoken some about concerns on demand.
Can you outline where you look for signs of improvement? Particularly as we all can expect that U.S.
oil production is going to increase as oil prices begin some kind of recovery? Well you know I think if I look at U.S.
oil production it will probably increase in the first and second quarter and maybe the rate of increase in the third quarter will fall off and maybe it will be some decline in the fourth quarter.
You know the main consumer of oil today is China.
Any recovery in Europe would be helpful but it's not a driver and so it's China and maybe India.
Also the Middle East has been a large consumer of oil recently and the current environment is - it's just hard to say whether that growth will continue or not.
And I think the world economy I think thats the big question mark going forward.
If we get demand growth lower oil prices stimulate demand this current situation will be over fairly quickly.
If we don't this could drag on quite a while.
Our next question is from [inaudible] of Jefferies.
Please go ahead.
I wanted to ask the question about the importance of operational momentum in the Permian Basin and really where I am coming from here is you are generating very acceptable returns at current prices but that could potentially be significantly higher rates of return assuming a recovery in the oil price.
So given that you are more or less flat on horizontal drilling activity what stops you from let's say having the rig count in the first half of the year and then moving up to a much higher count in the back half of the year? It's basically the contractual position we have.
We have contracted for some rigs that basically come off at mid-year.
And by the time you drill - I mean think about the timing.
Let's say you actually drill a well in the first quarter.
It's the third quarter before it actually produces you know you actually get the revenue so the stuff in the first quarter will basically be a third and fourth quarter production for us.
But I think we have some contracts that need to roll off and that's really controlling the timing more than anything right now.
Okay.
So there is nothing related to utilization of the work force and efficiencies that could be elastic but if you did have a shutdown or anything of it-- It's always inefficient - if just always stop in the middle it's always going to be a problem.
It's got to be a phase-down but it's contractual and a notion that may be there will be some recovery in the back half of the year and you need to drill the wells sort in this first and second quarter to have production in the back half of the year.
We're pretty cautious about the whole thing.
You just can't send things to zero it's just an impractical thing to do right now.
We're doing the best we can to manage through it and I think we will be all right.
Okay.
And if I could ask one more completely unrelated topic you mentioned that the restricted cash was used to pay the dividend in the 4Q should we think in a low price environment restricted cash essentially funding the dividend and how does that affect then the pace of share repurchases? You said that the 71 million you still ultimately expect to buy in on the share repurchase program but would that be a five-year period or are you thinking more like a two-year period? We will start with - I wouldn't get wrapped around the axle on this restricted cash stuff.
Cash is reasonably fungible and all were doing is showing you the account paying down.
It's not really - rather than keep more restricted we just say the dividend comes out of that bank account.
So it has to come from somewhere.
We don't really know about the pace.
We're price sensitive.
You know I point out that really the domestic program last year had an F&amp;D if you cut through all of the BS of $13 $14 and we expect to bring that down some more.
So we're running a pretty profitable program.
Maybe not at $25 oil but certainly in the 50s.
So as far as the pace of the share repurchase the stocks are volatile and when there is negative volatility I guess volatility is always used negatively but nobody ever talks about upside volatility but down side volatility which I'm sure will come at some point in this that's almost a step up and buy a lot of shares rather than just treat it as a constant flow.
So I don't really know.
We set aside a fair amount of money for that this year but if prices are more attractive we will spend more.
I don't really have a budget in the usual sense of the word.
And would you want to comment on what you would find an attractive price to? No I wouldn't want to.
Okay I figured that.
Thanks very much.
Our next question is from Brian Singer of Goldman Sachs.
Please go ahead.
I wanted to follow up on a couple of the earlier questions.
First you mentioned that you would have flexibility to increase activity if you can get another $250 million in savings.
Can you just talk more to what that scenario looks like? Would that mean your portfolio would achieve attractive returns at $60 Brent and you would ramp back up in the areas that you are currently ramping down i.e.
you would recommit to MidCon or would you just ultimately look to focus more on the incrementally-- It would be all Permian.
The MidCon is well putting aside South Dakota is basically gas.
So the Brent price is sort of irrelevant.
And it really can't compete for dollars for quite a while against the Permian.
North Dakota has this huge differential to price right now.
So that's really what's discouraging us up there.
So I think you should plan that in the $60 environment or $65 environment whatever you are thinking that we would spend more in the Permian.
The savings $250 million we could add about 3 rigs on an annual basis to cover that.
So it was running about 100 million a year or so it would probably run a little less now.
So that is a way to think about how much more we would do.
But we got a fair inventory and as prices move up the inventory obviously expands.
And then back to the Permian acquisition in looking at that 100 000 acre deal you mentioned the strength was the efficiency that it has with existing positions.
Based on the placement of your existing acreage within the Permian can you just talk to the scope for how many more fill-in acres would be optimal for you with your acreage positions and whether you see those opportunities becoming available? We don't know about opportunities because some people may have debt and they probably don't want to sell it for less than their debt.
We just don't have any way of pacing that at this point.
We don't really know.
If we found more in the Barilla Draw that would be really interesting and there is acreage around there thats held by others.
And some a little bit in the Midland basin but that is what we have.
I don't know whether it's 300 000 acres or 200 000 it's not millions of acres.
Our next question is from Ryan Todd of Deutsche Bank.
Please go ahead.
Maybe a couple more follow-up questions on the Permian.
Can talk a little bit what you're seeing from a well performance point of view in 2015 and 2016 production targets [inaudible] despite CapEx cuts is this the efficiency gains? Better well performance? Combination of both? It is.
We haven't changed our 2016 target yet because we're still anticipating that.
If prices were to go up we would have the flexibility to add rigs.
We may have to adjust that a little bit toward the end of this year if prices remain where they are but one of the things we're encouraged is we certainly are seeing better performance particularly in the Barilla Draw area and particularly with the last well that I mentioned in the call today.
We're seeing not only opportunities to improve our landing point within the benches but our completion efficiencies are improving and so we're really encouraged with what we're seeing there and what we're see from the Spraberry in the Midland basin.
And then maybe on cost at this point the 2015 budget your approval budget costs in the Permian in 2015 what is it relative to 2014 costs and is it that mostly efficiency gains or do you have anything for price deflation or is that additional upside? We priced about 250 million for cost reductions that we pretty much achieved.
And we expect to get some more but we certainly do price that in already and efficiency gains are built in.
Efficiency gains really come from focusing on a few places rather than going all over creation.
That's really what causes it and we built that in.
So I guess in additional $250 million that you had highlighted on the slide there is certainly potential down side from a price deflation point of view but efficiency gains at least mark-to-market from where you guys are right now I guess.
I guess that's right.
Our next question is from Evan Calio of Morgan Stanley.
Please go ahead.
A few quick follow-ups for me.
First on the buyback I presume most of the buyback in 4Q was executed after or in December after the spin? Yes.
And the second I know that you're price sensitive and/or I would say price aware so do you see the flexibility to use your currency for adding assets if your view it were to be expensive relative? We have never - I think I used stock once in the last 20 years and regretted it ever since.
So maybe I have been doing this too long.
So too good of a memory about bad outcomes.
If you are going to use your stock you really have to make sure that whatever you are doing is significantly accretive.
Cash at least cash you are you only paying 3% or whatever it is interest but if you're using stock we're paying almost 4% in dividends by putting even putting that aside we don't want to dilute the quality of your portfolio with some whacky deal.
And so if you are going to gamble on wackiness you probably ought to gamble with cash rather than stock.
So maybe a follow-up on the Permian acquisition that you made in the quarter any color in terms of location well inventory-- It's a Midland basin acquisition.
And there is a - I mean just a matter of price.
When you talk about locations you also got to factor in price.
I think going in I thought it was about 2700 locations.
Okay.
And will you expect activity there in 2015 or will that be part of your focus area? Yes we do.
Is that due to economics or because it is non-HBP? It is economics principally.
There is some non-HBP.
We will probably use a vertical rig there to keep some of the acreage.
Our last question is from Matt Portillo of TPH.
Please go ahead.
Just a quick follow-up question in regards to your Permian rig count and spending program.
I believe you mentioned you're running roughly 29 rigs coming into the first quarter.
Was curious if you could give us a little bit of color on the cadence of kind of that rig drop as you move through the year to average the 19 rigs in 2015? And then I have a follow-up question with regards to your overall capital program.
Currently we're going to average also 29 rigs in Q1 and then toward the end of Q1 we start to ramp down and by Q3 the beginning of Q3 we will be at 15 rigs.
And at 15 through the rest of the year.
And then in regards to your corporate capital program you mentioned the first quarter will be a bit heavier in terms of CapEx versus the-- You can see that in the rig count.
It just flows out of the rig count.
Right.
And I guess just to maybe try to get a little bit of color around how we should think about the magnitude of the change on cap ex is there any color you can provide as we think about kind of the exit capital program you have talked about in the fourth quarter of 2015 how you would kind of think about the magnitude of the change over the year? I would say directionally we're starting off at about a 1.8 billion in Q1 and ramping down to about a 1.2 billion rough numbers.
This concludes our question and answer session.
I would like to turn the conference back over to Chris Stavros for any closing remarks.
Thank you Emily and thanks everyone for participating today.
Bye.
The conference is now concluded.
Thank you for attending today's presentation.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning and welcome to the Occidental Petroleum Corp.
first quarter 2015 earnings conference call.
All participants will be in listen-only mode.
After today's presentation there will be an opportunity to ask questions.
Please note this event is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Chris Degner Senior Director of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead sir.
Investor Relations</strong> Thank you Rocco.
Good morning everyone and thank you for participating in Occidental Petroleum's first quarter 2015 conference call.
On the call with us today are Steve Chazen Oxy's President and Chief Executive Officer; Vicki Hollub Senior Executive Vice of Occidental and President Oxy Oil and Gas; Chris Stavros Chief Financial Officer; Willie Chiang Executive Vice President of Operations; and Sandy Lowe President of our International Oil and Gas Operations.
In just a moment I will turn the call over to our CEO Steve Chazen who will provide an updated outlook for 2015.
Our CFO Chris Stavros will review our financial and operating results for the first quarter and also provide some guidance for 2015; followed by Vicki Hollub who will provide an update of our activities in the Permian Basin.
As a reminder today's conference call contains certain projections and other forward-looking statements within the meaning of federal securities laws.
These statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in these statements.
Additional information on factors that could cause the results to differ is available on the company's most recent Form 10-K.
Our first quarter 2015 earnings press the Investor Relations supplemental schedules our non-GAAP to GAAP reconciliations and the conference call presentation slides can be downloaded off our website at www.oxy.com.
I'll now turn the call over to Steve Chazen.
Steve please go ahead.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</strong> Thank you Chris.
Yesterday we announced that Vicki Hollub has been named to head our worldwide oil company and will succeed me as CEO when I retire.
Both of us will be visiting shareholders either at conferences or in their offices over the next few months.
My commitment is to remain in place until the board and Vicki feel it is time for me to move on but not any longer.
Vicki has worked for Oxy for over 30 years.
She's had a number of very challenging assignments over the years including operations manager in Ecuador and Russia.
In our California assets she reorganized the business and changed its processes so that it would be stable in a wide range of product prices.
She has built our Permian Resources business into a sustainable profitable growth engine for Oxy.
She's an accomplished team builder has the confidence of executives and employees throughout the business.
She also has had the misfortune of officing next to me for the last couple of years.
The Board of which I'm a part has worked on this succession plan for the last two years.
The directors interviewed a number of executives and considered both internal and external candidates.
In the current volatile business climate our view is that an experienced successful executive who knows our business well is the best choice.
You will find Vicki to be a thoughtful engaging and agent of change for Oxy.
Yesterday we also announced a dividend increase of just over 4%.
This is our 13th consecutive year that we've raised our dividend.
We carefully considered our future capital needs and likely cash flows.
Our current estimates are that we should be able to continue to grow our dividend for many years into the future.
The new ethylene cracker which comes on in 2017 provides a substantial boost in distributable cash from our already-important chemical business.
Our base oil business in Abu Dhabi Oman and the Permian EOR will all support our cash flow and grow modestly over time.
Without profitable growth the company will not prosper.
High rates of growth and cash flow and profits will come from our Permian Resources business.
We remain mindful of the need to pay close attention for drilling for profits not just volume growth.
Our overall financial strength gives us confidence that we'll be able to spend what we need in a range of product prices and still grow our dividends.
I'd like to lay out our goals for 2015 and how we have planned to adjust to lower commodity prices.
Our principal goal for the year is to achieve cash flow neutrality where our operating cash flow covers our capital spending and dividend outlays by the fourth quarter of this year at around $60 per barrel oil prices.
We will achieve this goal through deploying our capital and operating cost savings into further production and cash flow growth driven mostly by our Permian Resources segment and the startup of the Al Hosn gas project.
Year-to-date we estimate that about $400 million is in captured cost reductions.
We expect our 2015 capital outlays to be less than our $5.8 billion budget and some of the savings will be redeployed into Permian Resources.
In short we are learning to do more with less and expect continued improvement in productivity through the year.
The Permian Resources segment has made considerable progress over the last six months improving our capital efficiency.
As slide six illustrates we have at least 16 years of inventory with returns that exceed our cost of capital at oil prices less than $60.
Through continued reduction in drilling and completion costs improvements in productivity we will lower our finding and development costs and increase our inventory of well locations with returns that exceed our cost of capital.
In addition to improved capital efficiency we expect to see improvement in our cash operating costs with reduced workload activity lower energy costs and a larger base of production.
This improved cost structure gives us confidence in driving production growth.
In the first quarter of 2015 we grew U.S.
oil production by 9 000 barrels a day a 5% gain over quarter-over-quarter and 14% year-over-year.
Production growth was driven by our Permian Resources assets which produced 98 000 BOE a day in first quarter of 2015 a 46% increase year-over-year.
Oil production growth in Permian Resources was stronger with a 25 000 barrels per day increase year-over-year.
Given the strong start to 2015 we are increasing our full year guidance for the Permian Resources segment from 100 000 BOE a day to 105 000 to 108 000 BOE per day.
The Al Hosn gas project started up in January with one train online.
During the start-up process production was curtailed to modify the sulfur and NGL processing units.
These adjustments were completed in late April and the plant was restarted.
We expect to ramp-up production through the second quarter and to average (7:13) we expect production of 35 000 BOE a day with the plant running at full capacity in the second half of the year.
Despite a lower capital program we expect production growth of 60 000 to 80 000 BOE per day in 2015 driven by the start-up of the Al Hosn gas project and the focused development program we will run in our Permian Resources segment.
In the United States we expect oil production growth of about 8% partially offset by declines in NGLs and natural gas production.
Vicki Hollub will provide further details in the outlook for the U.S.
oil and gas business.
As we capture price savings from suppliers and improve the efficiency of operations we are able to do more with less spending.
Our capital run rate in the first quarter was higher than the $5.8 billion full year level and will decline through the year given our large acreage position deep inventory with the flexibility to defer drilling and appraisal activities.
Although we will likely outspend our cash flow in the first half of the year we expect that by the fourth quarter our operating cash flow will cover our capital expenditures and dividend payments assuming a $60 per barrel oil-price environment.
We have approximately 69 million shares remaining on our current share repurchase authorization.
We will continue to repurchase shares subject to stock price and market conditions and expect to ultimately repurchase the entire amount.
Now I'll turn the call over to Chris Stavros for a review of our financial results.
Thank you Steve and good morning everyone.
We generated core income of $31 million for the first quarter of 2015 resulting in diluted earnings per share of $0.04 a decrease from both the year ago quarter and fourth quarter of 2014.
The decline in core earnings is primarily due to lower commodity prices for all products.
Our realized oil price for the first quarter of $48.50 a barrel was down about $23.00 a barrel sequentially.
U.S.
natural gas prices also declined down more than a dollar to about $2.50 per MCF.
NGL prices also fell sharply to just under $18 a barrel in the first quarter down about 35% from last year's fourth quarter.
In response to the current price environment we have aggressively ramped down our capital program focusing our development activity in our core areas of the Permian Basin and parts of the Middle East with an emphasis on growing our production volumes more efficiently.
We have also renegotiated many of our supplier contracts which should result in meaningful savings this year which Steve outlined.
The combination of reduced drilling activity the wind down of spending for the Al Hosn project and improved well cost efficiencies resulted in our total capital spending falling to $1.7 billion in the first quarter from $3 billion in fourth quarter of last year.
As Steve noted earlier we expect to be running cash-flow neutral after capital spending and payment of our dividends by the fourth quarter this year at oil prices of roughly $60 a barrel.
Despite the cut in capital we continued our strong domestic production growth generated from our Permian Resources assets.
Permian Resources grew its oil production 68% in the first quarter adding 25 000 barrels per day compared to the year-ago period with total BOE growth of 46%.
Permian Resources oil production improved by 11 000 barrels per day or 22% sequentially to 62 000 barrels a day in the first quarter.
Turning to the specific business segments oil and gas core after-tax earnings for the first quarter of 2015 were $109 million $259 million lower than the fourth quarter of 2014 and $851 million lower than last year's first quarter.
For the first quarter of 2015 total company oil and gas production volumes averaged 645 000 BOE per day an increase of 29 000 BOE in daily production from the fourth quarter and 72 000 BOE per day from the same period a year ago.
As I mentioned earlier our first quarter of 2015 worldwide realized oil price fell sharply declining by 32% and 51% compared to the fourth and first quarters of last year.
After-tax core results for our domestic oil and gas operations were a loss of $89 million compared with income of $59 million in the fourth quarter of 2014 and income of $412 million in the first quarter of 2014.
Results on both a sequential and year-over-year basis at our domestic operations were severely impacted by much lower realized oil prices and to lesser degree lower NGL and natural gas prices.
The negative price impact was partially offset by lower DD&amp;A rates and higher crude oil production volumes for both comparative periods.
Total domestic oil and gas production averaged 326 000 BOE per day during first quarter of 2015 up 5 000 BOE per day sequentially and 24 000 BOE per day on a year-over-year basis with substantially all of the increase coming from Permian Resources.
Domestic oil production was 198 000 barrels per day during the first quarter of 2015 an increase of 9 000 barrels per day from the fourth quarter and 25 000 barrels per day from the year-ago quarter.
International after-tax core income was $200 million for the first quarter of 2015 compared to $355 million from the fourth quarter and $553 million from the same period last year.
The decline for both periods was driven by lower realized oil prices.
International oil and gas production volumes rose by 24 000 BOE per day on a sequential quarterly basis to 319 000 BOE per day in the first quarter of 2015.
Approximately half of the increases to production both year-over-year and sequentially resulted from lower prices affecting our production sharing contracts.
Commencement of production from the Al Hosn gas project added 9 000 BOE per day in the quarter.
Production at Al Hosn for the quarter was less than anticipated as during the start-up of production during the ramp we experienced some commissioning-related issues on the sulfur recovery units.
Modifications have now been made and we anticipate reaching full productive capacity at Al Hosn over the coming months.
Our oil and gas cash operating costs fell to $13.36 per BOE for the first quarter of 2015 compared to $14.18 from the fourth quarter of last year due to the benefit of higher production and lower energy costs.
DD&amp;A for the first quarter of 2015 was $15.35 per BOE compared to $18.09 per BOE during the fourth quarter.
Taxes other than on income which are directly related to product prices were $1.63 per BOE for the first quarter of this year compared to $2.45 per BOE for the full year of last year 2014.
Our first quarter exploration expense was $8 million.
Chemicals first quarter 2015 pre-tax core earnings were $139 million compared with $160 million in the fourth quarter and $136 million in the same period a year ago.
The sequential decrease in earnings primarily reflected lower prices for most product lines and lower caustic soda volumes products partially offset by lower ethylene and natural gas feedstock costs.
Midstream pre-tax core results were a loss of $5 million for the first quarter compared to income of $168 million in the fourth quarter and $96 million in the same period a year ago.
The decline in results for both comparative periods was caused by several factors including lower marketing margins as a result of tighter Midland to Gulf Coast crude oil differentials lower gas plant income which reflected sharply lower NGL prices lower pipeline income due to a turnaround at the Dolphin plant as well as lower third party gas sales combined with the impact from our reduced ownerships in the Plains Pipeline GP after the fourth quarter sale of a portion of these units.
Our cash flow from continuing operations before working capital changes was approximately $1.1 billion for the first quarter of this year.
During the fourth quarter of 2014 our accrued capital spending and operating expenses were based on a work program that was significantly higher than the first quarter of this year.
As we ramped down activity in the first quarter our capital accruals declined and our net working capital declined.
We used about $1 billion in the first quarter of 2015 for payments related to the higher capital operating expenses that were accrued at year end 2014.
As we continue to reduce activity in the second quarter we expect to see further working capital usage as we reduce our accounts payables.
However we expect this to be at a lower rate.
This trend is normal in a commodity down cycle and one that we would expect to dissipate by the third quarter as we reach a more stable level of capital spending.
Should we see a continued recovery in crude oil prices and increase our drilling activity we would expect this trend to reverse and see positive working capital movements.
Total company capital expenditures for the first quarter of 2015 were $1.7 billion and we expect our quarterly expenditures to continue to ramp down through the year.
Oil and gas spent $1.5 billion with Permian Resources expenditures comprising nearly 50% of the total with the remaining $200 million split about evenly between chemicals and midstream.
Based on our lower pace of spending in the first quarter and continued cost efficiency gains we expect our total capital spending for the year to be below our original guidance of $5.8 billion.
Our fourth quarter 2015 exit rate of capital would imply an annualized spending level of approximately $4 billion.
We paid cash dividends of $557 million in the first quarter and purchased 2.7 [audio skip] (16:51) of our shares for $207 million.
Our cash balance at the end of the first quarter of 2015 was $5.4 billion.
As a reminder we currently hold shares in the Plains GP and California Resources Corporation with an aggregate value of about $3 billion.
With respect to CRC we continue to own 71.5 million shares currently valued at about $600 million.
We are required to dispose of all of these shares within approximately a year through either a dividend to our shareholders or in an exchange for either Oxy shares or debt.
Our debt-to-capital ratio was 17% at the end of the first quarter 2015.
The worldwide effective tax rate on our core income was 75% for the first quarter of 2015.
The increase in the rate reflects a higher proportion of international income for the first quarter.
With respect to our oil and gas production domestically we expect our oil production for the second quarter to grow by 5 000 barrels per day with the increase coming from Permian Resources.
Permian Resources is expected to grow its overall volumes by more than 7 000 BOE per day in the second quarter.
Our Midcontinent gas production is expected to decline from the first quarter levels resulting in an overall domestic sequential growth rate of at least 4 000 BOE per day.
We expect our international production volumes to increase by about 15 000 BOE per day in the second quarter.
The increase should come primarily from improving production rates at Al Hosn which we expect to be about 25 000 BOE per day and offset by the loss of production in Yemen due to the civil unrest and security issues in the country.
Although the contract in Yemen was set to expire at the end of this year we anticipate no further production volumes from the country in 2015.
For reference Yemen contributed approximately 9 000 barrels per day in the first quarter.
As Steve mentioned in his opening remarks we have raised our full year 2015 guidance for production growth to a range of 60 000 to 80 000 BOE per day an increase of 20 000 BOE per day versus our previous guidance.
We expect full year production in Permian Resources to be in the range of 105 and 108 000 BOE per day a year-over-year increase of more than 40%.
Overall domestic volumes are expected to increase to over 325 000 BOE per day at least 5% higher than 2014.
Internationally we expect full year volumes from Al Hosn to be approximately 35 000 BOE per day.
Should oil prices move higher our production volumes could be negatively impacted by our production sharing contracts.
Price changes at current global prices affect our quarterly earnings before income taxes by $30 million for a dollar per barrel change in oil prices and $7 million for a dollar per barrel change in NGL prices.
A swing of $0.50 per million BTUs in domestic gas prices affects quarterly pre-tax earnings by about $15 million.
Our second quarter 2015 exploration expense is anticipated to be about $35 million pre-tax.
We expect our second quarter 2015 pre-tax chemical earnings to be about $185 million and second quarter midstream earnings should be in the range of $100 million pre-tax as we anticipate higher gas sales from the Dolphin pipeline and improved marketing margins as a result of wider inland versus Gulf Coast crude oil price differentials.
We expect our interest expense to rise to about $42 million in the second quarter from $28 million in the first quarter as the start of Al Hosn reduces our capitalized interest.
Using current strip prices for oil and gas we expect our 2015 domestic tax rate to be 36% and our international tax rates to remain at about 65%.
To summarize we've demonstrated strong year-over-year production growth of nearly 13% in the first quarter bolstered by our Permian Resources unit.
The performance of this business combined with growing volumes from Al Hosn provides us with confidence to raise our guidance on 2015 production growth.
We expect the growth in our volumes combined with the reduction on our capital spending and improving efficiencies to lead us to a cash flow neutral position by the fourth quarter at oil prices of around $60.
I'll now turn the call over to Vicki Hollub who will provide an update on our operations in the Permian Basin.
Oil &amp; Gas Americas</strong> Thank you Chris.
Today I'll first review the highlights of our Permian Resources and Permian EOR activities in the first quarter and then I'll provide guidance on our program for remainder of 2015.
I'd like to highlight a few key messages.
First Permian Resources performance is exceeding expectations.
Second our core Permian unconventional programs generate strong returns in the current environment and we believe they will get even stronger through our focus on execution excellence.
Finally our Permian portfolio is unmatched in the industry.
The combination of our assets in Permian Resources and EOR along with the expertise and commitment of our teams will allow us to grow the business and live within cash flow in a $60 oil environment.
In the first quarter Permian Resources achieved daily production of 98 000 BOE per day which is a 17% increase from the 84 000 BOE per day that were produced in the fourth quarter and a 46% increase versus the prior year.
With regard to oil we produced 62 000 barrels per day for the first quarter.
This is a 68% increase from a year ago and a 22% increase from the previous quarter.
We would have achieved even higher production but were negatively impacted by approximately 4 000 BOE per day by winter weather events in January.
During the first quarter our capital expenditures were $728 million.
We operated 25 rigs and drilled 86 wells including 61 horizontal wells.
We placed 126 wells on production including 67 horizontals.
This is an increase of 20 horizontal wells from the previous quarter.
At the end of the quarter 16 wells were on flow back and 48 were not yet completed.
Permian Resources has a large inventory of profitable wells to develop in a low price environment and we are successfully implementing four actions that are reducing the economic hurdle point of our inventory.
First we are investing reservoir characterization and optimization to improve well productivity.
Second we are applying enhanced manufacturing principles to improve time to market and reduce costs.
Third we are aggressively working with suppliers to lower cost.
Lastly we are enhancing base management and maintenance operations to maximize production at minimal operating cost.
In the fourth quarter of last year we began transitioning from appraisal mode to a targeted development program utilizing a manufacturing approach combined with integrated planning and engineering.
This has reduced nonproductive time maximized the efficiencies of pad drilling including the use of zipper fracs and has reduced infrastructure cost.
As a result of efforts we have achieved significantly improved well delivery and well costs.
In the Delaware Basin our Wolfcamp A 4500-foot well cost decreased by 24% from 2014's cost of $10.9 million to a current cost of $8.3 million.
We reduced our spud to rig release time by 17 days from 2014's average of 43 days to March's average of 26 days.
In the Midland Basin we reduced the cost of our Spraberry 10 000-foot wells by 19% from 2014's cost of $9.7 million to a current cost of $7.9 million.
In New Mexico we reduced the cost of our Bone Spring wells by 14% to $5.7 million.
These reductions were achieved by implementing design enhancements such as two-string casing design optimizing bottom hole assemblies and bits and utilizing drilling dynamics to improve rates of penetration.
Additionally we continue to achieve reductions in our commercial rates.
Based on the results achieved so far we are confident that by the end of this year we can achieve an average well cost that is 20 to 25% lower than in 2014.
In the Delaware Basin we've currently identified 4 600 horizontal development locations.
We have 1 500 horizontal locations ready for development including 800 sites in the Wolfcamp A bench.
The majority of these locations are in our operated areas of Reeves County.
In New Mexico our Bone Spring potential is equally as significant with 1 500 potential locations.
And in the Delaware in Q1 we operated 10 horizontal drilling rigs and two vertical rigs.
We drilled 45 wells and placed 64 wells on production.
In Barilla Draw we placed 18 horizontal wells on production in the Wolfcamp A benches.
These wells achieved an average peak rate of 1 371 BOE per day and a 30-day rate of 1017.
In the last call I discussed the Peck State 258 #6H well which achieved a 30 day rate of 1 760 BOE per day.
I'm excited to report this well is still producing over 1 000 barrels of oil per day after four months of production.
We continue to achieve encouraging results with our efforts to improve landing zones optimized cluster spacing and increased sand in concentrations.
For example our Eagle State 28#6H well reached an average peak rate of 2037 BOE per day and 30 day rate of 1470 BOE per day.
Additionally our Peregrine 27#8H well achieved peak rate of 1768 BOE per day and 30 day rate of 1309 per day.
In New Mexico the performance of our Bone Spring wells continues to exceed our expectations.
Recently our Cedar Canyon 15 Federal 5H was placed online with an average peak rate of 1322 BOE per day and a 30 day rate of 1127.
In the Midland Basin we've currently identified 2500 horizontal well locations with 1 050 in Spraberry and Wolfcamp A and B benches.
In the first quarter here we operated 11 horizontal drilling rigs and two vertical rigs.
We drilled 41 wells and placed 62 wells on production.
Now I'd like to update you on Merchant which is a new area in the Midland Basin that we mentioned last quarter.
We launched into development mode early in this area and are drilling multi-well pads along with zipper frac completions.
Our Wolfcamp A and B have achieved an average peak rate of 1408 per day a 30 day rate of 1145 and a 60 day rate of 844.
Our current well cost is $7.9 million but we expect to lower it to $6.9 million as we move forward.
The Merchant 1411A well that we discussed last quarter achieved six months' cumulative oil production of 100 000 barrels and equivalent production of 108 000 BOEs.
I'd also like to provide an update on our Permian EOR business which provides a stable and low decline base to our production at an advantaged cost.
As we discussed last quarter our Permian EOR business remains profitable in the current downturn and we are continuing to make investments in these projects that significantly increase oil production from our portfolio of large conventional reservoirs.
The EOR business is expected to generate free cash flow this year even in the current oil price environment.
Continued investment in these long-life projects during the current market will result in more efficient construction costs which will yield a strong base for future growth in resources.
During the first quarter we authorized the first portion of the North Hobbs phase II-A expansion project.
The project will develop 13.7 million BOE of reserves for development costs of $13.82 per BOE.
The phase II project builds on the success of the North Hobbs phase I project where CO2 flooding has added a sustained 5 300 barrels of oil per day that had a peak of 7 000 barrels of oil per day to the unit's production since the project began 12 years ago.
Another significant EOR project in currently progress is the Denver Unit: Battery 5 redevelopment which we will yield 21 million BOE of net reserves for a development cost of $4.80 per BOE.
This project is typical of many opportunities to develop and comingle both the main oil column and the residual oil zone in the same well bore.
The Battery 5 project includes the deepening of almost 150 main oil column producing wells to the residual oil zone.
Year-to-date EOR is ahead of plan and meeting our aggressive cost improvement targets which includes a $65 million reduction in well maintenance.
By applying manufacturing concepts to well repair we have reduced our rig hours per repair by 20%.
This is allowing us to reduce operating costs while maintaining our base production.
In closing we will continue to execute a focused development strategy in 2015 and we'll also continue to pursue step changes and well productivity and cost structure.
For the remainder of 2015 we plan to operate an average of 13 drilling rigs to drill 150 wells in Permian Resources.
This is a higher activity level than previously planned but we believe investing the efficiency gains is the prudent action to take.
As Chris said we expect to produce an average of 105 000 to 108 000 BOE per day in 2015 which exceeds our previously-stated target of 100 000 BOE per day.
Strong production growth from our resources business along with a high volume low capital intensive EOR business keeps us well positioned to not only meets the challenges of this lower price environment but also to profitably grow our combined Permian businesses.
Now I'll turn the call back to Chris Degner.
Investor Relations</strong> Thank you Vicki.
I think we'll now open the call up for questions.
And our first question comes from Doug Leggate of Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
Good morning everybody.
And Vicki congratulations.
It's nice to get that issue behind us.
Looking forward to seeing what you're going to do next.
I guess I've got two questions if I may.
The first one is the Al Hosn guidance.
I just wonder if you could explain the difference between what you suggested at the beginning of the year and what you're looking at now in terms of the reduction in full year expectations.
Then I've got a follow-up please.
Oil and Gas International Production</span></strong> Yeah Doug this is Sandy Lowe.
Plant started up and we have 25% sulfur recovery there.
And some of the sulfur units weren't working quite properly so we took them offline made some modifications.
Today the plant is back up to 45% of production which is about 25 000 BOEs to us and we should be back up at peak production of 1 million a day at the end of the month beginning of next month.
So the guidance that's given already by Chris should be good for the year.
I guess I had a couple of other issues I was going to touch on Sandy but taking advantage of you being there maybe I'll make my second one on your region if I may.
Oil and Gas International Production</span></strong> Sure.
There's been a fair amount of chatter around both the Adnoc concessions obviously your  the slowdown it seems in terms of asset monetization in the region and finally the prospect of extensions in the Oman contracts.
I'm just wondering if you could give us a kind of general update as to how those things stand and I'll leave it there.
Thank you.
Oil and Gas International Production</span></strong> Well I can guide you only as to what you see in the press on the Adnoc concessions.
Everybody who's involved is still bound by a confidentiality agreement.
The press has been reasonably forthcoming in that respect.
As far as asset monetization this  well you know when the price of oil dipped like it is we have kind of two issues.
People want to pay less for it and also they don't have quite as much money to get into it.
So things are somewhat held in abeyance at the moment in that regard.
And the last question I believe was about Oman we're in discussions at the moment.
We're now at record-breaking production in our block nine which is the one under discussion of over 100 000 barrels a day.
So everybody's happy with that.
And so we're just ironing out the details of a new contract with the government.
Any timeline? Because I believe that contract expires this year Sandy.
So what's the prognosis if you don't get it done in the next six months? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> I don't think there'll be an issue with that.
So it will be  if it weren't quite complete I'm sure they would extend us.
All right.
Steve maybe I will just squeeze just one more in given that you jumped in there.
The pace of buybacks given that your stock has lagged -- just curious on your thought process.
Then I will leave it there.
Thank you.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> We continue to buy the stock back on weakness.
And so you should expect that we'll buy back shares over the next year or so and eventually get to our target.
The exact date or exact number each quarter just hard to tell.
All right.
Thanks a lot everybody.
Our next question comes from Evan Calio of Morgan Stanley.
Please go ahead.
Hi.
Good morning guys and congratulations as well to Vicki.
My first question is a strategic question.
Oxy was in the midst of a restructuring and successfully unlocking value prior to the cycle turn and positioned you well with large cash position into this downturn.
I know there's some leadership transition here yet.
How has the cycle changed your restructuring outlook? I know you just mentioned the MENA asset divestiture or the partial divestiture.
But does it alter your view as it relates to midstream or chemicals? And given the balance sheet and does it change your willingness to add resource and accelerate that shift here? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Sort of a complicated question.
The downturn  the cycle of course is  we expect if it stays volatile whatever that means we'd expect opportunities to show up during the cycle either to repurchase our stock or to buy other assets just depending on what's going on.
Right now the asset market is quite expensive so there's no reason to believe we'll do much of that.
As far as the Middle East assets are concerned they fall into two classes of asset.
Those that are  where we've already spent the money and we're clipping coupons which seem fairly attractive in a more-volatile oil price environment.
And those that are more volatile and follow normal trends which seem less attractive in this environment.
So I think that's where we are.
Some of those assets require some work and probably in the end divestiture or discontinuation of work there.
As far as the chemical business is concerned the chemical business once the ethylene cracker is on and the business becomes fully integrated with ethylene its cash flow will be substantially larger than it is now.
And I think that would be the appropriate time to look at whatever makes sense to do.
I think if you do it too early you're going to wind up undervaluing the asset.
So I think we're a couple of years away.
Of course I'll be watching that from the beach.
But  so you can ask Vicki at the time what she wants to do.
Great.
That's helpful.
Maybe let me ask a different question that's kind of I guess the reverse direction of where we were just headed.
Prior to the downturn you discussed going to 54 horizontal rigs in the Permian by the end of 2016.
You're at 21 active now.
I know you just de-ramped yet how are you approaching a potential re-ramp in activity given your potentially higher long-term goals? Is incremental free cash flow how you will drive that rate of incremental spend? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> I'm going to answer first then we'll let Vicki answer.
You might get two different answers.
But I think generally in the most attractive asset we have at almost any product price environment is the Permian business.
Maybe some in the EOR business but also in the Resource business.
Any money we have that's excess is going wind up there.
We've already  I think Vicki mentioned it  we've changed the number of rigs we're going to run by the end of the year.
We're still looking at that.
We got a lot of locations that work in a $60 $65 environment.
If we start a well today we won't see the production really until the third  late in the third or the fourth quarter.
And we've gotten a lot better at bringing the stuff to market faster because the times have really shortened.
That's why we're having a hard time keeping up with our estimates.
I think our estimates are still  have room.
But I think what we're going to try to do  so we may put some more rigs to work depending on the environment.
Our view on this is different than maybe some others.
You get  if you put the stuff on production these wells work.
There's no issue about the returns or whatever.
If oil prices move up you'll get 90% to 95% of that change in that well because you have a little bit of production this year some oil prices are higher next year you're going get 90% of that.
I think this  if there is a boost in prices I think in the end completion costs will start to rise not fall.
So we may be at the part where you want to finish the wells.
And I don't  when you got a lot of locations  we've got thousands of locations  any locations that you put off for now you've delayed drilling for 10 years from now effectively because you've moved them to the back of the line.
So our view is that you drill through this environment.
You reap the returns that are there now.
Oil prices move up you're going get the bulk of that.
I think delaying your production because you know what oil prices are going be next year seems to me to be you know  if people do know I wish they'd send me an email so I could get rich.
Oil &amp; Gas Americas</span></strong> I think I'll go with what Steve said.
But just to build on that I'd like to say that we're certainly keeping our team intact and ensuring that everybody is  has the resources necessary to prepare us to be able to maximize our flexibility.
We're continuing to work on development plans in the areas that are not our core areas because there's certainly a lot of opportunities where with increased prices we could start to ramp up and have lots of opportunities available beyond the core areas we're currently developing.
So what we're doing is laying out those plans evaluating those and starting to go ahead and permit.
And just so that we can  if prices do go up we can ramp up rigs more efficiently than we have in the past.
Just one last one: is there any comment on an optimal pace to retain the efficiencies that you're realizing today? Oil &amp; Gas Americas</span></strong> One of the things we're trying to do is make sure we maintain a minimum level of rigs in order to continue improving our efficiency because you make a good point.
You can't really get efficient if you're not actually out doing the work.
And that's one thing that's provided us a lot of benefit here.
In all areas we have continued operations as you've seen on the charts we've gained significant efficiencies.
At Merchant where we  that's kind of a new startup where we don't have those efficiencies yet but we're starting to see those coming as well.
So we think it's critically important to maintain a certain level of activity with not only rigs but the frac companies that you're using and the other service providers as well.
Great.
Thanks.
And our next question comes from Guy Baber of Simmons &amp; Company.
Please go ahead.
Good morning everybody.
Congrats on nice quarter and Vicki congratulations to you as well.
My first question was on cost structure but obviously you've been very successful in reducing your cost structure in recent months.
You've mentioned $400 million in savings.
Can you discuss where you are in that process? Where you see that number potentially going? And then if you could also just discuss for us how much of that you see as structural and permanent versus temporary and what might reverse when prices begin to rise again? Just trying to understand how that outlook might be structurally proving on the cost front.
Then I have a follow-up.
Oil &amp; Gas Americas</span></strong> The cost structure that we're trying to get to is we currently have some of our contracts with suppliers tied to oil prices so some of those contracts will go up with oil prices.
However the majority of our contracts for the drilling rigs and for our frac providers are not necessarily tied to an oil pricing index.
So what we're really trying to do is get more efficient.
And we expect that the cost structure that we're going to achieve by fourth quarter is going be one that does have some exposure to flexibility in prices but I don't believe that more than 60% to 70% of our cost structure improvement will be associated with oil price changes.
Okay great.
And then I had a follow-up on  I wanted to talk a little bit more about the Permian and capital allocation.
But obviously results in the Permian have improved very rapidly and considerably just in the last six months or so.
So the question is does that rapid improvement really change your view of capital allocation relative to what you would have thought six months or a year ago? Meaning are you much more likely now to commit incremental discretionary capital to the Permian? Or perhaps even look for acquisition opportunities and bolt-ons as opposed to the buy-back versus one year ago.
Just hoping you can elaborate on most recent thoughts there? And what those improvements to the Permian really mean? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well the Permian is obviously doing well.
And we continue to put what's prudent into it.
And we'll continue to focus on it.
But as it generates better results it generates more cash.
And that cash a lot the bulk of that will be reinvested in continuation as long as it does what it's currently doing.
Facts are the reason we sort of are running ahead of our outlook was simply because we didn't think we would be quite this good.
So  and we continue to run ahead of outlook in our plans and we  so I think there's still room there.
I think the buy-back question is quite a different one.
We need to reduce the number of shares outstanding over time.
And we'll do that but just as important we need to increase our cash flow so that we can continue to have more free cash flow to  for dividends and share repurchases.
That's really and the purpose  at the very beginning I said you have to focus on the fact that you can't just save and cut back and that's going to make it better.
If you don't invest and you start to decline you're going to have a hard time recovering from it because you have a decline curve and you're declining against it and you're starting up again.
So our objective is to continue to grow the volumes through the year.
And to the extent we can unless you get a collapse in product prices.
And then the free cash flow that that will generate over the next year can be used to enhance the dividend or repurchase shares.
That's very helpful.
Thanks for the comments Steve.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thanks.
And our next question comes from Ed Westlake of Credit Suisse.
Please go ahead.
Yes.
Congratulations Vicki.
Two questions again on the Permian it's probably going be a theme.
You have a great slide in the deck just in terms of drilling days and getting from your 26 days down to a target of 16.
What's the key thing you're doing differently? Is it just as simple as just getting to an efficiency mode or is there other things you need to do to get to the best in class? And then I've got a question on completions.
Oil &amp; Gas Americas</span></strong> In terms of the drilling days one of the things our team is doing is they're taking an evaluation of the formations that we're drilling through and modeling what it takes in terms of the weight on our bit and rotation of the bit to really design exactly how much we should do how fast we should rotate the bit.
And how much weight we should put on it by interval.
And it's a process that's called mechanical-specific energy and that's one of the processes that's helped us to significantly reduce our drilling days that along with the fact that we're better managing our mud systems and we've seen a lot of improvement there.
We're seeing significant reduction in nonproductive time during our drilling operations.
So  and part of that  a good part of the nonproductive time reduction is due to the efficiencies of our teams and the scheduling.
Some of that is due as well to the fact that the Permian is not as stretched in terms of the support system now that activity is lower.
So it's a combination of a lot of things but the thing I'm most excited about is the engineering that our teams are doing on the wells.
And that's sustainable.
So the drilling-day reduction is one of the things from a cost structure standpoint improvement that's sustainable and that's  we haven't been able to apply that everywhere yet like in Merchant.
That's one of the things that's going to help us further improve our drilling efficiency in Merchant.
It's really based on some incredible work with teams especially with respect to the engineering aspect of what we're doing.
My second question on completions I was down at the Offshore Technology Conference which they may as well call the Onshore and Offshore Technology Conference.
Obviously there's a lot of new technology.
Could you give a sense of any pilots or new solutions which you see driving the EUR improvements or lowering the cost.
Oil &amp; Gas Americas</span></strong> One of the things that we've been trying and we are not prepared yet to talk about the results but we've used several different techniques to isolate how we inject and place our proppant within the horizontal section of the well.
And we feel like that that's the next area that we feel has the most opportunity for improvement.
That's getting the most contact with your proppant through the formation.
So it's getting the most surface area contact in order to create the conduits through the well bore.
What we felt is that if we could isolate our stages with just single clusters rather than two to three to four clusters per stage that we could more efficiently frac the formation.
We've tried some of that and we've tried various types of tools to help us do that.
We're in the process of evaluating those results now and hope to have some things that we can share in the next three to six months.
Thanks very much.
Good luck.
And our next question comes from Ryan Todd of Deutsche.
Please go ahead.
Inc.</span></strong> Great.
Thanks and congratulations Vicki.
Maybe another follow-up question on the Permian.
You have some slides in there that update on well cost deflation in the Permian.
Can you  I guess with the 2014 level a current level and a target level I guess can you talk a little bit about where the current level of well costs are relative to what you implied in the 2015 budget? And then is the target well costs kind of a year end 2015 target? Is that an eventually full blown development program target? I guess maybe talk a little bit about how much of that is from service cost deflation versus improved efficiencies.
Oil &amp; Gas Americas</span></strong> Yeah the target that we're trying to achieve we already have achieved that with some of our wells.
So the current costs where I'm saying we are there is that3 basically an average of what we're seeing.
That is actually our planned numbers were a little bit higher than what  certainly what our target is and sort of in between our target and our current.
But in terms of where we expected to be for Q1 we're ahead of schedule because we're implementing these things as we go.
So the target was where we expect to be by year end.
But we think we will be ahead of that.
Inc.</span></strong> Great.
That's helpful.
And then you addressed costs a little bit earlier and I wasn't clear whether you addressed this point or not.
Last quarter you had targeted $500 million of cost savings.
You said you'd captured $400 million to date.
Any update on whether you expect greater than $500 million at this point or is that a still a reasonable target for the year? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> This is Steve.
I think it's a reasonable target for the year.
I think we'll sort of get there.
But I think  it could be more than that but I think right now we'll stick with that.
Inc.</span></strong> Great.
I appreciate it.
I'll leave it there.
And our next question comes from Roger Read of Wells Fargo.
Please go ahead.
Yeah good morning and congrats Vicki on your new role there.
Coming back around to the Permian Resources for the obvious reasons  as you talked about guidance and being in a situation where you could potentially still exceed that can you quantify at all how much of that is the well performance issues that you highlighted earlier in terms of IP rates and 30 day rates and how much of it is just executing on getting the wells in the ground sort of that if you spud today whether or not you can get it started late Q3 or if it slides well into Q4? Oil &amp; Gas Americas</span></strong> Currently it's principally performance execution.
It's accelerating the well delivery.
However we do have a couple of areas where we're seeing improved performance.
You'll notice that the graphs from the Delaware basin we're still seeing strong performance versus our peers in the Wolf Bone and the Barilla Draw area.
There are other areas where we're seeing improved performance in terms of our program design.
So we're still seeing opportunities to increase our per-well performance and we're seeing  and then the main thing that we're doing there is targeting better landing zones.
So I would say that right now just to go back and bottom-line answer the question it's incredible execution on the part of our teams to get the wells on faster.
And part of it is a little bit of improved recovery on a per-well basis but we still expect there will be more of that to come.
Okay.
Thanks.
And then Yemen as you said earlier that was going to go away anyway.
But I was wondering what was the margin or cash margin per unit that that impacts you? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> I don't remember.
Chris has got it.
It was generating about $15 million a quarter after tax if you want to think about it that way.
Okay.
Appreciate it.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Paul Sankey of Wolfe Research.
Please go ahead.
Good morning everyone and congratulations Vicki.
Steve you start your slides in a differentiated way with talk about dividend growth.
And I think and I assume Vicki will continue this as the primary ultimate aim of OXY.
Can you square the circle because as I said that's a differentiated strategy from most other if not all other U.S.
E&amp;Ps.
Does it mean you have better geology costs lower growth? How is it that you're going be able to deliver a higher dividend growth than others in essentially the same place? Thanks.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well most of them don't have any dividends.
So comparing against an environment with  so we're sort of a tall midget here.
So I think the -- dividends if there is religious activity here I think that's it.
It provides discipline to the management otherwise you print shares do all sorts of wealth destructive things.
The dividends give you discipline.
We have a more diverse business than the typical E&amp;P.
We've got the sort of stable stuff that we've already spent the money on in the Middle East to generate cash.
We've got the Chemical business which always generates cash.
We have a midstream business which generates cash and we have less debt relatively.
So all that provides more cash than the typical and what we do with the cash is we buy in some shares.
And we pay more dividends.
You have to have something that  you can't be at our size  you can't try to compete with somebody makes 10 000 barrels a day and grow.
So we think that our long standing acreage position that's also part of it we didn't just acquire the acreage last month or last year.
We got the EOR business which generates a lot of cash.
In economic terms those are called monopoly profits and that's what you're seeing.
It's the same thing you see at the large integrateds.
That's what differentiates it.
The other guys have a different strategy.
Nothing wrong with their strategy it's just different but we think the cash here will be strong and we invest sometimes unpopularly by the way in things that will generate a lot of cash for a long period of time.
So we always are thinking about how we're going grow the dividend.
I guess she can speak for herself but I think Vicki and Chris have the same basic belief because they've been hearing it for a long time.
So...
Yeah.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> And that's  and Chris is planning on staying so Chris will be your principal person to talk to about financial matters but Vicki will certainly set the strategy.
Well I'm glad to hear that Vicki's not planning to fire Chris.
Could  I guess theoretically.
Let's skip over your politically-incorrect comment and just say assuming you're that not comping against other E&amp;Ps but I would assume an above inflation rate of growth otherwise you're not growing the dividend.
Would that mean that ultimately given the assets that you listed are all more/less zero growth once we get through some of the project start-ups would that mean that we align your long-term volume growth with your long-term dividend growth? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah that probably about right.
Which would be 5%-plus percent but not 10% I guess.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> That's right.
It's hard to say exactly.
Because you have the chemical business which is a little different and that's going to generate a sizable amount of free cash out here.
I'm sure it will generate $1 billion in free cash.
And so that will cover a fair amount of the dividend without doing anything and some growth there.
It's sort of a GDP grower when all is said and done on its cash flow.
Yeah.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> So I mean...
Go ahead.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> That provides the base.
And we just  the dividends are the cost of keeping the shareholders.
It's cost of capital.
However you want to say it.
And without that sort of discipline you'd do all kinds of crazy stuff.
Yeah and just finally would it be fair if harsh to say the other element here is you're coming off a lower base in terms of your operational performance in the Permian and that provides the potential for greater growth? And I'll leave it there.
Thanks.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> I don't know.
Maybe.
But I think growth is growth.
We've spent a lot of time building to this so that we wouldn't be in the same situation that a number of other companies are.
We've spent money and time.
And so we started the acceleration when we knew what we were doing mostly.
And that's really what  and I think we've told you that in the past which nobody listened to.
Okay thanks Steve.
And our last question comes from John Herrlin of Socit Gnrale.
Please go ahead.
Yeah hi just a quick one for me.
Steve nobody would accuse Oxy as being a contra plastic but regarding the Permian you're going to drill in the Resources division I guess Vicki 150 wells.
Can you give me a sense what the split would be Delaware central basin and midland? And that's it.
Oil &amp; Gas Americas</span></strong> Yes of the 150 wells none of them will be on the Central Basin platform.
It'll be almost split half-and-half between the Midland Basin and the Delaware Basin.
Okay great.
That's it for me.
Thank you.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thanks John.
And thank you.
This concludes our question-and-answer session.
I'd like to turn the conference back over to Mr.
Degner for any closing remarks.
Investor Relations</strong> Hi.
Yes.
Thanks everyone for participating.
I know it's been a busy day for you.
Please give us a call if you have any follow-up questions.
Thank you sir.
Today's conference has now concluded.
We thank you all for attending today's presentation.
You may now disconnect your lines.
Good morning and welcome to the Occidental Petroleum Corporation's second quarter 2015 earnings conference call.
All participants will be in a listen-only mode.
Please note this event is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Chris Degner.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Emily.
Good morning everyone and thank you for participating in Occidental Petroleum's second quarter 2015 conference call.
On the call with us today are Steve Chazen Oxy's President and Chief Executive Officer; Vicki Hollub Senior Executive Vice President of Occidental and President Oxy Oil and Gas; Chris Stavros Chief Financial Officer.
In just a moment I will turn the call over to our CEO Steve Chazen who will provide an updated outlook for 2015.
Our CFO Chris Stavros will review our financial and operating results for the second quarter and also provide some guidance for 2015.
He will be followed by Vicki Hollub who'll provide an update of our activities in the Permian Basin.
As a reminder today's conference call contains certain projections and other forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws.
These statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in these statements.
Additional information on factors that could cause results to differ is available on the company's most recent Form 10-K.
Our second quarter 2015 earnings press release the Investor Relations conference call slides our non-GAAP-to-GAAP reconciliations can be downloaded off our website at www.oxy.com.
I'll now turn the call over to Steve.
Steve please go ahead.
Thank you Chris.
We've made progress towards our objectives for this year.
Our principal goal for the year is to achieve cash flow neutrality where our operating cash flow covers both our capital spending and dividend outlays at $60 per barrel realized oil prices.
We will achieve this goal through deploying our capital and operating cost savings into further production and cash flow growth driven mostly by our Permian Resources business unit and the start-up of the Al Hosn gas project.
Year to date we estimated about $450 million in captured cost reductions.
We expect our 2015 capital outlays to be about $5.8 billion as we have redeployed some of the cost savings to drilling more wells in our Permian Resources business unit.
In short we are learning to do more with less and expect continued improvement in productivity through the year.
Despite volatile product prices our Oil and Gas segment has been operating well in nearly all of our key assets.
We've increased total oil production by 16% since second quarter of 2014.
The focused development program in Permian Resources has driven most of the growth as well as strong production volumes in Oman and Colombia.
We've also focused on optimizing our base production.
Rather than making head count reductions during this downturn we've sent many of our engineers out into the field to replace contractors.
They've done a good job of maintaining our base production and driving operating efficiency.
In the Permian we have shifted our Resources business to a focused development program.
We're drilling completing wells at a faster pace and accelerated our time to market.
Total production increased by about 50% year over year  has again exceeded our internal outlook.
As such we have increased our estimate of production for the second half of the year to 117 000 BOE a day.
Actual results continue to improve and outperform our internal outlook.
Al Hosn is a large world-scale project and the first of its kind.
It is reasonable to expect some operational pains as it has ramped up to full production.
In the second quarter of 2015 Al Hosn produced 18 000 BOE a day and sold its first shipment of sulfur.
Due to mechanical challenge in the sulfur recovery units the plant was limited to 50% of capacity for most of the quarter and production was curtailed for most of the month of April.
Repairs to stabilize the sulfur units were completed in July and the plant has responded well as production has ramped up.
The plant is currently producing at about 50 000 BOE a day to us and we expect it to contribute about 30 000 BOE a day in the third quarter.
Despite a lower capital production we expect production growth of 70 000 to 80 000 BOE a day in 2015 driven by the start-up of the Al Hosn gas project and focused development program in Permian Resources.
In the United States we expect oil production growth about 8% partially offset by declines in NGLs and natural gas production.
Vicki Hollub will provide further details on the outlook for the U.S.
Oil and Gas business.
Construction on the Ingleside ethylene cracker is ahead of schedule and on budget.
There are currently 1 300 workers on-site.
Construction is about 30% complete and over 80% of the equipment has been purchased and delivered.
We expect to be more than 70% through our capital spending on the project by year-end and for the plant to start up in early 2017.
As we capture price savings from suppliers and improve the efficiencies of our operations we're able to do more with less spending.
Our capital spending in the second quarter declined by about $250 million and will continue to decline throughout the year.
As for  our forecasted capital spending level in some Middle Eastern assets may be slightly higher than expected this year.
However the production sharing contract should allow us to quickly recover our capital costs with increase in oil production.
We expect the exit this year at a quarterly spending rate of $1 billion to $1.2 billion.
If oil prices remain at current levels around $50 our 2016 capital will be less than both the 2015 full year and the fourth quarter run rate.
Given our large acreage position and deep inventory we have the flexibility to defer drilling and appraisal activities.
Although we will outspend our cash flow this year we expect that going forward our operating cash flow will cover our capital expenditures and dividend payments assuming $60-per-barrel oil price realizations.
We continue to invest growth capital in the Permian Resources segment.
Over the first half of the year we did not make any meaningful acquisitions nor do we have any in the pipeline.
The market for asset acquisitions in the Permian Basin has been heated with new entrants paying sizable premiums for acreage.
With our deep inventory of assets we will focus on organic growth with a low possibility of selective bolt-on acquisitions that leverage our existing infrastructure and geologic understanding.
We have approximately 64 million shares remaining under our current share repurchase authorization.
At current stock price levels we would view the stock as attractive for repurchase.
Now I'll turn the call over to Chris Stavros for a review of our financial results.
Thank you Steve and good morning everyone.
First I want to highlight some new formatting around our quarterly disclosures.
We created a set of earnings release schedules that replaces the previous IR supplemental schedules.
The new format is more comprehensive providing condensed quarterly financial statements plus quarterly data going back for the entire prior year.
We generated core income of $165 million for the second quarter 2015 resulting in diluted earnings per share of $0.21 an increase of $0.04 per share in the first quarter of 2015 and a decrease from $1.38 per share in the second quarter of 2014.
Worldwide oil prices improved about $6 a barrel in the second quarter of 2015 compared to the first quarter but still remain well below prices comparable to last year.
U.S.
natural gas prices continue to decline down about $0.40 per mcf from the first quarter and NGL prices stayed essentially flat.
Our second quarter capital spending was about $1.5 billion down 14% from the $1.7 billion we spent in the first quarter.
We continued to ramp down our capital program in the second quarter focusing our development activity in core areas of the Permian Basin and parts of the Middle East with an emphasis on growing our production volumes and importantly our operating cash flow.
Despite the reduction in this year's capital program we continued to grow our domestic Oil and Gas volumes driven by our Permian Resources operations.
Permian Resources grew its oil production 78% in the second quarter adding 31 000 barrels per day compared to the year-ago period with total BOE growth of 51%.
Production from Permian Resources improved 11 000 BOE per day sequentially with 9 000 barrels per day coming from oil.
Turning to the specific business segments Oil and Gas core after-tax earnings for the second quarter 2015 were $108 million $130 million higher than the first quarter and $833 million lower than last year's second quarter.
As I mentioned earlier the largest impact of the change in year-over-year earnings was due to lower oil prices.
For the second quarter of 2015 total company Oil and Gas production volumes averaged 658 000 BOE per day an increase of 13 000 BOE in daily production from the first quarter and 78 000 BOE per day from the same period a year ago.
Total company oil volumes were 433 000 barrels per day in the second quarter 61 000 barrels per day higher than the year-ago period for an increase of 16%.
Total domestic Oil and Gas production averaged 333 000 BOE per day during the second quarter 2015 up 7 000 BOE per day sequentially and 25 000 BOE on a year-over-year basis with all of the increase coming from Permian Resources.
This was partially offset by lower production from our Midcontinent assets where we have ceased our drilling activity.
Domestic oil production was 205 000 barrels per day during the second quarter an increase of 7 000 barrels per day sequentially and up 26 000 barrels per day or 15% from the year-ago quarter exceeding our earlier guidance for the period.
For the year to-date overall domestic production volumes have exceeded our expectations.
Our domestic production growth for the first six months of 2015 resulted in an additional $175 million of operating cash flow when compared to the last six months of 2014 and using current product prices for both periods.
We achieved this growth while reducing our domestic capital by $389 million.
In summary we not only drilled and completed the wells but sequentially grew both our production volumes and operating cash flow which can be reinvested in the business.
International Oil and Gas production volumes averaged 325 000 BOE per day during the second quarter up 6 000 BOE per day sequentially and 53 000 BOE per day on a year-over-year basis.
Production from the Al Hosn gas project increased by 9 000 BOE per day from this year's first quarter to 18 000 BOE per day in the second quarter and as Steve mentioned also realized the sale of its first shipment of sulfur.
Production was curtailed during much of the second quarter as mechanical modifications and adjustments were made to the sulfur recovery units.
These adjustments have been completed and we expect our net production to exit this month around 50 000 BOE per day.
Our second quarter Oil and Gas cash operating costs of $12.10 per BOE declined 9.0% from the first quarter of $13.36 per BOE due to lower surface and downhole maintenance costs lower workover costs as well as higher production volumes.
DD&amp;A for the second quarter was $16.06 per BOE compared to $15.35 per BOE during the first quarter.
Taxes other than on income which are directly related to product prices were $1.85 per BOE for the second quarter of 2015 compared to $1.63 for the first quarter of 2015 and $2.45 per BOE for the full year of last year.
Chemical pre-tax earnings were $136 million for the second quarter of 2015.
Results were lower than expected due to higher ethylene feedstock costs and lower caustic soda prices as well as some unplanned outages at two of our VCM plants.
Midstream pre-tax earnings were $84 million during the second quarter compared to a loss of $5 million in the first quarter of this year and income of $130 million in the same period a year ago.
Our Midstream segment is composed of physical marketing pipelines power and gas processing.
Our physical marketing is exposed to spreads between WTI Midland and Gulf Coast pricing through multiple pipeline commitments.
In the second quarter our Midstream segment results benefited from wide price differentials.
We expect this benefit to partially reverse in the third quarter as price differentials have narrowed.
Our gas processing business converts wet gas to NGLs.
Currently NGLs are trading at an equivalent price to natural gas which is insufficient to cover the plant operating expenses.
Our domestic pipelines as well as the Dolphin pipeline generate a relatively stable and strong stream of tariff income from transporting crude oil and natural gas.
Operating cash flow before working capital changes for the first six months of 2015 was $2.6 billion.
As I mentioned higher production volumes resulting from our continued investment in the Permian as well as improved oil price realizations resulted in a sequential increase of about $400 million in operating cash flow before working capital changes to $1.5 billion in the second quarter.
Working capital declined by $950 million during the first six months of 2015.
At December 31 of last year accounts payable was $5.2 billion and as of June 30 of this year it decreased by $1.1 billion to $4.1 billion.
This decrease was due to payments related to higher capital and operating spending accrued in the fourth quarter of last year but not paid until 2015.
Total company capital expenditures for the first six months of 2015 were $3.2 billion and about on track with our full-year 2015 capital budget of $5.8 billion.
Oil and Gas spent $2.7 billion in the first half of 2015 with Permian Resources expenditures comprising 47% of the total and the remaining $500 million split nearly evenly between chemicals and midstream.
The continued growth in our operating cash flow should help us to achieve our goal of being cash flow neutral after capital expenditures and dividends at oil prices of roughly $60 a barrel.
In June we completed a bond offering issuing senior notes at 3.5% and 4.625% and received net proceeds of approximately $1.5 billion.
The proceeds were used to build liquidity and partially prefund some of our debt maturing in the first half of 2016.
Oxy's credit ratings remain unchanged at A by Moody's and S&amp;P.
We paid cash dividends of $1.1 billion in the first six months of 2015 and purchased 7.4 million shares of our stock for $571 million.
This amounts to an annualized cash return of 6.2% for our shareholders.
The share repurchase activity for the first six months also has the benefit of reducing our annualized dividend outlays by approximately $22 million.
Our cash balance at the end of the second quarter was $5.1 billion.
Our long-term debt-to-capitalize ratio was 17% at the end of the second quarter.
The worldwide effective tax rate on our core income was 65% for the second quarter of 2015.
Looking ahead to the third quarter domestically we expect production from Permian Resources to grow by roughly 5% sequentially on a BOE basis including 5 000 barrels a day of oil growth.
Growth in the Permian should be roughly offset by declines in our Midcontinent production leaving overall third quarter domestic production about flat with the second quarter.
We expect our international production volumes to increase by about 10 000 BOE per day in the third quarter.
Production rates at Al Hosn should continue to improve increasing to about 35 000 BOE per day on average in the third quarter.
The increase from Al Hosn should be partially offset by approximately 8 000 barrels per day of lower volumes in Colombia due to pipeline disruptions experienced during July.
Assuming no meaningful disruptions during the second half of the year we are raising the lower end of our full-year 2015 production guidance range from 650 000 to 660 000 BOE per day.
Our current estimate of full-year 2015 volumes of 660 000 to 670 000 BOE per day will provide year-over-year growth of 12% to 13%.
Price changes at current global prices affect our quarterly earnings before income taxes by $30 million for a $1 per barrel change in oil prices and $7 million for a $1 per barrel change in NGL prices.
A swing of $0.50 per million BTUs in domestic gas prices affects quarterly pre-tax earnings by about $15 million.
Our third quarter 2015 exploration expense is anticipated to be about $20 million pre-tax.
We expect our third quarter 2015 pre-tax chemicals earnings to be about $140 million.
Our third quarter midstream earnings will be principally impacted by Midland to Gulf Coast oil price differentials.
We expect our interest expense to increase to about $50 million in the third quarter from $7 million in the second quarter.
The sequential increase is due to expensing of previously capitalized interest on the Al Hosn project and the $1.5 billion senior notes we issued in June.
Using current strip prices for Oil and Gas we expect our full-year 2015 domestic tax rate to be 36% and our international tax rates to remain about 65%.
To summarize we demonstrated strong year-over-year production growth of nearly 13% in the second quarter bolstered by continued growth in Permian Resources and from the Al Hosn project.
We also continued to grow our operating cash flow which is being used to organically reinvest in the business while providing a balanced return of cash to our shareholders.
I'll now turn the call over to Vicki Hollub who will provide an update on our operations in the Permian Basin.
Oxy Oil and Gas  Americas</strong> Thank you Chris.
Today I'll review the highlights of our Permian Resources and Permian EOR activities in the second quarter and then I'll provide guidance on our program for the remainder of 2015.
I'd like to highlight a few key messages.
First Permian Resources is continuing to drive capital costs down through improved execution efficiency in drilling and well completions.
Second production again exceeded expectations due to reduced time to market and better-than-planned well performance.
Finally the positive returns of our Permian unconventional programs in this environment along with the large-volume low-decline production from our EOR operations provides us flexibility and a wide range of product prices.
The advantages this portfolio provides can't be duplicated in the Permian Basin.
In the second quarter Permian Resources achieved daily production of 109 000 BOE per day a 12% increase from the first quarter and a 51% increase versus the prior year.
Oil production increased to 71 000 barrels per day a 15% increase from their previous quarter and a 78% increase from a year ago.
We drilled 47 wells including 42 horizontals.
We placed 71 wells on production including 53 horizontals.
In the second half of this year we'll operate about 12 rigs and drill and complete at least 100 horizontal wells.
We continue to work on four key activities that are adding more wells to our inventory and reducing the economic hurdles of our inventory.
First we've used our vast database to update our basin hydrocarbon richness map and to build the petrophysical and geochemical models necessary to improve well performance and to add more locations to our inventory.
Second our teams have further reduced our drilling and completion costs and optimized the value of a manufacturing approach in our key areas.
Third although we have achieved significant cost savings from our vendors we continue to look for creative ways to reduce service and materials cost further.
Lastly we're enhancing base management and maintenance operations to maximize production at minimal incremental cost.
These activities have generated higher-than-expected production and have lowered our finding and development cost thereby increasing our inventory of drilling locations that deliver returns which exceed our cost of capital.
We'll provide an update of our inventory by play and breakeven prices later this year.
In the fourth quarter of last year we began transitioning from appraisal mode to a targeted development program utilizing a manufacturing approach combined with integrated planning and engineering.
This has reduced nonproductive time maximized the efficiencies of pad drilling including the use of zipper fracs and has reduced infrastructure costs.
As a result of these efforts we have achieved significantly improved well delivery and lower well cost.
As the example on slide 27 illustrates we've reduced our drilling time by about 50% and our costs by about 40% in a recent Wolfcamp A well in the Delaware Basin.
Our improvements were driven by adopting and adapting oilfield technology including an advanced mud system to eliminate casing across the salt interval in the wellbore.
Oxy Drilling Dynamics is a proprietary system we have developed by expanding upon mechanical specific energy concepts to improve rates of penetration.
This improvement in drilling efficiency is a structural change to our business that will sharply lower our cost irrespective of pricing concessions from our suppliers.
In the Delaware Basin our Wolfcamp A 4 500-foot well cost decreased by about 40% from 2014's cost of $10.9 million to a current cost of $6.8 million.
We've reduced our drilling time by 23 days from 2014's average of 43 days to 20 days.
I would note that even as we have lowered our completion cost per well we've optimized the density of our completions and profit loads and have been drilling longer laterals.
As I'll highlight later our productivity has continued to improve while we have lowered our costs.
In the Delaware Basin we've identified 900 additional horizontal development locations for a total of 5 700.
We have 2 000 horizontal well locations ready for development including 800 sites in the Wolfcamp A bench.
The majority of these locations are in our operated areas in Reeves County.
In New Mexico our Bone Spring potential is equally as significant with 2 300 locations.
Our well performance in the Delaware Basin continues to be strong.
We placed 13 horizontal wells on production in the Wolfcamp A benches in the second quarter.
These wells achieved an average peak rate of 1 359 BOE per day and a 30-day rate of 988 BOE per day.
The Moore Hooper 3H well achieved a 2 389 BOE per day peak rate and a 1 769 BOE per day 30-day rate.
Additionally our Lenox 2 5H well achieved a 2 425 BOE per day peak rate and a 1 506 BOE per day 30-day rate.
Both of these wells produced around 70% oil and we believe that they are among the most prolific drilled to date in the Permian Basin.
Now I'd like to shift to the Midland Basin.
We've made similar improvements in well cost and drilling days in our Wolfcamp A wells in the eastern part of the Midland Basin.
We reduced the cost of these 7 500-foot horizontal wells by 30% from 2014's cost of $9.2 million to a current cost of $6.5 million.
We reduced our drilling days by more than 50% from 46 days in 2014 to 20 in the second quarter.
Through our program this year and in evaluating the acreage from the acquisition in December we have added 600 horizontal locations in the Midland Basin for total now of 3 100.
Most of the additions were in the Wolfcamp A and Spraberry formations and we now have 2 000 identified locations ready for horizontal development.
A new area for us is in the Midland Basin.
It's called Big Spring which was part of the December acquisition.
We launched into development early this year and in the second quarter we brought online the May 1102H (25:09) Wolfcamp A well at a peak rate of 1 846 BOE per day and a 30-day rate of 1 262.
The well is producing at over 85% oil.
These Wolfcamp A well results have been outperforming our initial type curves for this emerging play in Howard County.
Now shifting to Permian EOR where year to date we're ahead of plan and meeting our aggressive cost improvement target.
We've reduced the cost of drilling San Andres wells by about 30% through optimized drilling parameters and crew efficiency.
Additionally we've reduced our downhole maintenance hours per job by 20% since the fourth quarter by applying the learnings gained from a manufacturing approach to well maintenance.
We have 15 000 wells in the Permian EOR business and expect to reduce our 2015 downhole maintenance and enhancement cost by $60 million versus 2014.
These cost reductions will further increase the free cash flow generated by our Permian EOR business in the current oil price environment.
Despite the low price environment we're  continued to commit to developing our technical talent and recently finished construction of a new training center in Midland that will open in September.
In previous industry down cycles we've seen in the industry overreact through widespread layoffs.
We're taking a different approach with our response to low oil prices and have deployed many of our engineers in the early stages of their careers out into the field where they have replaced contractors.
They are successfully helping to optimize our base production improve drilling times and gain on-the-ground experience.
In closing we'll continue to execute a focused development strategy in 2015 and we'll pursue additional step changes in well productivity and cost structure.
For the remainder of 2015 we plan to operate an average of about 12 drilling rigs to drill around 100 horizontal wells in Permian Resources.
This is a higher activity level than planned but we believe investing efficiency gains back into Permian Resources is a prudent action to take.
We expect to produce an average of 117 000 BOE per day in the second half of 2015 and for the business to drive continued growth in operating cash flows.
Strong production growth from our Permian Resources business along with the high-volume low capital-intensive Permian EOR business keeps us well-positioned to not only meet the challenges of this lower-price environment but also to profitably grow our combined Permian business.
Now I'll turn the call back to Chris Degner.
Thank you Vicki.
We'll now open up for questions.
Emily? Thank you.
We will now begin the question and answer session.
Our first question is from Evan Calio of Morgan Stanley.
Please go ahead.
Hey good morning everybody.
My first question  Permian Resources production beats again very impressive cost and efficiency improvements here.
Really two questions does your performance lower your existing targets? And secondly how would you benchmark your Permian operating performance versus peers where there's a peer scope (28:36) to see some continued improvement for a group that's improving at a pretty fast pace? Oxy Oil and Gas  Americas</span></strong> Currently we feel like in the Delaware Basin we're definitely upper quartile in terms of drilling performance.
And actually we've recently compared our performance to some of our competitors.
And we feel like there's maybe one or two operators that have had a couple of wells  a few wells better than ours.
But with the direction that we're headed we expect to be first in performance in drilling in the Delaware Basin due to the activities and initiatives that I just discussed.
And with respect to well performance we looked recently at what some offset operators are doing and compared to offset operators in the Delaware Basin as I said in my discussion here we believe that we've just completed some of the best wells in the basin in the Delaware.
In the Midland Basin this new area that we're developing now in Big Spring is certainly showing some of the best production that we've seen yet in the Midland Basin as well.
So in some areas in the Midland Basin we're about par and in some cases slightly lower than some of our competition but certainly this Big Spring area is competing very well as is Merchant.
Right.
And does that reset your targets in terms of the targets you put forth in the slides? Oxy Oil and Gas  Americas</span></strong> For now what we're trying to do is  we feel comfortable with what we've stated for the second half of this year.
So that's the target we expect to be able to hit which equates to about a 109 000 [BOE] average for 2015.
With respect to 2016 our targets on a per-well basis on the average are going to increase but what we haven't determined yet is what level of activity we'll have for 2016.
So we feel very comfortable that we're going to have a stronger program going into 2016 but the level of capital spend will depend on market conditions.
Yeah fair.
My second question relates to locations.
There's also a large uptick in locations in Delaware and Midland and particularly in development-ready locations.
I mean it sounds like a model change there that you discussed but can you give us maybe any further color on that change? And how's that change continuing to evolve throughout the year? Are there drivers for additional scope change given the pretty significant jump there? Oxy Oil and Gas  Americas</span></strong> Yeah what's happening is our teams have become so efficient in a number of areas.
So we're not just getting good with drilling  and the drilling has been the part of our performance that we've highlighted a lot.
So drilling performance is significantly improving and it's improving because of the modeling work that our teams are doing in addition to the execution in the field.
So it's a combination of our planning our design and our guys in the field executing it very well.
In addition to that though we have an efficiency team that's driving how we do our business.
From the time that we go out we decide to spot a well to the time that we get it to sales every segment of that we've worked on to try to improve our efficiency.
And that's gone really well which has been a big part of the acceleration in addition to the improvement in a per-well basis in terms of initial rates and performance.
The other thing that's helping us significantly is the business units working with our exploitation team to enhance what we understand about the reservoir now.
So our modeling work especially our petrophysical geomodeling and our mapping has enabled us to do a better job of selecting where to place the lateral part of the well not only where to spot the well but where to put the lateral section of the well and also how to complete it.
And while we've seen significant improvements in our wells with the design changes we've made we feel like there are still more improvements to be made and we're continuing to work it.
I think you mentioned that you are going to provide price sensitivity later in the year but are these locations conditioned on a strip or any particular price level currently? Oxy Oil and Gas  Americas</span></strong> Well in the slides you'll see that we have an inventory of our current well locations identified and what it shows is the inventory that we can drill by price range.
But I want to point out here that this inventory  it's on slide 25 I think  but the inventory that's shown on that slide really is not updated for not only well performance but it hasn't been updated for our current cost structure.
So we'll be updating that at the end of the year and you can use that as the guide to see the level of inventory that we have based on what the oil price is.
And this is based on delivering returns that are greater than our cost of capital.
Very good great.
I'll leave it there.
Thanks.
Oxy Oil and Gas  Americas</span></strong> Okay.
Our next question comes from Doug Leggate of Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
Good morning everybody.
Vicki I can't help but notice the absence of any meaningful commentary around the Middle East in the slide deck this quarter.
I guess following on from Evan's question substantially greater opportunity perhaps in the Permian Basin.
As you think about the transition of the CEO role over the next year or so how does your view of the Middle East (34:22) generally  obviously there's a lot of large core assets but there's also a lot of smaller non-core assets.
How do you think about your preparedness to invest in those kind of areas the type of returns the risk profile and so on compared to the short-cycle fairly-well-known entity that you have right your backyard? In other words is the Middle East back on the table as a potential rationalization story? And I've got a follow-up please.
Oxy Oil and Gas  Americas</span></strong> Well we're looking at the Middle East basically as a group of what we consider core assets versus non-core assets.
And the assets that we consider to be really core to our business over there are the assets in Oman the Al Hosn project the Dolphin project.
Those are our cash flow generators so the steam flood in Mukhaizna is certainly one of the projects that's very important to us.
Some of the other assets in the Middle East  we're currently in Qatar that's been a good project for us.
That still has five years left on the contract there.
Some of the other assets are assets that as we've mentioned before are assets that are non-core to us and given the opportunity we would work to try to monetize or exit those.
I don't want to risk wasting my follow-up on this but the Omani contract obviously is something that when you mentioned Oman you mentioned the steam flood but you've got 35 000 or so barrels a day of production there today in a contract.
Is that asset competitive? Is it delivering free cash flow at this point? Yeah this is Steve.
In other words would  go ahead Steve.
She's new to the Middle East but she'll answer next quarter.
The answer is yeah it's a free cash flow generator at this point.
Whether it's competitive or not is hard to measure.
And so as you know what happens is you invest the capital and you get it back within the year typically.
So while you show a lot of investment you get it back fairly quickly and then some profit oil to go with it.
So it's an okay contract at this point.
But that's the same kind of financial characteristic that the Permian Resources has frankly just looking at it financially.
And so the issue that Vicki will wrestle with over the next few months is whether it's competitive to continue to invest  basically shifting that capital to the Resource business which basically has the same kind of payout timeframe maybe a little longer than Resources but not much.
So that's really what we're having to wrestle with and we'll look for a contract extension that is at least as good as what we could get a lot closer to home.
Okay.
Thanks for elaborating Steve.
My follow-up is  I guess is one of the things that we periodically revisit and it's the dividend.
And obviously you've got a big dividend commitment.
The stability of the underlying cash flow is a big I guess funding mechanism CO2 chemicals and so on.
But if you shift your capital allocation let's say to the Permian away from those long-life assets that you have in the Middle East one could argue that the visibility on long-life cash flow to sustain that dividend growth kind of starts to deteriorate a little bit.
So what I'm really coming round to is how do you reset the dividend level such that you're able to maintain one of the  I guess the anchors of Oxy's legacy investment case which is dividend growth? And of course what I'm really getting at is where's your head at on the buyback? Are you going to scale down the shares in order to reset that dividend commitment? And I'll leave it there Steve.
Thanks.
Yeah I'll answer that for now.
And we've talked about this a lot; it's not some new topic.
If we concentrate the Middle East on the long-lived projects that'll generate relatively more free cash flow.
In fact if we stopped investing in the so-called non-core group we'd have more cash flow than we have now.
So they're basically users of cash for either overhead or whatever.
And so we think we could improve the cash flow out of the Middle East with that.
The CO2 businesses and the chemical business chemical business will finish the cracker here in a year or so.
The cash flow will improve there.
We think the dividend will be fairly easy to maintain.
However it will require some shrinkage of the shares; there's no question about that.
And so one of our objectives over the next timeframe would be to shrink the shares and therefore reduce the dividend especially at the current prices of the stock where the dividend yield is exceptionally high.
Appreciate the answer Steve.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Ed Westlake of Credit Suisse.
Please go ahead.
Yes.
Good morning Vicki back onto the Permian if I may.
So you've got this $6.2 million target for well costs  I think that's what Evan was trying to get to  to see where that could get down to.
What the limit you think is on that? And then I've got a follow-on about recoveries.
Oxy Oil and Gas  Americas</span></strong> The $6.2 million is the target but we feel like that we still have opportunities to lower beyond that.
We actually have achieved that with some of our wells but we're just not achieving that on the average yet.
We're still seeing opportunities; the teams are working on new ideas.
I think that there's a good possibility we could get below the $6.2 million.
Not only that target in the Delaware Basin but our targets in the Midland Basin as well.
They're making some really good progress doing some very good work modeling.
The other experiment you that you spoke about on the last call obviously making progress on landing zones proppant intensity and cluster spacing all of these things that the industry's using.
And we're seeing some individual well results that you flagged out for example in the Delaware on slide 30.
And the average is kind of static.
So I'm just kind of wondering if there's a sort of help you can give us in terms of where you think you could get to from these spot wells  they could be sweet spots  versus the average that you're delivering across the play? Oxy Oil and Gas  Americas</span></strong> Yeah what we're trying to do in the Delaware Basin I think I mentioned before is that the 3D seismic that we're acquiring that would be something that could help us identify  or actually it's the next step to high-grade the locations that we drill.
So it's not  as we've said before it's not only about where you place the well within the interval but where you drill the well too.
And our basin modeling which has recently been updated that's another tool that we think is going to help us continue to move the average up a bit.
So we think that those two tools the basin modeling where we've done a lot of geochem work and updated our petrophysical models the 3D seismic now we're in the process of acquiring that.
We should be able to have that processed and begin interpretation by the end of the year.
So that should help to impact the 2016 program.
Okay.
Thanks very much.
Our next question is from Leo Mariani of RBC.
Please go ahead.
Hey guys.
Just question around Al Hosn here.
I think you guys previous had a target of 60 000 barrels a day to eventually hit.
You think that target's still realistic and is that something we might get to in 2016? Well the answer is yeah it's realistic.
They could in theory do better than that.
It's running  if you look at the numbers  more liquids rich than we had originally forecasted and we see that continuing.
So you're going to wind up with probably more liquids I think.
I think with a little luck we'll get to it by year-end but if not certainly by the first quarter.
Okay that's helpful.
And I guess just with respect to your comments around CapEx obviously you guys are seeing CapEx move lower here in the second half of 2015.
I know you guys previously had said that you might underspend the 2015 budget of the $5.8 billion.
Is that still possible here? Because I know it sounds like you guys maybe have probably higher Permian drilling activity.
Just trying to get a sense of where that spend may go.
I think the driver isn't the Permian.
The Permian is well-managed.
The question is the part that's not really in our control which is some of the Middle East stuff.
And again I think if we  effectively if you put  it's not totally in our control because you have the issue with the not (43:57) foreign governments.
So if we spend a little more or a little less that really just affects the amount of  number of barrels we'll get back within six months.
So that's about the only thing about the capital that I think is  what's within our control would be lower effectively than that but there's a part of it that's really not in our control.
Okay.
That's helpful.
And I guess just to be clearer on your intentions for next year if prices stay low at $50 you guys have these 12 rigs in the Permian is that likely to stay at 12? Or potentially could you cut it back further next year? Well it just depends on what the price is.
12 is I think a reasonable guess for now but we would  even in a more stable price environment we would have a hard time at this point of the year in making a sensible outlook for next year.
We could make one up but I think it's hard to make sensible outlook for next year even now with the volatility of the prices.
We're loath to say exactly what we're going to do.
The intention is that we'd like  I think we can make  fairly straightforwardly make cash flow neutrality in a $60 environment.
The question is can we make it in a $55 environment and I just don't know that yet but we're certainly going to try.
Okay.
So it sounds like cash flow neutrality would be the overarching theme for next year.
You can't just run for the rest of your life outspending your cash flow.
I mean you can do it for a year maybe two years but that can't be a business model for any ongoing enterprise although obviously there are companies that have been doing it for a decade so.
Okay.
Thanks Steve.
Thanks.
Our next question is from Ryan Todd of Deutsche Bank.
Please go ahead.
Inc.</span></strong> Great thanks.
Good morning.
Maybe if I could start in the Permian as well.
The addition to the well inventory was great to see.
And I realize some of that is on the modeling side but can you talk maybe a little bit of  it looked like there were additions across a variety of zones.
With the new model and as you continue to drill is there any zone in particular where you're seeing particularly strong improvements or where your view may be changing at all in the basin? Oxy Oil and Gas  Americas</span></strong> Yeah I would say that our view changed a little bit in the Midland Basin where we thought at the beginning of the year that the Spraberry would be the best interval for us in the Midland but now we're seeing the Wolfcamp A and both the Merchant area and the Big Spring area as looking very very good.
So that was a positive sign for us.
So we have now three intervals  the Wolfcamp A Wolfcamp B and Spraberry  that are economical to develop in the Midland Basin.
And in the Delaware what we're doing there is we're trying to stay very focused this year on developing what we plan to develop so that we have the infrastructure in place and that we maximize the use of that infrastructure as quickly as we can before we move on to other intervals in other areas.
Two of the things that we're seeing is that the third Bone Spring and the Avalon are actually starting to look very good for us around our acreage and so we're modeling that now.
And actually we'll certainly we think unless we just have significant improvements in some other intervals both of those intervals will be a part of our 2016 development program.
Inc.</span></strong> That's great.
Are you still increasing lateral lengths in either basin or where are you on that front at this point? Oxy Oil and Gas  Americas</span></strong> Yeah actually in the Midland Basin what we're doing there is we've drilled anywhere from 4 500 feet up to 10 000 in the Delaware Basin and our current average there is about 6 800.
But we're trying to where we can target drilling 7 000 to 7 500 in the Midland Basin.
In the Delaware we've drilled up to about 7 850.
And actually our average in the Delaware Basin probably is around 4 500 there.
We're expecting to in that basin have a minimum of 4 500 going forward in the future and would like to drill maybe in the 5 000 to 5 500 range.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay great.
And maybe if I could ask one on the overall U.S.
portfolio you discussed a little bit your views on the Middle East up to this point but where do you stand at this point on portfolio kind of on the state of the U.S.
portfolio? The dust has settled a bit on some of your 2014 activity.
Are there still assets that you would view as non-core at this point that you could potentially look to market? Oxy Oil and Gas  Americas</span></strong> The assets that we'd consider non-core in the U.S.
are still Williston and Piceance.
We have a South Texas asset that when liquids prices are good it's a great project.
And actually we have a lot of work that we could do at South Texas.
The team down there has worked up a lot of potential workovers.
We have a lot of drilling prospects on our South Texas acreage.
So I'm just going to use this opportunity to say that even though we're not investing growth capital dollars in any of those three assets those teams have done an incredible job to manage their base production and optimize it and they're optimizing it with minimal expense of any kind.
They're doing a tremendous job.
So we still consider there to be a lot of potential in South Texas.
Williston we simply want to monetize because of the fact that we don't have a lot of running room there.
We started some larger completions at the end of last year in the Williston Basin that really showed significant improvement in our well productivity there but because of our running room because of the differential in the Williston it just can't compete with our Permian Basin assets and we don't think it ever will.
So we do want to monetize it along with the Piceance.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay great.
Thank you.
I'll leave it there.
Our next question is from Paul Sankey of Wolfe Research.
Please go ahead.
Hi.
Good morning everyone.
Could I just jump back to the cash flow neutrality debate? What would the volume outlook be in that situation Steve? Are we just talking about staying flat or some sort of growth? There'd be growth in the volumes.
The reason we're investing is to grow the cash flow so yeah it isn't going to be a flat volume situation.
We have our own outlooks for the end of the year what the fourth quarter production will look like volumes and the same thing with some view into the first quarter of next year.
So I think generally speaking it isn't just what we have but also what we see.
But I think also I think the capital the cracker expenditures will fall next year.
Some of the midstream expenditures will fall.
So the amount of capital which doesn't add to volumes will decline next year.
So I think time we get through I think we're fairly close to where we need to be.
I mean we generated cash from operations in this past quarter about $1.5 billion before working capital changes.
So you're talking about a $6 billion sort of run rate.
Our capital spending next year would be well below the current $5.8 billion number.
So it's pretty much in sight  you get a little improvement in chemicals and a few more dollars really in oil price.
What's really held us back more than anything is probably NGL pricing.
We weren't as negative as it turned out to be so that's another area where I think we've been  we've been more disappointed frankly in NGL pricing than we have the oil pricing which is very similar to our outlook.
Sure.
You said that you were struggling to think about cash flow neutrality at $55.
I'm not clear why that would be so much more difficult than thinking about it at $60.
It's another $500 million.
Yeah okay.
And I guess ultimately you've said many times that you need to grow production if you're going to grow the dividend basically right? I need to grow production if I want to grow the dividend.
I need to grow production if Vicki's going to attract the kind of employees she'd like to have.
I think a stagnant business generates a stagnant workforce.
The alternative would be I guess just to sell Oxy if you can't make it right? Yeah I think that you can ask her about that next quarter.
Uh Vicki  all right.
Thanks a lot.
Our next question is from John Herrlin of Socit Gnrale.
Please go ahead.
Yeah hi.
Given all of the efficiency savings you're getting in the U.S.
and the Permian on drilling and completion and all that do you have a sense of where you think your DD&amp;A rates will go to on kind of a normalized basis? Oxy Oil and Gas  Americas</span></strong> I think our DD&amp;A rates are  you're talking about for the Permian Resources business in particular? Yes.
Oxy Oil and Gas  Americas</span></strong> We're certainly headed toward DD&amp;A of less than $15 and that sort of depends in terms of where it eventually lands depends on our infrastructure and how we can optimize that.
Thus far we've done a really good job of building water-handling infrastructure and gas processing gas to sales gathering systems.
So as we continue to optimize that part of the reason that we're developing the way we are is to ensure that over time we can develop our reserves and minimize the facilities costs.
So we're trying to spend the bulk of our dollars on getting the reserves out of the ground.
Ultimately we're putting together these lots of field (54:38) depletion plans which help us to do that and our target is to always make sure that our development of any particular area is with less than 10% of the capital spent on facilities and infrastructure.
As we look at DD&amp;A just to give you an accounting sort of answer as you look to DD&amp;A you've got the historical costs when oil was $100 that are built up in there.
We're adding at basically well below $15 currently and so the finding cost currently the incremental finding cost is quite low.
And so it just will take a while to roll through the old stuff so it's probably going to take a couple of years or something to sort of get the bulk of the adds at the low F&amp;D.
So I think putting aside product price changes you'll see a decline in the real finding costs over time.
Great.
Yeah I was just wondering about the timing of it.
It just depends on how fast you DD&amp;A the historic cost because that's what's holding it back.
Okay great.
Next one for me is on Howard County.
You said you had some very good performers there and it's newly acquired properties.
Is that something that you would accelerate? Or it's just part of the program? Oxy Oil and Gas  Americas</span></strong> Actually we're trying to stay disciplined in terms of how much we accelerate so we'll do more drilling there.
We do have drilling planned there.
It'll be at a moderate pace through this year because we have other areas that are pretty good as well.
If we see over time that on a consistent basis that that's tremendously higher than anything else we have in the Midland Basin we'll certainly go over and try to accelerate that but with minimal incremental cost.
Great.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Scott (sic) [Matt] Portillo of TPH.
Please go ahead.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</span></strong> Good morning all.
Just a quick question on the Permian.
I wanted to follow up in regards to the inventory update.
I was curious as we think about both the Wolfcamp A and the Wolfcamp B what are some of the underlying assumptions from a downspacing perspective? And if you're testing any further downspacing in regards to stacked staggered development in the play? Oxy Oil and Gas  Americas</span></strong> In the Wolfcamp A and the Wolfcamp B we're being very careful not to downspace too much.
So we have some pilots in place and we have some reservoir modeling ongoing to ensure that we're spacing those wells appropriately.
We're not going to drill wells where we have interference issues so we're trying to maximize the reserves we get on a per-well basis.
So downspacing is not something that we've built into our program.
However the staggered completions between the Wolfcamp A and B is something that certainly we're going to do to ensure that there's no risk of communication between a Wolfcamp A and a Wolfcamp B well.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</span></strong> Great.
And just a follow-up to both the inventory update in the Wolfcamp B and then just potentially some color around well performance you've provided a lot of detail in the past on the Wolfcamp A 30-day rates and I think you've mentioned a type curve of up to 900 000 MBOE for your short laterals.
I was curious how the Wolfcamp B wells look in comparison to that and as we think about kind of the inventory added from 650 000 to 800 000 (58:22) was that based on delineation of additional wells on your acreage in the basin? Oxy Oil and Gas  Americas</span></strong> Yeah the incremental wells was additional delineation and the Wolfcamp B with respect to the Wolfcamp A is  while the Wolfcamp B is prospective and delivers some better than cost of capital returns it's not as prolific as the Wolfcamp A in either the Midland Basin nor the Delaware.
However we think there are opportunities to continue to improve the recovery from the Wolfcamp A where we're doing as I said on each of our target intervals more modeling to try to get to the point where we can optimize the Wolfcamp B.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</span></strong> Thank you very much.
Our last question today comes from Brian Singer of Goldman Sachs.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
Good morning.
If we look at  on slides 29 and 32 you highlight your focus acreage in the context of your broader large Permian position.
Can you update us on strategically your plan for the acreage within the Delaware and Midland that are not in the focused acreage either to delineate to sell or to hold whether those priorities change in a low oil environment? And then also your level of interest and realistic opportunity to expand your acreage positions in the Permian proximate to your focus acreage? Oxy Oil and Gas  Americas</span></strong> So we have no intention to sell any of our acreage that's designated non-focus right now.
The difference between our focus areas and not is the fact that our focus areas are those that we feel like we could put in development mode today or are in development mode today.
The ones that are not considered focus right now are the ones that are still in appraisal mode and we consider those areas to be prospective but in the interest of trying to ensure that the infrastructure dollars that we spend are used and we get the benefit of that quicker we're being pretty disciplined about where we spend and how we develop.
So the non-focus areas are ones that we're preparing for development in the future.
We at this point today don't have any acreage that we would consider for sale today.
We have some acreage that falls way down the priority list and are things that we would get to years and years from now so that at some point we might take a look at.
Do we try to trade that to move into areas where it better fits where we're currently operating? And in terms of continuing to appraise we still have the Central Basin platform where we haven't been drilling as of yet or many unconventionals.
I think we have a couple drilled but we still have that to assess.
So the good thing is that we have a tremendous inventory.
The challenge with that is we're always looking at ways to try to accelerate but to do it in a way that's not value destructive.
And so we're trying to moderate our pace and trying to ensure that we have things fully evaluated before we move to development.
Great thanks.
And my follow up is on the midstream marketing business.
Can you just talk to what you all see as the ongoing cash generation potential there and then how you're thinking about that business strategically? Yeah I think that it's still in a heavy  and basically it's supportive of the Permian business.
That's really what it does.
And they're still really spending more money than they're taking in because they continue to build out to support the production business.
People talk  it doesn't make any sense to us given our financials position to do anything to increase the fixed charges against the rest of the business by selling debt-like instruments called MLP units that go against that and increase our fixed charges.
Fixed charges are okay at $100 oil but not so much fun in a $50 environment and I think that's  people miss that that  just like interest.
So I think on the cash flow generation right now it basically is neutral to maybe slightly negative as they continue to build out either gas plants or pipelines.
At some point I think it'll probably generate $400 million $500 million a year in free cash flow but I think we're probably a year or two from that.
Great.
Thank you very much.
This concludes today's question and answer session.
I'd like to turn the conference back over to Mr.
Degner for any closing remarks.
Thank you everyone for joining our call today.
And I know it's a busy season.
Thanks.
The conference is now concluded.
Thank you for attending today's presentation.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning and welcome to the Occidental Petroleum Corporation Third Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
Please note this event is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Chris Degner.
Please go ahead.
Investor Relations</strong> Thank you Emily.
Good morning everyone and thank you for participating in Occidental Petroleum's third quarter 2015 conference call.
On the call with us today are Steve Chazen Oxy's President and Chief Executive Officer; Vicki Hollub Senior Executive Vice President of Occidental and President Oxy Oil and Gas; Sandy Lowe Executive Vice President and President of Oxy Oil and Gas International; and Chris Stavros Chief Financial Officer.
In just a moment I will turn the call over to Vicki Hollub.
As a reminder today's conference call contains certain projections and other forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws.
These statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in these statements.
Additional information on factors that could cause results to differ is available on the company's most recent Form 10-K.
Our third quarter 2015 earnings press release the investor relations supplemental schedules our non-GAAP to GAAP reconciliations and the conference call presentation slides can be downloaded off our website at www.oxy.com.
I'll now turn the call over to Vicki Hollub.
Vicki please go ahead.
Oxy Oil and Gas</strong> Thank you Chris.
Good morning everyone.
Despite the current environmental of low and volatile product prices our Oil and Gas segment has been operating well in all of our core assets.
Our third quarter average daily production increased to 689 000 BOE per day from last year's 595 000 BOE per day an increase of 16%.
Our core assets continue to drive production growth with an increase of 39 000 BOE per day from Permian Resources and 50 000 BOE per day from Al Hosn which reached full capacity in September.
We expect Al Hosn to produce 60 000 BOE per day in the fourth quarter.
Our capital and operating costs have continued to decline as we've focused our development program and curtailed activity where current product prices do not support further investment.
We continue to make progress to optimize our portfolio as a part of the company's strategic review to focus on our core assets in the Permian Basin and the Middle East.
We're selling our assets in the Williston Basin and continue to evaluate our positions in non-core assets in the Middle East with the objective of minimizing our activity and exposure.
Construction of the ethylene cracker has progressed well and is on schedule to start up in early 2017.
Our principal goal this year is to adjust our business to the current environment of low commodity prices.
We're targeting our operating cash flow to cover our dividend and capital investment at realized oil prices of $60 per barrel while continuing to grow our production.
We'll achieve this goal through deploying our capital and operating cost savings and to further production and cash flow growth driven mostly by our Permian Resources business unit and the start-up of Al Hosn.
While we don't believe current price levels are sustainable over the long term we've taken aggressive actions to manage the business for a downturn that may last longer than market participants expect.
During the boom period from 2010 to 2014 the industry experienced substantial cost inflation.
Royalties and government takes on new projects increased.
Service prices labor costs and overhead all increased as well.
There's ample room for us to continue to lower our cost which will enable us to return the business to profitability at lower prices.
These adjustments may be difficult in the short term but our discipline on reducing costs will lead to a healthier business over the long term.
Through our separation of California Resources in 2014 we reduced our annual G&amp;A budget from $1.8 billion to $1.5 billion as we moved the corporate headquarters to Houston.
Over the course of this year and into 2016 we expect to see continued reductions in our corporate overhead with a more focused company and will reduce our total G&amp;A spending to about $1.2 billion in 2016.
Two years ago we began working on strategic initiatives to focus our company and improve its profitability.
We've continued to make progress on those initiatives.
We reached an agreement to divest our Williston Basin assets and expect the transaction to close in the fourth quarter.
Due to our curtailed spending in the basin and the nature of unconventional assets our production declined about 25% quarter over quarter when annualized.
We expected the production to continue to decline given our limited capital investments in the basin.
Over the past several years our efforts at appraising and delineating our acreage in the Permian have provided a large inventory of future development locations that are economic at oil prices under $60 a barrel.
With ample takeaway capacity and an extensive midstream business of gathering lines storage and gas processing our economies of scale and deep inventory in the Permian Basin make it our top priority for capital allocation for the foreseeable future.
Simply put acreage in North Dakota whether it's tier one tier two or tier three cannot compete with our position in the Permian.
We continue to pursue strategies to minimize our activities and exposure in our non-core operations in the Middle East and North Africa which include Bahrain Iraq Libya and Yemen.
As a result of these actions we took impairment charges in the third quarter for our positions in Iraq and Libya.
We will comply with our contract terms as we reduced our exposure through negotiations with our partners and host governments and expect capital investments to decline in 2016.
These actions will improve the profitability and cash flow of our Middle East business as we focus on our core assets in Abu Dhabi Qatar and Oman.
Our capital spending in the third quarter declined by about $300 million and will continue to decline.
As we capture price savings from suppliers and improve the efficiency of our operations we're able to do more with less spending.
We expect to exit this year at a quarterly spending rate of $1.1 billion to $1.2 billion.
If product prices remain at current levels our 2016 capital program will be less than the current rate.
We're in the midst of our annual budgeting process and we'll provide more detailed guidance on our 2016 program in January.
Over the last few years we've undertaken multiple long-term investments to drive cash flow and earnings growth.
These projects include the Al Hosn gas project the ethylene cracker joint venture our export facilities in Ingleside and gas processing infrastructure in the Permian Basin.
Capital spending on these investments declined by about $500 million in 2015.
We expect these investments to decline by about $300 million in 2016 and $400 million in 2017 as the projects are completed.
This decline in capital spending on committed projects gives us a lot of flexibility in setting our capital budget for 2016.
Our Permian business continues to execute a focused development program on low cost wells with high oil content.
Permian Resources continues to drive down capital cost through improved execution in drilling and well completions.
Our production exceeded expectations due to reduced time to market and better than planned well performance.
In the third quarter Permian Resources achieved daily production of 116 000 BOE per day a 6% increase from the second quarter and a 51% increase versus the prior year.
Oil production increased to 74 000 barrels per day a 4% increase from the previous quarter and a 72% increase from a year ago.
In the fourth quarter we'll drill and complete about 50 horizontal wells.
We're currently operating 12 rigs in the basin and evaluating our needs for our 2016 program.
In the Delaware Basin our Wolfcamp A 4 500 foot well costs decreased by about 45% from the 2014 cost of $10.9 million to a current cost of $6.3 million.
We reduced our drilling time by 24 days from the 2014 average of 43 days to 19 days.
We've lowered our completion cost per well and optimized the density of our clusters and proppant loads.
We've used some of our cost savings to up-size our frac treatments to drive higher productivity.
Our well performance continues to be strong.
We placed 21 wells horizontal wells on production in the Wolfcamp A benches in the third quarter.
The Leigh State 40-11H well achieved a peak rate of 1 790 BOE per day and a 30 day rate of 1 528 BOE per day.
Additionally our Betty Lou 1013H well achieved a peak rate of 1 711 BOE per day and a 30 day rate of 1 310 BOE per day.
We drilled the Betty Lou horizontal well in only 15 days.
Most of these wells produce around 80% oil.
In the Midland Basin we've made similar improvements in well cost and drilling days in our Wolfcamp A wells.
We reduced the cost of these 7 500 foot horizontal wells by 30% from the 2014 cost of $9.2 million to a current cost of $6.6 million.
We reduced our drilling days by more than 60% from 46 days in 2014 to 18 in the third quarter.
In Big Spring which is our new area of the Midland Basin we brought the Young A 2124 well online in the third quarter at a peak rate of 1 611 BOE per day and 30 day rate at 1 237 BOE per day.
We also brought online the Adams 4201 well at a peak rate of 1 698 BOE per day and 30 day rate of 1 495 BOE per day.
Both wells are producing at about 90% oil.
These Wolfcamp A well results have been outperforming our initial type curves for this emerging play in Howard County.
We're continuing to lower our cost structure.
Since the fourth quarter of 2014 we've reduced our operating cost per barrel by 18% and expect to make further progress in lowering our costs through the end of this year and into 2016.
In our Permian EOR business we continue to lower our drilling cost and manage the operations to run our gas processing facilities at full capacity.
With a resilient base production and low capital requirements the Permian EOR business continues to generate free cash flow at low product prices.
In the third quarter we started Phase 1 of the CO2 injection at South Hobbs where we expect to develop low cost oil production at about $10.60 per BOE.
In closing we delivered strong production growth from our core assets in the third quarter.
We continued to execute on our strategic initiatives to focus our oil and gas business around our core assets in the Permian Basin and the Middle East.
We'll continue to execute a focused development strategy in 2015 and we'll pursue additional step changes in well productivity and cost structure.
Strong production growth from our Permian Resources business along with a high volume a low capital intensive Permian EOR business keeps us well positioned to not only meet the challenges of this lower price environment but also to profitably grow our combined Permian businesses.
Now I'll turn the call over to Chris Stavros.
Thanks Vicki and good morning everyone.
Today I'll cover our third quarter results discuss the actions we have taken that led to the non-core charges we took in the quarter and close by providing some guidance on the remainder of the year while highlighting key initiatives that will improve the company's financial strength going forward.
We generated core income of $24 million for the third quarter of 2015 resulting in diluted earnings per share of $0.03 a decrease from $0.21 a share in the second quarter of 2015 and compares to earnings of $1.34 per share in the third quarter of last year.
Our net GAAP reported results for the third quarter were a loss of $2.6 billion or $3.42 per diluted share.
Our third quarter reported results includes non-cash after-tax net charges of approximately $2.6 billion.
Our quarterly core results were negatively impacted by lower worldwide oil and NGL prices which fell by nearly $7 and $3.50 a barrel respectively in the third quarter of 2015 compared to the second quarter of this year.
US natural gas prices improved slightly up about $0.15 per Mcf from the second quarter.
Our third quarter capital spending was about $1.2 billion down 18% from the $1.5 billion in the second quarter and down 30% from first quarter levels.
We continued to ramp down our capital program focusing our development activity primarily in core areas of the Permian Basin with the intent of curtailing or eliminating spending which is less competitive and imprudent in the current product price environment.
Our heightened focus around capital spending is centered on growing our oil production volumes and more importantly our operating cash flow.
Despite the reduction in this year's capital program efficiency gains and our increased focus around our inventory of drilling opportunities continues to drive growth in oil volumes and cash flow at our Permian Resources operations.
Permian Resources grew its oil production 72% in the third quarter adding 31 000 barrels per day compared to the year-ago period with total production of 116 000 BOE per day representing growth of 51%.
Production from Permian Resources improved by 7 000 BOE per day sequentially above our previous guidance.
As I mentioned earlier we took after-tax impairment and other non-cash charges of approximately $2.6 billion in the third quarter.
Oxy follows the successful efforts method of accounting where we review our proved oil and gas properties for indications of impairment whenever events or circumstances indicate that the carrying value of the oil and gas properties may not be adequately recovered such as when there's a significant drop in the futures price curve.
As of September 30 the futures curve for product prices had declined sharply yet again and we recorded an after-tax impairment of $1.3 billion related to our domestic gas properties and our oil and gas assets in Libya.
As Vicki mentioned we continued to make progress in our efforts to optimize our portfolio.
In the third quarter of 2015 we entered into an agreement to sell our Williston operations which have been classified as held for sale and resulted in an after-tax impairment charge of approximately $500 million.
The sale is expected to close later this quarter and we expect to receive net proceeds equivalent to approximately eight times free cash flow after acquired capital for facilities and safety.
Additionally and as part of our effort to focus our capital on opportunities that generate higher financial returns we intend to minimize our capital allocated to non-core areas.
As a result we recorded an after-tax non-cash charge of $760 million for operations in Iraq.
We expect to continue oil liftings out of the country in the fourth quarter.
Our exit from these non-core areas will create a more focused domestic oil and gas organization and mitigate our exposure to areas we deem as having higher political risk.
In addition we expect our capital spending levels to decline and our financial returns to improve as we generate savings from associated overhead reductions that have yet to be captured.
As slide 21 shows for the first nine months of 2015 our operations in combined Williston Iraq and Libya had total production of 45 000 BOE per day and generated an aggregate cash flow after capital deficit of approximately $260 million with Brent oil prices of about $56 a barrel.
For the full year of 2014 when Brent prices averaged about $100 a barrel these assets had an even greater cash flow after capital deficit of $340 million.
Some of this free cash flow savings could be redirected to our higher return core operations in the Permian Basin.
Turning to specific business segments.
Oil and Gas after tax earnings for the third quarter 2015 were $17 million about $90 million lower than the second quarter of 2015 and $880 million lower than last year's third quarter.
Almost all of the impact of the change in year-over-year earnings is due to lower product prices.
For the third quarter total company oil and gas production volumes averaged 689 000 BOE per day an increase of 31 000 BOE in daily production from the second quarter and 94 000 BOE per day from last year's third quarter.
Total company oil volumes were 436 000 barrels per day in the third quarter 54 000 barrels per day higher than the year-ago period for an increase of 14%.
Total domestic oil and gas production averaged 332 000 BOE per day during the third quarter of 2015 about flat sequentially and 17 000 BOE higher on a year-over-year basis with all of the increase coming from Permian Resources.
The increase from Permian Resources was partially offset by lower production from our Midcontinent natural gas assets where we have ceased drilling activity.
Domestic oil production was 204 000 barrels per day during the third quarter of 2015 about flat with the second quarter and up 22 000 barrels per day or 12% from the year-ago period.
We captured approximately 4 000 BOE per day of incremental NGLs and natural gas volumes in the third quarter due to the installation of compressors and gathering lines in the Delaware Basin.
International oil and gas production volumes averaged 357 000 BOE per day during the third quarter up 32 000 BOE per day sequentially and 77 000 BOE per day on a year-over-year basis.
Production from Al Hosn was 50 000 BOE per day in the third quarter an increase of 32 000 BOE per day from the second quarter and about 15 000 BOE per day above our guidance for the period.
Al Hosn is currently running at full capacity which is approximately 60 000 BOE per day.
Our third quarter oil and gas cash operating costs of $11.15 per BOE declined 8% from the second quarter level of $12.10 per BOE due to higher production volumes lower surface and downhole maintenance costs and lower energy costs.
DD&amp;A for the third quarter was $15.39 per BOE compared to $16.06 per BOE during the second quarter.
Taxes other than on income which are directly related to product prices were $1.20 per BOE for the third quarter compared to $1.85 for the second quarter and $2.45 per BOE for the full year of 2014.
Chemicals generated pre-tax core earnings of $174 million in the third quarter of 2015 versus $136 million in the second quarter and $140 million during the year ago period.
The most recent quarter results were above our previous guidance and benefited from higher chlorovinyl production volumes lower ethylene costs partially offset by lower vinyl sales prices.
Midstream pre-tax core earnings were $31 million in the third quarter compared to $84 million in the second quarter of 2015 and $115 million for last year's third quarter.
The most recent quarter results reflected lower marketing margins due to the narrowing of Midland and Gulf Coast differentials and an increase in crude oil supply lowered premiums in the Gulf Coast.
The lower marketing margins were partially offset by higher pipeline income from both domestic and foreign pipelines and higher seasonal margins from power generation operations.
Turning to our cash flow.
Operating cash flow for the third quarter of 2015 was approximately $1 billion which was about $200 million higher than the second quarter.
Higher oil and gas production volumes combined with better realized oil prices relative to benchmark prices positively impacted our operating cash flows during the third quarter.
Working capital changes were minor during the third quarter as our drilling activity and capital spending stabilized from higher levels at the end of last year.
We continued to ramp down our capital spending with total company expenditures for the third quarter of 2015 of $1.2 billion a sequential decline of $300 million from the second quarter.
Total company capital expenditures for the first nine months of 2015 were $4.4 billion which is running a little lower than our full year 2015 capital budget of $5.8 billion.
Oil and Gas spent $3.6 billion during the first nine months of 2015 with Permian Resources expenditures comprising roughly half of the total Oil and Gas outlays and the remaining $800 million of capital split nearly evenly between Chemicals and Midstream.
We paid cash dividends of $1.7 billion during the first nine months of 2015.
Continued growth in our operating cash flow combined with capital reductions and other cash cost savings should allow us to achieve our goal of being cash flow neutral after capital spending and dividends at oil prices of roughly $60 a barrel.
Our cash balance at the end of third quarter was $4.3 billion and our long-term debt to capitalization ratio was 19% the end of the period.
The worldwide effective tax rate on our core income was 90% for the third quarter of 2015.
Beyond the efficiency improvements that have lowered our capital spending we have also started to recognize the benefit of a reduction in our SG&amp;A costs.
Reducing our SG&amp;A is an initiative we began working on ahead of the spinoff of our California assets and operations.
Prior to the spin our SG&amp;A was at approximately $1.8 billion per year.
Upon completion of the spinoff late last year we had reduced our SG&amp;A costs by about $300 million or roughly 17%.
While our work force has come together and made a huge effort to reduce costs we are still in the early stages of recognizing these benefits.
During 2015 we expect to reduce our SG&amp;A by another 10% or roughly $150 million.
We have taken a number of actions and will continue to pursue other initiatives that will serve to reduce our SG&amp;A costs both this year and next and is highlighted on Slide 30.
We expect these initiatives to reduce our SG&amp;A by at least another 10% and expect our total SG&amp;A costs to decline to roughly $1.2 billion in 2016.
This represents a one-third reduction in our total SG&amp;A costs compared to levels before the California spin.
Looking ahead to the fourth quarter domestically we expect production from Permian Resources to be about 118 000 BOE per day.
Production has been a bit lumpier as we have increasingly moved to pad drilling and we expect total Permian Resources production to exit the year in excess of 120 000 BOE per day.
Continued growth in the Permian combined with declines in our Midcontinent natural gas production and adjusting for the sale of the Williston assets should result in total US production between 310 000 BOE per day and 320 000 BOE per day.
We expect our international production to be between 365 000 BOE per day and 375 000 BOE per day depending on volumes from Iraq and assume 60 000 BOE per day of production from Al Hosn.
Price changes at current global prices affect our quarterly earnings before income taxes by $30 million per $1 per barrel change in oil prices and $7 million for a $1 per barrel change in NGL prices.
A swing of $0.50 per million BTUs in domestic gas prices affects quarterly pre-tax earnings by about $15 million.
Our fourth quarter 2015 exploration expense is anticipated to be about $20 million pre-tax.
We expect our fourth quarter 2015 pre-tax Chemical earnings to be about $130 million.
Our third quarter Midstream earnings will continue to be principally impacted by Midland to Gulf Coast oil price differentials which have narrowed since the third quarter as well as weak NGL prices.
We expect net cash proceeds from asset sales in the fourth quarter which includes our assets in the Williston Basin to be approximately $650 million.
The worldwide effective tax rate on our core income was 90% for the third quarter of 2015.
This rate reflects the mix of domestic source book losses and foreign-sourced income which is taxed at much higher relative rates.
Simply put you cannot utilize US tax losses to offset higher foreign taxes.
Based on continued volatility in the mix of pre-tax income sources we expect our full year 2015 domestic tax rate to be 36% and our international tax rates to remain at about 65%.
To summarize as we wind down the year we remain financially strong and well positioned to weather the current low product price environment with $4.3 billion of cash on hand roughly equal to our annualized capital outlays.
We continue to grow our production volumes cost efficiently and despite the decline in capital spending.
We will continue our disciplined approach towards cost control improving our capital efficiency focusing and allocating our capital on only the highest return opportunities.
Our capital spending run rate has been cut by more than half compared to year-ago levels and we expect to save at least $300 million as a result of initiatives to lower SG&amp;A costs.
I'll now hand the call back over to Chris Degner.
Investor Relations</strong> Thank you Chris.
And Emily could you please open up the line for questions? Thank you.
Our first question is from Evan Calio of Morgan Stanley please go ahead.
Hey good morning guys.
Your Permian Resources production again beat guidance.
You're making progress on costs efficiencies and you highlighted it as your top priority in your slides but it's also one of the pieces your of portfolio where you can dial activity up and down.
Can you talk about how you balance those factors when you're considering your 2016 Permian activity levels in the current environment? Oxy Oil and Gas</span></strong> Yes Evan.
As Chris said that our committed capital is coming down but we still do have some committed capital in 2016.
So what we'll do is balance our Permian Resources business with the capital requirements elsewhere.
As you know we're trying to reduce our capital requirements in the Middle East and the reason for that is we would prefer to divert  to move capital to Permian Resources.
But we do have the ability to swing it up and down.
We're working on several scenarios that we could be ready to implement depending on what market prices are in 2016.
Let me follow up there.
I mean when you mention the potential in MENA (27:29) non-core asset sales does that imply that the larger interest sell down remains back burnered? And on your G&amp;A guidance does that  that these announced assets are sold as well? Oxy Oil and Gas</span></strong> You're talking about the Middle East? Yeah in the MENA.
Sorry.
Oxy Oil and Gas</span></strong> Currently we're looking at certainly exiting some of the non-core properties in the Middle East and ramping down activities in some of those areas that we're not going to exit.
So that will certainly impact some of our SG&amp;A cost.
We expect those to go down as well as some of our operating cost.
So that will be a benefit to us.
And getting back to the resources question that you had previously we do expect to in all of the scenarios that we're looking at to continue to grow production from our Permian Resources business.
Right.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Now on the G&amp;A question this is Steve.
The answer to your question is no.
We really haven't baked in the Middle East situation with the decline.
So basically what we see now is  this is what we've said for next year's run rate are costs.
We expect to continue to work on this as the portfolio changes.
Right.
And the non-core  but by focusing on the non-core sales in MENA I guess I'm saying does that also imply that the larger interest sell-down in that piece of the portfolio remains back burnered given the current environment.
Is that fair? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well the countries have gone from being flush with cash to being cash users just to fund their own situation.
So it's not likely that they're in the mood to  basically they're selling things.
They're not buying things right now.
Right.
And maybe if I could ask one more question Steve.
Can you discuss what drove the Bakken asset sales given your ample liquidity position? I mean is there a general comment there on your view of prices in the asset market that you see better opportunities to sell versus buy where you've highlighted that you'd potentially be a buyer in the Permian? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah we sold the Bakken assets for about $600 million as opposed to the reported number which I don't know where that came from.
Anyway we sold for about $600 million.
We just can't see a situation where we would invest in it given what we have in the Permian.
And so I mean it's really a statement that says okay we just don't see how it competes for capital inside the company in any reasonable price scenario that we can come up with.
Generally it's always generated negative cash flow or at best neutral.
It's declining about 1 000 barrels a day a quarter.
So a year from now it would be 13 000 or so a day just doing the arithmetic.
So we don't see how the value increases over time.
For us this $600 million we could run four rigs in the Permian basin for a year with this money or five somewhere in that range and generate more production than we would get out of the Bakken with the $600 million.
So pretty easy decision.
Say well you could hold on until it goes up in price.
By the time it goes up in price you might be making 8 000 barrels a day.
So I just don't know when it's going to go up.
We believe we received a fair price given the prospects for it under our management.
Great.
I'll leave it for somebody else.
Thanks.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thanks.
Our next question is from Doug Leggate of Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Please go ahead.
Pierce Fenner &amp; Smith Inc.</span></strong> Thanks.
Good morning everybody.
On the Middle East folks the non-core areas that you're talking about I'm trying to reconcile the $60 breakeven number with exiting some of these non-core areas.
And I guess my question is are these areas currently negative free cash flow and if so could you quantify what you think the delta would be in the event of an exit and if that's already assumed in your $60 breakeven assumption? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> $60 is just a cartoon.
This is basically based on our current situation.
The businesses are not cash flow positive.
Doug we showed you on the slide that I pointed out slide 21 that under various oil price scenarios a higher oil price scenario of last year or lower prices this year we're still running the combination of those assets are still running a sizable cash deficit after capital.
So yeah you were sort of at higher capital in a higher price environment but still you weren't generating enough money to really see a free cash flow positive event.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> So we haven't gone back and recomputed what exactly the breakeven would be.
So we don't really know whether it's $55 or $60.
Pierce Fenner &amp; Smith Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
So maybe I could just slip in a macro question there.
Could you update us on what you're doing in Iraq currently? Because obviously your partner our understanding is the Iraqis are asking folks to slow down investment.
So what are you actually seeing on your asset? And I've got a more Oxy-specific follow-up please.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Sandy can answer that I think.
Oil and Gas International Production</span></strong> The Iraqis have asked us to slow down investment.
And the infrastructure investment that we need to really take advantage of these fields that is the responsibility of the government has not taken place.
So the production is just trucking along at a fairly stable amount.
But not anything that would excite us.
Pierce Fenner &amp; Smith Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Thanks.
And my final one if I may is again I want to go back to this $60 breakeven Steve because if you look at this current quarter obviously you're still burning through a fair amount of cash and the oil price clearly is not $60.
It's substantially below that.
Although that's not our base case what would you do in the event that you have another year of sub-$50 oil because that would imply you basically burn through all your cash at this rate? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> I don't think we'd burn through all the cash.
Maybe we have a different model.
But anyway if you run through all the numbers I think we'd look at it at the time.
But as we cut back on the non-core assets more cash will be generated.
And so you could drill fewer wells in the Permian if that were necessary.
We're not counting on - Pierce Fenner &amp; Smith Inc.</span></strong> You'd basically slow things down.
Right.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah we would bring the capital down lower.
There's more savings as we go and so we're not exactly sure where we are in this process.
So I think as we go through this next year the large the cracker basically ends at the end of this next year.
The spending on that ends.
Some of the stuff in the midstream ends at the end of next year.
Al Hosn will be all the capital will be spent.
There's a little bit of capital in the beginning of the year for crew quarters as I recall.
And so when now all that ends the capital will naturally decline and the production goes up.
So whether it's $60 or $55 we don't really know right now.
But we would expect as we go into 2017 clearly that the capital program would be significantly less than  could be significantly less than next year even.
Pierce Fenner &amp; Smith Inc.</span></strong> Got it.
I'll let someone else jump on.
Thanks everybody.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thank you.
Our next question is from Phil Gresh of JPMorgan.
Please go ahead.
Yeah hey.
Good morning.
Just first question just on the CapEx side.
How would you think about what sustaining capital requirements there are today given all the productivity that you've been seeing in the Permian? And how did that relate to the $60 breakeven for dividend coverage as you move forward? I would assume that that's generally underlying your seeing some improvement there but any color you could provide would be helpful.
Oxy Oil and Gas</span></strong> Yeah Phil we're continuing to see improvements in the Permian Resources business.
And as we've just said and said previously our Resources businesses are swing business with respect to capital we can we have the ability to ramp up and ramp down.
But we do see a scenario if oil prices improve a little bit for us to be able to continue to grow Resources and to manage some of the capital spend and in international down so that we could be cash flow neutral and grow Resources slightly in 2016.
And part of that's due to the fact that we're continuing to see improvements in our drilling and completion operations.
And if you look at kind of the targets that if you go back and look at our Q1 targets for our drilling and completion activity in Permian Resources we've actually adjusted our targets a couple of times because our teams keep outperforming and beating our previous targets and setting new best rates.
So currently two of the things that we're dealing with in terms of uncertainties is how much better can we get and also what will prices be.
So we're running both of those scenarios and we think we have opportunity to continue to improve.
Okay.
Follow-up question just on the midstream business.
In this lower for longer type of environment how would you think about the earnings power of that business? I know it's volatile quarter to quarter but if you think maybe on an annualized basis and you obviously have a couple of different sub-businesses within that.
But any thoughts you have there would be helpful.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> It's a difficult business to estimate.
It's hodgepodge of different businesses.
It's got a power business.
It's got a standard transmission business.
It also holds the capacity to ship oil out of the Permian.
And right now there's more excess capacity in the basin to ship oil because people assume that oil would the production would go up and it's clearly not for the industry.
So we're paying demand charges essentially for that.
And that's what's eating into the profitability.
So it's really a difficult number to quantify because you have to really have an idea about these demand charges and what's going to happen with that.
It has a probably underlying earning power in the $300 million or so area.
But there's a lot of volatility on these demand charges.
Sure.
And is that $300 million including the benefits we'll get from sulfur at Al Hosn? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Probably not.
Probably not going to include it.
Okay.
Last question though for me.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Sulfur at Al Hosn is also is makes predicting oil prices easy.
I mean the price of sulfur can move $50 a ton overnight.
Sure.
Understood.
Last question.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Especially if there's a lot of tons.
On the Middle East you had a significant reduction in the cash operating costs in the third quarter.
Any color on the big drivers and the sustainability of that? Oil and Gas International Production</span></strong> We've had a cost improvement program going for a long time.
And we have recently been able to make some breakthroughs on that with various vendors and it's just focusing on it.
And same as in the Permian.
Everybody in the company's focused on more profit per barrel and less cost per barrel.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> I think to be  I mean the way the accounting works in the Middle East on a production sharing contract the company always bears all of the cost all of the operating costs.
So when oil prices are high you get fewer barrels to cover that operating cost.
Sure.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> And higher and lower oil prices you've got a lot more barrels to cover the exact same operating cost even if they don't change.
So I mean that's - Oil and Gas International Production</span></strong> It's a combination.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah it's a little different than comparing to the US or something like that because you always have all of the 100% of the operating costs essentially there.
And so whether you produce 10 000 barrels a day or 20 net operating cost is the same.
Right.
Okay all right.
Thanks a lot.
Our next question is from Tim Rezvan of Sterne Agee CRT.
Please go ahead.
Hi.
Good morning folks.
First question I guess was on the US cash OpEx numbers that you reported in the third quarter kind of flattish from 2Q.
I know that you've had some big improvements early in the year.
I guess you've talked qualitatively about bringing that down more but maybe can you talk about what happened in the third quarter and kind of how we should think about the trajectory of that into 2016? Oxy Oil and Gas</span></strong> Yes.
We've continued to improve our operating costs and basically we're focusing on the OpEx in Permian Resources and Permian EOR because in Williston we had some high OpEx there just because of the fact that our production was lower.
But in the Permian what we're doing is we see the biggest opportunities in our Resources business where initially we had difficulty pumping from the deeper unconventional wells.
We were trying to use either ESPs or beam pumps.
With both of those there were issues because of the depth of those wells and the initial very high volumes that then becomes lower volume pretty quickly in the life of the well.
So now we've gotten to a point where we understand that better.
We're addressing that better.
We're actually ensuring that we installed a lift that's the right kind of lift for the full life cycle of the well so that we don't have high initial repair costs.
So that's part of what's driving down our OpEx in the US.
In Permian EOR those guys are continuing to optimize what they do with respect to well maintenance.
They have a lot more wells over there.
So they've been able to reduce quarter over quarter the cost per barrel in the EOR business by improving the well service rig performance and improving how they deal with replacement of pumps and things like that the materials they use and what they're doing there to extend the life of the wells.
So we do expect continued improvement in both of those business units.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah I think the short answer is that the Williston operating costs went up and it dragged the average up.
Okay.
Okay.
I appreciate that comprehensive answer.
Next question I guess on the repurchase program.
Your average shares outstanding were down 3.3 million.
You only spent $50 million in the third quarter.
So I guess that's a factor the timing of your 2Q activities.
Should we expect in a $50 or sub-$50 oil environment that you will kind of run at a much lower pace on the repurchases? Or I guess what's your philosophy on that? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well if I had more confident in the oil price we'd be more aggressive in the share repurchase.
At this point it depends on two things; sort of a calculation of what's in the stock which is favorable to repurchase; and how fearful we are about the volatility in the oil price.
So I think the fear overcame the calculation this past quarter.
We keep on reading these analyst reports so that generates enormous fear.
I appreciate that commentary.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thank you.
Our next question is from Edward Westlake of Credit Suisse.
Please go ahead.
You clearly shouldn't read analyst reports.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Clearly.
I just read the headlines.
Okay.
No worries.
Question on the Middle East.
I mean you talk about ramping down activities maybe non-core asset sales.
I mean of the countries that you list there Bahrain looks like one which might have a buyer in the sense of the production as opposed to those other countries.
Is that what you're talking about? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> No.
Selling assets or just reducing activity? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Just reducing activity I think is the way to say it.
There's a significant amount of call them receivables or whatever you want to call it where we produce the oil and gas but haven't been paid in some of these places.
And basically you're effectively building up a liability over time and basically we can't afford to do that currently.
And so we'll reduce the activity until we can catch up with that accrual if you will.
It doesn't show up on a balance sheet.
It's simply the difference between production and liftings.
And then on Block 9 you said on the last call we'll look for a contract extension that's as least as good as what we could get back in the Permian.
Any progress on how the other side of the table view that? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> It's a difficult negotiation I think is the best way to describe it.
And ongoing? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> And ongoing.
I think it will go  it will go on until  all these things go on until there's no more time left.
And as a reminder just in terms of now as we get down to end 2015 what the actual drop dead date is or...? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> It's in December.
Okay and then just moving to the midstream the Ingleside cracker and the export facility for LPG should be fairly profitable in terms of EBITDA and free cash flow when they're on-stream.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> That's right.
Just an update as to when you'd sort of - Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Towards the end of next year.
Right okay.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Mid  second to third quarter as I recall.
Okay.
Good.
So CapEx comes down.
Cash flow goes up and that helps balance.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah and the same thing when the cracker is the end of  be done the end of next year and then the cash flow really in 2017.
Same sort of dynamic except probably larger.
Okay.
Thanks very much.
Our next question is from Jason Gammel of Jefferies.
Please go ahead.
Yes.
Thanks very much.
I was hoping to just get a little more understanding on what led to the write-down on Iraq.
Because my understanding was that it was an acceptable place to invest because you never really had a lot of capital exposed.
And if you're reducing investment activity even more and you're still lifting oil does that imply that you got into a situation of a big arrears with the government that you don't think you'll actually ever be able to get paid back? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> There's clearly  I really don't want to get into a discussion about the contract terms there except to say that in theory you got your money back on a small profit pretty much as you spent the money maybe a quarter or two off.
And that really  and that hasn't exactly happened.
Okay.
I think that's a fair enough explanation.
I think I get what's going on there.
Now at the risk of picking nits here the Permian Resource production overall in the quarter obviously very good but it did seem to be a little more swung towards NGLs and gas and away from oil than what I would have normally expected.
Vicki talked about moving to pad drilling and making it a more manufacturing process which makes it more lumpy.
Is that the explanation for that or is there something else going on? Oxy Oil and Gas</span></strong> In addition to the pad drilling we were able to capture some stranded gas in the last quarter and we were able to put that online and through processing and that's what drove some of that.
So should we still think about this as 5 000 barrels a day of oil growth out of Permian Resources on a move forward basis with recognizing there could be variation from quarter to quarter? Oxy Oil and Gas</span></strong> There's going be lumpy production.
So it could vary from quarter to quarter but in terms of the differential with the gas with respect to oil this time it was again  it was due to a one-time event to get some gas production on that we didn't previously have on.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah as you reduce the capital have fewer rigs the effect of this lumpiness is more obvious because you got these rigs working in one place and if you're in five places well it sort of averages out.
But as you reduce the number of rigs at work the effect of the lumpiness from a quarter to quarter basis is a lot more obvious.
So you might expect some more.
You'll be able to see it in a normal environment.
With a somewhat higher rig count you wouldn't see it really.
It would just smooth out.
Yeah okay.
That makes sense to me.
Okay.
Thanks very much folks.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thanks.
Our next question is from John Herrlin of Socit Gnrale.
Please go ahead.
Yeah thanks.
With respect to the Permian Resources unit can you describe what you're doing in terms of the well completions that are different or are you doing anything materially different than your peer group? Oxy Oil and Gas</span></strong> On the well completions we've continued to try to find the exact mix of when to use slick water when to use hybrid fluid systems and also what the cluster spacing should be what the volume of the proppant should be.
So what we've done is we've experimented a little bit trying to ensure that we get all of that optimized.
And some of that we have enough data that we can optimize it and we know what to do.
For example in cluster spacing we can take the pressures that we see during the frac jobs and kind of get to a point where we know what that should be for a given area.
So it's still really the proppant size and the fluid volumes and fluid types that we're experimenting with.
We did some experimentation with using some of the sleeves and things like that versus plug and perf.
And we found that while the sleeves are somewhat effective in being able to isolate and frac they're not as good when we try to flow the wells back because the sleeves actually cause variations in the flow back which drops out proppant causes cleanup issues later.
So we're moving more toward now ensuring that what we do is we'll have optimum impact on not just recovery but the life of the well.
So I think it's just still experimenting with those things that others do.
We're waiting for our seismic.
We should be done acquiring that in the Barilla Draw area soon and we'll be processing that.
And we hope that will lead to actual more improvements next year.
Great.
Thanks.
With your EOR operations in the Permian at current prices how much free cash flow are you generating from that? Oxy Oil and Gas</span></strong> At current prices I can tell you I can give you what we were generating.
We were generating a couple of billion dollars when prices were in the $90 environment.
Okay.
Oxy Oil and Gas</span></strong> Probably about - Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> About a margin Chris.
Probably cash margins of about $20 a barrel or so.
Okay.
That's great.
Last one for me.
You took a big impairment on gas.
Did you really kitchen sink it in terms of pricing? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> We hope so.
Okay.
Thanks Steve.
Our next question is from Jeffrey Campbell of Tuohy Brothers.
Please go ahead.
Inc.</span></strong> Good morning.
My first question is a quick macro question.
Steve as you are doing your business in the Middle East are you seeing any tangible signs of stress or second thoughts regarding OPEC's current production strategy by any of the countries in the region? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> If they had stress they wouldn't share it with us.
I think that's fair to say.
What you do see of course is a lot of talk about raising money and that sort of thing.
So if you want to view that as stress you can.
But they all say that they're aligned whatever that means.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Thank you.
You provided helpful color on non-core asset sales in MENA.
As you continue to high grade your portfolio how do you think about Colombia.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Vicki can answer that.
Oxy Oil and Gas</span></strong> In Colombia we recently signed an agreement with the government to implement a couple more water floods in Colombia.
We see that as our asset there is the opportunity to continue to maintain our production.
We'd like at some point to be able to grow the production a little bit.
But currently we have a great relationship with the government and with Ecopetrol.
We have a team down there that's incredibly efficient and knows the area very well.
And our operating teams are very good there.
So we see it as a place that we've been there for over 30 year would like to continue to be there another 30 years.
The country itself has some opportunities outside of what we currently have.
And certainly any opportunity that comes up in Colombia is something we'd want to take a look at.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Great.
And my last question is thinking about Permian capital allocation with the results that you showed in East Midland is it possible that capital in the Midland Basin can increase relative to the Delaware in 2016? Oxy Oil and Gas</span></strong> Currently we were thinking that we would move more activity to the Delaware Basin.
But you're right.
Our Midland Basin team has been performing so well and especially with this Big Spring area in Howard County the performance there and in Merchant is getting to the point where those wells are really becoming very competitive with what we're doing in the Delaware.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Great.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Brian Singer of Goldman Sachs.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
Good morning.
Wanted to dig in a little bit on the broader Delaware and Midland Basin well performance to understand whether the strong wells you highlight here on slides 13 and 15 are trending relative to your broader acreage and drilling program and whether they're reflective of what we should expect going forward.
I'm not sure if it's apples-to-apples but if we look at the BOE a day per thousand feet of lateral you have for the 2015 averages they both on slides 13 and 15 appear to be below what was reported for the first half in the second quarter presentation.
And so what I'm trying to get to is whether the specific wells you're highlighting here with much better rates are reflective of the wells we should expect going forward for specific portions of your acreage whether they're good averages we should assume for your broader acreage or they're highlights of your best wells.
Oxy Oil and Gas</span></strong> I think the 2015 average is not exactly representative of what we'll see going forward but it's indicative of a trend that we'll see.
What you're talking about the trend downward was certainly impacted by the Peck State and the Buzzard State because initially we had incredible rates from the Peck State.
It was about 2 400 BOE per day 24-hour rate for the Peck State.
About over 2 000 barrels a day for the Buzzard State.
Those wells were two of our best wells in the Delaware Basin.
What we're trying to do and the reason we're still and in answer to John's question the reason I said we're still trying to tweak things and work things is that we feel like we should have the ability to continue to increase our performance per well.
And we're still we think that with the seismic we'll be able to figure out what made the Peck State and the Buzzard State so good.
And then we'll target trying to hit either the interval that was so good in there or the area or types of areas like that.
And so that's exactly the reason for the seismic is to try to determine whether their reservoir whether there are areas that are driven by reservoir quality or characteristics that we can move toward in our development program toward the end of 2016.
Because by the time we have the seismic processed and evaluated it would not start impacting the program until the end of next year.
But that's exactly what it's designed to do is look for whether or not those wells were in a particular area that's limited or whether it's broader and we just aren't getting the chemistry of the frac jobs right or the location within the interval.
That's not to say we're not having great wells.
We're having great wells but we do want to continue to improve them.
We'd love to see more of those types.
That's very helpful.
And my follow-up is also on slide 13 where you have the nice map of your focus acreage.
Can you just refresh us on how many acres that focus area represents and what it would take and any plans to turn some of the other acreage we see there of Oxy's into focus acreage? Oxy Oil and Gas</span></strong> Well we have as you know 1.5 million net acres in the unconventional business and our inventory of wells really the appraisal wells that we've shown you that 8 300 well inventory was really based on an appraisal of about half of that.
And then our development areas we're trying to keep at an even lower acreage percentage than that because what we're trying to do is ensure that we completely build out as we build our infrastructure.
So probably the Barilla Draw area represents an acreage at least what we're really concentrating on developing probably two or three pods that would total up to be about 40 000 or 50 000 in the Delaware Basin.
Great.
Thank you very much.
Our next question is from Guy Baber of Simmons.
Please go ahead.
Thank you all for fitting me in here.
I had a follow-up question on some of the earlier questions around capital spending flexibility into 2016.
And I apologize if I missed this earlier but can you just help us understand the amount of capital spending currently being dedicated to the portion of your MENA program that you deem as non-core? Just trying to understand the opportunity set for the potential spending reductions there that you might be pursuing.
Oxy Oil and Gas</span></strong> It's $400 million $400 million.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> I think it's $400 million.
Okay.
Thanks.
And then Al Hosn ramping up faster than expected on the production front.
Can you discuss that outperformance? And then also can you address the contributions during the quarter from a cash flow perspective? And really trying to understand the timing of the cash flow contributions there and what the peak cash flow contributions are in this environment.
Obviously it's difficult to predict given the sulfur exposure and the less transparency on some of the pricing.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah I think the cash has normal settlement with it.
So the production is actually doing pretty much the way it's said.
I mean the 60 000 is what we talked about.
Cash flow before capital settles like others and so it was a little back end loaded in the third quarter.
So there was less of it in the third quarter than we'll see in the fourth quarter.
There's some capital that needs to be spent in the fourth quarter and into the first quarter for some things which we'll use some of the money.
The business just depends on really oil prices the volatility in the business.
So I think we're talking about $300 million of free cash.
And then it could be as much as $1 billion depending on oil prices sort of in the $70s.
Okay great.
That's helpful Steve.
And then last one for me.
You mentioned exiting 2015 with Permian Resources production of around 120 000 barrels a day.
So on over $2 billion of CapEx this year you're obviously growing that business very significantly.
Do you have an estimate of the level of spending that could hold that 120 000 flat through next year? Just trying to understand how that compares to the $2 billion plus you're spending this year that's driving considerable growth.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> We're now discussing among ourselves as to what that number might be.
So under $1 billion I think.
But we don't know whether it's $700 million or $800 million or $900 million.
Because things keep getting better that's why we're slow in giving you these answers because we just don't know and we don't want to mislead you.
Got it understood.
Thanks.
This concludes the question-and-answer session today.
I would like to turn the conference back over to Chris Degner for any closing remarks.
Investor Relations</strong> Thank you Emily and thanks to everyone for participating.
Have a great day.
The conference is now concluded.
Thank you for attending today's presentation.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning and welcome to the Occidental Petroleum Corporation Fourth Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
Please note this event is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Chris Degner Senior Director of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead sir.
Investor Relations</strong> Thank you Carrie.
Good morning everyone and thank you for participating in Occidental Petroleum's fourth quarter 2015 conference call.
On the call with us today are Steve Chazen Oxy's President and CEO; Vicki Hollub President and Chief Operating Officer; Jody Elliott President of Oxy Domestic Oil &amp; Gas; Sandy Lowe President of Oxy Oil &amp; Gas International; and Chris Stavros Chief Financial Officer.
In just a moment I will turn the call over to Vicki Hollub.
As a reminder today's conference call contains certain projections and other forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws.
These statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in these statements.
Additional information on factors that could cause results to differ is available on the company's most recent Form 10-K.
Our fourth quarter 2015 earnings press release the Investor Relations supplemental schedules our non-GAAP to GAAP reconciliations and the conference call presentation slides can be downloaded off of our website at www.oxy.com.
I'll now turn the call over to Vicki Hollub.
Vicki please go ahead.
Chief Operating Officer &amp; Director</strong> Thank you Chris and good afternoon everyone.
Despite sharp declines in product prices we had a strong year of production growth particularly in Permian Resources.
And we made big strides in lowering our cost structure as well as executing our strategic review.
I'd like to share highlights of our 2015 achievements.
First Permian Resources growth exceeded our expectations as we reached our 2016 growth target of 120 000 BOE per day.
This was a year ahead of our original plan.
We increased production by 35 000 BOE per day for a year-over-year growth rate of 47%.
Al Hosn reached full production capacity and delivered an average of 35 000 BOE per day of production last year.
In total we grew our production by 81 000 BOE per day which was approximately 14% higher than 2014.
We reduced our cash operating cost by 14% achieved SG&amp;A sayings of 16% and cut our average drilling and completion costs in Permian Resources by 33%.
As a part of our strategic review that we launched at the end of 2013 we sold our Williston Basin properties and made significant progress in our effort to exit non-core areas in the Middle East including Iraq and Yemen while also reducing our exposure in Bahrain.
This will lead to lower capital spending in the region.
Construction of the OxyChem ethylene cracker joint venture is on schedule and on budget for start up in early 2017.
We reached a settlement with the Republic of Ecuador for approximately $1 billion of which we've collected $300 million and expect to receive the remaining proceeds in the coming months.
And we exited 2015 with $4.4 billion of cash on our balance sheet.
Now I'd like to reiterate our strategy and cash flow priorities.
I want to emphasize these have not changed.
Our overall strategy is to invest in projects that generate long-term value achieving returns well above our cost of capital while maintaining a conservative balance sheet.
Our assets in Colombia ISND in Qatar Block 9 in Oman Permian EOR Dolphin and OxyChem provide significant earnings require relatively low maintenance capital and provide free cash flow in this low price environment.
Our most recent addition to this list is our Al Hosn gas project which is a 30 year joint venture with ADNOC in Abu Dhabi.
And the role of our Permian Resources business the role it will play in our strategy is to provide quick production growth as needed to support our cash flow.
Our top priority for use of cash flow is and always will be the safety and maintenance of our operations.
Our second priority will continue to be funding the dividend.
Third is allocating capital to our growth projects.
The next priority for any remaining cash would be for potential asset acquisitions and/or share repurchases as opportunities arise.
Commodity businesses are inherently volatile.
We maintain a strong balance sheet to not only survive but to take advantage of potential opportunities.
We'll invest our capital prudently and maintain a flexible program as we maneuver through this low price cycle.
As I mentioned earlier we made great progress last year on lowering our operating and SG&amp;A costs.
We plan to further reduce these costs during 2016 and expect that the financial impact of executing on initiatives from our strategic review will be evident through lower costs in capital in the coming months.
In terms of our capital program for this year our plan is to carefully reduce our activity levels without harming the strong progress we've made with our growth prospects.
We'll fund only those opportunities that exceed our rate of return hurdles.
Our 2016 capital program is expected to range from $2.8 billion to $3 billion.
This represents a nearly 50% reduction compared to the $5.6 billion spent during 2015.
This capital plan should approximate our expected cash from operations at current commodity prices.
The majority of this year's spending program will be allocated to the Permian Basin and to completing long-term projects in our chemicals and midstream businesses.
Our capital run rate is expected to be higher during the first quarter and falling in subsequent quarters as committed project capital winds down.
In Permian Resources our drilling activity will be highly focused on areas in both the Midland and Delaware basins where we have existing infrastructure allowing us to achieve higher returns.
Our level of activity will help preserve efficiency gains achieved over the past year.
In Permian EOR we'll take advantage of reduced cost for labor and materials to modify and expand existing facilities to increase our capacity to handle and inject greater quantities of CO2.
This will enable us to implement additional CO2 projects.
These projects will have longer duration and a typical production response time of one to two years.
This will result in a modest increase in capital for our EOR business versus last year.
Chris will provide greater detail on this year's capital program in a few moments.
Despite the reduction in capital spending we expect overall company production from our core assets to grow 2% to 4% on average compared to 2015.
Our core assets are pro forma for the expected divestments in areas we plan to exit including the Piceance Basin Iraq Yemen and Libya along with lower exposure in Bahrain.
The full year contribution of production from Al Hosn and the startup of Block 62 in Oman should add approximately 35 000 BOE per day of production this year.
Overall domestic production is anticipated to decline slightly through the year primarily due to the declining natural gas and NGL volumes caused by the curtailment of drilling activity in our gas assets in late 2014.
We expect a modest increase in production from Permian Resources versus last year and will hold our Permian EOR production flat.
Turning to our oil and gas reserves the good news is that we managed to keep our proved producing reserves essentially flat in 2015 due to our development programs and improved recovery from some of our Permian Resources wells.
We continued to see strong performance from our Permian Resources drilling program which enabled us to replace 214% of our Resources production excluding net sales and revisions.
Our development programs added 149 million BOE of proved reserves.
Our year-end 2015 proved reserves totaled 2.2 billion BOE consisting of 79% proved developed reserves up from 71% proved development reserves at the end of 2014.
Our liquids reserves comprise 74% of our total proved reserve base.
In summary while the macro environment remains challenging for the industry we delivered strong production growth during 2015.
We lowered our cost structure and continued to execute on our strategic review.
Although we expect commodity prices to gradually recover we've set our plan to be more aligned with a lower price environment.
We're fortunate to have a great set of assets with the relatively low base decline rates that provide us with enormous flexibility for our capital.
We believe our continued focus on returns improved cost structure and strong balance sheet provide us with the opportunity to emerge from the current cycle as a stronger company relative to our peers.
I'll now turn the call to Chris Stavros for a review of our financial results and further details on this year's capital program.
Thanks Vicki and good morning everyone.
As Vicki indicated we continue to have three main objectives over the long term: generate rates of return on invested capital that are well above our cost of capital sustainability and growth of our dividend and moderate volume growth of the business.
With regard to returns we need to strike a balance between managing our capital within the very low commodity price environment and also ensuring that our business is properly positioned for a recovery.
We don't believe that a depleting or shrinking business over the long haul can maintain high rates of return and part of our model is to balance the need for growth and the safety and sustainability of the business while maintaining attractive returns.
Our focus is generating attractive returns and making investments through the cycle in long term assets that provide us with stable cash flow to see us through during weaker periods.
Despite the low price environment we've been able to realign our business to focus on our core areas reduce our overall cost structure through capital efficiencies lower our total operating costs and SG&amp;A while significantly increasing production in our Permian Resources operations.
In the Middle East/North Africa the Al Hosn gas project was brought to full capacity by mid-year and we also moved forward with exiting some of our non-core assets in the region and eliminating the capital associated with those businesses.
In terms of our capital spending we adjusted our program last year in response to the sharp decline in product prices with our full-year 2015 expenditures coming in at $5.6 billion a 36% reduction from the prior year.
Despite this reduction in our spending we grew our total oil and gas production volumes by 14% from last year.
As we look into 2016 we remain focused on allocating our capital where we have the best returns including winding down our capital commitments for longer-term projects.
We estimate our 2016 total capital program to be between $2.8 billion to $3 billion and no higher than $3 billion.
This year's capital budget represents a nearly 50% reduction in our overall spending compared to last year and only a third of what we spent in 2014.
The oil and gas segment is expected to comprise approximately two thirds of our overall spending this year compared to nearly 80% last year.
We expect the majority of our total 2016 spending will be allocated to our domestic oil and gas business primarily in the Permian Basin with roughly 21% to be spent in Permian Resources and about 17% going towards Permian EOR.
We expect this year's spending in our international oil and gas operations to be about half the level of outlays seen in 2015.
Capital allocated toward our Middle East/North Africa oil and gas business is expected to be roughly 21% of total spending with the majority going towards Oman.
The year-over-year decline of about 56% in the Middle East is partly the result of our exit from several countries and our plan to run a more focused business targeting our core areas.
The remaining third of this year's overall capital spending is expected to be split nearly equally between our chemical and midstream businesses of which $500 million of the total is capital committed for projects that we expect to be completed by the end of 2016.
Turning to our results our core financial results for the final quarter of 2015 were a loss of $129 million or $0.17 per diluted share a decrease from both the year-ago quarter and also the third quarter of 2015.
The decline in core results is nearly all attributable to weaker commodity prices.
Reported results for GAAP purposes for the fourth quarter were a loss of $5.2 billion or $6.78 per diluted share.
The reported results include $5.4 billion of net after-tax charges mostly related to asset impairments.
Oxy follows a successful-efforts method of accounting where we review our proved oil and gas properties for indications of impairment whenever events or circumstances indicate that the carrying value of the oil and gas properties may not be adequately recovered such as when there's a significant drop in the futures curve.
During the course of the year the carrying value of our operations in the Middle East/North Africa was reduced by $4.5 billion with $3 billion of this taken in the fourth quarter.
This action was due to a combination of our exit from non-core areas and the reduction of our exposure to unprofitable projects in the region in an effort to focus the business on improving profitability.
Impairments of our domestic properties amounted to $2.2 billion for all of 2015 and approximately $870 million for the fourth quarter.
Almost half of the total year impairments in the US were due to the exit of non-core assets in the Williston and Piceance basins.
The other half related to the reduction in the futures price curve as well as management's decision not to pursue activity associated with certain non-producing acreage.
In addition we took a charge of $520 million in the fourth quarter associated with our Century gas processing plant as a result of SandRidge's inability to provide volumes to the plant and in order to meet their contractual obligations to deliver CO2.
Oil and gas core after-tax results for the fourth quarter of 2015 were a loss of $189 million and down $206 million on a sequential quarterly basis.
For the fourth quarter of 2015 total company oil and gas production volumes from ongoing operations averaged 671 000 BOE per day 75 000 BOE per day higher compared to the prior year period and essentially flat with third quarter volumes.
This excludes production from the Williston assets for all periods.
Our fourth quarter 2015 worldwide realized oil price of $38.68 per barrel fell by $9.10 a barrel or 19% compared to third quarter realizations of $47.78 a barrel and down 46% compared to the prior year's fourth quarter.
Domestic oil production was 190 000 barrels per day during the fourth quarter a sequential quarterly increase of 2 000 barrels per day and an increase of 19 000 barrels per day from the year ago period.
Production in our Permian Resources business grew to 118 000 BOE per day during the fourth quarter up 40% from the prior year.
Volumes were also able to grow sequentially despite weather-related outages.
Oil and gas cash operating costs were $9.95 per BOE for the fourth quarter of 2015 and $11.57 per BOE for the total year 2015 compared to $13.50 per BOE for the prior year.
The reduction in costs was seen in both our domestic and international operations and reflects decreased activity in downhole maintenance and a lower overall cost structure.
The DD&amp;A for full year 2015 was under $16 per BOE compared to $17 per BOE seen during 2014.
Taxes other than on income which are directly related to product prices were $1.32 per BOE for the 12 months of 2015 compared to $2.45 per BOE in the prior year.
Fourth quarter exploration expense was $13 million.
Chemicals fourth quarter 2015 pre-tax core earnings were $116 million compared with third quarter earnings of $174 million and $160 million in the year-ago quarter.
The sequential quarterly decrease primarily reflected weaker chlorovinyls demand and lower PVC prices which negatively impacted margins.
This was partially offset by higher caustic soda prices and lower energy costs.
Midstream pre-tax core results were a loss of $45 million for the fourth quarter of 2015 compared to income of $31 million in the third quarter.
The sequential decline in the fourth quarter was mainly attributable to lower oil marketing and power generation margins.
The marketing results continue to reflect lower margins due to narrowing of the Midland and Gulf Coast differentials as the increase in oil supply lowered premiums in the Gulf Coast.
The power generation business reflected lower seasonal spark spreads and higher maintenance costs in the fourth quarter.
Looking at our 12 months cash flow for 2015 we generated $4.8 billion of cash flow from continuing operations before working capital.
Work capital changes was a use of $880 million the majority of which occurred during the first half of the year.
Capital expenditures for 2015 were $5.6 billion a 36% decline from the $8.7 billion we spent in 2014.
We've received over $700 million of net proceeds from activity associated with asset divestitures and acquisitions which included fourth quarter proceeds of approximately $600 million for our Williston assets.
In the second quarter we completed a bond offering issuing senior notes for which we received net proceeds of roughly $1.5 billion.
We indicated at the time of the offering that the proceeds would be used to partially pre-fund some of our debt maturing in the first half of 2016.
Earlier this week we used cash on hand to retire $700 million of our senior notes that had matured.
We returned $2.9 billion of cash to our shareholders by paying $2.3 billion in dividends and repurchasing 7.4 million of our shares for approximately $600 million.
Our long-term debt to capitalization was 22% at year-end.
The worldwide effective tax rate on our core income was 29% for the fourth quarter of 2015 and 86% for the total year.
Looking into 2016 and as we show on slide 23 in the handout we started the year with $4.4 billion of cash.
During the fourth quarter at $42 WTI we generated operating cash flow before working capital of approximately $900 million or roughly $3.6 billion on annualized basis.
Every $1 change in the oil price impacts our cash flow by about $100 million annually.
We expect to receive an additional $900 million of cash this year from our settlement with Ecuador of which we have collected $300 million to date and approximately $300 million of proceeds from asset sales during this quarter.
Earlier this week S&amp;P reaffirmed our single A credit rating along with a stable outlook.
Turning to our oil and gas production for purposes of year to year comparison in terms of providing guidance for 2016 volumes are pro forma and exclude assets with either already or plan-to-divest or exit from this year.
These assets would include Williston and Piceance in the US and Iraq Yemen Bahrain and Libya in the Middle East/North Africa.
On this same store sales basis we expect our full year 2016 production to grow 2% to 4% or in the range of 570 000 to 585 000 BOE per day compared to about 560 000 BOE per day last year.
In the US we have ceased all gas drilling activity and will focus our capital in the Permian in an effort to grow our oil volumes and as justified by attractive returns.
We expect our total domestic oil and gas production to be in the range of 270 000 to 285 000 BOE per day in 2016 which includes oil production growth of about 4% and partly offset by modest declines in gas production.
More than two thirds of our domestic production volumes are expected to be oil.
Production in Permian Resources is expected to average 123 000 BOE per day during the first half of 2016 an increase of 8% compared to the same period last year.
Permian EOR volume should remain relatively flat at about 145 000 BOE per day while providing stable cash flow.
In our core international areas in the Middle East and Colombia we expect production to increase to roughly 300 000 BOE per day this year compared to 268 000 BOE per day in 2015 as a result of a full year's contribution from Al Hosn as well as the startup of gas production from Block 62 in Oman.
In terms of production for the first quarter on a reported basis and unadjusted for pending divestments or exits we expect our total production to be in the range of 620 000 to 630 000 BOE per day.
Permian Resources volumes should increase about 3 000 BOE per day sequentially to 121 000 BOE per day.
Production in the Middle East is expected to be negatively impacted in the quarter by about 15 000 BOE per day due to scheduled maintenance turnarounds at both Dolphin and Al Hosn.
Our DD&amp;A expense for oil and gas is expected to be approximately $15 per BOE during 2016.
The combined depreciation for the chemical and midstream segments should be approximately $675 million for the year.
Cash operating costs for the domestic oil and gas business should be about $13 per BOE during 2016 about $1 per BOE lower than last year's level for our ongoing operations.
Exploration expense for the year is estimated to be about $75 million pre-tax with $25 million of that anticipated in the first quarter.
The realignment of our business helped us make strong progress in lowering our SG&amp;A costs last year by more than $200 million.
In the current environment we expect to reduce these cost by at least another $100 million into 2016.
Price changes at current global prices affect our annual operating cash flow by about $100 million for every $1 per barrel change in WTI.
A swing of $0.50 per MMBTUs in domestic natural gas prices affects annual operating cash flow by about $40 million.
We expect our first quarter 2016 pre-tax chemical earnings to be about $140 million.
Our chemical operations are essentially a margin business and so while our costs may decline as a result of lower energy prices prices for the chemical products we sell continue to be driven by demand.
Using current strip prices for oil and gas we expect our 2016 domestic tax rate to be at 36% and our international tax rate to be about 55%.
I'll now turn the call over to Jody Elliott who will discuss activity around our Permian operations.
Domestic Oil and Gas</strong> Thank you Chris.
Today I'll review 2015 highlights from Permian Resources and Permian EOR and provide guidance on our program for 2016.
2015 was a very successful year.
Permian Resources achieved our 2016 growth target ahead of schedule by reaching 120 000 BOE per day in November.
We achieved this milestone by leveraging our advancements in geoscience reservoir characterization and integrated planning to deliver better wells in less than half the time and at two thirds of the costs versus 2014.
Throughout 2015 we reduced our OpEx costs by over 20% by improving field reliability productivity and optimizing our surface and subsurface engineering.
Our Permian EOR segment generated free cash flow in a low price environment and had its best safety metrics of all time.
Turning to Permian Resources in the fourth quarter we achieved record production of 118 000 BOE per day a 40% increase versus the prior year.
Oil production increased to 76 000 barrels per day a 2% increase from the previous quarter and a 49% increase from a year ago.
Winter storms at the end of December impacted total quarter production by approximately 1 300 BOE per day.
For the full year the business achieved production of 110 000 BOE per day a 47% increase versus the prior year.
Permian Resources continues to drive down capital cost through improved execution and drilling and well completions and reduced time to market.
For each of our core development areas we continue to monitor both our early time well performance and cumulative production to ensure our development approach is providing maximum value.
In addition to improving individual well performance we optimized field development value through pace well sequencing flowback designs to reduce cleanouts and fluid handling costs artificial lift designs to maximize long-term production and facility plans to ensure maximum utilization over time.
Our Delaware Basin well performance continues to be strong.
We placed 19 horizontal wells on production in the Wolfcamp A benches in the fourth quarter.
We continue to increase well performance by optimizing the density of our completions and proppant loads and drilling longer laterals.
For example the Priest E 1H well achieved a peak rate of 1 659 BOE per day and a 30-day rate of 1 247 BOE per day.
The HB Morrison B 12H achieved a peak rate of 1 487 BOE per day and a 30-day rate of 1 176 BOE per day.
In New Mexico we're delivering more productive wells by increasing our proppant concentration and reducing cluster spacing.
For example the second Bone Spring Cedar Canyon 27 #6 produced at a peak rate of 2 498 BOE per day and a 30-day rate of 1 750 BOE per day at an 82% oil cut.
In the Delaware Basin our Wolfcamp A 4 500-foot well cost decreased by about 45% from the 2014 cost of $10.9 million to a current cost of $6.2 million.
We reduced our drilling time by 26 days from the 2014 average of 43 days to 17 days.
In our new area of the Midland Basin we brought the Adams 4231 Wolfcamp A online in the fourth quarter at a peak rate of 2 167 BOE per day and a 30-day rate of 1 841 BOE per day.
We also brought online the Merchant 1409A well at a peak rate of 1 345 BOE per day and a 30-day rate of 1 132 BOE per day.
Both wells are producing at over 80% oil cut.
In the Midland Basin we made similar improvements in well costs and drilling days in the Wolfcamp A formation.
We reduced these costs of the 7 500-foot horizontal wells by 35% from the 2014 cost of $9.2 million to a current cost of $6 million.
We reduced our drilling days by 63% from 46 days in 2014 to 17 days in the fourth quarter of 2015.
Across Permian Resources we're continuing to lower field operating expenses through optimized water handling lower workover expenses and better downhole performance.
Since the fourth quarter of 2014 we've reduced our operating cost per barrel by 26% and expect this trend to continue this year.
In our Permian EOR segment we continue to lower our drilling costs and manage the operations to run our gas processing facilities at full capacity.
With resilient base production and low capital requirements the EOR business continues to generate free cash flow at low product prices.
We've lowered our cash operating expenses by 21% driven mainly by lower downhole maintenance and injectant costs.
Phase 1 of CO2 injection at South Hobbs has continued and we have a production response sooner than expected.
We expect Phase 1 production to peak in 2020.
We expect Phase 1 and Phase 2 to develop 28 million BOE at just over $10 per BOE.
Additionally we've started a pilot project in South Hobbs testing the residual oil zone.
It has the potential to add about 80 million barrels of reserves.
These residual oil zone reserves can be added between $3 and $7 per barrel of development costs.
Given the current oil price we will focus investment to achieve four goals: accelerate geoscience characterization and modeling programs to enhance recovery well performance and field economic returns; minimize base decline and set up major growth programs in both Resources and EOR; focus on game-changing technologies and applications; and accelerate continued improvement in both execution and cost.
One of the key drivers of our gains in well performance has been integrating our technical understanding of the subsurface to optimize well completions.
Slide 41 illustrates our inventory of Permian Resources well locations by breakeven prices.
By improving both well cost and performance we continue to make more inventory economically viable in a low cost environment.
For example we transferred about 700 locations from above the $60 per barrel hurdle to under $60 per barrel.
Furthermore we moved 350 locations under the $40 per barrel hurdle.
We expect to continue lowering the hurdle point on our inventory as we move forward.
With current oil prices our activity in 2016 will focus on core locations that require minimal infrastructure investments.
In addition we will gather high priority appraisal data to support future development and initiate seed projects for long term growth in EOR.
Over the first half of this year we will reduce our rig count to between two and four drilling rigs in the Permian.
Our technical staff and engineers will focus on long-term projects enhancing base production preparing full field development plans to ramp up activity when oil prices recover.
We're taking appropriate steps to preserve the efficiency gains achieved and are well positioned for growth as prices recover.
I'll now turn the call back to Chris Degner.
Investor Relations</strong> Thank you Jody.
We'll now open it up for questions.
We will now begin the question-and-answer session.
Our first question comes from Evan Calio of Morgan Stanley.
Please go ahead.
Hey.
Good morning guys.
My first question is one of your key or primary peers they cut their dividend today two thirds after repeated defenses.
I know your balance sheet is superior yet the macro has changed that underpins their decision.
Can you discuss how you perceive your dividend sustainability through this cycle and are there leverage levels or other metrics that would result in a change in your current priorities? Chief Operating Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yes Evan to begin I'd like to refer you to slide 23.
What we've done really is planned our programs over the next few years to  based on actually the strip prices.
Although we actually believe that prices ultimately will be higher than the strip we don't expect prices to really recover much until very late this year or maybe early next year and recover only to slightly above the curve.
But based on the cash that we have on hand and what we project our situation will be over the next few years we do expect to be able to make it through this cycle and get back to reasonable oil prices and secure our dividend throughout this entire process.
We're organizing our plans and our activities around that.
And the good thing about our portfolio is we have the flexibility to ramp up and down as necessary to ensure that we meet our priorities.
And as we said the top priority is just the maintenance and safety of our operations and then we're going to pay the dividend and we've got the cash to do that.
And generally the way we look at it is we can use our cash flow from operations to cover our capital programs and part of our dividends over some of the years.
And then what can't be covered by our cash flow from operations we'll certainly use the strength of our balance sheet to cover that.
So we don't see a threat to our dividend going through this cycle.
Thank you.
I have a related follow-up.
The irony of a downturn I think is opportunities maybe the best when liquidity is the lowest.
And so any commentary that you have on the asset market and whether your views of the macro raise the hurdle for acquisition or change your views on what's potentially attractive.
Such for instance say a more longer lived longer cycle resource versus a shorter cycle shale resource? Chief Operating Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah I'd say that we never want to get away from what we truly are as a company and that's what I stated in here is that we're very much a on the oil and gas side of the business an EOR type company and a company that looks for the longer life reserves like Al Hosn that provide cash flow.
That would be like Al Hosn and Dolphin.
So what we'll be looking at is are the assets that have the longer life reserves.
We're very proud of our shale position and we think that the work we've done over the last few years has certainly proved it up to be an asset that we want to take full advantage of.
But currently our shale production is less than 20% of our total company production.
And we don't really want it to ever be much higher than that because we feel like to have the asset base we have that's part of the reason we'll be able to make it through this cycle with our current low declines.
So that's sort of asset we'll be looking for.
Appreciate it.
Thank you.
The next question comes from Doug Leggate of Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Please go ahead.
Thanks good morning everybody.
Good morning Vicki.
Chief Operating Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Good morning.
Vicki I wonder if I could follow up on Evan a little bit there.
I'm looking at slide 7 which is the kind of classic slide you put up about the priority for the use of cash.
You've talked about optimism in a rebound in oil prices but you still have growth capital ranked higher than share buybacks and acquisitions.
And I guess my question is you've kind of missed an opportunity here with the separation of California Resources to reduce your dividend burden by buying in your stock which was the original plan.
Obviously extenuating circumstances but in the event of a rebound in oil prices why does growth capital still rank above reducing the dividend burden? And I've got a follow-up please.
Chief Operating Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Let me point out I'm very happy that we did not buy back shares.
The $6 billion is going to really be part of what helps get us through this cycle.
And so I think we're fortunate to have the cash that we on the balance sheet now and that's really what's protecting helping to protect the dividend.
But I would view the last two items on the list the share repurchases and acquisitions to be right now although we show one above the other those we view as equally important.
And what we're going to look for is the opportunities that arise through this cycle.
We're not going to immediately go out and buy repurchase shares but what we want to do is look at how the cycle evolves over the next quarters maybe even next year and a half or so and look for opportunities and before we commit to share repurchases.
But I would view those as right now both on the same level of priority.
And Chris do you have anything to add? Yeah Doug I'll just follow up on what Vicki said.
I think what she said is right.
I think in addition to that we're going to have to look at it on a return basis and clearly the goal over time will be to reduce the share count as it will help us fund the dividend and fund growth of the dividend over time.
So I do still view we still view share repurchases as important over time and a reduction of the share base over time.
So we'll look at opportunities opportunistically to go ahead and do that.
And it's just going to sort of depend on where things are vis-a-vis the stock price and other opportunities that may come up for capital.
Okay.
I appreciate the answer Chris.
My follow-up is also referencing the slide deck on slide 41.
You're showing the economics of your drilling backlog at different oil prices.
I guess my question is that it would seem that a lot of companies are looking to drill their very very best assets in the worst commodity environment.
So I'm just curious as to why does that make sense if you're so optimistic on the recovery? Because obviously the offset the alternative would be to allow production to decline but would also imply you're preserving value which I think one of your competitors talked about the other day and I'll leave it there.
Thanks.
Chief Operating Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> I'll start that but then let Jody add onto it.
We actually were fortunate to be in the process of some development programs in key areas where we were kind of into a manufacturing mode.
We already have the infrastructure installed.
And so that's what's making our current program so economical and what we feel like is the right thing to continue to develop during this cycle.
And Jody can add to that.
Domestic Oil and Gas</span></strong> Yeah building on Vicki's comment there this is some of our best areas but we really are leveraging more than just the best rock.
It's the infrastructure that we've already invested in.
There's good rock in all of those tranches of inventory.
It's just the maturity of our development plans in some of those areas aren't quite as far along so we would not develop those until we get those development plans further matured.
And that's one of the focus areas we had this year is to move more of that inventory to the left side of that chart.
Okay.
I appreciate the answer.
Thanks.
Our next question comes from Ed Westlake of Credit Suisse.
Please go ahead.
Yes.
Good morning.
Just again a follow-on I think to your answer about the types of assets in shale.
So from that I'm taking that you're more interested in some of the long-lived assets.
Maybe give a little bit of color as to where you think these opportunities may lie.
Chief Operating Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> One of the things that we'd like to continue to consider is adding to our position in Permian EOR.
We have the infrastructure there that really can't be duplicated by any other companies.
We've got the 12 gas processing plants 1 900 miles of pipeline and operate two CO2 source fields.
So we have the infrastructure in place to continue expansion of our EOR operations in the Permian.
And that would be for us one of our higher priorities.
In addition we see opportunities in Colombia to continue our work there.
We this past year signed an agreement to develop another couple of water floods there.
We think that's going be a good opportunity for us going forward.
And in addition in our three core areas in the Middle East those are the kind of opportunities that we would continue to look for.
Okay and then a totally separate question.
At the back of the deck you've got that great chart on  I should find the slide  on slide 41 that Doug mentioned about the inventory.
Obviously there's a big flip between $50 and $60.
And then if you look at the colors of the bars you've got a lot of Bone Spring acreage Spraberry and then the Wolfcamp B.
Maybe just and this is based on 4Q costs hopefully those are the ones that you identified that $6 million in the Wolfcamp and $6 million in East Midland.
What are the biggest levers you think about taking that inventory that works at $60 down to $50? Domestic Oil and Gas</span></strong> I think one of the biggest levers is multi-bench development ensuring that the field development plans allow us to economically develop more than one good bench at a time.
And so that's part of the redeployment effort of our technical staff to figure out multi-bench to drive better utilization of our infrastructure costs in those areas.
That will be the biggest thing to move them to the left.
I mean you mentioned reduced cluster spacing in some of those Bone Springs wells.
I mean is there a lot more technology that you can still apply? Domestic Oil and Gas</span></strong> I think there is.
Okay.
Good to know.
I'll keep in touch.
Our next question comes from Phil Gresh of JPMorgan.
Please go ahead.
Hey good morning.
Chief Operating Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Good morning.
The first question is just on the guidance.
There's obviously a lot of moving pieces here on the production side.
But Chris just with respect to the 1Q the 620 000 to 630 000 I believe you said that that would exclude the asset sales the domestic asset sales but it does not have anything contemplated in there for the Middle East asset exits.
So I wanted to clarify that and then just generally ask how that's going and how you would expect that 72 000 barrels a day of non-core Middle East to roll off as the year progresses.
Sure.
Thanks Phil.
On the guidance just to make it comparable for you to reconcile it I mean the way I would think about it is that you've got the Piceance in the US that we'll exit or it would be sold and close this quarter.
So that will come out of the system.
And then there is production in there for Bahrain as well.
So combined I would tell you that it probably amounts to about 50 000 to 60 000 BOE per day on a like-for-like basis that to adjust for sort of our ongoing core production for the guidance that I gave for the full year of 2016.
So that would be the reconciliation.
Okay.
And then just as you think about more broadly all of the Middle East assets how do you see that progressing through this year? Chief Operating Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Currently we're continuing with our operations in Bahrain and we are working with our partners there to lower our exposure.
But in Iraq we're progressing with the terms of the exit according to our contract terms.
So we should be winding down in Iraq and that's going to be transferred to one of the national oil companies.
So we will be out of there by we're hoping mid-year.
Yemen that's pretty much our contracts have expired and we're reducing our exposure in the one area that we currently have and expect to be able to exit that by mid-year as well.
So everything is progressing.
In Libya we're not quite to the point where we have been able to develop a specific exit strategy and specific steps because of the uncertainties around that process with the government but we have stopped our capital investment in Libya and we're only spending the funds necessary to maintain the operation safely.
Got it.
Okay.
And then Chris my follow up is just on the balance sheet understanding the willingness to protect the dividend.
Is there a level of debt whether it's debt to cap or debt to EBITDA? Oxy's always been fairly conservative on the balance sheet and for good reason.
Just wondering if there's a level where you get less comfortable.
Well whatever that level is we don't plan to take it there.
So that's one of the reasons that we maintain a strong balance sheet that it allows us to pay the dividend and not be overly concerned about it.
And I think our view is that we sort of take a measure of offense on this and sort of view ourselves as competitively advantaged as an investment vehicle within the sector.
So you keep a strong balance sheet with low debt because you're a dividend payer and having a lot of debt as a company in this sector just the two don't mix.
So that's sort of how we view it.
Okay.
Fair enough.
Thanks.
Our next question comes from Ryan Todd of Deutsche Bank.
Please go ahead.
Inc.</span></strong> Thanks.
Good morning.
Maybe if I could follow up a little bit on the capital outlook over the next couple years.
You highlight $500 million of committed capital in 2016 that will roll off by year-end 2016.
Is there any offset to this that's set to ramp into 2017? Or should we expect on an apples-to-apples budget does the budget roll by $500 million into 2017? And would this likely be  would you likely fill that gap with accelerated activity in the US onshore? Chief Operating Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Really in 2017 our only committed capital is the $100 million and so we do expect the $500 million to be reduced to $100 million.
And the rest of our capital program will be based on what we see with respect to oil prices.
But nothing committed other than the $100 million and the maintenance capital that we'll need to allocate.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
And I guess maybe as one follow up to that you're going to two to four rigs in the Permian you said for the second half of the year.
Can you talk a little bit  and I guess at a high level you've provided us in the past with what you felt was kind of a maintenance CapEx number for yourself.
Do you have an updated view on what your maintenance CapEx is generally as an overall business in terms of holding production flat and maybe a similar number to what you think you need either from a rig or a spend level to keep Permian Resources flat? Chief Operating Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Permian Resources is a challenge because our teams keep improving so much there.
The efficiency gains they've made over the last couple of years has just been incredible.
And Jody and I were talking about that this morning and the reason we gave the range of two to four is we used to think that it would take more than four rigs to offset our decline.
But we're certainly convinced now that with the efficiency gains we're having and particularly the way that Jody and his team are starting to develop the fields we think it could be less than that.
Jody I'll let you provide some additional color on that.
Domestic Oil and Gas</span></strong> No that's clearly correct Vicki.
Every day our teams amaze us with new drilling records new production records.
So predicting that exact rig count to keep production flat kind of changes month to month.
Inc.</span></strong> But I guess is roughly the goal to size your activity levels from the middle of this year to kind of hold the Permian Resources flat? Is that roughly what you're trying to target? Domestic Oil and Gas</span></strong> That level would probably  flat to slightly increasing.
Inc.</span></strong> Great.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Roger Read of Wells Fargo.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
Good morning.
Chief Operating Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Good morning.
Guess I'd like to probably go down the path some of the other guys have as well.
On the thinking about the drilling efficiencies and following up on the answer to the last question two to four rigs maybe allows you to stay flat.
Is it a function of more above ground below ground or a combination of the two that's driving this? And I'm thinking of the slide 33 where you show drilling days and best is still significantly better than average.
And then the comments earlier about the  I think it was specifically the benches being able to develop those as a way to get the cost down.
What's the way we should think about it maybe for 2016 and then beyond 2016? Domestic Oil and Gas</span></strong> It's really about all the things you mentioned.
It's drilling performance.
It's well completion performance.
I think the biggest gains we've had this year is the integration of our subsurface understanding into that execution activity as well keeping wells in zone keeping them in the sweet spot engineering frac designs differently optimizing cluster spacing optimizing sand concentrations.
All those things I think lead us to being able to do more with less not just drilling days and drilling cost.
And then as you think out beyond this year what do you think gives you the greatest upside potential? Not just the bench that you mentioned earlier is there anything else we should think about? Domestic Oil and Gas</span></strong> I mentioned multi-bench.
I think that's one.
I think the other is really optimizing infrastructure both our internal infrastructure and working with others to take advantage of infrastructure in the two different basins.
Okay great.
And just my follow-up unrelated.
Al Hosn I was wondering if we can get a little more of an update on just how that's performing relative to your expectations.
The turnaround coming in Q1 I assume is a normal part of the startup process.
And maybe how we should think about it latter part of this year on forward.
Oil and Gas International</span></strong> Yeah this is Sandy Lowe.
We're in the warranty shutdown which is common for all these projects.
And we had produced over nameplate for several weeks before the shutdown.
We expect the year to give us slightly over nameplate as an average after the shutdown of course.
And it's performing very well.
Great.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Paul Sankey of Wolfe Research.
Please go ahead.
Hi.
Good morning everybody.
Again going back to the efficiencies you said fairly clearly that it was reliability productivity optimization.
Can you first try and strip out how much of the performance improvement has simply been lower oil prices and how much is organic and sustainable? And secondly could you highlight or contrast how you're differentiated from others in the Permian in any of those themes? Thanks a lot.
Domestic Oil and Gas</span></strong> I think the majority of that improvement is organic.
We've gotten price improvements and we worked that part of the equation hard.
But most of it is boots on the ground engineering geoscience work time to market improvement integrated project planning all those things internally which gives me high confidence that it's sustainable going forward.
Right.
And you think it can continue as well I think you've said.
You've talked about returns that are relatively low what seems to be a fairly low view of the oil price for the rest of the year and beyond even.
Can you talk about what you think the breakeven price is for you guys for your returns in the Permian? And I'm aware that you've got both EOR which is presumably a different answer from the unconventional.
And then could you  I'll stop going on  but could you then also talk about how you compare to other companies in your view? Thanks.
Chief Operating Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> First of all Paul I'd like to address the comparison to other companies.
One of the things that we've been able to do in the Permian versus others is we've been there for a long long time.
So we've got a lot more data than other companies and we're doing more with that data.
We have a lot of 3D seismic.
We have in addition to the 3D seismic we have more than 20 000 wells from which we have data.
So and we have 4 400 outside operated wells.
And I know you've heard all those numbers from me before but we're really taking that data and taking it to the next level.
We have a team that works with our resources team.
And our resources team I just have to say is incredibly efficient in what they've been able to do and to drive the drilling costs down the completion optimization and all the things that Jody's talked about they've done a great job.
It's just been incredible.
But in addition to that the team supporting them from a downhole science standpoint is our exploitation team which takes all that data that we get from every well.
And we utilize every bit of data we can not only applying data analytics to it but taking a lot more data than the other people have access to.
I think we still have the only horizontal core in the Permian.
We're doing much more modeling around geomodeling and learning more about the thermal maturity and the migration of the hydrocarbons.
So I think that's really helped here recently to make a big difference in the improvement of the resources wells.
Domestic Oil and Gas</span></strong> And I think to build on Vicki's comments we recently held what we called a cost stand-down day where we took the entire company and stopped and said let's get creative.
Let's get innovative on how we improve our business.
We focused on SG&amp;A.
We focused on capital costs.
We focused on operating expense.
We focused on development opportunities and there's literally thousands of ideas that we have vetted and are currently vetting and that gives me even more confidence that we can move that hurdle breakeven lower for a number of these areas.
And what is the hurdle breakevens on a full cycle make your returns appropriate for Oxy basis? Chief Operating Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> The returns for the Permian EOR business we have for Permian EOR a cash cost right now that's less than $20 and our DD&amp;A is less than $10.
We're continuing to drive that down.
Expect that to go lower this year.
So in our Permian EOR business currently we can flex that around a bit by developing some of these ROZ developments which Jody mentioned in his presentation.
Some of those developments get down as low as $3 on the F&amp;D side.
So we have a range of opportunities in the Permian EOR business that we can develop.
Some of the ROZ developments that go down to an F&amp;D of $3 those are fairly limited in size.
So what we always try to do is blend the bigger projects that maybe have the $8 or $9 or $10 F&amp;D with the smaller projects to get a blend of all of those.
And on the Resources side certainly our costs have been coming down there.
The operating cost is down much lower than it was.
The DD&amp;A for our Resources business currently is higher because of the infrastructure that you always install up front.
But the F&amp;D costs development costs on a per BOE basis is coming down.
To tell you a number of where that's going to be I think I'd hate to prematurely forecast something that I'm sure the teams are about to beat but we're continuing to lower our costs in Resources.
Just to press can you give me a range at least? Chief Operating Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> On the Resources side? Yeah I mean it's just really interesting to everyone because obviously we see it as the marginal arguably the marginal cost of oil.
Chief Operating Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah the Resources side I would say that we're in the total cash cost range of about $13 to $14.
And we're working when we get our full development costs in line our DD&amp;A on the Resources side will be in the $10 range.
Thank you very much.
Chief Operating Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thank you.
Basically you've got positive cash margins here at the strip for the Permian Resources and EOR for sure Paul.
I mean that's the way I would think about it.
Appreciate that.
Thanks all of you.
Our next question comes from John Herrlin of Socit Gnrale.
Please go ahead.
Yes.
Thanks.
Getting back to slide 41 will you make more of a push towards the Delaware given the relative economics of plays like the Bone Spring? And specifically for the sub $40 type inventory you highlighted could you give me a better sense and maybe this is redundant but could you give me a better sense of the split between the formation itself the well design and also the infrastructure? Because obviously you're stressing the integrated nature of your approach but certainly good rock matters.
But I was wondering about how important your well design changes have been to lower that threshold? Domestic Oil and Gas</span></strong> Yeah.
John that's a great question.
We're really encouraged by the recent results with upsizing our fracs in the Bone Spring in New Mexico.
But when you look at field development maturity and our infrastructure maturity the Wolfbone has just got a jump start on that over on the Texas side.
So early in the year we'll be in the Wolfbone where we can take advantage of that infrastructure and as we get the field development plans matured in the Bone Spring area incorporate more of the appraisal data that we've captured over this last year to ensure that we're as efficient as possible when we do put the rig back in New Mexico.
Okay.
That's fine.
Last one from me is you sold a lot of reserves during the year about 600 million barrels.
I was wondering if you could break them down geographically what you sold.
Yeah the Bakken reserves were very small.
I mean at the end of the day I mean we didn't sell.
These are sort of I mean that we took down the PUDs basically in the domestic part of the business.
Okay.
Thanks Chris.
And this concludes our question-and-answer session.
We would like to turn the call back over to Chris Degner for any closing remarks.
Investor Relations</span></strong> Thank you.
And I'll turn the call over to Vicki for some closing remarks.
Chief Operating Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> I just wanted to say I don't think we fully answered Paul's question.
So to get back to that in the EOR business with our cash costs and our DD&amp;A of around $24 to $25 and then the Resources business our cash costs and DD&amp;A in the neighborhood of $22 to $23.
That's basically about half of the price we're seeing on the strip as Chris had said.
Generally that delivers for us of about a 50% rate of return.
So I just wanted to close with that.
Investor Relations</strong> Okay.
Thank you Vicki and thanks to everyone for participating on the call.
Have a good day.
The conference is now concluded.
Thank you for attending today's presentation.
You may now disconnect your lines.
Have a great day.