Good morning ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by.
Welcome to the Pioneer Drilling Q1 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
(Operator Instructions).
This conference is being recorded today Thursday May 5<sup>th</sup> and I would now like to turn the call over to Ann Pearson with DRG&amp;E Investor Relations.
Please go ahead ma’am.
Thank you Jeremy and good morning everybody.
Before I turn the call over to Stacy and Lorne for their formal remarks I have a few of the usual items we need to cover.
First of all a replay of today’s call will be available and is accessible by webcast by going into the Investor Relations section of Pioneer’s website and also by telephone replay.
And you can find all of the replay information you need in this morning’s news release.
A reminder: information reported on this call speaks only to today May 5<sup>th</sup> 2011 so any (interference) and information may no longer be accurate at the time of any replay.
Management has no obligation to update any (interference) made today and all assumptions are based on information currently available to us and while management believes the expectations reflected in these statements are reasonable they can give no assurance they’ll prove to be correct.
They are subject to certain risks uncertainties and assumptions as described in this morning’s release and also in Pioneer’s most recent filings with the SEC.
Should one or more of these risks materialize or should (interference) actual results may differ materially.
Also please note that this conference call today contains references to non-GAAP measures and a full reconciliation to the GAAP financial measures is available in this morning’s press release.
So now I’d like to turn the call over to Stacy Locke Pioneer President and CEO.
Stacy? Thank you and good morning everyone.
Joining us on the call today is Red West President of our Drilling Services Division and Lorne Phillips our Chief Financial Officer.
Overall Q1 was about as we’d expected.
Both revenues and EBITDA were up higher than expected quarter-over-quarter a little over 3%.
I’m not going to review many of the financials in my comments Lorne is going to go over that in just a second but what I think is exciting about our Q1 and where we are year to date is the achievement of what I would call our critical strategic objectives for 2011 – one is putting stacked rigs back to work and two is growing our three core businesses in oil and liquid-rich unconventional plays: that’s land drilling wire line and well services.
With respect to putting stacked rigs back to work our new West Texas endeavor has exceeded our expectations by threefold and could end up exceeding by fourfold the end of the year.
We had budgeted at the beginning of the year to relocate four rigs to West Texas on a timeframe of one in May one in July one in September and one in November.
We were fortunate we were received well in West Texas when we began intense bidding in that market at the beginning of the year and it allowed us to put all four rigs into that market by the end of March.
So we were way accelerated on that opportunity.
More importantly we have now executed an additional nine contracts for rigs that’ll be relocated mostly out of our stacked inventory of rigs in North and East Texas but we will be relocating one that’s been quasi-active from our South Texas market.
We anticipate we are readying the first three of these rigs currently and we anticipate that we’ll have the first two working in West Texas by June the second two working there by July then I’m saying the beginning of June the beginning of July; two more by the beginning of September and two more by the beginning of November and one more by the beginning of December.
That’s the nine rigs.
Eight of those are under one-year term contracts and one is under a six-month term contract.
In addition we’ve identified another group of rigs that we are marketing there that could possibly make it to the West Texas market also by the end of the year but we have not secured contracts for those rigs yet.
So the expected margins from that operation are somewhere in the $3500 per day to $4500 per day range so therefore about every three rigs we move out there will approach new build economics or new build margin at about a quarter of the cost.
So these are very high rate of return opportunities for the company and we’re excited about that long-term.
In addition of course if you assume a 69% utilization starting point which is about where we are today this will allow us to over these next few quarters bring that utilization rate up over 80%.
I’m very very proud of our team for taking this start-up division from zero to 13 rigs in less than 12 months.
It was just a great effort on everybody’s part.
The other strategic objective for the Drilling Services Division is new build rigs.
This is a very competitive market as you know but we have a 1500 horsepower AC design that Red West and our Engineering Department have developed that is receiving considerable interest.
It is a true walking rig for PAD drilling applications not a skidding rig like a lot of the rigs that are being built out there today.
So if the trend towards more PAD drilling develops as it has in the Marcellus and is beginning to in the Bakken and just beginning to in the Eagleford then this rig will be about as efficient as a walking rig as any rig designed in the marketplace.
It also is a rig that rigs up without a crane.
It has a number of kind of quick hookup features to make the rig up/rig down quicker and it has the same integrated-type 500 ton top drive that stays hooked up in the mast and the rig moves like we have on our 50-series rig.
And we’re putting 2000 horsepower mud pumps with 7500 psi fluid ends on this new designed rig for greater pressure and more gallons per minute driving the motor and bit.
So it has been very well received.
We have a number of discussions going on right now and as the customer that just contracted the one rig said “I’ve looked at every rig design on the market today and we like your rig design.” So we’re excited about the prospects for that rig and other rig designs that we’re marketing and we’ve secured our first contract and are beginning the building process on that rig; and that rig we anticipate will be delivered during the Q1 of 2012.
Turning to our Production Service Division revenues were roughly flat quarter-over-quarter.
That was a little better than we expected.
Margin was down about 3% to 38% of revenues roughly as expected and it did contain quite a bit of start-up costs for lots of these new areas that we’ve moved into during the end of last year and this year.
In our Wire Line Division we continued to grow at a healthy clip.
You’ll recall we grew 33% in unit cap in 2010 and we will grow at another 20% this year and we’re further penetrating the unconventional oil and liquid-rich plays around the country.
We should end up roughly 101 units by the end of this year if we don’t order additional units.
To date we’ve already received 14 of the 17 planned units and are working to ready these in the new markets that we’ve moved into.
Pricing is firm and firming up a little bit in certain markets and activity levels look good however we will experience some lingering start-up expenses as we develop these new markets in the short term.
Well Services continue to perform very well and in Q1 utilization was down as we expected although we anticipate utilization will improve in Q2 and as we move through the rest of the year.
In addition prices did edge up a little bit as we had hoped and we expect pricing to firm up from here through the remainder of the year.
After a challenging 2009 and 2010 market for the Well Services Division we are finally back to growing that business.
We plan to add four 550 horsepower units and two 600 horsepower what we call “XL rigs” this year.
To date we have received three of the rigs two 550 horsepower rigs and one 600 XL.
The 600 XL is just a little more powerful rig with a taller mast to make the rig a little more suitable for the higher-pressure completion work that we’re doing in the Eagleford and other higher pressure plays.
We will likely order some additional 600 XL models later in this year.
Now I’d like to turn the call over to Lorne for an overview of the financials.
Thanks Stacy and good morning everyone.
We recorded a net loss in Q1 of $0.11 per share.
These results were impacted by the non-recurring net worth tax on our Colombian operations that was assessed on January 1<sup>st</sup>.
Again although it is payable in eight semiannual installments from 2011 through 2014 we recognize the full on deductible tax expense in Q1.
Excluding this tax we would have recorded positive earnings of $0.02 per share during Q1; that compares to a net loss of $2.7 million or $0.05 per share in the prior quarter when excluding the negative impact of a $3.3 million charge for the impairment of option rate preferred securities in Q4.
Our reported net loss in Q4 was $6 million or $0.11 per share.
Our total revenue this quarter was $153.3 million which was up 3% from the prior quarter.
Adjusted EBITDA based on reported earnings was $31.7 million.
If you exclude the negative impact of the Colombia tax adjusted EBITDA for Q1 would have been $38.9 million.
This compares to $37.7 million in Q4 and $9.2 million in Q1 of last year.
Looking at our Drilling Division performance our revenue in Q1 was $99.8 million which was up 5% from the previous quarter.
Our Colombian operations counted for $24.2 million of that total which is down about 5% from Q4 and that is due primarily to periods of downtime that affected two of our rigs in Colombia during March.
One of these rigs began earning mobilization rates in April and the other is expected to be earning full day rates again in late May.
Our turnkey drilling revenues more than doubled from the prior quarter to $7.9 million.
We completed six turnkey jobs in the quarter.
Looking forward we expect to return to a range of two to four jobs per quarter.
Our gross margin for Drilling Services was 32.3% compared to 33.7% in Q4.
This slight decline is primarily due to the increased revenues from turnkey operations.
While the turnkeys contribute higher gross margins on a total dollar basis the gross margin percentage tends to be lower due to the higher top line.
Average margin per day increased about 1% from the previous quarter to 7769 and our overall utilization increased to 100 percentage points from Q4 to 65% and as of this week it stands at 69%.
We currently have 32 rigs working under term contract and an additional nine rigs under contract to begin operating in West Texas through the rest of the year as Stacy discussed.
Of the rigs currently under contract 25 are operating in the US and seven are operating in Colombia.
As mentioned earlier we expect our eighth rig in Colombia to return to work under contract later in May and as of March 31<sup>st</sup> the average remaining contract term was nine months with six months on average for the US rigs.
Looking now at the Production Services Division our revenues were $53.6 million in Q1 up by less than 1% from the prior quarter.
Overall activity levels were lower in the quarter due to weather and reduced daylight hours however the increased number of units enabled Production Services’ revenue in the quarter to remain flat.
Overall gross margin was 38% down from 41.5% in the prior quarter.
The decrease in the margin was the result of the reduced activity levels I just discussed as well as some increased costs due to recruiting and training crews for new units.
Well servicing utilization was just under 82% in Q1 compared to 90% in Q4.
Our activity picked up nicely in April and with an average utilization of approximately 88% and our average hourly revenue rate increased by $6 from the prior quarter to $509 per hour.
Overall Production Services represented approximately 39% of the company’s gross profit in Q1.
Company-wide G&amp;A costs were $14.5 million compared to $15.3 million in Q4 and the prior quarter G&amp;A was higher due primarily to year-end accruals for performance-based incentive compensation.
Our Q2 G&amp;A will likely increase from Q1 by around $500 000 based on the current outlook.
Depreciation and amortization costs were $32.3 million which is up $720 000 from Q4.
Our interest expense for Q1 was $7.5 million which is down $300 000 from Q4.
This is due to lower average debt outstanding throughout Q1 and a lower interest rate as well.
As our leverage ratio improves our interest rate on the revolving line of credit declines.
Our effective tax rate for Q1 was 25.8%.
This reduced rate is due to the non-deductible Colombian tax of $7.3 million partially offset by other permanent differences.
For Q2 Q3 and Q4 of 2011 we currently estimate the effective tax rate will be in the 38% to 40% range.
Looking over the balance sheet during Q1 our net borrowings were $4.2 million on our revolving credit facility resulting in $42 million outstanding under the revolver as of March 31<sup>st</sup>.
We also have $9.2 million in committed letters of credit which leaves our borrowing availability at $173.8 million.
Our cash and cash equivalents were $15.3 million as of March 31<sup>st</sup>.
The total consolidated leverage ratio for the company was 2.2:1; our senior consolidated leverage ratio was 0.4:1; and our interest coverage ratio was 4.5:1.
Capital expenditures during Q1 totaled $34.7 million and that included $13.1 million for routine expenditures.
For the full year we now expect to spend $170 million to $185 million of CAPEX which includes funding for two new builds as well as upgrades and relocations for 14 to16 drilling rigs to West Texas.
Again that number could go higher if we are successful in signing additional term contracts for new build rigs or we decide to add additional Well Servicing or Wire Line units.
And with that I’ll turn it back over to Stacy.
Thank you Lorne.
Before opening it up to questions I’d like to talk a little bit about how we see our market playing out in the short-term and a little bit in the long-term.
On the drilling side as we talked about in last quarter’s conference call all of our shale capable rigs are already in the shales working and we have pushed those day rates up right to market rates; and we’d pretty much done that last quarter and that’s why we gave minimal improvement in average margins per day on the drilling side.
So for us our growth in revenues and margin per day is going to occur from putting stacked rigs back to work in West Texas albeit at a lower average margin per day than we have in the shale activity rigs; and then later from our new build program which that will really impact the company more in 2012.
So for this year while there may be some modest improvements in day rates even in the shale plays we’re going to have a little bit of an average margin downdraft because of the increased activity out in the West Texas market.
That is still a great opportunity for Pioneer.
It’s taking stacked equipment putting it back to work in very high returns and is increasing our EITDA in each quarter going forward.
As you can see from the schedule that I laid out in my prepared notes a moment ago the impact from West Texas is minimal in Q2.
So we don’t see much change taking place in Q2 but a greater impact in Q3 Q4 and beyond.
And of course on the new build side we see that market really being a 2012 event and we remain optimistic that we’ll layer in additional new builds to the one we’ve announced.
So the guidance that I’ll give for the Q2 is modest improvement in utilization maybe up just 2% to 4% on average which would be 67% to 69% and margins being flat to roughly slightly down maybe as much as $300 a day.
That’s a little hard to gauge but it’s not going to be a ramp up due to the gradual increase in rigs going into West Texas.
And that trend should continue for the balance of this year unless we later see that our shale rig day rates are pushing upwards which I think we’re really not seeing that right now.
On the Production Service side of the business we do see a rebound in Q2.
We think revenues are going to come back up 5% to 10% and we think margin as a percentage of revenue should increase 100 basis points to 300 basis points to a 39% to 41% margin.
And we see that business improving steadily through the course of the year from the information that we have today.
As you know on the Well Service front we’ve been the utilization and pricing leader.
Others are narrowing that gap which is going to be good for the overall market and will allow all of us further advancements as the year progresses.
So that is all the prepared remarks for today.
We’d like to open the call up for questions thank you.
We will now begin the question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions.) And our first question comes from Judd Bailey with Jefferies &amp; Company.
Please go ahead.
Thanks good morning guys.
Question or follow-up Stacy on your guidance for Q2: if the two rigs in West Texas don’t start until June you think you could have that much of an impact potentially as high as $300 a day in margin? Are you being conservative or are there some costs with moving the rigs out there? Since it’s so late in the quarter can you give a little color on (interference).
Judd this is Lorne.
I’ll take that one.
It’s a couple things.
One is we’ll have a full quarter of all the rigs that are the four rigs that we talked about in our last call that are now operating in West Texas so all four of those for a full quarter plus adding the other two.
And then we talked about how we had some downtime in Q1 with our Colombia rigs but also we have the second one that’ll start back up here in late May and have one earning mobilization rates which was a little bit lower.
So a little bit in Colombia some across the West Texas rigs is kind of the main combination that leads us to give you that range.
And we are subsidizing a little bit of the move for some of those rigs out to West Texas so that impacts it a little bit as well.
Okay.
If we see rates start to move up in the next few months it sounds like with the backlogs that you have would it be fair to say if we start to see improvement in the margins it’s probably going to hit in Q4 this year and Q1 of ‘12? Yes I think that where we’re going to see some help is as we start layering in new builds obviously because those are at the higher end of the market.
But also if the existing rigs that are working in the shale plays if those rates move up then that could impact Q3 Q4 and that’s a possibility.
But there’s so many new builds as you’ve heard from all these other calls being put on the market I think the new build pricing is layering in right above where… And I talked about this on the last quarter’s call that the folks that are seeing average margins go up it’s because of new builds and I don’t think that too many people are moving up on an existing stock fleet.
So there’ll need to be a change in the market to have these rates go up and that’s a possibility but I think it’s a little uncertain because there’s so many new builds coming onto the market and being marketed that I think it puts a cap on day rate movement.
However those that are successful in adding lots of new builds they will see their average margin go up.
Now I think where the greatest leverage will come – which for us might be a little more of a 2012 event – is I think there’s upside more in the conventional rig market today than there is the high-end shale rig market other than new builds.
We think that West Texas there is just continued demand there and we’ve taken our first four rigs out there on roughly six-month terms.
This next batch will have a number on one-year terms so not much can happen until a year the anniversary dates of those rigs but if there’s a market that I see that is probably going up it’s the conventional rig market.
Now that’s West Texas.
In the non-West Texas conventional rig market we are seeing improvement in certain markets but I would exclude say East Texas where that has just been very anemic – in fact today I think we’re running two rigs in a market that was once our largest market.
It’s just very slow and it’s gas price dependent.
Now things are changing in a number of these markets.
There is a little oil play that’s being potentially developed in East Texas that these rigs would be very suitable for not unlike what you see in West Texas.
So there are opportunities and new plays developing all the time for the conventional fleet but I think that’s where the most likely leverage to day rates will be.
Alright great.
Thank you.
Thank you and our next question comes from the line of John Daniel with Simmons &amp; Company.
Please go ahead.
Good morning guys.
First on Production Services you guys gave helpful guidance for Q2 but if you could look into your crystal ball beyond Q2 I mean it would seem that revenues should continue to go higher just given the capacity additions that you talked about and the potentially new 600 XL power rigs that you order.
But beyond Q2 how do you see margins evolving? Well John based on what we see today we had kind of a seasonally-stopped Q1 and maybe impacted a little bit by weather but I think that Q2 and Q3 and Q4 are usually pretty strong.
So we think we’ve given guidance for Q2; we would anticipate Q3 to be a little better and Q4 to be even a little better yet.
So we see utilization levels activity levels staying fairly strong and we still think there’s a real opportunity for some pricing improvements particularly now that a lot of the other folks in the market have brought their pricing and utilization up.
It’s going to help everybody.
Fair enough.
I want to come back to follow-up on Judd’s questions.
You mentioned in the prepared remarks the average term on the West Texas rigs is roughly six months.
As those rigs are rolling off is it your view that excluding the West Texas rigs for one moment but the rigs that would be rolling off in current markets do they price at higher rates? I mean should we expect to see cash margin on that segment of rigs go higher? And let me just throw one more to you big picture – can you just comment on some of the discussions you’re having with customers for those rigs? Right well those activity levels are still strong and I would say that we are moving as those rigs- We are able to recommit to terms in almost all cases – we’ve been somewhat insistent on that.
And I would say that generally we are getting a little bit of price improvement but it’s not like stepping up $2000 a day; it’s smaller numbers.
It’s either the same or slightly up probably on the order of $500 maybe $1000 a day.
But it just varies.
Some rigs are where I would say are completely topped out.
We have a number of them that I would say are right at the top of the market and so as an overall fleet I don’t think – and that’s why our guidance is the way it is.
I don’t think- You know there could be a little bit of a positive upside surprise but it’s just very hard to determine that with so many contracts kind of moving at different spots and already being high in the shale plays.
Okay.
Just one last one then I’ll get back in the queue.
Lorne I don’t know if you said the depreciation guidance for Q2.
If you didn’t can you give us a sense as to what you’re expecting? Yeah you’re right I didn’t.
We were $32.3 million in the first and I think it should be around that range.
My guidance in the last call for the year was $124 million to $128 million and I think it’s going to be in the high end of that range.
I would probably use the current run rate for now.
New builds we’ll be spending on those this year but they won’t go into service probably until say Q1 2012 and so you really won’t see the impact of that on G&amp;A this year.
So I would use current run rate maybe up just a little bit but I think that’s probably the right guidance on it.
Okay thanks guys.
Thank you and our next question comes from the line of Brian Uhlmer with Global Hunter Securities.
Please go ahead.
Hey good morning gentlemen.
How you guys doing? I have two questions relating to the West Texas rigs.
First you said that you’re subsidizing some of the move expenses.
I was curious to what extent that would be and how that’s going to affect the OPEX as you move them out and get them ready.
And then second as you get those rigs ready what portion of kind of bring them out of the yard costs are going to be capitalized and how much is that going to hit the OPEX? So should we see sort of an upward trend in Q2 that’s reversed in Q3 I guess is what I’m really looking for? This is Lorne.
I guess in terms of how it impacts us most of that is capitalized.
You do have some expense associated with your crews as you’re moving out there and getting the rigs set up but the vast majority of the cost is capitalized cause a lot of it has to do with equipment.
And then from a mobilization perspective it does hit but it doesn’t hit all at once.
If you’re under term contracts it kind of gets amortized over the term of the contract.
So I wouldn’t you ended your question with kind of an updraft followed by a downdraft with your question I thought and I don’t think we’ll see that.
I think the guidance of our margin per day sticking in the flat to down $300 is what you should be focused on.
Okay even moving beyond Q2 okay? Oh sorry you were saying beyond Q2? Yes.
Oh well I guess I need to kind of defer to Stacy’s comments in far as I think as you get the rigs out there and they’re going to keep going throughout the year but I think you’ll see probably a gradual decline like Stacy talked about flat to decline as the years go on and as they come in and get into service and the margins per day utilization EBITDA going up margins per day probably trending down.
And further out on the long-term prospects for these guys if can you explain the capabilities of the rigs and the formations you’re targeting and give us a little bit of comfort that these are going to get contracts through 2012 2013 and don’t get displaced by new builds.
Can you kind of speak to that a little bit Stacy? Sure.
Well these rigs… I have to be honest.
I think demand’s driving most of it but secondarily to demand is the quality of the rigs that we’re taking out there and I think that has played a role because as you’ve heard me say in the past our mechanical conventional fleet is high end.
Most of these rigs have the roundabout a mud tank just like a brand new rig they’ve got high horsepower mud pumps max 1000 horsepower at a minimum.
These are pretty much all 1000 to 1200 horsepower rigs.
So they’ve got every one of them has an iron roughneck they’ve got dual linear motion shakers cleaning the mud.
So in many respects they’ve got a lot of the attributes of the most modern rigs built out there and even a lot of the engines are modern tier low-knock engines.
So what they don’t have they’re not SER or they’re not joystick and they don’t all have top drives but as a West Texas rig goes I think they would be considered very high end and I think they’ll perform at a very high end.
So I think that has helped us break into a whole multitude of customers there so I am confident that we will roll those over.
As long as these oil prices stay strong and activity is high then our rigs will stay working I’m confident of that.
And as I said before I think it’s more likely than not that as the initial contracts roll you’ll roll to higher day rates.
So we’re I think that we’re hopeful that this will become one of our largest operating divisions here by Q4 or Q1 of next year.
Outstanding great answer.
Thank you.
Thank you and our next question comes from the line of John Keller with Stephens Inc.
Please go ahead.
Hi good morning guys.
Just wanted to kind of drill down on the new build capacity a little bit – it’s clearly positive you got the first one signed.
How many from an operational standpoint do you think that you guys could take on and actually kind of move forward with? I would say we would not want to get into a position where we were putting out more than one a month.
We’ve heard lots of horror stories out there about some of these folks who are putting out two or three a month in terms of really diluting their crew quality and we would not want to fall victim to that because we are really interested in safety and service and that’s being able to perform the task.
So I would say that most like in 2006 we were able to put out one new build a month.
I don’t think we’ll get to that level.
I think maybe we’d put out perhaps two rigs certainly one rig a quarter but possibly two rigs a quarter; if things really get ramped up maybe one rig a month but I don’t think we would want to build more than one rig a month because we just can’t get the crews trained and the quality to perform the service properly.
And then how about from say a balance sheet standpoint? I mean how many would you feel comfortable kind of committing to and how would you think about financing if you got to a more steady or higher run rate in terms of your new build deliveries? I’d say one benefit of having not contracted these new builds before today is that we’re seeing our EBITDA improve and our operating cash flow just getting better each quarter going forward so that’s going to help us do more out of cash flow.
We think we can pretty much do a couple out of cash flow this year maybe with modest borrowing; next year we’ll have even more improved cash flow so we can do some additional out of next year’s operating cash flow.
And so I think we can handle cash flow from existing operations and some borrowing.
There’s going to be periods where there’s a tight spot here or there and we may need to borrow a little more under our line and then let our cash flows build and pay it back so really it’s been a mixed blessing to have the delays in getting these first contract signed.
And I think what we’re seeing now if I was to predict in our new build negotiations I think we’re going to see kind of exactly what I’m describing is we’ll be able to have an opportunity to layer in some of these new builds through the Q1 Q2 and Q3 of next year and not have them stacked up right in Q1 which will help fund them.
Got it.
And then just one more – as you build out your West Texas operation can you maybe just address how you’re going about securing crews for that? I mean labor’s incredibly tight in that market and you guys are moving there pretty aggressively.
So any challenges there or how you’re addressing it? Well it’s absolutely a challenge.
We have been able to get these rigs crewed up with crews before they leave and that’s helped but it’s just going to be- We’ve faced this before and it’s a challenge in pretty much every market we’re in in the Bachan [ph] and the Marcellus even South Texas.
You know a lot of the crews have come from slower markets like East Texas like North Texas like out in some of the rocky areas that are more gas so we fortunately have had tentacles out in tall those markets and we’ve been able to access crews.
A lot of our crews are managers that started out in West Texas they’ve all relocated out of our North Texas division.
And so it’s been helpful that we’ve been out and around for a while and have access to quite a few different groups of people.
But it’s going to be a challenge and we’re having to put extra crew on to train them extra drillers extra floor hands just to ensure that we have a good crew quality.
But it’ll continue to be a challenge no doubt about it That’ll do it for me thanks guys.
And our next question comes from the line of Jim Rollison with Raymond James.
Please go ahead.
Good morning Stacy.
New build or excuse me reactivations – any guidance on kind of what the cost is and just generally what you’re doing to get these rigs up to where they need to be for heading out to West Texas? Yes I would say the first batch I’m trying to go back on my memory here I think I’m roughly correct but the first batch of rigs that we started marketing that first four I think we were estimating at about $750 000 per rig roughly somewhere in that range.
This second batch that we’re now working on taking out there that cost has gone up probably closer to $1.5 million $1.75 million a rig; and then the next batch that we will probably start marketing here soon I would guess an estimated cost of no more than $2 million a rig.
And I don’t think you know if the rig’s going to cost much more than that we’ll probably not try to invest that level of capital.
Got it the margins aren’t quite there to get the returns you want I assume.
Just kind of back to one of the questions you were talking about before as far as funding the reactivations the new builds it sounds like you have opportunities to continue adding some reactivated rigs and some new builds.
How far out on the leverage point are you willing to take it before you cut things off until all this stuff hits the ground running and you start bringing that back down through cash flow? Right well as you’ve heard us say many times in the past we definitely want to de-lever over the long haul but you also don’t want to let these opportunities go by so you’re in a bit of a catch 22.
I’d say we’d be willing to walk out a little bit further on the leverage limb but not much further and then at some point we would restrict growth and let our cash flow catch up with us.
So yeah we’re very interested in de-levering over time but it’s kind of like you almost have to grow yourself out of that leverage to some degree too.
Okay and then lastly just on the Production Service business your revenue guidance of up 5% to 10% – I guess when I think about the new equipment added in the quarter the 14 wire line units the three service rigs did those come in relatively late in the quarter? I’m just trying to gauge how much of your sequential guidance is the seasonal bump that you normally get and hopefully no weather issues this quarter like maybe you had in Q4 versus the equipment.
It seems like you could be up more than that depending on the timing of when this equipment came in.
Right.
Well there’s a lot of it that’s in and not yet dispatched to the field and we’ve opened a number of start-up operations so that’s why- You know if we had it all in in the beginning of the quarter and everything was working then you’re correct – you could see a greater increase just from the seasonal rebound.
But we’re going to be incurring as Lorne was saying in his comments we’re going to continue to incur some lingering start-up costs because we’ve opened up in a number of new markets in both Well Service and Wire Line and the size of these new districts isn’t up at an efficient operating level yet.
So we need to get these new units dispatched into them and get them up working and then it’ll kind of spread out the upfront fixed costs that we’ve incurred to establish the new districts.
So that’s why we’re giving what I think is somewhat conservative guidance here until we get these units up and running and get these markets established for us.
So as those units go to work throughout the quarter you’ll still have revenue growth beyond Q2 from them as well as once you get the costs spread out you’ll get margin improvement as well.
Right.
I would say most of the revenue improvement from the new units will benefit Q3 and Q4 than Q2.
I think right now we’re trying to get them all sorted and get these new districts established and get customers – it’s a lot about positioning.
Okay thanks very much.
Thank you and our next question comes from the line of Janice Rut with Pritchard Capital.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
I just wanted a little more color on the contracts of the new build.
I’m assuming you can’t tell us who it is but maybe describe them – where do you think the rig’s going to go how long a term is the contract? Well I’m going to answer that very vaguely.
You know this market for new builds as I’m sure you’ve listened to everybody else’s calls is about as intense a competition as I’ve ever heard or seen and so we’re not going to really- I will say that most of these new builds will go into unconventional plays probably mostly the shale plays that would be most obvious like the Bachan like the Marcellus like the Eagleford.
And I would say that the term for us I would anticipate would average very close to three-year terms.
I think we’ll have some greater than some slightly less than but I would say the average term length is going to be fairly close to a three-year term – that’s what we’re targeting.
So but I don’t want to get into any specifics on any one contract.
As we secure additional contracts then I can give you some blended averages but I don’t really want to identify where these are going.
I will say they’re with good customers and they are I think good economic returns to the company.
Okay thank you.
And our next question comes from the line of Roger Reed with Morgan Keegan.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
A lot of this stuff’s been beaten up pretty good but I think I’ll go with some of the stuff when you were talking with Jim Rollison about the cost you’re incurring as you’re moving this equipment in the Production Services part of the business building out it sounded like some new facilities or within existing facilities.
I wasn’t sure which but I’m just trying to understand in general as we look to the back half of the year other issues that you’re incurring that could lead to some margin expansion not connected to pricing improvements.
Well that’s a good question.
I guess just to give you an example let’s say we’re starting an operation in the Marcellus in Wire Line and Well Service.
You’ve got to secure your people – your managerial your supervisory-level people – and you usually do that before that first unit’s there.
You will not reach then you secure additional staff as those areas grow but you know these district offices need to get to a certain critical mass before they really are optimized and so you generally like to have at least four or five units in each district office working to start operating at efficient levels.
And so we’ve established and we have been establishing a number of districts in all the shale plays that we all know about and in some cases multiple districts in shale plays the ones that are particularly lengthy and so you know you might start with one unit and then a second unit and then you get this batch of units in this quarter this past quarter and then you’ll be able to feed in a third unit.
So and at the same time you’re also trying to establish new customers so it just takes a little bit of time to get these new districts up and running and for us we just feel it’s important.
We’re believers in these plays long-term and we feel that we need to be in there be established and in some cases maybe a little on the early side but we think that pays off in the long run and that’s just the way we approach the business.
So yes down the road maybe even as early as the end of this year and certainly next year we will start achieving greater efficiencies in a lot of these districts.
Okay.
So kind of following on with a question is that something you can see as an enhancement to margins in Q3 and Q4 or let’s say we’re going to be building things- It’s not like the shale play approach is slowing down so I mean even after the current build-out you’re doing there will be another district to add and another part of the Eagleford or Marcellus or wherever.
Based on your plans I mean do you see that or not? We do.
I mean we’re pretty well situated in a lot of the major plays.
There are a few markets that we haven’t opened yet but we do have at least seed establishments in most of these big plays and so I do think we will see some margin improvement in Q3 and Q4 probably each and then we’ll probably have a little bit of a seasonally slow start to Q1 next year but right now we see a gradual improvement in the margins.
So and then it’ll be further enhanced as we have all our districts established which probably you’ll see the full benefit of that more in 2012.
Sure I understand that.
And then coming back again on the margin on the Drilling Services side in terms of a starting point for the impact of the West Texas rigs or the margins on the West Texas rigs is it best to start from where we were in the Q4 when you had nothing out there or is it better to start with Q1’s cash margin in terms of layering in the impact of the four rigs and then ultimately the nine? I would start with going with the Q1.
I mean Q1 and Q4 are close so I would take this Q1 probably and go from there.
I mean it was a $100 margin per day difference.
Okay thanks.
Yeah I was just trying to understand if there was anything unusual in either quarter.
No there’s always a little noise in every quarter it seems like but you know we’ll end up at the end of the year with 13 rigs out there correct? Yeah four and then nine right? Four plus nine right.
And also on your prior question just to put a little bit of perspective on it we were the Production Service margin in Q1 was 38%.
Just as a reminder in 2008 we were up over 50% in that business and we were growing pretty good then too.
So we still have a lot of upward opportunity in that margin we think.
Pricing is not back in any of those businesses yet to ‘08 levels so there is quite a bit of upside there over time.
Maybe as a quick question on that on the pricing side what would you identify as kind of the biggest impediment to price? I know ‘08 was a phenomenal 2000 rigs running plus but what are the impediments to pricing at this point in the Production Services segment? Clearly it’s good enough to incentivize you to add equipment at this point but pricing is it capacity or how do you go about that? Well I think what you had in ‘08 that you don’t have today was great gas prices and fortunately we’ve had oil and all of these new oil and liquid rich plays develop – that’s really creating the opportunity that we have today.
But gas is going to come back at some point and when gas prices come back which possibly could start happening next year or the year after then I think you’ll optimize pricing on all fronts.
Obviously that would give you the chance to take the production services businesses back up to that 50% and beyond level and then on the drilling side we’re still a far cry from the highest average quarterly margins we had in our fleet back in ‘08 which was just about 10 000 a day just shy of 10 000.
And our fleet is vastly superior with 35 of the rigs with top drives we bought 30-some-odd pairs of 1600 horsepower 1300 horsepower mud pumps; we’ve added a lot of iron roughnecks we’ve added a lot of features to these rigs that when gas prices in the whole market improves where you have both commodities working that we should see our average margin fleet-wide up above where we were in ‘08.
Okay that’s helpful.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from the line of Mike Kelly with Kennedy Capital.
Please go ahead.
Hey Stacy and Lorne how are you? Given that we saw a sequential increase in daily drilling costs by almost 8% and gross margins falling about 140 bps in that segment I was hoping you could talk just briefly on the cost pressures you’re seeing in this segment and the potential for more pressure on the gross margin? Mike this is Lorne Stacy will probably follow up with some stuff but one thing I would just reiterate is that you know our turnkey volume went up quite a bit and that does drive up your revenue per day to some extent which went up this quarter and then your operating cost per day as well.
And I was trying to explain you do get a better margin per day on it but because you’re top line is flowing so much through on the turnkey it actually has a dilutive effect on your gross margin percentage.
So that’s part of it.
Now there are pressures out there but most of that we’re able to pass on but things like Stacy was talking about where maybe you’re training more crews more people on your crews carrying extra employees so that you can deliver good crews is something that probably is impacting us a little bit.
Stacy do you have anything to add? Well I was just going to put a little color on that.
When you think about it the types of costs that Lorne is talking about on these turnkeys it’s the costs for the casing it’s the costs for the mud the bits the supervision the cementing crews the casing crews – all of that cost goes through the revenue line on those particular jobs.
So your revenue per day on a turnkey they’re sometimes over $40 000 a day in terms of cost? Is that about right? Yeah it can reach that point.
It can reach that $30 000 to $40 000 a day just because you’re running all that cost that we don’t normally run when we’re on just pure day work.
So that really clouds up in quarters where we are doing more than normal numbers of turnkeys your revenue per day and your cost per day will jump up and it always causes great concern for people because they don’t realize the impact of these turnkeys.
I would say baseline day work cost if we stripped it out probably didn’t change much quarter to quarter.
Yeah that is correct.
Yeah so it’s really the impact of the turnkeys.
Great that’s what I was looking for.
Thank you.
Thank you and our next question comes from the line of Jeff Kagan [ph] with Milwaukee Private Wealth Management.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
Stacy under what circumstances do you believe natural gas prices will firm and go higher? That’s a great question.
You know it’s a little hard to envision right now I’ll be the first to admit because what’s killing it is these unconventional plays where they’re going for the liquid but they’re producing a heck of a lot of gas.
So it’s a little hard to see.
However I will say this that in my 16 years’ of experience with the company I have been surprised numerous times on commodity pricing and I just generally believe that gas prices for whatever combination of reasons – like you have another winter like we had this past year – and then eventually the US will come upon a feasible energy policy that will create demand.
I know that’s somewhat long-term but I think that should happen and could happen quicker than we all think.
So you know I’m confident when I say gas prices will come back.
I don’t know that it’ll be next year but I wouldn’t be surprised to see gas prices up on average a little bit next year and then up on average a little bit more the following year and I don’t think it takes too much more and with some spikes in there that give people hedging opportunities to keep some of that drilling going.
Haven’t we been waiting since the mid-70’s for a national energy policy? Yes we have.
I think now’s the time to get it done don’t you? Twenty-five years ago.
Okay second question on if your fleet is equipped or capable of drilling for shale gas today.
Well I think that it depends on what the operators want.
And I think that you know if you go back and you look back in time for many years there we were drilling shales without top drives like all the rigs that we built to go to the Barnett shale not one of them had a top drive and they drilled all that time without a top drive.
In the early years in the Bachan all those rigs didn’t have top drives.
So if operators like we’re seeing in West Texas and certain other markets they’re using rigs without top drives.
We will put more rigs we could put more rigs in the market without top drives.
The issue for us is we don’t want to incur the cost on putting top drives if that’s the direction operators are going.
We don’t want to spend that much on an 800 horsepower mechanical rig just because over time that rig could be replaced by a new build because people are going to still be building new.
So we have a lot of rigs that are capable- Let me just say this: every rig that is clearly capable to work on the shale plays is working.
There will be some of these rigs that we’ll move to West Texas that’ll also be working in the shale plays and we don’t have to go to the expense of putting a top drive on it.
They’ll drill it as it horizontally like we’ve done in the past.
So I wouldn’t say that in today’s world there’s too many more of our existing fleet that will drill in the shale plays horizontally at least without us having to spend capital to put a top drive on it and we won’t spend that capital cause it’s usually not just a top drive; if they want a top drive and they’re going horizontal they’ll oftentimes want 1300 or 1600 horsepower mud pumps and then on a mechanical fleet we’ll have to buy power to source it.
So it’s a fairly expensive proposition.
Having said that we are looking at that on a case right now where a customer has come to us and they want to replace an AC joystick rig with our mechanical rig and they’re willing to give us an 18-month term at a very high day rate quite a bit over $20 000 per day.
So in those cases we might go ahead and spend that capital to do it but it’s going to take a term contract for us to do it.
Thank you.
Thank you and I don’t show any further questions in queue Mr.
Locke.
Alright well we sure appreciate your participation on the call today a bunch of good questions and we will look forward to visiting again next quarter.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes the Pioneer Drilling Q1 2011 earnings conference call and as a reminder a replay for this conference will be available.
You can get that information on how to access the replay through the company’s website and this morning’s earnings release.
Thank you for using AT&amp;T conferencing and you may now disconnect.
Welcome to the Pioneer Drilling second quarter earnings conference call.
(Operator Instructions) I would now like to turn the conference over to Anne Pearson of DRG&amp;L Investor Relations.
Good morning everyone.
Before I turn the call over to Stacy and Lorne for their formal remarks I have a few of the usual items I need to cover.
First of all a replay of today's call will be available and is accessible by webcast by going to the IR section of Pioneer's website and also by telephone replay.
You can find the replay information for both in this morning's news release.
As a reminder information reported on this call speaks only as of today August 4 2011 so any time-sensitive information may no longer be accurate at the time of the replay.
Management may make forward-looking statements today that are based on beliefs and assumptions and information currently available to them.
Although they believe the expectations reflected in these statements are reasonable they can give no assurance they'll prove to be correct.
They are subject to certain risks uncertainties and assumptions that are described in this morning's news release and also in recent public filings with the SEC.
If one or more of these risks materialize or should underlying assumptions prove to be incorrect actual results may differ materially.
Also please note that this conference call may contain references to non-GAAP measures.
You'll find a reconciliation to the GAAP measures in this morning's news release.
So now I'd like to turn the call over to Stacy Locke Pioneer President and CEO.
Thank you Anne and good morning.
Joining me here in San Antonia on the call this morning is Red West President of our Drilling Services Division; and Joe Eustace President of our Production Services business; and Lorne Phillips our Chief Financial Officer.
We appreciate everyone joining the call today.
Overall we had very solid second quarter.
Topline revenue growth was 12%.
But more importantly EBITDA grew by 16%.
And this was primarily driven by the 21% revenue growth in our Production Services which is a very high-margin business just under 42% in this second quarter.
And finally we had enough business and earnings to generate $0.07 on the diluted EPS line which we're very proud to accomplish.
These good results were achieved by essentially just executing on our strategic plan.
In Drilling we put stacked rigs back to work in our new West Texas division.
Today we have 12 rigs working in West Texas with four additional rigs contracted.
Two of those four rigs will be in West Texas working in mid-September; a third one in mid-October; and the fourth one by the beginning of November.
Incidentally two of the 16 total rigs were part of these six cold-stacked rigs that have been cold-stacked in Western Oklahoma since the summer of '08.
So we're very pleased to activate those two units one of those with a 550 horsepower and one with an 800 horsepower.
The vast majority of other rigs that we have in West Texas are 1 000-horsepower to 1 300-horsepower rigs.
And we continue to market stacked East Texas rigs and hope to have 18 to 20 rigs working in the West Texas division by the first quarter of 2012.
On the newbuild front we continue to market aggressively.
We have five rigs under construction currently with signed multiyear contracts.
We're very close to executing the contracts on our six rigs.
It's another 1 500-horsepower rig.
And we plan to deliver at least eight to 10 newbuild rigs during 2012.
Drilling outside of West Texas and in other markets the Bakken we had a little bit of a downtime in some of these other divisions.
The Bakken had two mechanical rigs down in the month of July in this third quarter.
One of those was down and being upgraded.
It's a 1 000-horsepower mechanical rig.
It was upgraded to a 1 300-horsepower rig with 500-ton top drive and 1 600-horsepower mud pump.
And it is just beginning this week on an 18-month term contract at a day rate of well in excess of 20 000 a day.
So we're very excited about that opportunity.
We have our smallest rig lowest horsepower rig down currently but we have some opportunities that lead us to believe that that rig will also go back to work and put us back to full utilization there in the Bakken.
In the Marcellus we had a couple of our top drive rigs 1 000-horsepower rigs go down at the combination of their term contracts.
One of those is contracted and going back to work and we're optimistic that the second rig will be going to back to work in the next six weeks or so.
In the Eagle Ford just really more by timing and coincidence we had two mechanical rigs go down.
One was a 1 000-horsepower top drive rig.
That's one of the rigs that we've relocated to West Texas.
And that makes two 1 000-horsepower one 1 200-horsepower rig with top drive in West Texas now all drilling horizontal wells.
And then the other 1 200-horsepower mobile mechanical rig in South Texas is contracted and going to back to work within about five days.
Utah has remained solid.
East Texas has continued to be steady at a low level approximately three rigs.
And Colombia has remained steady at eight rigs full utilization there.
And again average margins are holding up feel considerably above the average U.S.
margins.
Generally everything looks very good.
I expect utilization to continue to improve in particular in the fourth quarter where we expect our rig utilization to exceed 80%.
Leading edge day rates are firm to slightly up on the order of $500 to $1 000 a day.
We just renewed our first contract from the first two rigs in West Texas.
And as we had hoped these day rates are rolling higher.
When they begin the new term we'll have risen over $1 500 a day.
And we extended them from six months to one year of term.
So that market looks very good.
Turning to our Production Services business simply put we just had an outstanding quarter with 21% revenue growth and 42% margin as a percentage of revenue.
It was an all time high for the division in terms of revenue and business done and very close to matching our highest quarter in 2008.
We continue to grow our Wireline division aggressively.
We're looking at 23% unit growth in Wireline.
We should end the year at 103 units.
We're probably going to have 99.
Again Wireline had a record quarter with its top ever revenue and top ever EBITDA generation.
Outstanding quarter for Wireline.
Currently we have a presence in most of the significant shale plays and in some other shale plays.
These would include the Bakken Eagle Ford Niobrara Marcellus Mississippi and Tuscaloosa marine shale and we're currently exploring a couple of new markets.
We will soon be ordering an additional seven cased-hole units for the first quarter 2012 delivery to further penetrate some of our existing markets and begin accessing these new markets.
Likewise in the Well Services division it had its best quarter ever in terms of revenue and very close on EBITDA.
We continue to see a slow steady improvement in pricing and our utilization remains very high.
During the second quarter we ordered an additional six workover rigs for a total of 12 for this calendar year which will be 16% unit growth and we should end the year with 86 units.
We plan to continue growing Well Services mostly likely another 16% in unit count projected for 2012.
And finally Fishing and Rental also showed some improvement in the second quarter with nice improvements in both revenue and EBITDA.
All in all the Production Services Group did superbly in the second quarter and the outlook is very positive.
I'd like to turn the call over to Lorne to do a review of the financials and then I'll talk about our outlook.
Thanks Stacy.
Good morning everyone.
This morning we reported second quarter net income of $3.7 million or $0.07 per diluted share.
That compares to adjusted net earnings in the prior quarter of $1.3 million or $0.02 per diluted share when excluding the impact of the $7.3 million net worth tax on our Colombian operations last quarter.
For the second quarter of the prior year we reported a net loss of $10.1 million or $0.19 a share.
Consolidated revenues for the quarter totaled $171.3 million which was up 12% from the prior quarter and up 46% compared to a year ago.
Adjusted EBITDA was $45.1 million an increase of 16% compared to the prior quarter when adjusted to exclude the Colombian net equity tax and 105% from the same quarter last year.
Our second quarter drilling revenue was $106.5 million which was up 7% from the prior quarter and 40% versus the year-earlier quarter.
Colombia generated $29.2 million in revenues in the second quarter which was 21% higher than the first quarter.
The increase was the result of higher rig utilization and mobilization and demobilization revenues as two rigs began operating under new term contract.
Drilling Services margin was $33.3 million in the second quarter which is up approximately 3% from the prior period.
Average drilling services margin per day declined to $7 504 which is down from $7 769 in the first quarter.
This is primarily due to the increase of rigs drilling in West Texas and the associated startup cost.
Our turnkey work was a much smaller part of the total business in the second quarter than it has been in prior quarters with total revenue of approximately $2.6 million.
Our overall drilling rig utilization increased sequentially by 4 percentage points to 69% and is currently 72%.
Today we have 40 of our 71 drillings rigs working under term contracts which equates to 77% of our total working rigs.
The average remaining contract term on these rigs is eight months in total and six months on average for the U.S.
fleet.
Also we have term contracts for four additional drilling rigs that we expect will begin operating by the end of 2011.
Turning now to Production Services our revenues were $64.8 million in the second quarter which was up 21% driven by higher pricing and utilization and the addition of the new equipment to the fleet.
Year-to-date we have added six well servicing units and 15 wireline units.
And as Stacy mentioned we plan to add six more well service units and four more wireline units during the second half of this year.s The Production Services margin was $27 million an increase of almost 33% from the first quarter.
And as a percent of revenue Production Services margin was 41.7% compared to the prior quarter at 38%.
Well servicing utilization rate was 90.3% in the second quarter.
This compares to 81.7% in the first and it increased to approximately 92% in July.
Our average hourly revenue rate increased by $15 to $524 per hour in the second quarter.
Production Services accounted for 38% of total revenues in the latest quarter and about 45% of gross margin.
Looking now at our expense trends for the combined company our general and administrative expenses were $15.9 million which was up about 9% from the first quarter.
We expect third quarter G&amp;A to be in the $16.5 million to $17 million range.
The G&amp;A increases are due to the addition of personnel annual merit increases and higher incentive-based compensation accruals.
Depreciation and amortization expense was $32.4 million which was roughly flat from the prior quarter.
Our current outlook for the full year is for D&amp;A to be in the $130 million to $133 million range.
Interest expense was $8 million which is up about $450 000 from the prior quarter.
I would point out that this number included the amortization of approximately $600 000 relating to debt cost that were associated with our credit agreement that we amended in late June.
Our tax rate for the quarter was 22.2% and the delta from our statutory rate of 38% to 40% is the result of foreign exchange gains on Colombian operations.
For the remainder of 2011 our rate should remain in the 38% to 40% range before considering any impact of foreign exchange gains or losses.
Moving on now to our balance sheet and liquidity position we had cash and cash equivalents of $11.5 million at June 30.
Borrowings under our revolving credit facility were unchanged at June 30 at $42 million plus $9.2 million in committed letters of credit.
On June 30 we completed an amendment of our senior secured revolving credit facility.
The amendment increases the size of the facility from $225 million to $250 million and extends a maturity date of the credit agreement from August 31 2012 to June 30 2016.
It also improves the pricing and provides us increased flexibility under the financial covenants.
In addition in July we raised $94.3 in net proceeds from the sale of 6.9 million shares of our common stock at $14.50 per share.
These proceeds will help fund our newbuild drilling rig program and Production Services fleet addition.
As of today our revolver has no outstanding borrowings.
The cash used for capital expenditures for the quarter totaled $47.8 million which include $10.5 million for routine CapEx.
Our target for the full year is now $200 million to $220 million although that number may change based on whether we sign up additional newbuilds.
Now I will turn it back to Stacy.
Thank you Lorne.
Our outlook really for all of our businesses remains very positive.
Looking at Drilling I think the bias is towards slightly improving day rates both on existing rigs and on newbuild rigs.
As I mentioned earlier we see our utilization improving this year primarily due to putting rigs to work in our West Texas division.
So we think utilization in the third quarter will be up another 3% to 4%.
However as I mentioned earlier we expect to see a more significant improvement in our fourth quarter where we think utilization will exceed 80%.
As I also mentioned earlier we are seeing some positive rollover opportunities on contracts particularly in our West Texas division where we thought like we were going to have an opportunity to roll contracts higher as much as 1 000 maybe even 2 000 a day.
And we've now done that on the first two contracts coming due.
That will have a greater impact.
It will start impacting us in the fourth quarter but mostly the rigs are out there on one-year term and we're delivering them.
So throughout the year of 2012 we should be rolling these terms higher and that will be a nice impetus there for improving EBITDA.
Demand for our newbuild rigs continues to remain very strong.
We're in a number of different negotiations in multiple plays.
And as I mentioned we're optimistic that we'll be able to deliver at a minimum eight to 10 newbuilds in 2012.
Likewise on the Production Services side of the business the trends look very positive.
We think we're going to have another nice increase in revenue on the order of 12% to 16% growth and we think our margin will continue to improve slightly an additional 1% to 2% as a percentage of revenue.
So all in all the businesses look great.
We're going to continue growing all these businesses.
Anyway that concludes our prepared remarks and we would like to entertain any questions.
(Operator Instructions) Our first question is from the line of Marshall Adkins with Raymond James.
The Production Services obviously was the big deal here phenomenal growth sequentially and it looks like that's going to continue.
On the growth that you are looking at how does it break down between capacity additions versus pricing versus maybe just higher utilization on the stuff you had before? What's driving that? Of those three things: pricing capacity additions and/or improved utilization what's going to drive it going forward? In the second quarter the revenue growth I'd say approximately a third of that was from unit additions and I'd say the other two-thirds would be a combination of pricing and utilization.
So relatively balanced between those three.
I know you aren't going to know exactly but roughly? We added units in the businesses and then we had improvement in both pricing and utilization.
And so yes I think that's probably a fair comment.
You're seeing revenue per job improved.
You have seen it for a number of quarters.
And in Well Services you're seeing the hourly rate improved for a number of quarters.
Good guidance here on CapEx $200 million $220 million.
Obviously the new rigs will take up a chunk of that.
But of the remaining part not taken by these new rigs how does that break down in terms of where you're spending? You mentioned the service rigs more Wireline rental.
But in percentage terms where does the remaining CapEx break out? Well we've talked about publicly that our routine is probably in the $50 million range.
So they're not for the whole company.
And then the Well Service units cost about $1.75 million to $1.8 million a unit and then the Wireline units are around 800 000 units.
And after that you're really looking at additional equipment in all the businesses.
It might be downhole tools or some replacement equipment drilling that you wouldn't classify as routine but using that information you can kind of back into some of the allocation.
Of the total 16 rigs just ballpark we probably spent on average $1.7 million $2 million on average for all of those rigs.
We basically sand-blasted them primed them painted them did G4 inspections and improved mud tanks put on roughnecks increased draw work size.
It was already a very good mechanical fleet.
It is now an excellent mechanical fleet.
Last question from me is on the newbuilds.
Who is building the rigs? What type of rigs are they? And can you give us a little more specifics on estimated timing? We have two of the current five 1 000-horsepower fit-for-purpose designed rigs for the Marcellus.
And those are low-limit height and width limitations to make sure they can get under bridges and under overpasses and over bridges and not be delayed.
And then the 1 500-horsepower they are all going to be AC joystick-driven rigs.
All of these first five have true walking systems not skidding systems.
They all have automatic catalogues on roughnecks BOP handling systems 500-ton top drive.
So they're basically the same rigs.
The 1 000-horsepower rigs will have 1 600-horsepower pump.
The 1 500-horsepower rigs have 2 000-horsepower mud pumps with 100 psi fluid ends to really accommodate these longer lateral plays.
We're going out over 10 000 feet laterally.
So they're very high-end rigs.
We generally contract them and we sub-contract all our various vendors.
So there is quite a few vendors involved.
We're not buying an off-the-shelf from anybody.
So they're going to be fairly uniform.
Most of them will be 1 500-horsepower rigs except of those perhaps going to the Marcellus.
These will be predominantly going to the Eagle Ford.
The eight to 10 or so we plan to deliver will be mostly Eagle Ford Bakken and Marcellus.
The next question is from the line of Brian Uhlmer with Global Hunter.
When you're talking about Production Services growth you said about 16% growth? Yes that was 16%.
So you are talking about getting to 100 well services? That's correct.
What's the timing on that? What are you guys thinking for timing and how those come out? Well we're hopeful we will get two at the end of the year and then one in next year.
And then following up on Production Services are there any other product lines or pieces of equipment or things like that that you guys would be looking to add to kind of that service offering whether it's coil tubing or whether it's just some other product line or servicing? We continue to look at both acquisitions and any business expansions in there.
The one that has peaked our interest probably more than any other that seems to fit very well with those well service and wireline is the coil tubing.
So we're investigating that.
We have not moved forward on anything but we are evaluating it.
So that would be one the logical business line that would fit very nicely in our Production Services offerings.
Our next question is from the line of John Daniel with Simmons &amp; Company.
You mentioned an average cost of about $1.75 million to reactivate the rigs ballpark.
Was any of that expense in the past couple of quarters or is it all capitalized? It was probably about $2 million per rig for the 16 total rigs.
The first rigs obviously were less costly.
And then as we dug deeper into the stacked pile of rigs that cost goes up.
And then the demand out there is really for 1 000-horsepower and up.
We have put some sub-1 000-horsepower rigs out there but the vast majority of demand is for 1 000-horsepower and greater.
So we've actually had to up here some of these rigs with 1 300-horsepower brand new driller.
But anyway all of that cost is capitalized.
Can you just give us a sense for what the spot markets are cash margins are in the Permian? What we've kind of been talking about all along is that the day rates probably range $14 000 to $15 000 a day and average margins of $3 500 to $4 500 expect for the top drive rigs.
For those the day rates are kind of in that $19 000 to $20 000 range and those margins would be double the other rigs' margin.
We think that rate is moving up.
And as we mentioned the first two contracts that are just about to come up on their six-month anniversaries we will be rolling those higher by a little over $1 500 a day.
So I would say that the current spot rate is probably more instead of in the $14 000 to $15 000 probably in the $15 000 to $16 000 a day range.
That's for non-top drive good-quality 1 000-horsepower rigs.
I know you guys have exposure to the Marcellus.
Has anyone approached you yet to look at drilling in the Utica? If so can you share with us what your thoughts are? Well I know just a little bit about it.
We have been approached by some people and we think that activity is picking up although it looks like all of our seven rigs that are currently in the Marcellus are going to stay there.
And so we don't have any plans yet to move equipment there.
We don't really have any equipment to move there quite frankly unless it's a newbuild.
The next question is from the line of John Keller with Stephens Inc.
I just want to get a better sense on the timing or the cadence of newbuilds as they fold into your fleet next year.
Did you do get up to that eight to 10? How would those hit? I guess even looking beyond into maybe 2013 I know it's a long way out but assuming the newbuild continue what kind of cadence could we think about those rolling into the fleet? I would say that we would have our first newbuild probably operational by March and maybe even a second one at the end of March probably a third one in April probably a fourth one in May and a fifth one in probably June and sixth one probably July.
It's going to be pretty close now.
We may skip August and have one in September then one October one November.
We'll skip a month in there.
Just based on what we see right now I certainly would hope we could put out one a month in 2013.
If the market for us is better than that then we'll increase that.
I guess either from a liquidity or even a personnel logistic standpoint internally what do you think the fastest clip you could add those realistically? If we had that business I think we could achieve with time.
Obviously we'd run out of money at some point but we couldn't do all of that out of cash flow.
So that would be the limited factor.
I think we could figure out a way to get them out.
We're already looking at some training centers and some things just to be prepared for one a month delivery.
So we'll do what we have to do to deliver the rigs and maintain our high level of service and safety.
So we will do what it takes to get that done.
The people is always a challenge.
Shifting gears a little bit to West Texas it sounds like you were bringing a couple of rigs out of stack in Oklahoma I think you said? I think it was my understanding that maybe some of those were not very good candidates for work and that maybe they would be up for sale.
Is that kind of a shift in the fact that you are putting some of those to work? Is the market that strong and are you not going to look to sell those rigs? Well we've six cold-stacked rigs there and we had one of those with 800-horsepower and that is the one that's already out of that stacked status and it's in West Texas working currently.
Then a little bit to our surprise we had an opportunity for a very very good customer to put a 550-horsepower rig to work at a good day rate.
And so that rig is out being sand-blasted right now and going through inspections.
And so that did surprise us a little bit.
I think we are continuing to evaluate the remaining four stacked rigs.
They're 550-horsepower range rigs.
They are probably a little lower quality than the one that went out already.
But we're considering a lot of things either if we get good contracts for them we might activate them; but the worse being we might sell some or all of them.
And we are evaluating the need for a couple of those units potentially training rigs to be prepared to crew up these newbuilds in particularly if our cadence gets up to the one a month like we hope.
So we're going to need to train crews to man these rigs.
You're not going to find skilled labor on all these rigs with what we're putting out and what others are putting out.
So we feel like we'll probably get to the point where we're going to need some training centers.
(Operator Instructions) And I am showing that there are no further questions at this time.
I will turn it back over to management for any closing remarks.
Well thank you very much.
We appreciate everyone participating on the call and we look forward to visiting at the third quarter call.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude the conference call.
The replay information for today's call was posted on this morning's news release.
ACT would like to thank you for your participation and you may now disconnect.
Good morning ladies and gentlemen and thank you for standing by.
Welcome to the Pioneer Drilling Third Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
During today’s presentation all parties will be in a listen-only mode.
Following the presentation the conference will be open for questions.
(Operator Instructions) This conference is being recorded today Thursday November 3 2011.
I’d now like to turn the conference over to Anne Pearson with DRG&amp;L Investor Relations.
Please go ahead ma’am Thank you Mitch and good morning to everyone.
Before I call – I turn the call over to Pioneer CEO Stacy Locke and to CFO Lorne Phillips for their formal remarks; I have a few usual items to cover.
First of all replay of today’s call will be available and accessible by webcast by going to the Investor Relations’ section of Pioneer’s website and also by telephone replay.
You’ll find the details on how to access those replays in this morning’s news release.
Also as a reminder information reported on this call speaks only as of today November 3 2011 so any time sensitive information may no longer be accurate at the time of the replay.
Management may make forward-looking statements today that are based on beliefs and assumptions and on information currently available to them.
Although they believe the expectations reflected in these statements are reasonable but there is no assurance that they will prove to be correct.
They are subject to certain risks and uncertainties and assumptions that are described in this morning’s release and also in recent public filings with the SEC.
If one or more of these risks materialize or should underlying assumptions prove to be incorrect actual results may differ materially.
Also please note that the call may contain references to certain non-GAAP measures you’ll find reconciliation to the GAAP measures in this morning’s news release.
Now I would like to turn the call over to Stacy Locke Pioneer President and CEO.
Thank you Anne and good morning everyone.
Joining me on the call this morning is Red West President of our Drilling Services division; and Lorne Phillips our Chief Financial Officer.
With respect to the quarter overall another very nice quarter for the company top line revenue was up another 10% after being up 12% in the second quarter.
EBITDA was up 14% to 52 million after being up 16% in the second quarter.
As in our second quarter the Production Services division was the big driver for both revenue and EBITDA growth for the third quarter.
Looking at our Drilling Services division some of the things going on there as the press release stated in October we sold four of our lowest horsepower rigs that have been stacked in Western Oklahoma since about the summer of 2008.
As you recall we had six back there and we have been successful this year inactivating two of those six the larger horsepower rigs and mobilizing them to work in West Texas.
But the other four were at roughly a 550 horsepower and we just – they were non-core strategically to the company and we made a very successful sale of those rigs in October.
In addition to those four we have put in auction for this month two additional rigs or really what I would call fragmental rigs and those will be sold this month in auction.
And then we have a seventh rig where we are not selling the mass sub and carrier we’re going to keep that as spare equipment in our yard for the potentially reactivation at some point into the future.
So that takes our marketed fleet down from 71 to 64 rigs so we are down seven and the entire fleet is now a good solid marketed fleet.
Today we are actually operating that fleet at 88% utilization all 14 of our rigs in the Permian are active and utilized under contract all nine of our rigs in the Bakken are active all seven of our rigs in the Marcellus shale are active all eight of our rigs in Columbia are active and both of the rigs in the Uinta Basin are active as well.
And we are in the process of working on two additional 60 series rigs to mobilize for long-term contract in the Uinta basin.
In South Texas 13 of our 14 rigs are utilized.
We have one mechanical and 50 down for a short period of time most of these rigs are working in the Eagle Ford shale.
East Texas is really our only soft market.
Today we have four of the seven rigs back in East Texas three working.
It continues to be a weak market gas oriented drilling.
In addition to these active rigs we have three rigs in Houston being ready for distribution into other markets.
Two of those are rigs that are being worked on and upgraded a little bit for West Texas where we hope to have those two rigs working there by the end of this year.
And we have one 60 series rig from South Texas being winterized and ready for its move to Utah in December.
On the new build front as the press release stated we signed an additional three 1 500 horsepower AC pad drilling rig all on three year term contracts.
So that’s a total now of nine rigs that are under construction to be delivered during 2012 seven of those are 1500 horsepower AC rigs two are 1 000 horsepower AC rigs all are walking rigs.
So that will take during 2012 rig fleet back up to a total of 73 active market rigs during the course of next year.
Overall demand remained strong for drilling services.
Day rates are firm and we continue to roll over term contracts mostly on six-month and one-year terms.
I would say it’s about evenly split between the two and we’ve even recently signed a two-year term.
So we have about 70% of our working rigs today under term contract and with the term that we know they are about to begin we should be up to over 75% operating in a term contract shortly.
Turning to our productive services division we had another outstanding quarter revenues up 22% after being up 21% in the second quarter.
Margin as a percentage of revenue was up 2% to almost 44% and all three of our business lines in production services wireline well services and fishing and rental should EBITDA growth and an increase in margin as a percentage of revenue.
So we just had another terrific quarter there.
We also have made two small tuck-in acquisitions.
One was in well services where we purchased two working 600 horsepower rigs that we had been newly built and we have since added a third unit to that area and then we purchased a two unit wireline company as well both of these tuck in acquisitions were strategic in nature establishing us a new markets.
We continue to grow both well services and wireline today and well services were at 86 units and we have two additional rigs coming there at the very end of the year and so we will end the year at 88 and then we have ordered 16 additional units for delivery by summer of next year.
In the wireline business we have got 103 units today.
We have three and possibly four additional units that will be here by the end of the year and so we – and then we have five.
So we should end the year if the delivery of that last unit makes it on time at 107 with five additional units ordered for delivery in the first quarter.
So we like what we see in the production service segment of our business.
Just like in drilling the demand is strong and we continue to see study although slow improvement in pricing and margin.
Coming up in the fourth quarter and possibly the first quarter we will be subject to our normal cyclicality but we do see continued improvement in that market.
At this point I would like to turn it over to Lorne to go into a little more detail on the financials.
Thanks Stacy.
Good morning everyone.
As you saw on this morning’s earning release we reported third quarter net income of 6.7 million or $0.11 per diluted share.
And that compares to net earnings in the prior quarter of 3.7 million or $0.07 per share and a net loss of 2.6 million or $0.05 share in the third quarter of last year.
The third quarter net results included the impact of a $1.2 million pre-tax foreign exchange charge related to our Columbia operations as a result of the US dollar strengthening compared to the Colombian peso.
We also had an impairment expense of approximately 500 000 related to the seven drilling rigs that we are retiring from the fleet.
We do expect to realize net cash proceeds of about 2.6 to 2.8 million for the six rigs that we are selling.
Our consolidated revenues in the quarter totaled 187.7 million which was up about 10% from the prior quarter and up 38% from a year ago.
Our adjusted EBITDA totaled 51.6 million an increase of 14% from the second quarter and up 51% from a year ago.
Overall revenue from our drilling services operations totaled 108.8 million which is up 2% sequentially.
Colombia accounted for 28 million or approximately 15% of that total.
The margin for our drilling services division was 36.3 million in the third quarter an increase of 9% from the previous quarter.
And the average drilling services margin per day increased almost 4% sequentially to 7 797.
The third quarter improvement in margin per day reflects reduced downtime on our US drilling rigs and reduced drilling rig start-up costs since more rigs were activated during the first half of the year.
As Stacy mentioned our current utilization is around 88% and please note that this utilization is now based on a rig fleet of 64 drilling rigs.
If you went back and excluded the seven retired rigs to calculate our third quarter utilization rate it would have been 79%.
Our turnkey work increased slightly in the third quarter.
We completed five turnkey jobs versus four last quarter and turnkey revenues totaled about 4 million.
As of this week as Stacy mentioned 71% of our working rigs are operating under term contracts.
The average remaining term on these contracts is approximately seven months in the US and eight months overall.
Looking now at the Production Services division the revenues increased 22% sequentially driven by higher rates increased units in the fleet and higher overall utilization.
The margin in production services was 34.5 million which is up 28% compared to the prior quarter.
And as a percent of revenue the production services margin was 43.7%.
Overall contribution by production services to the company’s total revenues and total gross profit continued to expand in the third quarter representing 42% of the company revenues and 49% of the company’s gross margin.
The utilization rate for the well servicing units was 92% during the quarter compared to 90% in the second quarter the average hourly revenue rate increased by 6% to 555 an hour in the third quarter.
And in October the average hourly rate was 587 an hour and utilization was 91%.
I would note as Stacy mentioned as well the third quarter does tend to be one of our stronger quarters for the production services business in large part due to favorable weather and increased daylight hours.
Moving on now to our overall expense trends for company our general and administrative expenses were 17.7 million which was up about 12% from the prior quarter.
The increase is driven by higher accruals for incentive-based compensation.
We expect our fourth quarter SG&amp;A to be in the 18 million to $18.4 million range.
Depreciation and amortization expense was 33 million which was up about $0.5 million versus the second quarter.
Our D&amp;A for the full year should be in the 132 to 134 million range.
Interest expense for the quarter was 6.1 million which is down almost 2 million from the prior quarter.
The decrease was driven by a few items including the result of the zero debt balance on our revolver due to the equity offering in July.
And we also capitalized interest of 1.1 million due to our rig build projects.
And finally the second quarter had included a $0.6 million charge related to the credit facility amendment which did not repeat in the third quarter obviously.
Our tax rate for the third quarter was 43.7%.
The higher tax is related to foreign exchange losses associated with our Columbia operations.
We expect our tax rate to be in the 38 to 40% range for the fourth quarter again prior to any potential impact of foreign exchange gains or losses.
At September 30 we had cash and cash equivalents on the balance sheet of 21.9 million and nothing outstanding on our $250 million revolver other than 9.2 million in letters of credit.
We do expect to begin drawing down some funding again on the revolver late in the fourth quarter or early in the first quarter of 2012 to pay for the additional drilling rigs and production services equipment.
During the third quarter we spent 61.4 million on capital expenditures of which approximately 9 million was for routine CapEx.
Our current full year CapEx spend estimate continues to be 200 to 220 million.
And now I will turn it back to Stacy.
Thank you.
Thank you Lorne.
Just very briefly on our outlook and guidance I think we remain positive on what we are seeing in the market.
We are all cautious just about oil prices but as far as it’s affecting our business we are seeing virtually no affect and continued strong demand in really all of our business lines.
So we continue to be cautiously optimistic.
Our guidance on drilling as we identified in the press release we think our utilization for the fourth quarter will average 87% to 89%.
When the three rigs that are being readied in Houston go back to work which should be in December and really affecting more the first quarter that will put us up into the low 90% utilization.
And then we are marketing a couple more of the rigs that are currently stacked in East Texas into some other markets.
So we’re optimistic we can bring that utilization solidly up into the 90s by the first quarter of 2012.
With respect to margin basically the same story we’ve been saying the last few quarters.
There’s not a lot of change in our market there other than we are moving more equipment to work in West Texas which is at a lower day rates and a lower average margin.
We gave guidance last quarter to be kind of flattish to down a little bit.
We were actually up almost 300 per day in average revenue – in average margin.
And part of that as Lorne mentioned we just – we had a very good quarter with respect to downtime and cost control.
So just to be safe we’re going to call for another quarter of being roughly flattish on margin if not down 200 300 400 a day just from the influence of having a full quarter of rigs of the 14 rigs working in West Texas at a lower average margin.
Day rates are firm.
They’re definitely not going down.
If anything they’re continuing to strengthen slightly.
So it is not a result of day rates.
And with respect to new builds we continue to market aggressively on new builds opportunities.
We’ve got a number of different conversations going on in all of our core markets.
I would say that we are optimistic that we’ll have some success there and announce you to more new builds.
But at this point I don’t have anything to announce.
With respect to the production services business we think that we will have some unit growth average unit growth I would say in the fourth quarter which will be positive and cause revenues and margin to go up a little bit.
But that will be also offset by our normal fourth quarter seasonality of holidays vacations.
And – so we’re just going to call roughly flat for revenues and margins in our fourth quarter as compared to the third quarter.
That concludes our prepared remarks we would be happy to entertain any questions.
Thank you.
Thank you sir.
Ladies and gentlemen we will now begin the question and answer session.
(Operator Instructions) And our first question comes from the line of John Daniel with Simmons &amp; Co.
Go ahead please.
Guys good quarter in a very good color on the operations so thank you.
On the Well Service rigs the 16 you’ve got coming next year can you say where you intend to send those rigs? Those would be spread out probably amongst our core operating areas.
They’re probably about two-thirds 550 horsepower about one-third 600 horsepower.
So they will be spread amongst the Eagle Ford other parts of East Texas Louisiana possibly certainly the Balkan.
So we’ll be spreading those around all our core areas.
On Colombia this contracts make a lot of income due in the next 8 to 9 months.
Are you in discussions yet with renewing the contract? Can you just give us a sense best guess as to what happens with respect to pricing on those rigs when they rollover? Well we stay in constant – since we have seven of the eight rigs working for Ecopetrol.
We are in constant communication with them.
In fact I was just down there last week and met with them and so we keep an ongoing dialogue and we do expect the rigs to stay active in Colombia.
The market is – it continues to be strong and I think the trend would be towards a favorable day rate movement upon renewal and so we’re optimistic about that market.
It seems very solid.
Right okay.
Last one for me is just on the well servicing going back there can you say how many of the rigs are 24 hour versus daylight and what the expectation would be going forward for more work on a 24-hour basis? John I would say that right now what I’m noticing is anywhere from two or six or eight even going in at a time.
It just varies depending on activity.
But I would say on average we would expect probably three or four to be on 24-hour work pretty steadily going forward.
It just varies goes up and down.
But we’re certainly doing a steady amount of it.
All right.
Okay.
Thank you again and good quarter.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Brian Uhlmer with Global Hunter.
Go ahead please.
Hey.
Thank you good morning guys.
How are you all doing? Great.
Good morning.
Just following up on John’s question just curious in both segments now day rates are just may be creeping up and drilling and utilization an all-time high with the labor constraints that most folks are having in the industry.
Obviously you have shown to have a better footprint than a lot of guys.
How do you guys look at managing labor issues moving forward and controlling your margins and not being able to grave? Well that’s a great question.
We work very very hard at it.
In these businesses labor is the single most important asset you’ve got and we try to treat our people well and have good benefits training retirement 401k and mostly just treat them with respect treat them right and try to keep them very very safe and it’s been very effective for us and they appreciate those things.
So I think that’s helping us be able to staff our equipment as we put it out.
I’m not going to say that they are waiting at the door but we have not been held up by the inability to attract group.
So I think we just we’ve got an excellent management team really in all of these businesses.
They care about the people and so we are able to get them but we have to work at it.
What you guys see as a cost inflation on wages moving forward? Maybe now that we are talking about an extra 5% year-over-year 7% 8%? How do you guys look at that when you look for at 2012? Well a couple things on that Brian it’s going to vary by region as you know.
I would say my initial thought would be 5% to 10% as we are looking at budgeting but a lot of that in increase but remember that the vast majority of that get passed on in contracts under term on the drilling side and on the production services site it’s pretty dynamic pricing so I would not say it’s immediate that costs go up you immediately pass it on pricing but you certainly work to pass it on as quickly as you can but it’s going to vary a lot by each location.
But there is pressure and there will be increases but we feel like we should be able to pass that on as it goes on next year.
Yeah.
We would forecast margin improvement.
If what we’re seeing today continues through next year we think we will see margin expansion in our businesses.
Outstanding.
And then on my follow-up you’ve got pretty detailed strategy of what’s goal and what you have here and that looks great.
Are there any other service lines that have you interested right now or just – for 12 or just follow the strategy laid out – that you laid out with your new rigs and new railcars and new wireline? Well as we’ve talked about in prior calls we’re always looking for and evaluating other business lines that we think fit strategically with our core offering.
And we continue to do that.
And it’s been – there have been a lot of M&amp;A.
opportunities come over the last six months I would say.
We’ve seen quite an increase and we’re evaluating a number of those.
And it certainly wouldn’t be surprised to see us enter into another business line in 2012 at all.
But we just have to find the right management team.
That’s really what we look for more than the business is who is going to run it for us? And if they are good and we can build on it then that’s where we’ll hone in.
All right.
Thank you guys.
Thank you.
Think you.
And our next question comes from the line of John Keller with Stephens Incorporated.
Go ahead please.
Hey.
Good morning guys.
Good morning.
Good morning.
I just wanted to drill down the Permian fleet a little bit.
14 rigs there now going to 16 it sound like and maybe more.
But what’s kind of the cadence or how did those roll off contract into next year? And what do you see in terms of repricing opportunities for those as you sit here today? Well the first batch of rigs I would say the first – remember the first four I think it was the first four rigs were on six-month terms.
And then the subsequent group of rigs were mostly on one-year term.
So we have been renewing the earlier rigs already.
I think I’ve mentioned in the last quarter call a couple of those contracts we went up pretty significantly over 1 500 a day and went from six-month to one-year term.
A couple of the other ones we’ve renewed they were already top – they were actually top drive rigs.
They were already at pretty healthy rates.
We’ve renewed those as well at those rates.
So most of the roll over will occur in the second and third quarter of next year.
But it’s still a strong market and we are marketing aggressively there and we’re pretty optimistic we will have two more rigs there by the end of the year and we are marketing additional equipment there.
So it’s continues to be a strong market and we are very pleased with what we see.
Great.
And if I could just jump over the well service side for a minute.
Clearly it sounds like pretty positive commentary there notwithstanding normal seasonality.
So do you think that margins could get back up and toward that 50% range that you guys saw say at the peak? Well barring no great decline in oil prices I think that that’s the direction we are heading.
If we ever were to give some assistance from natural gas that would certainly help as well.
But that may not be a 2012 event.
But I think if commodity prices for oil in particular stay strong the demand as the rig count goes up and more well boars are drilled in all of these shale plays it’s simply requires not only completion work but it’s going to require work-over-work and servicing.
So we think that demand just going to steadily go up and we’re trying to prepare for that and have a nice market share in these key markets for us.
So we are still very optimistic we think directionally that’s where it’s heading and if natural gas price comes back at some point maybe 2013 or 2014 we think we could possibly exceed those margins.
Sure.
And then one more if I could just maybe get you to elaborate on you mentioned the acquisition of well service on the wireline side taking into new basins.
Can you tell us where those are? I would rather not.
We’re just you kind of know where we are and you probably know where we are not and you probably know where we would like to be.
So I don’t need to be – but we would rather not invite competition into these markets as we develop there.
So – but we are moving into markets that we feel like are in their initial stages of development where we see good long-term potential.
Fair enough.
Thanks.
That’s it for me guys.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Roger Read with Morgan Keegan.
Go ahead please.
Morning.
Morning.
Just a quick question I guess for you.
You’ve got three more rigs ordered this quarter I understand you can get to back up to 73 by the end of next year.
But at what point and given the lead time for ordering is the rigs fleet for 2012 essentially set? And assuming there is not a CapEx issue limiting what you want to do? Roger I would say that we are pretty close to where we will be for 2012.
We have a number of conversations going on about additional new bills.
But the lead times as you know our practice has been when the contract is signed that’s when we start ordering equipment.
And the backlogs on a number of key items have stretched out a bit.
And so now that we are coming into the kind of holiday season part of the year I think it’s unlikely we will execute some term here real soon that will put a bunch more rigs into the fourth quarter of next year.
It’s possible but I would say that we are probably lining up more for 2013 deliveries at this point just due to the lead times.
Would you agree with that Don or...
Yes.
Okay.
And then the other question I had was I understood the amount of the rig fleet that’s on term contracts is roughly 70% level but if you were to say what is the average amount of months length that you have contracted is that six months nine months 18 if you blended across that 7% what would that be today? It’s seven month in the US Roger and eight months overall when you include Columbia.
Okay.
That’s all I have.
As per the rigs on term contracts.
Right.
And as the new bills come on and those are all – they are averaging three years I would say as a group for the nine.
Okay thank you.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) And our next question comes from the line of Marshall Adkins with Raymond James.
Go ahead please.
Good morning guys.
I just want to get a little more detail on the production services side.
I mean obviously that was a huge quarter things were improving dramatically there.
Walk me through in a little more detail if you would exactly where you see the biggest bump there? I mean is it work-over rigs going to do completions now rather than other stuff is wireline leading it give us a little more color on that side of the business and why it’s improving so much more right now? Well on the well servicing side as you can see we have been running very high study utilization for some time now with average hourly rates increasing some of that to offset labor but we are having gradual margin expansion in that business.
So that has been – that’s just a very steady driver of the overall production service business and as one of the fellows asked earlier there is a component of 24-hour work in their which helps tremendous.
Take one of those well service rigs and you work in 24 hours that’s like looking through 3.5 more rigs.
So it’s a huge benefit and we believe that’s going to continue.
And then on the wireline front and that before we leave the well servicing probably we are still doing today more maintenance work and work over work than we are completion work out of that entire fleet.
A lot of the newer units have been going more into completion mode say in the Eagle Ford or Bakken or wherever but we are still doing the majority of the work is work-over type work not completion work.
So that’s nice and stabilizing to us.
On the wireline that is also true.
We are – a lot of the growth just like in well services has been to target the completion work and those are the big tickets the higher margin projects and that’s where a lot of our growth has gone but we continue to have a very nice compliment of business both case hole and open hole in the areas that are not drilling horizontal wells and that’s steady.
So I would say the increase is probably more from the completion side over most of this year but it’s just very good steady growth with more rigs being put to work.
So it sound like the industry has finally gotten into the threshold where you’re bumping up against full capacity and it also seems to me like you are not losing a lot more share to coal tubing like you might have been doing six months or year ago.
Is that fair? Well I think the coil is still active.
I think the market is just – we are just expanding the overall base market just due to increased rig count more well bores to be serviced more completion work.
So I think everybody is probably increasing relative to one another.
I know coil is still very active and we compete with it daily and they are trying new applications there and so I think it’s probably growing as well.
Okay.
All right.
Shifting gears to the rig site can you give me just kind of a quick overview of the type of rigs you’re building? Who’s equipment you’re using what kind of terms are you getting and what are these things costing you on a fully diluted basis? The contract lengths we have a couple on the short end in the two-year range we have some on the four year range but the vast majority are three-year term contracts.
And so the average would be a three-year not slightly more than that.
But – so they’re good solid term contracts.
The rigs are – well we have a – we’re basically designing them and Red West is in here with me.
Red and the engineering department are designing them and we’re sourcing out like we’ve done in the past from a number of vendors.
I would say that there is a bigger vendor in the mix.
We’re using NOV for the VFD Hal the system operating system the top drive I think the drawworks.
Drawworks.
Drawworks as well.
Iron roughnecks Iron roughnecks.
So they have a – I would say maybe a-third of the cost of it.
Yeah.
Somewhere in that range.
So they’re a big vendor.
Then we have some fabricators that are doing packages of the rate for us like all of the backyard.
Wouldn’t that be a fair.
Yeah.
They’re bidding the whole backyard which would include generator houses mud tanks pump packages.
We tell them what we want and they bid it out that way and they kind of subcontracted that piece of it.
And then we have different vendors designing and building the mass and sub.
And then we just coordinate all of that and we coordinate the rig up in one of these yards and put it all together like Red has done in the past.
Basically what we were doing in ‘04 ‘05 ‘06 as well same process.
The big difference I would say now versus then is we’ve expanded and created an engineering department where we’ve had a three member engineering team and that’s helped.
We’ve got bigger rigs got a lot more things to do.
So that helps those guys keep their eye on the ball on the manufacturing.
With respect to the cost I would say they range depending on which market – they’re all – they all have walking systems true walking systems not skidding systems.
All the 1 500 horsepower have 2 000 horsepower lateral mud pump packages with 7 500 psi fluid in and mud systems.
So they’re extremely high-end.
All of them have integrated 500 ton top drives automatic catwalks iron roughnecks blowup inventors handling systems all nine of them all the designs are crane free.
That’s the tweak I would say from our 50 series.
It’s got a little different BOP handling system and we’ve adapted the sub to be truly crane free.
The other 50 series rigs were could be done without cranes but these are you can do it on a routine basis pretty effectively without cranes.
Not to say the operator won’t prefer user crane or rig up but because it does again in many cases make it faster but the big difference they are all Pat drilling capable.
Any other tweaks you can think of that are? That’s pretty well covered.
And all in cost maybe 18 million-ish.
No I don’t know where anybody comes up with 18 million.
I will just tell you the way out the door these will cost 21 to 23 million depending on winterization and location.
Now and that’s drill pipe.
That’s top drive winterized for those that were winterized that tax that handling tools all of your tubulars that’s a working rate.
I don’t think people everyone – everybody throws out that same 18 million number and I have asked a couple to explain that and I still haven’t got a clear answer on it.
But I just don’t think tax file and license in the field working with everything needed to do the job anybody’s doing it for that price.
Well that is a great overview I appreciate it guys thanks.
You bet.
Thank you (Operator Instructions) And we have no further questions at this time.
I would like to turn the conference back over to management for any closing statements.
Right.
I will add one closing statement relating to the last question about the cost of these rigs even if that costs at the day rates were obtaining were generating our target 20% internal rate of return so full and loaded cost with the day rates that we’re obtaining we’re hitting our target of 20% internal rate of return.
So that’s our real criteria for making that decision.
Anyway that concludes our call.
We appreciate everybody participating and look forward to visiting on the fourth quarter call.
Thank you very much.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes the Pioneer Drilling Third-Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
Instructions for replay can be found in today’s press release.
You may now disconnect and thank you for using ACT Conferencing.
Good day ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by.
Welcome to Pioneer Drilling’s Fourth Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
During today’s presentation all parties will be in a listen-only mode.
Following the presentation the conference will be opened for questions.
(Operator Instructions) I would now like to turn the conference over to Ms.
Anne Pearson of DRG&amp;L Investor Relations.
Please go ahead ma’am.
Thank you Kelly and good morning to everyone.
Before I turn the call over to Pioneer’s CEO Stacy Locke and to CFO Lorne Phillips for their formal remarks I have a few of the usual items to cover.
First of all a replay of today’s call will be available and is accessible by webcast by going to the Investor Relations’ section of Pioneer’s website and also by telephone replay.
You can find the replay information for both of them in this morning’s news release.
As a reminder information reported on this call speaks only as of today February 21 2012 so any time sensitive information may no longer be accurate at the time of the replay.
On this call this morning management may make forward-looking statements that are based on beliefs and assumptions and information currently available to them.
Although they believe the expectations reflected in these statements are reasonable they can give no assurance they will prove to be correct.
They are subject to certain risks and uncertainties and assumptions that are described in this morning’s news release and also in recent public filings with the SEC.
If one or more of these risks materializes or should underlying assumptions prove to be incorrect actual results may differ materially.
Also please note that this conference call may contain references to non-GAAP measures.
You’ll find a reconciliation to the GAAP measures in this morning’s news release.
Now I would like to turn the call over to Stacy Locke Pioneer’s President and CEO.
Stacy? Thank you Anne and good morning.
Joining me on the call here in San Antonio is Red West President of our Drilling Services division; and Joe Eustace President of our Production Services division; and Lorne Phillips Chief Financial Officer.
We have completed another solid quarter for Pioneer.
Both revenue and EBITDA was up another 8% that is eight quarters now of steady revenue and EBITDA growth derived by a combination of unit growth and pricing.
For Pioneer because of the way we have positioned ourselves we think this trend continues for at least another eight quarters and sets us up to be able to reduce a substantial amount of our indebtedness in 2014.
Let me explain this in a little bit more detail by reviewing our unit growth starting with production services.
For our wireline business at the end of 2011 we ended the year with 105 units.
That’s up 25% on the year which that year was up 33% on the prior year.
So we have had very very significant unit growth in our wireline units mostly in case hole and mostly targeted to the horizontal shale plays.
Today we are at a 107 units so we are up an additional two units with 12 more wireline units on order.
So as of what's been ordered to date sometimes by the summer late summer we should be a 119 wireline units.
Looking at well servicing at the end of 2011 we had 89 rigs that was up 20% for the year.
Today we are at 91 units up an additional two units with 11 more workover rigs on order.
Mind you these are all like the rest of our fleet all 550 and 600 horsepower top of the line well service units.
Now let me digress just a bit to talk about our new business line.
On 12/31/11 we completed the acquisition of Go-Coil.
Strategically coiled tubing has been in our sides for a couple of years and we feel that it is a must have business line in our production services businesses.
Coiled tubing has very similar characteristics to our wireline which is high margin and low cost per units and offers excellent cross-selling with our other existing production services businesses well service and wireline.
These are the core businesses along with drilling that we have wanted to be in to provide to comprehensive onsite services to our horizontal customers.
So Pioneer can now drill the original horizontal borehole.
We can perforate that horizontal leg with our case hole wireline units.
We can drill out all the plugs between the frac zones with our coiled tubing units and we can run tubing in a established production for the operator with our well servicing rigs.
Granted all of those services do a lot more than just that but it’s pretty much a soups to nuts from the original borehole to putting the well on production.
And just as importantly we can provide maintenance and workover services with all of these business lines for the life of the borehole which is many many years into the future.
The obviously onsite services that is missing from our portfolio of businesses is pressure pumping.
Our view on pressure pumping has been that it is another very capital intensive business much like drilling and it doesn’t offer the same contract protection in the form of long-term take or pay contracts.
So we felt like we already had one capital intensive business we didn’t necessarily need another and we certainly didn’t want it for us at least without having the same protections that we have on the drilling rig side.
So that’s one business that would be another obviously fit to our onsite services.
Now back to why we see eight more quarters or more of revenue an EBITDA growth.
Coiled tubing ended the year 2011 with ten coiled units.
Three offshore and seven onshore.
We have three additional units now on order an additional offshore unit and two units for this year.
Therefore production services the run rate and growth for 2012 is from units added throughout 2011 and units added in 2012.
And 2013 unit growth in revenue and EBITDA is from units added in 2012.
At the present time pricing continues to be firm with an upward bias just like it was in the 2011 and we foresee that that trend will continue.
Turning now to drilling.
At the end of 2011 we completed the year with 64 drilling rigs.
Recall that we sold six in auction and we retired one a seventh rig.
At the present time we have ten newly built rigs under construction eight of which are 1500 horsepower two are 1000 horsepower all are pad drilling true walking rigs that will be delivered throughout the year.
Approximately one a month beginning in March or April of this year.
So we will have considerable growth like in production services in EBITDA and revenue from drilling in 2012 and more importantly in 2013.
As we look out to 2013 2014 we do plan to slow our growth in order to begin building cash.
We anticipate modest production service growth but probably in for sizing our newer business leg coiled tubing.
Same at drilling.
All of our rigs are working so we don’t have the same upgrade requirements that we had in 2011 as we repositioned stacked gas rigs into West Texas to drill for oil.
So all that’s basically behind us and the rigs are working.
And I don’t think we are going to have nearly as many newbuilds.
I think the market is going to correct that but even if the market was there I think Pioneer is ready to limit its growth of newbuilds to no more than two three four newbuilds for 2013 if the opportunity arises in order to start building cash for the company.
We think that it is going to be a little bit taller order as we go forward just due to the gas rig count having come down in certain markets and being relocated to the more oil and liquid rich markets.
In 2014 we want to be in a position to materially reduce our indebtedness at least 50% or more.
We feel that our debt has served us well.
It’s allowed us to build the necessary critical mass at the right time and in the right business lines and allowed us to position in the shales in horizontal plays across the U.S.
and down in Columbia.
These are the plays that we have wanted to be in.
We are there.
With the critical mass that we now have and the quality of our assets and service and safety we have the flexibility to move where we can to perform at the very best for the company.
Let me turn now to Lorne to go over our financial review.
Thanks Stacy.
Good morning everyone.
Before I go into the numbers I will just make a quick comment about we had mentioned in the past that we were looking at another transaction related to the production services business that was quite a bit smaller than the coiled tubing.
And at this time we have chosen to pass on that given some of the changes in the market.
Particularly on the dry gas side we felt that it was prudent to not proceed with that transaction.
So that deal is currently off the table.
So I will go now into the numbers.
This morning we reported fourth quarter net income of $6.8 million or $0.11 per diluted share.
That compared to net earnings of $6.7 million or $0.11 per diluted share in the third quarter of 2011.
And it also compares to a net loss of $6 million or $0.11 per share in the fourth quarter of 2010.
Our fourth quarter of 2010.
Our fourth quarter results included two items which are not expected to continue.
The first item is a $590 000 pre-tax expense primarily to the acquisition cost for Go-Coil which we purchased on December 31.
A small portion of that expense related to the additional acquisition I just mentioned that in the end we decided to pass on.
The second item is additional income tax expense in Columbia of $605 000 relating to a non-deductible operating expense.
This increased our tax rate in the fourth quarter which I will come back to in a moment.
Looking at the top line our consolidated revenues in the fourth quarter totaled $203.7 million which was up approximately 9% from the prior quarter and up about 37% from a year ago.
Total adjusted EBITDA in the latest quarter was $55.5 million which is almost 8% higher than the previous quarter and 47% higher than a year ago.
Fourth quarter adjusted EBITDA was reduced by the $590 000 of acquisition expenses I referenced a minute ago.
Drilling services revenue totaled $118.9 million which is a 9% increase over the prior quarter.
Our drilling operation in Columbia accounted for just over $28 million of that total which was flat with the third quarter.
And turnkey revenues contributed an additional $2.2 million.
Gross margin for drilling services was $39.4 million which was up almost 9% from the third quarter.
Average margin per day was 7686 was about 110 a day lower when compared to the third quarter.
This reflects the increased activity in West Texas where the margin per day is lower than in other areas where we work.
Our fourth quarter drilling services utilization was 87% versus 79% one quarter earlier on a apples to apples basis.
Meaning if you excluded the seven rigs we retired at the end of September from the third quarter.
Currently 80% of our working drilling rigs are operating under term contracts.
This is excluding the newbuild rigs that are not yet deployed.
The average remaining term on these contracts is approximately 6 months in the U.S.
and 7 months division wide.
Six of our eight Columbia rigs are working on contract and we are marketing the other two to various operators in Columbia.
Approximately 87% of our drilling rigs are targeting oil or liquid rich gas plays.
Turning now to production services.
We generated $84.8 million of revenue which represents a 7.5% increase from the third quarter.
Of that increase approximately 42% is estimated to be driven by unit growth.
Production services margin was $35.8 million which was up almost 4% from the third quarter.
And for the fourth quarter PPS represented 42% of combined revenues and 48% of our consolidated gross margin.
Production services gross margin percentage was 42.2% down from 43.7% in the third quarter.
The decrease quarter-over-quarter was driven by slightly lower utilization as well as increased cost partially offset by pricing increases.
Driven by typical seasonality our well servicing utilization was 86% in the fourth quarter compared to 92% in the third.
The average hourly revenue rate for well servicing increased to 577 a 4% increase from the prior quarter.
I should also note that the first quarter tends to be our slowest quarter of the year across our production services business lines.
Stacy will provide guidance on revenues and margins in Q1 for PPS later on the call.
For production services approximately 79% of the assets are targeting oil or liquid rich gas plays.
Looking next at overall expense trends for the company.
SG&amp;A expenses were $19.2 million which was up 8.6% from the prior quarter and exceeded our November fourth quarter guidance of $18 million to $18.4 million.
The delta from the guidance is related to the acquisition related expenses I mentioned earlier as well as increased accruals for incentive related compensation.
Including the coiled tubing acquisition first quarter SG&amp;A is estimated to be in the range of $18.5 million to $20.5 million.
And our initial view for the year is roughly $80 million to $84 million of SG&amp;A.
Depreciation and amortization expense was $35.2 million in the fourth quarter.
For Q1 of 2012 we expect D&amp;A to be in the neighborhood of $37 million to $70 million.
And our initial D&amp;A guidance for the full year is in the range of $160 million to $170 million.
Interest expense in the fourth quarter was $8.1 million which was approximately $1.9 million higher than the prior quarter.
This increase primarily relates to the $175 million of bonds we issued in mid-November the majority of which was used to fund the Go-Coil acquisition.
Offsetting this cost was the capitalization of about $1 million of interest expense related to the construction of equipment.
Without any capitalized interest in 2012 our estimated interest expense would be in the $46 million to $48 million range with approximately $3 million of that cost is non-cash.
Based on our current outlook we expect to capitalize approximately $6.5 million to $8.5 million of interest in calendar 2012 with the first quarter estimated to be in the $2 million range.
The tax rate for the fourth quarter was 44.5% which was impacted by the $605 000 Columbian tax charge.
Excluding the impact of gains or losses from foreign currency translation our normal tax rate going forward should be in the 38% to 40% range.
At December 31 we had cash and cash equivalents of $86.2 million.
We currently have 0 balance on our revolving credit facility with the exception of $9 million in committed letters of credit.
This leave us with borrowing availability of $241 million on our revolver.
We expect to begin drawing on the revolver as we experience greater spending related to the drilling newbuilds.
During the year depending on timing and the actual commitments that we make we estimate that our revolver balance could be in the $40 million to $60 million range at its peak.
During the fourth quarter we had capital expenditures of $69.5 million which included $12.
4 million for routine CapEx.
For the full year 2011 we invested a total of $210.1 million in CapEx.
And of that amount $43.4 million was for routine expenditure.
For 2012 we currently expect to spend $300 million to $330 million of Capital expenditure.
That includes $50 million to $60 million of routine expenditures the balance on the ten new drilling rigs and the additional wireline well servicing coiled tubing units that Stacy mentioned earlier.
The increase in guidance from our prior guidance on CapEx is predominantly related to increases in production services CapEx with the majority of that being in coiled tubing.
With that I will turn it back to Stacy.
Thank you Lorne.
When you look around the country at our various markets I would say almost all of them continue to be very very strong.
You look in the Bakken we are at 100% utilization there in drilling.
All the other business lines are doing very well.
You look at in Utah same 100% utilization our wireline operation there is strong.
And in West Texas 100% utilization.
Our well servicing business there is strong as well.
In the Eagle Ford where we do have some of our South Texas not in the Eagle Ford the shallower capacity mobile rigs we have essentially 100% utilization.
We actually have one down today but they go up and down and they are drilling gas.
But they stay substantially busy all year so I am going to refer to that as a fully utilized fleet as well in South Texas.
And all our business lines in South Texas which would include well service wireline and coiled are all doing very well there.
And then down in Columbia we have eight rigs there six of which are continuing under term contract.
And our two 1000-1200 horsepower capacity rigs are presently down.
Although the market continues to be strong it’s oil we see a bright future there.
We have got those two rigs down.
They are down marketed to a number of different customers so we are confident that they will go back to work here hopefully by the end of this quarter or the beginning of the next quarter.
So overall the Columbia market looks good.
It’s just some temporary weakness there for us.
So that leaves really two markets that I haven’t discussed and that’s East Texas which continues to be very very weak.
We have only four rigs there remaining today.
One of which is working.
And it continues to be a weak market.
We have taken two additional rigs from East Texas and moved them into our Houston yard for preparation to move to West Texas.
One of those is already under contract a one year term and will be moving out next month to begin it’s one year term.
And the other rig we are continuing to market.
So and then we have -- actually in the Marcellus that is choppy market.
We have had rigs down there.
Today we have five rigs working but earlier in the month we had some activity there down.
And our wireline business had been soft there and we have recently exited that business in the Marcellus.
So Marcellus is probably going to remain weak as gas prices remain weak.
We have taken two rigs from that market.
One we moved across the country to go to work in Utah.
The other we are operating out of our West Texas division in the Granite Wash.
And more than likely we will move additional rigs through the course of this year away from the Marcellus.
And hopefully we will get the second rig in Houston being ready for West Texas under contract sometime over the next 60 days.
All that being said all the liquids oil rich markets are very very strong.
Dry gas are weak which is no surprise.
And we still have quite a bit of activity on the production service front even in the dry gas markets.
But the vast majority of our activity as Lorne has explained is not in dry gas.
So with respect to the first quarter guidance.
Our drilling utilization today is 88% we averaged 87% in the first quarter.
We are actually going to guide lower at 83% to 85% as we know we have had a little softness earlier in the month of February and we are anticipating additional softness in these gas markets.
That may prove to be a little conservative but it does illustrate the risk out there for gas rigs.
In addition we are going to guide the margin down $300 to $600 a day.
That has nothing to do with day rates it is solely about a greater number of the total rigs working -- coming from West Texas which are operating at a lower day rate.
And thus lower margins.
So as more rigs average in to the total it brings your average margin down.
In addition as you have these dry gas rigs go down hopefully very temporarily to get them ready to move to other markets you have stack-out cost.
So we are absorbing some of those cost in that decline in margin as well.
So it’s very little or nothing to do with day rates.
Day rates continue to be firm in all the other markets if not improving.
And as we mentioned before we think in the second and third quarter in particular we are going to have day rate opportunities as we reprice in West Texas and in other markets.
So we continue to see day rates at a minimum to be firm.
Switching over to the production services side of the business.
Revenues we’re forecasting to be up pretty significantly at 20% to 27%.
The bulk of that will be contribution from our coiled tubing business but not all of it.
We do project some modest revenue growth from the legacy business.
And we project margins to be flat for the quarter which is better than we would normally guide for what is seasonally the lowest quarter.
So we are pleased with how we see our legacy businesses performing in the quarter and we think that the coiled tubing is going to assist in this first quarter as well.
Weather overall has been a little more favorable than last year and we are seeing that in our results for the quarter.
So we are pretty optimistic on all of these businesses.
I might mention that in the drilling I think as we have got it over the last couple of quarters that we would always forecast that the first quarter of ’12 would probably be the turning point in margin.
And I think that going forward from there you will see average drilling margins improve each quarter thereafter as we reprice West Texas and layer in our newbuilds into the quarter.
So I think we will conclude our remarks and be happy to entertain any questions.
(Operator Instructions) Our first question comes from the line of Mr.
Brian Uhlmer with Global Hunter Securities.
Please go ahead sir.
Yeah I just wanted to follow-up a little bit more on Columbia and kind of our outlook there.
With a couple of rigs down you say that you’ll hopefully get them re-signed up by this quarter or early next quarter.
What’s kind of hold-up there and what’s the pricing environment look like down there.
And how do you look at that throughout -- maybe over the next two year period how do you look at that market down there as developing? Good questions.
Well the situation that we are in right now I would say is in part due to some unfortunate timing.
We really didn’t expect to have both these rigs down.
At this point we had one -- we had one of these rigs that had a number of option wells at the option of the customer and we were under the impression they were going to continue their drilling.
And they changed their mind in December which in Columbia isn’t a good time to have that type of decision.
Because not a lot happens really for -- I would say you could almost extend it for December January.
People are vacationing during the holidays and it’s tough to get a lot of work done.
So we had these rigs both come available during that period.
And now that we are out of the holiday period we are aggressively bidding these to other customers including (inaudible) drill.
And we are optimistic that we are going to get them back to work and we think the day rate environment is improving there and so we are confident we are going to get them back to work.
And more than likely they will go back to work at a higher day rate.
So we have some good things going on there in that market.
And we intend to stay there and keep doing what we are doing.
Thanks.
Completely unrelated follow-up.
When you talk about you get another short coiled tubing unit on order.
When we look at the offshore market is there any other services or any kind of plethora of other stuff that you do on land that potentially you want to take to that and commit capital towards the offshore.
Can you just kind of talk about the decision to grow the offshore coiled activity and anything that goes along with that.
Well we were already in the case hole offshore market.
And we have four skid units for case hole and we are considering a couple of additional units for that market.
But we entered that market at exactly the wrong time.
It was I think months before the big spill.
And so it’s been a pretty soft beginning for our case hole there.
Now that we have purchased the Go-Coil group we have already moved one of those case hole unites immediately to work for the same customer as the coiled unit is working.
So there as I mentioned in my prepared remarks the synergies and cross-selling opportunities it’s all the same customers different relationships.
And I think we will see a lot of cross-selling opportunities between those two offshore businesses.
Okay.
And if I could sneak in quick third one.
What is your kind of your goal on reducing debt in terms of debt-to-cap debt-to-EBITDA what are you talking there when you are talking about drilling gas and paying down debt in 2014? Just so we can try and model out what you are planning on? Well I think for modeling purposes our goal would be -- as I mentioned in my remarks -- that we would reduce at least 50% of that debt in 2014.
Was that fair Lorne? And the targets on it? Just to hit some level of debt-to-cap or debt-to-EBITDA Lorne or...? I think it’s -- well we have always talked about debt-to-EBITDA two times or less.
Obviously reducing the debt by 50% would take it.
We are already -- we will be at two times or less in the next quarter or two.
So it’s more just the absolute dollar amount.
I think on a long-term basis we have also said we felt like out debt-to-cap would be more appropriate in the 20% range.
Maybe a little higher maybe a little lower but that’s something that just takes time.
And so from our perspective we just think those bonds are callable in early 2014 and as accumulate some cash and expect that our revolver is low or under on that you can take out the bonds and do in such a way where you end up with a net result where your debt is down significantly.
Our next question comes from the line of John Daniel with Simmons &amp; Company.
Please go ahead sir.
Hey guys.
I just want to follow-up on Brian’s question.
What would lead you to reevaluate the debt reduction strategy? And should we assume that acquisitions are off the table might have been subjective.
Well we never stop looking at things that we will continue to look at opportunities.
But I would say that if were to look at more stop -- for stop type opportunities that would be more consistent with our goal.
But we are what I would say is the big use of cash for us are newbuild rigs.
If the market was out there where we could build 10 12 15 more newbuilds we would not do that because we have got a nice critical in our core businesses.
And that’s the area we need to cut along with some of the other businesses.
We need to cut the capital expenditures to build the cash.
So we are -- that is our strategic plan and I don’t think we are going to alter it.
Just going to have to reduce capital expenditures.
Okay.
Fair enough.
Stacy you mentioned that we will see gains in cash margins after Q1.
Can you provide some sort of framework in term of the magnitude that you would expect later this year? Well it’s basically the same story that we have been talking about throughout 2011.
We as a production service company for instance in ’08 we were at roughly at 50% margin.
We were I think our highest quarter so far we have been about 45% or 44% margin.
And so if this market continues the way it’s going in these oil and liquid rich areas we think that margin has a chance to improve.
Pricing has gone up but so have costs.
But we do feel like that the trajectory is for margin improvement.
It could gradually get up to ’08 levels by the end of the year it’s hard to say.
I was actually referring to the drilling side.
Okay.
I am sorry.
But thank you for that answer because I was probably going to go there anyway.
Well on the drilling side the average margins for Pioneer assuming everything else is constant is going up due to the ten newbuilds coming in.
And so they will be impacting second third and fourth quarter this year and then we will get the full impact in 20/13.
But in addition to that we have now 16 rigs out in West Texas.
A number of those were signed on one-year term contracts.
A fair number of them start coming due here.
We have had a number of them come due and I would say almost without exception we have rolled them at a higher day rate on the order of $1000 a day or more.
And we say that trend continuing and we will be renewing those contracts in the second and third and fourth quarter of this year.
So that will be a help.
And then in the other shale play markets it’s going to be -- we are just going to have to see.
I don’t think you are going to see pricing go down.
And the reason I say that because the rigs that are being dislocated out of the gas markets.
You have some competition risk there but I don’t think we are going to see pricing do down and we are seeing day rates remain firm today.
So I would call that market which has been going up slightly in rate probably to be flattish to firm.
It’s just hard to say how many of these rigs are going to be dislocated and where they are going to go out of the gas markets.
All right.
Last one’s for now....
Did I answer that? Sort of.
Not really.
I mean I am just trying to guess -- I mean I know they are going to migrate higher right because of the newbuilds and the repricing I just don’t know if it could get you to quantify where you thought that might potentially be by later this year.
I mean do cash margins break the $8000 level overall or do they sort of migrate to the high sevens? Yeah I thank that -- I see where you are heading.
You want a real specific modeling type answer.
You got it.
Yes I do think you (inaudible) by the end of the end of the year.
Absolutely.
It’s probably third fourth quarter type.
Yeah.
And beyond.
Fair enough.
My last one.
I got confused which is not surprising but on your prepared comments you talked about pressure pumping.
Were you suggesting that that’s a business you are interested in or not interested in? Well I was suggesting that it’s a business that we are not interested in at the present time because it’s too much like drilling in that it is a very capital intensive business.
We already have one of those.
And the other downside of pressure pumping as compared to drilling is in drilling you can get multi-year take or pay contracts.
So you truly have some protection on the cost of that newbuild that you don’t have in pressure pumping.
So for these reasons we would rather stick with the business we know well and like with the take or pay term contract protection.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of John Keller with Stephens Incorporated.
Please go ahead sir.
Just kind of wanted to get your thoughts Stacy I think I know directionally where this is going but you had talked about getting the 90% plus utilization kind in the first quarter.
Is that still a target? Obviously it’s been pushed out a little bit but do you think that that’s in the cards for -- at some point may be middle of this year? I just kind of get your thoughts on how the fleet utilization progresses? Yeah.
Well we’re like I said today we are at 88% utilization.
We have got a rig in Houston we know is going back to work.
We have got two rigs down in Columbia that we think are going back to work.
We have got one rig in South Texas that we also know is going back to work.
And we have another rig in Houston that we’re optimistic about putting back to work in the West Texas.
We’re putting to work in West Texas.
So to answer your question.
Yes we do think that we will be north of 90% of utilization the majority of this year.
The caveat for guiding in this first quarter is the rigs that are presently down in Columbia and rigs that have been down and probably will go down in the Marcellus.
When those things go down you have got costs associated with them and it takes time to get them relocated.
So we are having some good conversations about other markets that we can take.
One or two more rigs out of the Marcellus to other spots in the U.S.
And we are going to take advantage of that opportunity.
Now if conversely they all still busy there in the Marcellus then we are probably being overly cautious on our first quarter guidance.
But that market is just uncertain.
We don’t have as much long term protection there as we used to have.
And we do not plan to exit the market.
We have -- we hopefully will leave one two three or four of our existing rigs there because we do have two newbuilds going into that market.
But it is a risk for us.
And the only market that we don’t have much optimism on is East Texas.
We have been generally running one two or three rigs working there throughout 20/11.
And today we have one and so we just don’t know.
We just don’t know what will happen in that market.
And we are evaluating some more rigs there to either relocate them or whatever.
So we will keep you apprised.
But to answer your question we do think the utilization will get back up to 90% and stay there the majority of 20/11 based on what we know today.
Got it.
And then also I just kind of hope you could qualitatively kind of elaborate on your comment about production services pricing being firm with an upward bias.
Maybe kind of regionally or across service lines it’s not as easy as thinking about that as just the well servicing business anymore I guess.
So just across the different service lines within that segment as well as different geographies in the country.
Well if you look at our well servicing business I would say and I don’t have it in front of me but I would say that for probably the last eight quarters there again that we had our hourly rate trend upward.
And most of those quarter improvements have had margin improvement as well for PPS in total.
So I think that pricing on average maybe not in every single quarter like this quarter this just ended I would say pricing on average is slightly staying ahead of cost.
And over the trend you are getting margin improvement.
I think that’s going to continue.
We don’t see anything out there right now other than soft gas prices that could derail that but based on the activities we are seeing today levels we are seeing today with low gas prices we are not seeing it.
So I think margins we expect for PPS as a whole and well service pricing hourly rate pricing to go up through the course of this year.
Joe you have anything else? No I would concur.
This first quarter starting out well.
Our first quarter is surprisingly robust.
And I think a lot of that has to do with weather being much better in certain markets.
Now you’re talking about pricing or utilizations or both? Both.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Michael Urban with Deutsche Bank.
Please go ahead.
Inc.</strong> I wanted to follow up a little bit on the pressure pumping question I was pretty clear that you are not interested right now.
But just wanted to summarize if I could.
That you do see it as a business that makes some sense industrially or in terms of being a fit with what you do.
But you wouldn’t be doing it anytime soon for the reasons you have talked about.
The capital intensity and the contract start sharing and things like that.
Correct.
Yeah we are out there with our case hole wireline at the same time the pressure pumpers are there.
So it would make sense to have both businesses.
But when we are growing we can't do everything with our limited balance sheet.
And we have chosen to grow drilling significantly that it’s a lot per rig.
We just didn’t -- we would have to give up some of that growth if we were in pressure pumping.
And we don’t have the same three four year term contract protection that we have in drilling for the pressure pumping growth.
So it just for us we can't do it all let’s stick to one business that we like and know and get the protection on.
It’s not anything bad against pressure pumping.
It would be a fit.
Absolutely would be a fit for our business.
There may be a time in the future when we are less levered and cash flowing tremendously where we would look into it.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
Just wanted to clarify that.
And then in terms of slowing down the growth profile generating a little more cash as you get into next year.
What -- to change that outlook -- since it certainly doesn’t look like gas prices are going anywhere anytime soon but if for some reason they did rebound in some of these gas markets began to come back and you felt like they were sustainable.
Is that something that could change your outlook or just trying to get a sense for what if anything could? Well it’s a good question.
I think right now we are pretty dead set on that being a strategic goal for us.
I would say nothing -- we don’t ever put blinders on but that’s an important strategic goal for us much like getting into the coiled tubing business was for the last couple of years.
We are just looking out couple of years out when we see that opportunity with this market.
If gas came back stronger it would give us a chance to take out even more debt because all our pricing would be up and we would be cash flowing more and sooner.
So we don’t think that’s happening.
We think it’s a pretty good -- I think our timing just worked out that we were able to seize the opportunity when it was there on the drilling newbuilds.
And we did that with debt and now we can harvest the cash off that growth and take that debt down.
So that’s really the plan.
(Operator Instructions) Our next question comes from the line of Daniel Burke with Johnson Rice.
Please go ahead.
Question on the CapEx spend for this year.
$300 million and $330 million I think Lorne you said maybe $50 million or $60 million is routine.
Can you split the reminder? I know we can get pretty close but can you split the remainder of the growth capital between drilling and production services? Well the biggest piece of that is the remainder of the newbuilds.
I would say that’s probably -- it’s probably in the range of $170 million to $180 million that we would right checks for this year on the drilling newbuilds.
And then there is probably -- you know I would say probably $10 million to $20 million other related to drilling that could happen may happen but not necessarily for sure committed to.
And the rest is really is all production services split between coiled tubing wireline and well service.
Okay.
And I guess what I wanted to ask was then as you contemplate beginning debt pay down in ’12 and ’13.
Does that imply that you slow the rate of capital investment on the production services of the business or simply that the newbuild rig side goes away? Probably more the latter.
I mean we may slow down depending on the business.
I think that will be more of a market based on call.
Because as Stacy said if the newbuilds requirements were to go away you generate a lot of cash flow and you could still grow your production services businesses and accumulate cash to help you pay down debt.
So I think it will be more based on specific markets.
I would say right now we probably would expect that coiled tubing as Stacy said we would emphasize that.
Going forward I think well servicing also has very -- they all have very promising prospects but I would probably say coiled tubing well servicing are near the top and then wireline is very good business as well but it’s one where we will just kind of monitor and see how aggressively we grow it.
Okay.
And then just one other one.
Guiding production services margin flat here Q4 to Q1.
I would assume that Go-Coil is actually helping support margins and offset what would otherwise be the seasonality you would see from the underlying production services businesses.
Is that the way to think about it? That is fair.
That business is accretive to our gross margin on the production services line when you average it in.
So I think that is a fair way to look at it.
Even when weather is good you still have the impact of fewer daylight hours.
Even though as Joe and Stacy said that market has been quite strong here in the first quarter you still have that impact of the daylight hours even when weather is cooperative.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from the line of Lenny Bianco with Raymond James.
Please go ahead sir.
Quick follow-up on the CT side.
Three units on order two onshore one offshore.
Will the contribution for those be more of 20/13 even or maybe should we be thinking 4Q ‘12.
It will mostly be 2013 I mean they will be delivered probably early fourth quarter that we -- I suppose there is a chance that we might be able to pull them in earlier.
But what we are planning on now is in the fourth quarter probably early in the four.
So there will be some benefit then but then you get the full year in 2013.
Great.
And beyond these additions obviously overall CapEx you put more of its emphasis on the CT side.
Will those be two inch units maybe two and three eighths inch? Can you give us a sense of what you are seeing demand for out there? Right now the offshore unit is smaller.
That’s more of a one and a quarter to one-half inch.
That’s just more a maintenance work offshore.
Almost primarily maintenance work.
Onshore we are really right now these units will be two inch units.
We just feel like there is a good demand at that level and it’s a good return for that sized unit.
It can't do everything but it can do the vast majority of what you need.
And so we think that that’s a pretty good area.
We are evaluating the two and three eights and certainly talk to customers about that all the time.
Wouldn’t rule it out.
But these we would expect to be two inch.
Great.
Thanks.
And one more.
So would we be thinking maybe in the three to five additions for 13 units on the CT side that is.
Or maybe kind of down or back one to three kind of dependent on where the market goes.
Any kind of preliminary thinking? I think that we will probably evaluate the course of the first half of this year.
Some additional orders of coiled units and I am pretty confident we will order at least another three to five units before this calendar year is over for next year.
So we are just evaluating the markets and where we want to position and we will complete that at some point during the first half of this year.
And then we will probably go and place some orders for deliveries next year.
Thank you.
There are no further questions in the queue.
I would like to turn the conference over to management closing remarks.
Okay.
Well thank you all very much for participating on this morning’s call and we look forward to visiting next quarter.
Thank you.
Thank you ladies and gentlemen.
This concludes the Pioneer Drilling’s Fourth Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
We thank you for your participation and you may now disconnect.
Good day ladies and gentlemen.
Thank you for standing by.
Welcome to the Pioneer Drillings First Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
During today’s presentation all parties will be in a listen-only mode.
Following the presentation the conference will be opened for questions.
[Operator Instructions] This conference is being recorded today Tuesday May 8th 2012.
I would now like to hand the conference over to Anne Pearson of DRG&amp;L Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Alicia and good morning everyone.
Before I turn the call over to Pioneer’s CEO Stacy Locke and to CFO Lorne Phillips for their formal remarks I have a few of the usual items to cover.
First of all a replay of today’s call will be available and will be accessible by webcast by going to the IR section of Pioneer’s website and also by telephone replay.
You can find the replay information for both in this morning’s news release.
As a reminder information reported on this call speaks only as of today May 8 2012 so any time sensitive information may no longer be accurate at the time of replay.
Management may make forward-looking statements today that are based on beliefs and assumptions and information currently available to them.
While they believe these expectations are reasonable they can give no assurance they will prove to be correct.
They are subject to certain risks and uncertainties and assumptions that are described in this morning’s news release as well in a recent public filings with the SEC.
If one or more of these risks materialize or underlying assumptions prove to be incorrect results may differ materially.
Also please note in this conference call we may contain references to non-GAAP measures.
You’ll find a reconciliation to the GAAP measures in this morning’s news release.
Now I would like to turn the call over to Stacy Locke Pioneer’s President and CEO.
Stacy?  Thank you Anne and good morning.
We appreciate you all joining us on our first quarter call.
In the room with me today filling in for Red West is Blaine David our Senior Vice President of operations for the Drilling Division and Joe Eustace President of our Production Services division; and Lorne Phillips our Chief Financial Officer.
Well we have completed another very solid quarter for the company.
About everything that could go right did so in this quarter.
Revenues were up another 14% quarter over quarter and EBITDA was up 26% quarter-over-quarter.
Unless the market changes from what we are seeing today we’re on track to potentially hit a billion in revenues for the first time in our company’s history.
That would be an approximate 40% year-over-year growth in revenue and that would be on top of our 47% year-over-year growth in revenues from 2010 to 2011.
Likewise as we look out into 2013 with the unit additions in drilling and well service and wireline and coiled tubing in 2012 we see another robust year revenue and EBITDA growth.
Now turning to our four core business areas starting with drilling.
Utilization held up better than expected at 87% in this first quarter.
We pretty much completed our transition from gas to oil regions and liquid rich regions and it happened more seamlessly than we expected in this first quarter.
Today on the drilling side we’re over 90% driven by oil or liquid rich related business.
Due to this not having the impact of relocation and other factors are US day rate margins per day were up our US turnkey margins per day were up considerably our Colombia day rate margins per day were up and we also had a fuel one time fuel reimbursement in Colombia that helped the margins in this quarter.
So it’s a great quarter.
We’re operating at about 90% utilization today.
Our mechanical fleet is performing very well at 91% utilizations.
Day rates for the mechanical fleet are still trending upward particularly in the West Texas market as we’ve discussed on previous calls.
The electric fleet is also performing very well at 90% utilizations.
Day rates are firm in every market with the exception of the Marcellus where rates have declined in the 5% range or so.
We will actually be moving our fourth rig out of the Marcellus this month that’s down from 7.
We moved one out in the fourth quarter to Utah and two out in the second quarter to the Granite Wash and we’ll be moving third rig this month out of the Marcellus into the Granite Wash.
All of those will be on one year term contracts.
We only have six rig down today three mechanical and three electric.
One rig in South Texas is down but it’s just down temporarily and will go back to work with a backlog of business.
We have got one rig down in East Texas in the gas market.
That’s one down out of two.
That’s all that we have really remaining in East Texas today and we have one down in Marcellus but that’s the one that will be relocating here shortly to the Granite Wash and start its one year term.
We have one mechanical rig in Houston that is in the process of being upgraded and I don’t think that will be completed until the end of next month or early July.
We still have the two rigs that are down in the country of Colombia.
However on those two rigs we are in negotiations on both stacked rigs to go back to work in the third quarter under term contract and at attractive day rates.
One of the rigs is in process of being upgraded from a 1000 to a 1500 horse power rig.
The other we are putting on – it’s walking system that’s the last installation of a walking systems for now.
Once that’s complete all the rigs in Colombia will be on walking systems.
We renegotiated some new day rates on the six rigs operating in the Cassia [ph] field and those will remain under contract through the end of the year at improved day rates.
Performance for the Colombian group continue to be outstanding.
They were awarded the top one and two rigs out of the six rigs working for Ecopetrol in 2011 for total performance including safety drilling parameters downtime and that’s out of about a 150 rigs that Ecopetrol is either operating or participating in.
So it’s quite an accomplishment for that group in Colombia.
New builds we have several of new builds nearing completion and they look outstanding.
The first Bakken rig actually should have gone out it was held up by Floss Laws [ph] in effect in North Dakota and then now we have to wait for a new location to be build because the operator had to begin operations on that location that we would have gone to had the Floss Laws not delayed it.
I think we are going to be delayed in the delivery of the new builds and I think for modeling purposes what we are doing is shifting the delivery of those rigs back about a quarter or so rather than starting April 01<sup>st</sup> generating – we are going to go to July 1<sup>st</sup> and run one a month so that will extend this into the first quarter of 2013 but we have a total of 10 rigs.
So we will double up and that’s probably pretty conservative but it’s a good safe way to model it.
Turning now to the production services segment of the business revenue growth exceeded the high end of our guidance for the quarter at 27% growth in revenue primarily due to just very cooperative weather in regions that normally don’t have good weather.
Also surprisingly our margin was up almost 2% to 44% of revenues again ahead of our expectations.
In total the production services segment of our business contributed 52% of our total margin for the company pretty astounding.
Great progress for that segment of our business.
Drilling down more specifically into the subsector there in well services they’ve achieved another quarter of best in class performance with utilization at 92% average hourly rates up to $581 an hour.
In 2011 they were awarded by their industry group the AEFC the gold award for safety for the division that we compete in and to the best of our knowledge that really could include all of the top layers in well service.
So they have just done an outstanding job on safety.
Incidentally on our U.S.
land division we also recorded in 2011 the best total recordable incident rate as reported through the drilling industry association IADC for the top 15 contractors in 2011.
Drilling through the first third of the year we are performing better this year than we did in 2011.
So all the groups are just doing an outstanding job on our commitment to keeping our employees safe and employees around it.
For well services March believe it or not was the highest revenue month and highest rig hour month ever.
And in combination with January and February they turned out the best quarter in well service history.
We ended December 31 2011 with 89 well service rigs to-date.
Today we’ve added 9 for a total of 98 and we have 10 more units that will be delivered this year.
So we’ll end the year in well service at a 108 well service rigs.
Turning to wireline just like well service simply best in class performance.
First quarter was their highest revenue and EBITDA ever just doing an outstanding job.
A lot of that work is associated with the plug and prep [ph] work in the horizontal shale play.
We ended 2011 with a 105 units we’ve added 9 units so far this year we retired 2 so we have a 114 today but we’ve retired 2 in the quarter so that’s a 112 and we have 7 more on order for delivery this year so we’ll end this year at 119 net wireline units.
Turning to coiled tubing the integration is going very well and we have continued to have high degree of confidence in the management team they came with Go-Coil.
We still believe that our EBITDA guidance of $26 to $29 million for the year and an accretive margin to the overall production services historical margin is very achievable.
We ended 2011 with 10 units.
We have three units on order we expect the first offshore unit to be generating revenues by the third quarter and the other two land units to be generating revenues by the fourth quarter of this year.
And we are evaluating the potential order of some additional units later this year for 2013 delivery.
Surprisingly at 13 units where we’ll be at the end of the year that puts us within the top 15 largest coiled tubing providers in the United States.
And now I’d like to turn the call over to Lorne Phillips for a review the financials.
Thanks Stacy.
Good morning everyone.
This morning we reported first quarter consolidated revenues of $232 million which were up approximately 14% from the prior quarter and up 51% from a year ago.
The majority of the revenue increase was attributable to the Go-Coil acquisition that we made at the end of 2011 adding to that were unit additions in well service and wireline higher utilization and pricing and production services and improved pricing in drilling services.
Moving to the bottom line our net income was $14.2 million or $0.23 per diluted share that compares to net earnings in the prior quarter of $6.8 million or $0.11 per diluted share and compares with the net loss of $6 million or $0.11 per share loss in the first quarter a year ago.
One noteworthy item to point out is a $1 million non-cash impairment charge for retiring two stacked mechanical drilling rigs located in East Texas and retiring two wireline units.
The impairment had a $0.01 impact to diluted earnings per share.
Out total adjusted EBITDA in the first quarter was $70.1 million which is up 26% from the prior quarter and is a 121% higher than a year ago.
Drilling services revenue totaled $124 million in the first quarter which is 5% higher than the prior quarter and 25% higher than a year ago.
Our drilling operations in Colombia accounted for almost $24 million of that total revenue number for drilling.
Colombia’s revenue was down approximately $4 million from the fourth quarter because two of our eight Colombian drilling rigs had come off contract and were down since the contract expiration.
Our turnkey revenues in the quarter were $8.2 million up from $2.2 million in the prior quarter.
We do expect turnkey revenues to return to a more normal level this quarter around to $1 to $2 million range.
Gross margin for drilling services was $43.2 million which was up 10% from the prior quarter.
Our average drilling margin per day was 8537 which was an increase of 851 a day compared to the prior quarter.
As Stacy mentioned this margin per day improvement reflects several items.
The first is a day rate increase that we negotiated in four or six of our Colombian drilling rigs that went into effect in early March and will continue through the life of the contract.
Also in Colombia we benefited from a reimbursement on fuel cost that had previously been under negotiation.
Another contributor was the benefit of the increased turnkey work that I mentioned previously.
Finally we did see moderately improved pricing in the US as we rolled some contracts.
As I mentioned earlier we retired two drilling rigs effective on March 31<sup>st</sup>.
Our utilization for the quarter would have been slightly higher at 90% if our rig account was reduced to 62 instead of 64 for the entire first quarter.
Currently 56 of our drilling rigs are working and 79% of those rigs are operating under term contracts.
This excludes the new build drilling rigs that are not yet deployed.
As of March 31<sup>st</sup>.
the average remaining term for these contracts was approximately six months in the US and nine months in Colombia.
As we renew contracts the typical renewal term continues to be for one year.
Looking now at production services revenue totaled approximately $108 million which was up 27% to the prior quarter and was more than double our revenues from the year ago.
The acquisition of Go-Coil in late 2011 accounted for the majority of the increase but also contributing were the addition of six new well serviced rigs five new wireline units that were added to our fleet during the first quarter.
Utilization and pricing also had modest improvements in each of the businesses.
Our contribution as a percent of Pioneer’s total revenue from PPS continued to decline from 42% one quarter ago to 46% in the first quarter.
The margin from production services was $47 million which was up approximately 31% from the fourth quarter.
As a percentage of the company’s consolidated gross margin production services represented 52% which as Stacy said is the first time production services contributed over half of the company’s gross margin.
The gross margin as a percent of revenues for PPS increased to 44% up from 42% the prior quarter.
The quarter-on-quarter increase was again the result of several items the inclusion of coiled tubing in the first quarter was a contributor.
Second the better utilization in part driven by better than usual weather conditions in the first quarter and finally higher pricing also contributed a little to the margin improvement.
As we are seeing in drilling services demand for production services remain strong in spite of low natural gas prices.
For production services approximately 80% of the assets are targeting oil or liquid rich gas play.
Also while somewhat of a moving target we estimate that our current mix of production versus completion revenue in production services is approximately a 50-50 split today.
Looking now at our overall expense trends for the company our G&amp;A expenses were $21.1 million which was up almost 10% from the prior quarter.
The majority of the sequential increase was driven by the addition of the coiled tubing business.
We expect G&amp;A to be in the $22 to $23 million range in the second quarter and now expect full year to be in the $86 to $90 million range for 2012.
Depreciation and amortization expense was $38.4 million in the first quarter which is up 9% sequentially again reflecting the addition of coiled tubing as well as the increase in our fleet of other PPS operating assets.
We expect second quarter D&amp;A to be in the neighborhood of $40 million based on the addition of new drilling rigs and production services equipment that comes into the fleet this quarter.
For the full year we continue to expect D&amp;A in the $160 to $170 million range.
Interest expense in the first quarter was $9.6 million which was approximately $1.5 million higher than in the prior quarter.
This increase reflects a full quarter’s interest due on the 175 million of bonds we issued in mid-November primarily to fund the Go-Coil acquisition.
In the first quarter we capitalized about $2 million of interest expense primarily related to our new build drilling rig construction projects.
For 2012 total aggregate interest costs are expected to be in the range of $46 to $48 million and for the second quarter we expect to capitalize approximately $3.5 million resulting in an estimated interest expense charge of approximately $8.5 million in the second quarter.
Our effective tax rate for the first quarter was 32.9% the lower than statutory rate was the result of foreign currency exchange gains in the first quarter.
Excluding the impact of gains or losses from foreign currency exchange our normal tax rate will be in the 38% to 40% range.
As of March 31<sup>st</sup> we had cash and cash equivalents of $21.4 million we had a zero balance on our revolving credit facility at quarter end but we did borrow 20 million in late April to fund our new build drilling rig construction.
Our current borrowing availability is $221 million which reflects the impact of the $20 million draw on April and $9 million in committed letters of credit.
During the first quarter we had cash capital expenditures of $95 million which included $12.2 million for routine CapEx.
We expect our CapEx spent in 2012 to still be in the $300 to $330 range provided earlier this year but likely in the high end of that range.
With that I’ll turn it back to Stacy.
Thank you Lorne.
Turning briefly to our outlook and some guidance for the second quarter.
At this time our outlook remains positive pretty much on all fronts.
We recognize the potential risk of equipment exiting dry gas areas we’ve not really seen any material impact on us that we’ve not been able to work around.
We do recognize the risk of oil prices declining to low sustained levels however we think that we position the company as well as it can possibly be positioned and in better shape than it’s ever been in the past of whether a downturn with all the drilling rigs pretty much close to 80% being on term contract and then having diversified the company to be approximately 50% in the production services side of the business which those services are varied both by business line but also by geography.
And historical downturns though the production service side of the business is held up well with the one exception of ’09 which was an economic crash and a credit crunch.
But we don’t think that’s going to happen all simultaneously like it did in ’09 again in this – in whatever slow period maybe coming.
But looking at the drilling side of the business.
I think we see utilization staying strong.
We’re projecting in 89% or 91% for the second quarter and average margins per day in the 8000 to 8300 per day.
Now that’s down a little bit from the first quarter but that’s really just correcting for the real improvement that we had in the turnkey margins per day and also the one time gas reimbursement that we had down in Colombia.
But you’ll observe that 300 a day is quite a bit better than the day rates we were talking about on our fourth quarter call in February and that’s because some of the things Lorne mentioned that we’ve had some day rates improve in the US we’ve had considerable day rate improvement on the rigs in Colombia we’ve had more seamless relocation of equipment out of the Marcellus and actually into regions where we feel like our cost basis will be a little bit lower.
So and then I think that after the second quarter we’ve add new build start layering in.
We will see that day rate go up on a quarterly basis probably for the next four quarters.
So that’s a pretty good long term outlook there.
Looking at the production service side of the business I would have to say that I think we kind of got second quarter in the first quarter just due to the weather improvement.
First quarter historically is seasonally soft due to weather we had exceptionally good weather in the first quarter.
And in the second quarter we have the thought to deal with in some of the northern regions.
So we’re still projecting revenues to be up a little bit we’re thinking 5% to 10% but we’re going to call the margins are roughly flat with the first quarter at the 44% of revenue range.
I think that the combination of that could produce an overall EBITDA flat to down for the second quarter slightly when you combine the two business lines it’s just hard to make that call for sure.
I think as we look out further in production services I don’t think our outlook has really changed.
I think we’re still on a upward in terms of net pricing and some further margin expansion through the course of the year.
So we remain optimistic although we are cautious and we are watching the market and we still plan to reduce capital expenditure significantly in 2013 in order to position ourselves to build cash and retire a significant amount of our debt in 2014.
That’s kind of our outlook at this point.
I’d like to turn it over for questions at this time.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] We do ask that you please limit yourself to one question and one followup and re-queue for any additional.
The first question is from the line of Brian Uhlmer with Global Hunter Securities.
Please go ahead.
Hey good morning guys.
Congrats on the quarter.
Question for you Stacy throughout the $1 billion revenue number for the years a little bit higher than what I’ve got and I think most of my peers.
Sounds like they are [inaudible] the contract drilling site but trying to get – dive down a little bit deeper on the production services side.
What are you seeing pricing improvement and wireline work and coiled tubing and is that based on specifics or is that across much of the markets?  Well I think that I’d say production service as a whole – you know we’ve been on a slightly upward slopping track now for a couple of years and pricing is coming up to maintain against cost.
But we have seen margin improvement if you look back over the last couple of years and we think that 2012 is not going to be an exception there.
We think that we are going to see some margin improvement on the year over 2011.
And we think the third and fourth quarters are going to be – they look very good in those markets.
Now I would say that’s true and pretty much all of the businesses.
There is some risk of gas market weakness and equipment moving into compete.
We felt a little of that but as I mentioned earlier we have been able to work around it so we are pretty optimistic that that’s going to stay firm and we are – a lot of that growth comes from not only the new bills layering in but margin improvement on the existing rig fleet in terms of day rates and then all the additions that we are making to wireline for the remainder of the year to well service for the remainder of the year and for coil for the remainder of the year.
And so yeah I think it’s very achievable but the market will need to hold for that to take place.
It’s not like we are going to blow through it but I mean – I think it’s in our sides and we hopeful that we will hit it this year.
Okay.
Good to hear.
And then on the two Colombian rig that are down do you have contracts in place for those to go back to work in Q3 and when are your expectations for start date and the terms on those contracts are we looking at 18 months to years or one year deal? Well we are embroiled in multiple negotiations with both rigs right now and we don’t have signed contracts.
We are optimistic that we will we are working on contract links Blaine would you say in excess of a year or at least a year?  I will say from one to two years.
Yeah one to two year term and at the prior day rates than the rigs they had been working at before.
So we are optimistic there.
We don’t have them signed yet but timing wise I think that we are kind of thinking that we could have them working by July.
It could be June it could be August for one it’s just hard to say.
These negotiations in the international market takes months.
And that’s what we have been dealing with for a while.
But at least we are having some very serious and healthy negotiations that look very promising right now.
All right that's helpful turn it over thanks.
Thank you.
Thank you.
The next question is from the line of Veny Aleksandrov with Pritchard Capital Partners LLC.
Please go ahead.
LLC</strong> Good morning Stacy and Lorne.
Good morning.
LLC</strong> My first question is on Colombia.
We saw the Argentinean situation and uncertainties there.
Is there any risk that you get more competition answering the Colombian market.
Well I think that and Blaine I’ll let Blaine he runs Colombia for us.
But I think the competition the competitive picture there has been pretty rough the last couple of years the last few years.
I think that it’s getting a little better down there with strong oil prices and some of the other markets looking a little bit more attractive now than they had.
It’s kind of a hard market to break into.
I know some of the U.S.
contractors have tried and been bidding to try to break in there but it’s just not that easy to get in there.
I think we are very very well position there.
We intend to keep all eight rigs there.
Our margins have improved and are in the process of improving considerably and the rigs are performing our – we have a top life group of management down there.
So I think it’s going to stay a strong market and I don’t really see and getting any more competitive.
Do you Blaine? No we may see an increase in the competitiveness down there but as we see that happen I think our client base will expand as well.
Yeah we held on our own.
LLC</strong>  Thank you.
My second question is on the US land drilling side.
We have gone from mixed type of earnings – this earning season and then you come out a bit you reported 7% utilization 80% contract coverage.
Well is it a combination of your safety records personal relationship fleet characteristics what is it that led to strong results in your mind? Well I think you’re right on.
We’re really delivering what I would say is best in class performance on both the mechanical fleet and the electrical side of the fleet.
We’re working for very top tier customers mostly the big publicly traded company that are – and we are pretty much in the shale plays.
As I’ve said in the past our mechanical fleet is very very high end.
We have nine of the rigs with top drives earning average day rates of over 21 000 a day.
The other mechanical rigs – a lot of these have a lot of the same components on them that the new build rigs have.
It’s just they are not AC with Air Condition dog houses and joystick controls but they are in very very good shape and they operate well.
Like I mentioned earlier our safety is absolutely at the top of the pack our downtime is very very good and we treat the customers well and we treat our employees well and we are doing I think maybe better than the industry on retaining our people.
So I think it’s it all kind of rolled in there and we’re diversified and we’re in lots of different markets we have some very strong customer relationships and those don’t change much.
I think it’s just been – we’ve got good managers out there controlling the cost.
I’ve been surprised how well we’ve been able to move these rigs out of the East Texas market over the last year.
I mean we went in West Texas 0 to 16 rigs there in 12 months and that’s after taking the majority of the rigs in and doing a critical inspection on them almost back to the light new status and we’ve done the same move in these rigs out of the Marcellus and to these active markets with very good customers.
So it’s just a combination of lots of things.
Good question though.
LLC</strong> Thank you.
You are welcome.
Thank you.
The next question is from the line of Daniel Burke with Johnson Rice.
Please go ahead.
Good morning guys.
Good morning.
Stacy you just mentioned the West Texas fleet.
I think you as well alluded to the idea you will add one or two rigs.
Can you catch me up with where that account stands today what incremental opportunities do you see in that market and then as well maybe give us a recap of to what extent the 16 rigs you have got there have been re-priced and where you have re-pricing opportunities or you feel like there is upside? Okay.
We moved our 17 rigs to West Texas in the first quarter.
We have one final rig that is in Houston that’s being upgraded that could potentially go to West Texas and then we are kind of out of rigs.
We are going to leave the two rigs that we have in East Texas there most likely and we possibly will take the rig in Houston that’s being upgraded and going through the same critical inspection as the other rigs did.
When it’s complete we may take it back to East Texas to work the Woodbind [ph] play Eaglebind [ph] that’s going over there if that continues to develop.
So on the 17 rigs that are currently in West Texas I would say – I mean Lorne you may remember I think we probably have 6 or 8 rigs that will be re-priced in mostly third and fourth quarter some at the end of the second quarter.
Is it about right? Yeah I think probably yes.
Somewhere in that range and I would say the pricing that we have been experiencing has been an increase of $1000 to $1500 a day.
So that looks pretty optimistic.
The other – currently we are putting on our tenth top drive package on a mechanical rig that’s under term contract for one of the big public companies.
We have three operating in West Texas today this will be the fourth out of 10 total.
I think these mechanical rigs have a great opportunity for horizontal.
We have two of them drilling 20 000 foot laterals up in the Bakken.
We’ve got one drilling directional well in Utah.
We’ve got three drilling directional wells in West Texas about to be fourth.
And so I think that particularly in West Texas these high-end mechanical rigs are very much appreciated even as directional drilling rigs.
And so we possibly will consider putting another top drive and packages on one or two more rigs out there in West Texas for the term.
But we will wait and see.
It’s pretty expensive to do that but we think those rigs are really ideally suited for the horizontal Wolfcamp and Sprayberry warps.
So that’s kind of what we are dealing with but we are 100% utilized there we have been 100% utilized since the day we got there and rates have been rolling higher and our customer satisfaction is very very high and all blue chip customers.
So we are still very optimistic on West Texas.
The risk if we had any risk there besides declining oil prices would be that there will be some operators that might prefer to use an electric or AC joystick top drive rig over a mechanical and that could put at risk some of our existing rigs that are currently drilling verticals.
But that’s not what we are hearing right now.
We recognize that as a potential future risk but we haven't realized anything and don’t see anything coming but it could happen.
That’s helpful and just to clarify Stacy when you said that the pricing rollovers you have experienced have been plus $1000 to $1500 a day.
Am I translating that directly? It’s a margin or do I need to back out some level of escalation on the cost side there? No that’s pretty much 100% margin.
Okay great.
And then on the Colombia side encouraging to see that you were able to negotiate a rate step-up on the 6 rig pack there.
What’s – those rigs are still suited to expire at the end of this year.
What’s – given you have been in discussions what’s the timing likely to see those contracts formally extended? Well there Blaine and our manager down in Colombia are kind of working that in a little bit with the discussions and negotiations that we have ongoing with the existing two rigs that are down currently.
So we don’t know yet where it will end up but we are trying to not only put these stack rigs back to work but we are also trying to extend the term on some of the existing.
Would that be fair Blaine? That’s correct.
We don’t know where it’ll come out.
These negotiations are never easy but we’re doing them a very very good job.
We’re making terrific margins now particularly and we think that they want to keep it and we want to keep working for them..
So we’re pretty confident that everything will roll forward.
We just haven’t got there yet.
But we’re not going to wait until November to start negotiating we’re working on the renewals now.
Okay great.
Thank you guys.
Thank you.
The next question is from the line of Jim Rollyson with Raymond James.
Please go ahead.
Good morning Stacy.
Very good quarter and I think good color on kind of where you guys stand in the risk profile and everything so a good job.
First question just going back to contracts you are very well contracted for this year and you’ve given a good detail on Colombia and kind of where you stand for renewals down there and it sounds promising.
What do you think about the US?  I think you mentioned the average term rate right now is above six months and you’ve got some stuff rolling here and in the next in third quarter and fourth quarter so like in West Texas.
How are negotiations going or you haven’t talks about renegotiating or renewing those contracts already?  And are those generally six months one year – just kind of trying to figure out how this plays into ’13 because we know you’ve got the 10 new rigs delivered between mid this year and first quarter.
Those are all more than a year.
So I’m just trying to figure out kind of where you stand or how you are likely to stand for contract coverage in while we head into ’13? We push for one year terms pretty much in all cases.
We don’t – I would say that the majority of the renewals are one year term but sometimes the best we can get is six months.
I think that’s going to continue.
We’re doing a good job for these customers we’re not just giving them a rig or giving them overall great performance including safety and that’s important to a lot of these customers particularly the kind we’re working for.
So I think the likelihood is that we will continue through the rest of this year in the same manner that we have over the past say six months and that will be the majority of the contracts as they roll forward will be a one year term just like the three that are coming out of the Marcellus this year are all one year term.
The ones that we’ve taken in Utah have been – two of them one year and one was a two year term.
All the West Texas rig initially were – well not all but three quarters of them were one year term.
We’re pretty optimistic we’re going to keep pushing for one year term extensions and I think that will be the majority of the contracts as we roll forward.
That being said I think as we kind of get into the third quarter of this year we will have quite a bit – we’ll still have this same kind of average six to eight months as we go into the next year but we’ll have quite a few that’ll beyond on freshly managed one year term.
Okay that’s very very helpful.
As a follow up on the CapEx side you motioned $300 million to $330 million.
I think in the press release you mentioned you probably tapped your $250 million revolver a little bit to fund that.
Curious as you look forward at opportunities for either new equipment or M&amp;A possibilities did open up things soften any further.
Kind of how high would you be able to willing to use your leverage to take advantage of opportunities?  What’s kind of your threshold? Well I think we’re pretty much has a threshold there with what Lorne’s identified there in the press release.
We’re really heading the other direction.
We’ve had a lot of growth here in recent years 45% revenue growth from 10 to 11 closed to 40% again this year.
We’re looking at going to a couple of harvest years in ’13 and ’14 and by that I mean we’re not going to reduce growth in production services our primary focus will be on the coiled tubing business because we see some real near term opportunities there.
So we don’t want to cut back that much but we will probably slow the rate of growth in wirelines flow the rate of growth in well services definitely slow the rate of growth in drilling and kind of stay on track for coil and so that all means considerably less cash spent in ’13 than ’12 and that’ll enable us to start building up cash on the balance sheet by the time we exit ’13 and then we’ll be in a good position by the second quarter say 14 to materially reduced our indebtedness and that’s our strategic plan on that.
Replenishing the coffer so to speak.
Yes.
Excellent.
Makes perfect sense.
Thanks Stacy.
Thank you.
The next question is from the line of Josh Lingsch with Simmons &amp; Company.
Please go ahead.
Thanks guys.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Maybe as a follow up to the CapEx question.
Are the three rigs that are now going to delivered in 2013 in your new build is that thing included in the 2012 CapEx budget or is that a 2013 CapEx again? Some of it will be – and perhaps the majority of it will be in 2012.
The number I gave you 300 to 330 it definitely includes a portion of those rigs.
Frankly I prefer to give an even broader range because when you start talking years it’s arbitrary cut offs.
So depending on what you pay December 31<sup>st</sup> you can have pretty broad swings when you are talking about new build drilling rigs.
So definitely some of the cost would be in 2012 perhaps and I think more than half of those costs will be in 2012.
But there will be some carry over from 2012 into 2013 related to the new build as we see the world today.
Okay.
That’s helpful.
And then as a power switching pricing drilling in the U.S.
the price increases that you are saying is this primarily West Texas or are you saying this on any other basis as well.
I think it’s primarily the mechanical fleets in West Texas and then of course any mechanical rigs were put in top five zone.
The rest of the fleet I would say is maybe very modest pricing improvement.
We are not seeing any day right declines anywhere and if anything it’s firm to slightly up.
And it was accepted into Marcellus which that is down but we moved most of that equipment out of there.
It’s really more related to the West Texas rigs than anything else.
And then in Colombia Colombia will be up significantly.
Right.
Okay.
And then maybe one more as just a follow-up on that.
You touched on it a bit earlier Stacey but are you expecting a – on the last conference call you were expecting to reach $8000 cash margins by the end of the year.
Obviously there is a one-off benefit this quarter.
But what has been a bigger surprise relative to your expectations than now that we are already $8000 cash margin than moving out to the end of year from here.
Well I think it’s a combination of factors.
The Marcellus is a very high cost operating area.
So we have taken four rigs out of the Marcellus at even day rates into areas where the cost side is a little more favorable for us pretty significantly more favorable.
So you have got those four rigs that are contributing more on a margin basis so that’s one factor.
The other factor is these West Texas rigs are rolling forward at pretty healthy step up in rates.
At least a $1000 to a $1500 a day and we are putting on another top guard.
And then a big – big contributor are the rigs in Colombia.
We have had a very significant improvement in the day rate environment in Colombia for us and so that’s coming into play and those things.
And then what is not happening that we were factoring in is a lot more cost associated with down rigs being relocated and as I mentioned earlier we have been when you take a rig and you stack in and you try to retain the crews and figure out what you are doing with it you bear a cost and we have been able to move them almost when they come off contract and relocate them.
So we are not varying that cost of labor and another rig moved to stack it out and it has been much more seamless than we felt like.
I’d say I think across the board our group is doing a very – very good job on controlling their costs.
We are not doing a lot of moving.
It’s business as usual.
It’s steady.
That we are constantly driving on cost and the group overall is doing a great job.
And so it’s just a combination of those things that really made a material improvement.
Now we will see what second quarter is but I hope all those will get us in that 8300 a day margin.
That’s the best of our guess at this point based on what we are seeing.
But it is a little aggressive compared to what we talked about last quarter.
Right.
Fair enough.
Well that’s very helpful.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions].
The next question is from the line of Rajiv Singla with Putnam Investment.
Please go ahead.
Hey guys.
Congrats on the quarter.
On your last earnings call you guys mentioned debt reduction.
Have you considered open market bond repurchases? Yes we’ve and we will consider that in 2013.
We don’t feel like that we can make a huge impact but as we built cash in the second half of ’13 we will certainly look at that and we feel like we could probably go in and at least purchase you know may be $25 million or $50 million potentially before bond investors get eyes on it but you know we are looking at it.
Of course you are one of those guys so I probably shouldn’t tell you that.
All right.
Thanks.
Thank you.
The next question is from the line of Ross Beaumont [ph] with Midwest Capital.
Please go ahead.
Hi guys congratulations on a good quarter.
Can you just help us a little bit roll forward the balance sheet to the end of the year.
I mean I know you have given us what CapEx and we can sort of back into operating cash flow.
But I think we are at roughly $400 million of net debt right now.
What does that look like roughly towards the end of the year? Well earlier Ross we said that well I think in an earlier quarter we said we thought the revolver match would be in $40 million to $60 million range.
I think I would still use that guidance.
It’s very time independent on when the rigs go out and when you cut the checks but I think that’s in the ballpark.
Now I think the peak given that we are moving this kind of the deliveries out a quarter I would say the peak on that revolver is probably late third or sometime in the fourth.
I would just answer by saying we think the revolver peak is probably around $40 million to $60 million and then I don’t know if that’s in the third or fourth quarter.
At this point it really depends on deliveries and when checks get cut.
So that’d be how I answer the question.
Okay.
That’s all I need.
Thank you.
Thank you.
There are no further questions at this time.
I will turn it back over to Mr.
Locke for any closing remarks.
Okay.
Well we appreciate the participation on the first quarter call and we will look forward to visiting again for the second quarter.
Thank you very much.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude the conference call.
As a reminder the information for the replay will be on today’s news release.
You may now disconnect.
Thank you for your participation.
Good day August 7 2012.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Anne Pearson of BRG&amp;L.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Erin and good morning everyone.
Before I turn the call over to CEO Stacy Locke and CFO Lorne Phillips for their formal remarks I have a few of the usual items to cover.
First of all a replay of today’s call will be available and will be accessible by webcast by going to the IR section of Pioneer’s website and also by telephone replay.
And you can find the replay information for both in this morning’s news release.
Just as a reminder information reported on this call speaks only as of today August 7 2012 so any time sensitive information may no longer be accurate at the time of a replay.
Management may make forward-looking statements today that are based on beliefs and assumptions and information currently available to them.
While they believe the expectations reflecting in these statements are reasonable they have no assurance that they will prove to be correct.
They are subject to certain risks and uncertainties and assumptions described in this morning’s new release and also in recent public filings with the SEC.
If one or more of these risk materializes or should underlying assumptions prove to be incorrect actual results may vary materially.
Also please note that this conference call may contain references to non-GAAP measures.
You’ll find a reconciliation to the GAAP measures in this mornings news release.
So now I’d like to turn the call over to Stacy Locke Pioneer Energy Services President and CEO.
Thank you Anne and good morning everyone.
Sorry for the brief delay.
We were trying to get the webcast on our website working this morning since we have a new website and so we delayed this just a bit and I’m not sure it’s even working yet but anyway.
Joining me on the call this morning and sitting in for Red West President of the Drilling Services segment is Blaine David our Senior Vice President of Operations.
Blaine’s also in charge of our Colombian operation.
Joe Eustace President of the Production Services segment of the business and Lorne Phillips our Chief Financial Officer.
As most of you have seen by now effective July 30 we’ve changed the name of the company to Pioneer Energy Services and we began trading under the ticker symbol PES.
This is a culmination of a multi-year strategic plan.
We now have all of our core businesses flying under the same name with the same brand look and feel which we believe will strengthen the companies ability to cross sell the various services to each of the business clients from the different business line.
With respect to the second quarter no real surprises from the revised guidance that we issued on June 25.
Really the whole story in the second quarter was a coil tubing myth.
Drilling was a little bit softer and it came in at the low end of our range that we provided in the original guidance but both well service and wireline had record quarter in terms of revenue and EBITDA.
In fact Production Services as a whole excluding coiled tubing was up 7% in revenues.
So it was a great quarter in all respects except for coiled tubing.
Now discussing coiled tubing.
Let me first say that we have complete confidence in the senior management team and believe that the coiled tubing business is still a very good business and it’s still an important service for Pioneer to offer.
Long term we think we will be one of the best service providers in coil just like we are in well service and in wireline.
In a nutshell the issue this quarter in coil was onshore utilization.
It averaged below 60% and that cannot sustain the high fixed cost in that business.
In the first quarter by contrast we were averaging close to 70% utilization and the margins were very good.
Part of the problem in the quarter we had two units that had previously been on term transition over to spot.
In addition we moved one of those units out of the Marcellus which became the weaker market down to South Louisiana and we’ve made a number of important personnel changes.
So we think the outlook is good for coil.
It may take a quarter or two to get things sorted out but we’re still optimistic about coil in the medium term and long term.
The offshore aspect of the business where we have three units has performed very well very stable steady pricing steady utilization.
And we just this month in August added our fourth unit to the offshore so that brings our total unit count currently to 11 and we have two additional land units on order that we should receive in September that’ll become operational probably in October of this year.
So we end the year at 13 units in coil.
Turning to the Well Servicing side of the business it continues also to be very very steady with utilization at 97% average hourly rate approaching 600 at 592.
Again a record quarter.
Four well services.
Thus far we’ve added 13 units and we have 102 operational units today with six more well servicing rigs on order.
So we’ll end the year at 108 well service units.
Wireline like Well Service record quarter continues to be our top margin producer.
We’ve added 12 units there so far this year so we’re at 117 unit count today with three more on order for this year.
So we should end the year in Wireline at 120 units.
Turning now to the Drilling segment.
We have 65 rigs operating today at 88% utilization.
That includes three of our new-builds that are out working.
Two of those are 1 500 horsepower rigs in the Bakken and one is a 1 000 horsepower unit in the Marcellus.
Presently we’re mobing our fourth new-build which would be the sixty-sixth rig to the Marcellus today.
And the fifth new-build or the sixty-seventh rig will be moving at the end of next week also to the Bakken and that’s another 1 500 horsepower.
Performance overall on the new-builds has been excellent so we’re very pleased with that.
Looking at the rig fleet across the U.S.
kind of the same story on which rigs are stacked.
We still have a little softness in South Texas.
Today we’ve got two rigs stacked.
One of them is already contracted and will be going back to work.
And then we have one of the Eagle Ford rigs a 1 500 horsepower SCR rig that’s presently stacked but we’re bidding have a number of bids out on that.
The two drilling rigs up in East Texas happen to be down today.
We’ve had one usually working of the two but both are down today so that continues to be a weak market.
As we mentioned in the last quarterly call we have one down in the Alberta Bakken.
That’s up in the northwest part of Montana.
And that activity has really fallen off there.
And we have the one rig still in the Houston yard that is about complete on its upgrade and we’re actively bidding that unit into West Texas.
And then we have the two units still down in Colombia.
However we have a lot of bids out that’s looking a little more promising.
It looks attractive in terms of getting these rigs back to work and the day rates that they would obtain.
So all in all a pretty good market but some softness.
At this point I’d like to turn the call over to Lorne to talk about some of the financials and then I’ll come back with a very brief current market outlook.
Lorne? Thanks Stacy.
Good morning everyone.
So this morning we reported second quarter consolidated revenues of $229.8 million which were down approximately 1% from the prior quarter and up 34% from a year ago.
Our net income was $9.7 million or $0.15 per diluted share and that compares to net income in the previous quarter of $14.2 million or $0.23 per diluted share and it compares with net income of $3.7 million or $0.07 per diluted share in the second quarter of last year.
Our total adjusted EBITDA in the second quarter was $63.3 million which is down 10% from the first quarter and up 40% versus a year ago.
I’ll start first by looking at the Drilling Services segment in detail.
Drilling Services revenue totaled $119 million which is 4% lower than the prior quarter and 12% higher than a year ago.
The drilling operations in Colombia represented $22.5 million of that total with six rigs operating and two rigs idle.
The second quarter gross margin for Drilling Services was $40.4 million which was down about 6.5% from the prior quarter and our average drilling margin per day was $8 032 which was a decrease of $505 a day compared to the first quarter.
The decrease in Drilling Service second quarter revenues gross margin and margin per day as compared to the first quarter primarily relate to three items.
First we experienced a decrease in turnkey contract activity.
You’ll recall we had more than $8 million for turnkey work in the first quarter this year and as expected that was much lower in the second quarter probably a little bit lower than we were thinking even we produced about $400 000 in revenues.
The second item is a $1.4 million fuel cost reimbursement in Colombia that we received in the first quarter that was not an ongoing benefit into the second quarter.
And finally we incurred approximately $900 000 of stacking and mobilization expenses for two rigs in Colombia and three rigs in South Texas.
Our average drilling rig utilization rate was 89% for the quarter and is currently 88%.
We have 57 of our drilling rigs currently working of which 44 are under term contracts that range from six months to four years.
Of the 38 rigs on term contract in the U.S.
eight will be up for renewal by the end of this quarter 12 are up for renewal in the fourth quarter five are up for renewal in the first quarter of 2013 and six are in the second quarter of 2013 with seven rigs on term beyond that point.
The average remaining term is eight months for drilling contracts in the U.S.
and if you excluded the recently delivered new-builds that number would drop to seven months in the U.S.
In Colombia six of our eight drilling rigs are currently working under term contracts that expire at the end of 2012.
And as Stacy discussed somewhat we’re beginning negotiations with Ecopetrol to renew these contracts and we’re continuing to market our two idle drilling rigs in Colombia.
The drilling rig count I just went over do not include the new-build rig that’s currently mobilizing to the field and of course doesn’t include the remaining six new-build drilling rigs that will be deployed under term contracts.
Of the remaining six rigs three should be delivered by year-end and three in the first quarter of 2013.
As we renew contracts the typical renewal term varies from 6 to 12 months.
And at this time more than 90% of our working drilling rigs are working on wells that are targeting oil.
Turning now to Production Services.
The Production Services segment revenue totaled $110.8 million which was up 3% from the prior quarter and was up 71% from a year ago.
The acquisition of the coiled tubing business in late 2011 accounted for the majority of the year-over-year increase and the quarter-over-quarter increase reflects revenue contributions from five new well servicing rigs and seven new wireline units that we added during the second quarter of this year as well as we experienced moderately improved pricing and utilization in the well services and wireline businesses.
During the quarter as Stacy mentioned we had 7% growth if you exclude the coiled tubing business and of that 7% approximately half of that was driven by new units delivered to the field.
During the quarter well servicing utilization was 97% and the average rate per hour 592 this compares to first quarter utilization of 92% an average rate per hour of 581.
As a percentage of the companies consolidated gross margin production services generated almost 53% which was slightly higher than the prior quarters contribution.
Gross margin as a percent of revenue decreased to 41% compared to 44% in the prior quarter and 42% a year ago.
Gross margin for the Production Services segment was $45 million which was off about 4% from the first quarter.
The decrease in Production Services margin and margin percentage in primarily due to reduced utilization of our fleet at coiled tubing units during the quarter.
Approximately 60% of our working Production Services assets are operating in areas targeting oil and 20% are targeting liquids-rich oil/gas plays.
Also similar to last quarter our completion versus production split remains approximately 50/50 in production services.
Turning now to our expense trends for the company.
G&amp;A expense for the quarter was $22.3 million which was up about 5% from the first quarter.
The sequential increase was driven by increased third party consulting cost primarily to the rebranding and safety efforts in the company as well as some compensation-related expenses for additional head count.
For the third quarter we expect G&amp;A to be flat compared to the prior quarter and we continue to expect full year G&amp;A to be in the $86 million to $90 million range for 2012.
Depreciation and amortization expense was $40 million which was up about 4% sequentially.
This quarter-on-quarter increase reflects the impact of our fleet additions that were previously noted and we expect third quarter D&amp;A to be in the $41 million to $42 million range.
Interest expense in the second quarter was $7.7 million which was down about $1.9 million from the prior quarter.
We capitalized approximately $3.9 million of interest expense in the second quarter mostly related to our new-build drilling rig program.
For the third quarter we expect interest expense to be approximately $10 million which reflects estimated capitalized interest of $2 million.
For all of 2012 we expect total interest cost to be in the range of $46 million to $48 million of which we expect to capitalize approximately $10 million.
Looking into 2013 our capitalized interest cost will be significantly reduced which will increase our interest expense next year starting in the first quarter.
Our effective tax rate for the second quarter was 38.2% which was within the range of our normal statutory tax rate.
As of June 30 we had cash and cash equivalents of $20.4 million.
We currently have $35 million borrowed on a revolving credit facility and $9 million in letters of credit leaving current borrowing availability of $206 million.
By year-end as additional rigs are delivered we anticipate increasing the borrowings on our revolver to the $50 million to $70 million range and then start paying it down again in the first half of 2013.
Second quarter capital expenditures totaled $99 million which included approximately $11 million for routine CapEx.
We now anticipate our capital spending will be in the range of $325 million to $345 million for the full year 2012.
The primary drivers for that are some additional facilities in South Texas and North Dakota and the additional six well service rigs that we ordered in the year are going to be the last one should be delivered sometime in October so we’re planning on paying for all of those in 2012 and some other timing considerations.
Our outlook for 2013 is to significantly reduce our CapEx number currently we’re targeting 2012 CapEx spending in the $120 million to $140 million range which includes and estimated 2012 carry over spending in the $30 million to $40 million range as well as the estimated 2013 capital budget.
The reduced CapEx spending next year is part of our plan to build cash that can be used for debt reduction.
And with that I’ll turn it back over to Stacy.
Thank you Lorne.
Looking at the current market environment I think we would describe it as being a mild slow down.
The softness in the market is weighing in a little bit on utilization and pricing and I think we’re seeing that in the land business and in the coil business and in the cased hole wireline in particular.
In terms of pricing I would say we’re probably averaging 5% or so down in those businesses.
Well Services right now does not seem to be affected and in some cases as much as 10%.
But I’d tell you the average effect on pricing is probably in that 5% range.
So I would describe it as a pretty mild slowdown.
When you look at third quarter guidance for drilling we do think the utilization will be down a little bit.
We’ll guide 85% to 87% utilization.
And due to the repricing of some of the existing rigs with slightly lower day rates we think that we’ll probably average a little lower than second quarter average margins somewhere in the $7 500 to $8 000 a day.
It’s basically a balancing act between the high margin new-builds going into effect offset by the existing rig fleet average margins going down a little bit.
So it’s a bit of tug-o-war don’t know exactly but we think directionally it’s probably a little down as opposed to up.
On the Production Services side I think kind of the same balancing act.
You’ve got probably cased hole wire being affected the most in terms of pricing.
So that’ll have a downward weight on revenue and margin but we do believe that our coiled tubing business will be gradually improving in the third quarter and doing better in the fourth.
So we’re going to guide revenues to flat for the second quarter to down to maybe 3%.
And margins we think will be about on par at 41% of revenues in the third quarter as well.
So that ends our prepared comments and we’d be happy to entertain any questions.
Thank you.
Thank you  Hey good morning Stacy and Lorne.
How are you all?  Good.
Good.
Fine.
Yeah I just wanted to clarify a little bit on the cased hole wireline comments.
And thanks for getting a little more detailed on how the revenues end up down is that basin specific? Or just overall the entire market? Or can you quantify that a little bit? You said some areas 10% but generally 5%.
Is that across all markets in all segments?  On the case of total wireline I would say that it’s closer to the 5% range.
Joe feel free to chime in if you – if I say something you think may be off a little bit.
And I would say that it’s probably across-the-board.
We do have a very big presence in the Bakken.
As you’ve heard a number of the operators there have reached out to the service sector for pricing concessions.
Well that is an important market to us.
A lot of those customers are big important customers to us so we’re trying to work through that with them.
And so I think clearly the pricing you got to give a little on that and so that’s what we’re doing there.
Okay.
And as looking at the percentage of revenues that contributes to get to down 3% does that mean that the expectations are for well servicing utilization to come off a little bit? Or pricing to come off a little bit?  On well servicing I would say well servicing looks to be flat to an upward bias.
It just continues to form perform very steadily.
We’ve been on a track now for – gosh – over eight quarters of pricing just gradually coming up just a slightward upward biased slope on pricing.
We think that’s going to continue but at worst case get flat.
Utilization is very strong.
We still have – a lot of these units that we’re putting out are high-end well service units with taller mast that we’re doing a higher component of 24-hour work which helps on pricing and margin so that looks very good.
Okay.
Sounds good.
And to shift to my next question over to the drilling side of the business with your – with the rollovers that you have in 3Q and also including one rig in the yard you said you’re bidding to West Texas what makes you confident on getting the rig out to West Texas? And then what’s the composition of the rollovers in 3Q on a regional basis? And?  Well I think they vary.
West Texas rates so far have been flat to slightly up on renewals maybe not up the $1 000 to $1 500 a day that we thought six months ago but maybe up slightly $500 a day or something on that order.
You go to the Eagle Ford I think you’re down maybe $1 000 a day something on that order on average.
In some cases maybe a little higher in some cases flat.
And I would say Bakken is flat to slightly down.
Utah is solid.
Marcellus we already took that price decline of 5% to 8% a while back and that hasn’t really changed.
So and everything else is just pretty stable.
South Texas outside Eagle Ford is fairly stable.
So it’s just modest decreases.
All right.
Thank you sir.
I’ll turn it back.
Okay.
Our next question comes from the line of Jim Rollyson with Raymond James.
Please go ahead.
Good morning Stacey and Lorne everybody.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Stacey in Colombia can you maybe give us a little bit of color? You got this couple of rigs you’re working on getting contracted which I think you kind of been up and down on on the timing and prospects for but it sounds like you’re a little more up again.
But maybe just how we should think about that and particularly the other six rigs which I think if I remember correctly renew at the end of the year just kind of prospects for getting that all renewed.
I would say that we’re optimistic on that whole front down there.
It – negotiations had kind of just gone stagnant there for a while and we’re back to negotiating again.
We received pretty considerable interest in the two stacked rigs here in the last 30 days or so.
So looks like pricing as we talked about on the last call we’ve got some pretty good pricing improvement down there looks like on the bids for the two stacked rigs at that holding looks good.
And so we’re I would say we’re optimistic again those two rigs will go back to work.
And then the six rigs that are currently under term are all working in the Castilla Field.
We’re pretty confident those will all be renewed.
We don’t yet have a sense whether you know I’d say the best case would be they renew at the current day rates which is very attractive or slightly down.
But we do feel that they’re going to continue that drilling there.
And we are one of the top performers for Ecopetrol down there.
So we’re pretty confident that that’ll all continue on.
And I think the future in Colombia looks bright.
There are more people that are looking at the horizontal aspect of the country and we think that these rigs will fit that perfectly.
They all have 500 in top drives they all have walking systems almost all of them have automatic catwalks so they’re in great shape to handle the horizontal drilling as that develops which I think we’ll see more of that in 2013 and increasing in 2014 and 2015.
I think long-term it’s looking still good as long as oil prices hold up it looks good.
Not expecting any gap between the current contracts on the six versus when they renew at this point?  Blaine sitting right here he runs it.
He’s saying no.
We think that we’ll just continue on.
We’ll just be working on getting these contracts renewed between now and the end of the year.
Okay.
Some of your peers have had a handful of rigs contracts getting bought out here in the last 60 90 days or so.
Have you guys been approached by anyone on that front? Or has it just been pretty much steady as she goes?  We only have – remember on the last quarterly call we had two rigs that had been working for one of the big publicly traded companies that they were going to release and they released one of those that is still earning through October.
The other one is stacked down there.
That’s the one I mentioned.
The other is earning through October.
So that’s the only one that is a buy-out.
They haven’t actually – they’re just continuing to pay it but that’s the only one we’ve experienced that way.
Okay.
And Lorne on CapEx you mentioned 120 to 140 next year.
What’s maintenance when you get all the rest of the equipment delivered through this year? What’s a new maintenance level?  Well I think this year it’s in the 50 million to 60 million range.
I think it would be biased upwards next year and it’s probably in the 55 million to 65 million range would be my guess.
Okay.
Thanks guys.
And Jim just to follow-up on that question for next year that’s really what we’re focusing on is more maintenance CapEx and then carry-over from 2012 capital budget to be paid in 2013.
So we’re not anticipating any unit growth in the businesses next year in order to be certain that we build cash and put a considerably amount of cash on the balance sheet by 12/31/2013.
So we’ll be in a position by summer 2014 to pay a substantial part of that debt off.
And our next question comes from the line of Michael Cerasoli with Goldman Sachs.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
Good morning.
Morning.
In trying to get a better idea of the well service rig market at this point are you hesitant to add more capacity beyond your current growth plans? Or does the strong utilization on the debt signaling a room for higher spending as you look into 2013?  Well that’s a good question.
If we were not wanting to build cash next year and be in a position to pay a standard part of our debt down in 2014 we would be adding additional well service units.
It’s a strong market.
We could easily add more but it’s time for us to harvest some of the cash and be in a position to pay the debt.
So it’s a strong market.
We still think there’s demand out there.
As soon as we pay that debt down we’ll be – all things considered at that time that if it’s like it is today we would surely expect to go back and start building new rigs again.
Okay.
And then also in regards to the well service rigs can you just talk a little bit about the cost side particularly labor costs? You know how that market is trending from your perspective?  I think labor cost has been pretty flat.
I mean we’re getting – when we look back over a number of quarters it’s bouncing around a little bit but I would say that we are experiencing a little bit of margin expansion kind of on average quarter-over-quarter as you go forward.
So probably seeing is adding a little bit to the margin line.
But I’d say it’s been pretty stable there for a while now.
Would you agree Joe? Yes.
Yep.
Okay.
And then just my final question on coiled tubing.
The units that are coming online later this year are those contracted through year-end or is the calendar full for coiled tubing and it’s just a matter of pricing being weak? Or just some more details would be helpful.
Thank you.
No.
I’d say the trends are more away from term more to spot although that’s been our experience.
When we bought the business we had three units on term.
Today we have one.
But we are in discussions pretty regularly with clients about putting other units on term.
But the 2-inch units that are being delivered they’re still on schedule in September Joe? That’s right.
And hopefully be in the field in October.
So those are not contracted but they’ll feed into some of our existing markets.
And it’ll actually help us just like adding that fourth rig fourth unit to the onshore market.
We turned on any given month we’ll turn down a dozen or more jobs.
It helps fill in the scheduling.
And we’re having the same issue in coil.
In a couple of markets we only have one coil unit where you really need to have at least two in a given market to adequately service your client’s need there.
So it’ll just help make that business a little more efficient but they’re not under term at this point.
Okay that’s it for me.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Josh Lingsch with Simmons &amp; Company.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Question about the new well service rigs and the wireline units that you’re deploying.
Do they go out at higher pricing than the existing units? And if so can you try and quantify that?  I would say that they well servicing units that are coming out they’re a little bit of a new design.
The ones we received most recently have been 112 foot mass and those are in high demand out there right now until they’ve gone right to work with good customers at I would say above average pricing.
The next six that we have coming out are actually going up another four feet to 116 foot mass and we expect the same thing there.
They’re very much they’re specific customers that are kind of waiting on those rigs to be deployed and they’ll go out at very favorable above average pricing.
On the cased hole wireline I would say that pretty much all that we’ve added recently has been cased hole and I would say that we’ve add more to the markets where we’ve had the more favorable pricing so I would say on average those have gone out at a little above average pricing but we’re also filling in on some markets where the pricing is continuing to improve.
So it’s kind of been across the board on cased hole wireline.
Okay that’s helpful.
And do you anticipate stacking in any of your older well service rigs now that these new ones are being deployed? There aren’t any older.
Or any that would be candidates maybe not older is the right word but any of the existing fleet.
No you know Josh we’re somewhat unique in the well service space in that all of our rigs are either 550 to 600 horsepower units.
So by well servicing industry standards they’re all very new and young as a fleet so we don’t anticipate stacking any of them.
They’re pretty much all out there working today.
I guess some of our oldest units are maybe eight or nine years old and those we go through a refurbishment process on but they have some life left on them.
At some point in the future we’ll build kind of a critical mass depending on the number of shale plays that have been developed and then conventional plays around the U.S.
but then well probably slow our growth and basically cycle out our older units but we’re two three years away from that I’d say at minimum.
Okay.
All right.
Thank you.
That’s helpful.
I’ll turn it back.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of John Keller with Stephens.
Please go ahead.
Hey.
Good morning guys.
Good morning.
Just a couple of quick ones here.
You said you had mentioned that some of the coil units had rolled off-term and into the spot market.
What’s sort of the order of magnitude on pricing that you’ve seen come off there? Or the decrement? Well the spot pricing is higher than the term pricing first of all.
So if you could keep the same utilization we would be better off.
The tough part has been – one of those terms was a unit up in the Marcellus and we had what we thought was an exceedingly soft market up there and we didn’t feel comfortable leaving the unit there when that term rolled off.
So we’ve brought it south to Louisiana.
And so there I would say the pricing across-the-board has softened a little bit.
I’d say mildly 5%-ish range.
It’s kind of hard to gauge that because it fluctuates.
But I would say pricing is off a little bit.
That’s it.
In coal too.
I mean it’s more – to effect it’s all about utilization for us.
We just need to get our utilization back up 65% to 75% and we’ll be in great shape.
Okay.
Perfect.
So utilization more so than pricing there.
Yeah it’s all utilization.
Got it.
And then this one might be a bit of a reach considering for the balance sheet limitations and obviously your desire to sort of harvest cash and pay down debt.
But are you seeing anything in particular or anything intriguing in the acquisition market? And what might get you sort of off-the-fence and to move in that direction if anything?  I’ll take that John.
I mean really it’s just not that active for us.
We look at things but given as – you put it well.
Given our as we see our balance sheet and our desire to harvest cash we don’t see ourselves writing checks for an acquisition.
And so we look at things because that’s the right thing to do.
But it’s – we just don’t anticipate doing much in that market for the next few quarters for sure and maybe a little bit longer.
Perfect.
Well appreciate it.
That’s it for me guys.
Okay.
Thanks.
Good morning guys.
Good morning.
Wanted to follow up on some of the questions on the Production Services side.
Obviously you’ve talked about cutting back your CapEx quite a bit and not taking any deliveries beyond the current program.
But have you considered holding off on deploying some of the units that are in the pipeline? Or given the softness in some of those markets? Or did the returns in margins still make sense at this level to put those out in the field?  Well when you break it down we really only have nine units left to deploy.
We’ve got six well servicing units and those are all 116 foot mass units and the demand is out there waiting for those.
So we want to get those out as quickly as we can because they’ll go right to work at very very strong average hourly rates.
And the last remaining cased hole wireline units there are only three left and we’ve broken into a couple of new markets that we think offer some real opportunity one in particular like the Permian and we need those units to kind of fill out a nice complement for a district office.
So we definitely will take those and if we weren’t – as I mentioned earlier if we weren’t at a period in our life cycle where we wanted to harvest the cash we would grow wireline as well as Well Service and we’d grow coil a little more as well.
But it’s our time to harvest this cash and we’re going to do that and get that debt level down to a level we’re comfortable with and then we’ll be right back on the growth track.
And just philosophically I mean how do you think about deploying those assets? Again if you were still in growth mode and allocating capital to those businesses if you were to see the markets deteriorate further here.
What’s your criteria for either not deploying that asset or taking an existing asset and pulling it in? Do you do that once you go below cost of capital? Do you do that down to cash breakeven? How do you typically think about that?  Well that’s – so you’re talking about a market that’s probably different than what we’re experiencing now.
You’re talking about a market where it deteriorates further and yes we do – all of these decisions are return based.
Our drilling rigs we look at a 20% internal rate of return hurdle rate and I’d say generally across the business lines that would be a pretty good floor.
Wouldn’t you say Lorne?  Yeah.
I think our Well Service returns wireline coil are in excess of 20%.
But I’d say that’s a good floor number for us to use.
Okay.
That’s helpful.
Yeah.
Wasn’t suggesting that’s where the markets were just if you did see things that could turn for the worse.
Just trying to get a sense for how you would think about that process.
Right.
Well we definitely would reduce CapEx to zero if we needed to if the returns were not there.
It’s all return-based decision making.
Sure.
And then one last question and maybe reading too much into this.
But the name change certainly reflects the nature of your business and where you’re earning revenue and margin today.
Does it also reflect a philosophical shift? So once you do return to an investment profile would the emphasis be more on the production services side and just the service side in general? Or do you still see a balanced approach to the business going forward?  Definitely a balanced approach.
We think the – I’d say we’re in the four key core businesses Drilling Well Wire and Coil.
And Fishing &amp; Rentals is still there.
It’s not a growth area for us.
It’s a good solid business but the four core businesses are the ones that we want to be in and we want to grow all of them.
We think they go extremely well together in terms of providing a broader array of services to our clients and we think the cross-selling opportunities are tremendous there.
We have already witnessed it time and time again.
So we would want to continue to grow – it doesn’t have to be 50% Drilling segment versus Production Service segment.
It’s just where the best return investment opportunities are but we created a pretty sizable engineering department over the last few years and we’re putting out first-rate drilling rigs I think some of the best drilling rigs that are hitting the market and they’ve come out of the box just performing superbly.
So we definitely plan to continue building new rigs and growing all these businesses together.
Great.
That’s all for me.
Thank you.
Okay.
Thank you.
And your next question comes from the line of Daniel Burke with Johnson Rice.
Please go ahead.
Hey guys.
Thanks for squeezing me in.
I just had two pretty specific ones left.
Was curious on the work-over side.
The sequential improvement in hourly rate I think maybe Lorne had mentioned 24-hour work.
I was wondering how substantially did 24-hour work tick-up from Q1 to Q2? And was that really the primary driver of the improved sequential hourly rate?  Well I think the primary driver in the improved rate is that the rigs were putting out or going to work.
That team is doing extraordinary job.
That stuff’s going to work immediately as soon as it’s prepped and it’s going in at very high rates out on the field.
I think that’s the primary driver.
I think our 24-hour work has edged up.
It – every quarter it seems to be edging up a little bit and probably related somewhat to increased pad drilling but it’s a good business.
We like the 24-hour work and we continue to pursue it but I think the biggest driver is just these rigs are going in at some of the best rates.
As Stacy mentioned we’re trying to place them in the best markets that we can and that allows us to do that.
And there is some legacy price increases in the market.
It’s very very moderate.
Got it.
And then Lorne appreciate the detail on the timing of the fleet renewals on the drilling side can you refresh my memory the second half of this year how many rigs do you have to renew in West Texas? I know those contracts have had decennteration for you all.
Yeah I think it’s probably – I was looking before the call – I think we’ve probably got two to three in the third quarter and in the fourth quarter I think it’s probably five perhaps of the 12? Five or Six I mean Don do you...
I concur with that.
Okay.
Okay.
Well great guys.
That’s all I really had left.
Thanks for the time.
Thank you.
And our next question is from the line of Jeff Geygan with Milwaukee Wealth Management.
Please go ahead.
Morning.
Thanks for taking my call.
Stacy you’ve talked about harvesting cash paying down debt strengthening your balance sheet going forward which I would be in favor of at the same time you’ve indicated your CapEx plans for 2013 are $120 million to $140 million less $55 million to $65 million maintenance which tells me you still have $60 million to $80 million in new build is that right? And if so can you tell me what you’re expecting to build next year? Jeff I’ll handle that.
It’s – you’re correct that the routine is in that $55 million to $60 million $65 million range.
The $120 million to $140 million also would include $30 million to $40 million estimated carryover from this year of that I think probably $30 million close to $30 million would be new builds and there’ll be some it could be very small could be up to $10 million let’s say of other whether it’s routine or just other expenditures in this year that rollover that are paid for in 2013.
So when you narrow it down $120 million to $140 million take the $30 million to $40 million range off for the carryover that leaves $90 million to $100 million in capital budget for next year.
And as you look at that 55 to 65 routine the delta would be various other items not new builds but we may decide we want to replace mud pump or needing an additional top drive to make sure we can service our customers in the field appropriately things like that.
But we are still sorting through that and we’ll finalize it we’ll have more detail on it in our next call.
But just to be clear we don’t plan to be building any new units in drilling or any of the production service lines in 2013.
It’ll only be the new build carryovers from 2012 capital budget on the drilling side for the most part.
Great.
Thanks for clarifying that.
You bet.
And ladies and gentlemen that does conclude today’s question-and-answer session.
I would like to turn the call back to management for any closing remarks.
Okay.
Well that should wrap it up.
We appreciate you all participating on the second quarter call and we look forward to visiting on the third quarter call.
Thank you very much.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude today’s conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by.
Welcome to the Pioneer Energy Services Third Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
During today’s presentation all parties would be in a listen-only mode.
Following the presentation the conference will be open for questions.
(Operator Instructions) This conference is being recorded today Thursday the 1st of November 2012.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Anne Pearson of DRG&amp;L Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Luke and good morning to everyone.
Before I turn the call over to Pioneer’s CEO Stacy Locke; and to CFO Lorne Phillips for their formal remarks I have a few of the usual items to cover.
First of all a replay of today’s call will be available and accessible by webcast by going to the IR section of Pioneer’s website and also by telephone replay and you can find the replay information for both in this morning’s news release.
As a reminder information reported on this call speaks only of today October 1 2012 so any time sensitive information may no longer be accurate at the time of a replay.
Management may -- make -- will make forward-looking statements today that are based on beliefs and assumptions and information currently available to them.
While they believe the expectations in these statements are reasonable they can give no assurance they will prove to be correct.
They are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that are described in this morning’s news release and also in recent public filings with the SEC.
If one or more of these risks should prove to be incorrect actual results may differ materially.
Also please note that this conference call may contain references to non-GAAP measures.
You’ll find a reconciliation in this morning’s news release.
Now I’d like to turn the call over to Stacy Locke Pioneer CEO and President.
Stacy? Thank you Anne and good morning everybody.
Joining me here in San Antonio is Red West President of our Drilling Services Segment; and Joe Eustace President of our Production Services Segment; and Lorne Phillips our Chief Financial Officer.
When you look at our third quarter results there were kind of three areas that led to the quarterly kind of under performance of what we expected and those three areas where U.S.
land drilling wirelines and coiled tubing services.
When you look at the U.S.
land drilling sector there were three primary factors that contributed to the softness there.
One is that day rates adjusted downward closer to the 10% level for a number of these rigs and the 5% to 10% range that we had kind of anticipated at the second quarter call.
Also kind of in association with our actually good utilization of 86% for the quarter there was a lot more noise behind that number.
In other words we had to struggle a little harder to keep that good utilization up and as a result we had occasional rigs that would go down and stack and incur stacking costs.
We would keep the labor knowing that we were going to go back to work and we were able to go back to work in most cases.
And then we had a couple of pretty good moves from one region to another embedded in there and those additional costs affect your margin.
And we just had a little more of that than we anticipated.
But I was very pleased frankly with the outcome of our utilization.
In addition the newbuilds we delivered very steadily here and I think that we experienced what we’ve always experience really with these newbuilds and that is the initial startup months or kind of one time costs at the outset.
It usually affects your general costs for two to three months and then you kind of get back on track.
And I just don’t think we really factored that in as we were looking at our guidance.
We are just excited to get these newbuilds out and running.
So that is really kind of what was behind U.S.
land drilling.
If you look at wireline there was number of factors there that influenced our wireline business.
It was considerably softer than we had anticipated.
There again industry-wide utilization was off a little and that just causes greater competition for the work which then affects pricing kind of light drilling.
And those adjustments were closer to 10% as well rather than the 5% to 10% we were anticipating.
Another aspect of the wireline business was during this quarter there was a shift in the mix a bit.
There was a little less of the high margin big ticket plug and perf work related to the long lateral horizontal activity and a little bit more towards the routine and so you lose some profitability there as a result of that.
In addition we -- related to that I guess is some of the customers that are client of ours that have been good long standing clients have moved a little bit more towards sliding sleeve activity for their completions as opposed to the plug and perf.
And that therefore causes us to go out and find clients to replace those and we are doing that.
And we don’t feel like it’s a tidal wave of change but we do need to replace those clients.
And some of the clients that have shifted more to sliding sleeve have been significant to us.
So it’s just a matter of getting out finding new work and we’re doing that and but it did affect us in the quarter.
Open hole logging which has been historically a very high margin business for us has -- was also off this quarter due to increased competition and due to more horizontal drilling activity in some of the markets where we do a lot of open hole logging because a lot of the horizontal work doesn’t require a log on every hole.
So that just affects the amount of work there is to be done.
And then lastly Hurricane Isaac did have an impact on our wireline units in South Louisiana both onshore and our skid units for offshore for deepwater and shelf work.
So that was kind of a mixture of activity there that affected wireline during this quarter.
And then lastly coil there were probably lots of little issues related to coil but the big one was Hurricane Isaac.
It basically shutdown our very profitable offshore coil market which is both shelf and deepwater that was shutdown before during and after the storm.
And it also affected our onshore South Louisiana work there.
So that was the real killer there for coil.
Now drilling down a little bit into more detail on the drilling segment U.S.
land drilling segment or drilling segment overall.
As I mentioned earlier our utilization remains strong at 85% and we do have a number of bright spots I think in the drilling business.
Excuse me we’ve had exceptional performance with our newbuild rig designs and are receiving attention kind of across the country from numerous operators that have not used Pioneer in the past and it’s creating frankly opportunities for some of our existing rigs.
As an example we recently at the request of a client put a 7500 psi fluid system on one of our 2001 vintage newbuilds.
And that client on its second well drilled that client’s record well.
So you may recall that all of our 1500 horsepower rigs which is really unique to Pioneer on all our newbuilds there are 2000 horsepower mud pumps with 7500 psi fluid ends and that has really -- had proven to be effective in the marketplace out there and customers I mean our clients are appreciating it and other potential clients are taking notice of it.
And this is just an example of one that took notice of it had us put it on and it is performing well above their expectations.
In addition to that I think our walking system has been very well received on these newbuilds and its creating opportunity for us to install similar type walking systems on some of our existing rigs for pad drilling this would be existing SCR rigs.
Because at the end of the day when you look at all of the inventory of available SCR and AC joystick rigs out there there is a very large number of them that don’t walk.
They skid but skid has a lot of characteristics that clients -- many of our clients don’t want.
And so this is just a real a great opportunity because of style rigs that we have the 50 series in particular can all take and actually frankly all of our mechanical rigs.
We have one mechanical rig box-on-box with a walking system that’s been on there for five years and is absolutely a top performing rig for one of our large clients.
But anyway these rigs adapt very well to the pedestal style walking system and we are getting in a number of conversations about putting those on existing rigs and putting them onto pad drilling programs.
So we’re excited about that.
In Colombia you may recall from prior conversations that we’ve had two of our eight rigs stacked for the better part of the year.
I’m finally pleased to announce that the newly upgraded rig to the 1500 horsepower from the thousand is now under contract and it should begin operations at very attractive terms and conditions here this -- in the first part of this month.
So we are excited to get that rig back to work.
And the other stacked rig the 1000 horsepower also looks very very promising.
We are in kind of final negotiations with a publicly traded company to put that rig back to work and so we don’t have it done yet but we are optimistic that will go back to work prior to the end of this year.
So that is looking up.
Once those two get back to work we will be back to 100% utilization there in Colombia.
On the Production Service side overall revenues were down 6% more importantly EBITDA was down 17%.
There again the big hit was wireline as we previously talked about which is the largest division of the Production Servicing group.
And in that case revenue for wireline was actually down 11% and EBITDA was down 24%.
So it was a rough wireline quarter but we’re optimistic that some of that stuff we can correct and move on and we think the market is still good there.
Well service and revenues were actually up a little bit.
Utilization was down slightly from 97% down to 91% still industry leading utilization and the hourly rate that we charge was up to a new all time high $606 per hour which is the highest hourly rate.
First time we’ve broken $600 since 2008 and that’s up from $592.
In coil tubing as we’ve already talked about revenue was down 3% and EBITDA was just hammered for coil.
And fishing and rental was down 6% and EBITDA was off there as well.
But anyway that’s kind of a rundown of what’s going on in the businesses.
I’m going to turn it over to Lorne and we’ll go through some of these financials and then I’ll return for some final comments regarding the outlook.
Lorne? Thanks Stacy.
So this morning we reported third quarter consolidated revenues of $229.8 million which was flat versus the prior quarter.
Our net income was $2.6 million or $0.04 per diluted share which compares to net income in the second quarter of $9.7 million or $0.15 per diluted share and our adjusted EBITDA was $55.6 million in the quarter down 12% sequentially.
Looking now at Drilling Services the revenue for Drilling Services totaled $125.7 million an increase of 6%.
The majority of the increase in the revenues was due to the rollout of five of our new-build rigs since early June.
Our operations in Colombia also contributed to the growth.
They accounted for $24.4 million of the Drilling Services revenue total.
And for Colombia that’s up 9% from the prior quarter.
As mentioned by Stacy one of the two idle rigs will go back to work with Ecopetrol next week.
Turnkey revenue in the quarter was $1.9 million an increase of $1.5 million from the prior quarter.
Our average drilling margin per day was $7 187 which was $845 lower sequentially and that decrease in margin per day reflects mobilization costs of approximately $800 000 related to moving rigs to higher-demand regions.
Higher startup costs for our five new-build rigs that began operating during the third quarter and the impact of some renewals at moderately lower pricing.
58 of our drilling rigs are currently working.
46 of these rigs are under term contracts that range from six months to four years.
Of the 40 rigs that are on term contracts in the U.S.
eight are up for renewal in the fourth quarter of this year 11 in the first quarter of 2013 10 in the second quarter of 2013 four in the third quarter of 2013 with seven expiring beyond that point.
The average remaining term is nine months for drilling contracts in the U.S.
If you exclude the recent new builds our average U.S.
term length is five months.
In Colombia six of our eight drilling rigs are working on a contract that expires on December 31 2012.
And as mentioned earlier we have one other rig about to commence operations.
And currently approximately 90% of our working rigs are drilling wells targeting oil.
Turning now to Production Services Stacy covered the majority of the breakdown by business.
Hurricane Isaac had about a $2 million revenue impact on the business as a whole.
The gross margin for the segment was $38.7 million which was down about 14% sequentially.
And our margin as a percentage of revenue decreased for the reasons Stacy outlined to 37% down from 41% in the prior quarter.
As a percentage of the company’s total revenue and total gross margin Production Services generated approximately 45% and 51% respectively for the quarter.
And approximately 60% of our Production Service assets are operating in areas targeting oil and approximately 20% are targeting liquid rich plays.
Turning now to expense trends for the company our interest expense was $9.5 million which was up about $1.8 million quarter-over-quarter.
This reflects primarily reduction in capitalized interest.
Last quarter excuse me this quarter we capitalized $2.4 million of interest expense again primarily related to our new build drilling rig program.
For the fourth quarter we expect interest expense to be approximately $11 million and we expect to capitalize an additional $1 million.
We expect our capitalized interest to be significantly lower in 2013 due to the completion of the new build program in the first quarter and as a result our interest expense will increase in 2013 as amounts that have been capitalized are now included as expense on the income statement.
G&amp;A expense for the third quarter was $21.3 million which was down about $1 million quarter-over-quarter driven primarily by a decrease in incentive related compensation.
For the fourth quarter we expect G&amp;A to be in the $21 million to $22 million range.
Depreciation and amortization expense was $42 million which is up about 5% and reflects the impact of our ongoing fleet additions.
We expect fourth quarter D&amp;A to be in the $43 million to $45 million range.
Our effective tax rate last quarter was 35.8% versus 38.2% in the second quarter.
In the fourth quarter we expect the rate to be 38% to 40% before the impact of any currency gains or losses.
Looking now to our balance sheet we had cash and cash equivalents at September 30th of $6.3 million.
At the end of the quarter we had $80 million drawn on our revolving credit facility and $9 million in letters of credit leaving borrowing availability of $161 million.
Since the end of the third quarter we have drawn down an additional $20 million on the revolver.
The balance on our revolver is higher than our previous forecast driven primarily by lower-than-expected earnings for the second half of this year.
We currently do not expect to borrow additional funds in our revolver but that is dependent on timing of our collections and CapEx payment.
Following the delivery of the new build drilling rigs in the first quarter we intend to begin paying the revolver down.
Third quarter capital expenditures totaled $97 million.
We now expect our capital spending will be in the range of $335 million to $355 million for the full year of 2012.
And for 2013 our CapEx spending target remains in the $120 million to $140 million range which includes estimated carryover spending of $30 million to $40 million from 2012.
With that I’ll turn it back over to Stacy.
Okay Lorne.
Thank you.
Looking to the future a little bit I think we feel that the -- talking about the land drilling side we feel like the rate adjustments are pretty much a known quantity at this point.
However we’re going to guide lower because we have to cycle through those decreased rates as we renew term contracts going forward.
And I think when you look at the number of term that are up for renewal in the fourth and the first quarter I think it sums up to about 19 in total.
We do anticipate that at least three quarters of those or two thirds or more will be renewed.
We’re not anticipating a bunch of contracts being dropped there.
But those will adjust in some cases to lower rates.
And when you look at the classes of rigs the two classes of our rigs that have had the biggest hits or rate adjustments have been the SCR AC class rigs and the mechanical rigs with top drives.
Those rate adjustments are probably on the order of magnitude of the 10% range whereas our lower horsepower mobile fleet like the cabin 700s 900s and our 1000 to 1300 mechanical fleet which is mostly in west Texas those rates are holding pretty firm.
And if they’re adjusting at all it’s much less in the order of 0% to 5%.
So we kind of feel like that is where the rates are going to be for a while.
We think we are there on rates.
We just need to cycle those changes through the rest of the fleet as we renew contracts.
And the rigs are all performing very well and the utilization is high.
So we think the bad news is out there.
We just need to cycle it through the rest of the rigs.
And then continue delivering our new builds which will pull those average margins up a little bit over time.
So our forward guidance is 83% to 85%.
So we are guiding a little bit less of the utilization in the fourth quarter.
And we think our average margins aren’t going to be too different from where we were in this quarter somewhere ranging between $7 000 and $7 300 and so that is our land drilling outlook.
When you look at the Production Services business I think the same applies there.
I think a lot of the rate moves have been made.
And there is a softness there in the market but it’s still very very active.
And I think in our case there are a number of situational factors that can be overcome like Hurricane Isaac like customers that choose sliding sleeve over plug-and-perf.
We can replace those.
There are plenty of clients out there.
So we think that we can make those changes and keep that back on track.
But we will guide lower for the fourth quarter.
Part of that is just your typical seasonality Thanksgiving Christmas shorter days et cetera.
So we will guide revenues down 5% to 10% and we’re hoping to hold margins about at that 37% of revenue level or maybe slightly lower on the order of 1% maybe 2%.
It’s just hard to gauge.
So I’d say generally speaking we just feel like the bad news is out there on pricing.
That if oil prices stay firm that the capital budgets will more than likely be worst case kind of flat to $12 million but more likely up in 2013 and sitting behind all of that are these creeping natural gas prices which is nothing but positive for the industry.
And of course we have a looming election out there and if we find ourselves with an administration that is truly pro-energy I think we will see some real help there.
So we have some optimism.
But I’d like to conclude the prepared remarks and happy to entertain these questions.
Thank you.
Good morning guys.
Good morning Jim.
Good color so far.
Stacy you talked about the Columbia six rigs that contract ends at the end of the year.
The only thing I didn’t hear you talk about them in Colombia is just kind of the prospects for getting those renewed and how that’s going? Well there all six of those rigs have been working in the same field there.
Southeast of Bogotá in a field called Castilla there the top-performing rigs in that field we have not begun negotiations on the renewal of those contracts but it’s our expectation that those rigs will be renewed either on a permanent or an interim basis while we renegotiate two longer-term contracts.
But those discussions haven’t started taking place.
We’ve been focused on some of the -- well like this other rig that is now going back to work.
That we have kind of focused on that negotiation with Ecopetrol.
And now we’ve got that done.
So I expect here soon we will begin those discussions with Ecopetrol.
But we fully expect those six rigs to stay right there working in Castilla field.
Okay.
And as I guess as a follow-up on the well-servicing side good job getting above $600 an hour for rates.
Can -- it’s the one market you didn’t really detail a whole lot as far as the outlook.
Obviously you will get the seasonal aspects of it but my sense is that market is holding up better.
Can you maybe talk about pricing and how you think about that over the next two or three quarters? Well that well-servicing market for us has just been stellar.
We’re putting out a rig that’s -- our latest rig where we’re at 103 well-service units right now.
We have three more of the 116-foot map rigs yet to be delivered.
Those are already called for in certain markets.
So those -- and before that we put out the 112-foot master rigs the prior six.
So all of those have been very kind of fit-for-purpose for clients that need the taller mast-type units.
So that’s worked very well.
But overall the group’s doing fine.
I think there is some softness in the market.
But it hasn’t really impacted us yet.
I think we would be naive to think that it will never impact us if it stays this way.
But so far we really haven’t felt it.
Our utilization continues to be good.
We still have a number of 24-hour jobs going.
I think I looked yesterday we had seven and 24-hour units working.
So the market still looks strong.
I think if you shaded it in any way I think you would shade it a little softer than prior like the other businesses we’re seeing.
But I don’t think it will have a big impact on us.
Okay.
Thanks.
You bet.
Good morning guys.
I just wanted to get your thoughts on how 2013 plays out.
I think you have always had a pretty good take on the macro here.
With operators for spending through budgets in this exaggerated holiday period.
But I think there is a sort of growing sentiment that 2013 is going to snap back pretty quick.
And if that’s the case then presumably you are starting to have discussions soon if not already about kind of land rigs going back to work.
I just like to get your thoughts on that? Well it’s hard to say there’s a -- frankly I’ve been a little surprised how soft the third and fourth quarter has gotten with oil prices having come down fairly precipitously but then bounce right back and one rationale would be that operators pre-spent their budgets.
The other is getting greater efficiencies out of the equipment they are running.
And probably those are both true.
But something else has happened this big positive with operators and that is that with stacked rigs prices come down and they love that.
So I think they’re going to want to enjoy that for a while longer.
I think that you are probably going to see a fairly soft fourth quarter and first quarter.
And then there will come a point in the year which I would anticipate would be kind of in the third -- second certainly the third at the latest quarter where if we’re correct and commodity prices hold up that -- and kind of back there if we get any of these natural gas price improvements due to these winter periods that gives someone a chance to kind of lock in some pretty good natural gas pricing which could really help.
But we don’t know whether that will happen or not.
But if the budgets they get back to work budgets are up which I think they will be then I think you are right.
Activity is going to pick up.
I think it’s going to be a softer start to the New Year because it just seems it always work that way.
They’re enjoying the cost savings.
But there will come a point where they will start absorbing the equipment that’s available out there.
And then I think we will be full running certainly by the third and fourth quarter of next year.
And I would anticipate if something derail on oil prices that you will have a very strong ‘14 would be my guess.
Great.
I appreciate that color.
And then I’d also like to get you just to elaborate maybe a little bit on what you’re seeing out in the Permian.
I think now its -- at least in terms of rig count it is your largest market.
And maybe you could also put in context kind of what you’re term coverage is out there and contract roles.
Okay.
Good question.
Well we have -- I guess we have 18 in the Permian and three in the Panhandle is that right Red is that right Joe? Four in the Panhandle okay.
17 in the Permian four in the Panhandle.
The 17 are all 100% utilized and I think 100% under term right now.
Okay.
So they’re pretty much all termed-up.
We anticipate that we will be able to renew the Permian term.
We have a little less certainty I think up in the Panhandle area.
But where there’s quite a bit of activity in and around the Panhandle even including the Mississippian the Hogshooter the Granite Wash.
So we think that we will be able to reposition rigs there but that is where we have a little bit of weakness in that kind of broader West Texas market.
But I think the -- I believe that the vertical market -- you really have two different markets out there.
You’ve got the vertical market and the horizontal market and our mechanical rigs with top drives are drilling in the horizontal plays and our mechanical rigs without top drives are drilling in the vertical plays.
We are drilling for all big healthy publicly traded companies for the most part.
And as far as we can tell there’s going to be a continuation there.
So we’re very optimistic.
And I think the day rates are already kind of established would be my best guess on that.
Perfect.
I appreciate it Stacy.
Thanks.
You bet.
Good morning guys.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Stacy in the past you’ve talked about your mechanical rigs with top drives demanding much higher day rates than your mechanicals without the top drives.
What kind of convergence are we seeing there between the two now as this rig counts soften.
I know you said the ones with top drives were down 10%.
What’s the variance between those two as far as day rates go now? Well that’s a great question and a good observation.
Those mechanical rigs with top drives for us were anomalous before.
They were abnormally priced I would say.
The average day rate on the mechanical rigs with top drives previously was about $21 500.
With the 10% adjustment they are now kind of back into a norm in their relationship to the mechanical rigs without top drives.
I think the general rule of thumb in the industry has been that a top drive adds about $3 000 or so a day in day rates.
And so if you take our fleet of mechanical rigs in West Texas that are kind of in that just say $15 500 to $17 000 a day rate.
The new top drive mechanical fleet would be about $3 000 on top of that.
Okay.
So we are cut it back in parity really.
Okay.
Great.
That’s perfect.
And then I guess one follow-up on that.
You guys have about 23 mechanical rigs without the top drives.
Correct.
Probably about half of them could be considered for upgrade.
Given the current outlook is there any possibilities that you guys would add top drives to these to continue to high grade that side of the fleet or is that something you would sit on and will that be more customer driven or would you guys proactively do that? Well we have upgraded pretty much all of those as we made the move from stack conditions in East Texas and North Texas and certain other markets to West Texas.
They went through a very significant upgrade.
So most of those mechanical rigs already have -- some of them brand new drawworks a lot of -- most of them have rounded bottom mud tanks.
Almost all of them if not all of them have iron roughnecks on them.
They got big mud pump packages.
So they are already in blue chip condition for mechanical rigs.
I think I would proudly say I think it’s as competitive of a mechanical fleet as we’ve got.
And most importantly we deliver it with very good safety and downtime results.
So those rigs are kind of where we want them.
10 of them have top drives and those are sprinkled in a variety of markets actually.
We’ve got two of them in the Bakken.
We have one in the Uintah Basin.
I think we have four in -- four or five in West Texas.
We’ve got one in South Texas.
And any way I maybe probably missing a couple in there and that one in the Marcellus.
So they are spread about but they perform very well.
You’ve heard me mention of the past we’ve got one up in the Uintah Basin that’s been drilling for one of the big publicly traded companies.
And it has been their top performing rig year-after-year and all they have running is our one walking 1 000 horsepower mechanical rig with a top drive and AC electric rigs state-of-the-art and we continue to outperform that whole batch of rigs out there on a year in year out basis.
So they do perform very very well.
Not all clients are going to want to work mechanical rigs with top drives.
They are going to be some that just flat out prefer to have an AC joystick rig.
But there -- we hopefully -- over time that fleet will probably gravitate more towards the Oklahoma West Texas market where they’re -- they’ve been using mechanical rigs longer.
But for now we got them busy and doing very well.
All right.
That’s great.
And if I could sneak in one more.
Sure.
Just in terms of the economics in the U.S.
would it be more compelling for you guys if you can get the one stacked rig in Colombia under contract? Would it be compelling for you guys to maybe send another rig or two down there? We always explore that.
We really feel so positive about the U.S.
market and even with the little softness that we’ve experienced here there are going to be some great opportunities in the U.S.
in the shale plays and in new shale plays that are developing.
And we see a lot of opportunity here for additional new builds down the road.
Now it’s not in our cards in the short-term because we’re trying to build cash reduce indebtedness.
But once we get out kind of late ‘14 ‘15 we just feel like this U.S.
market is just bar none the best in the world.
And so we will probably allocate our capital here in the U.S.
That’s great.
I’ll turn it over.
I appreciate it you guys.
You bet.
Good morning gentlemen.
Good morning.
Turning back to Columbia for a second and maybe more from a macro view environmental permitting has caused the rig count in the country to come down pretty sharply this year not that it has necessarily had the same effect on your rig count in the country.
But considering you probably have a better insight than most could you give us an update on the market with respect to permitting? Well I can’t give you a lot of in-depth other than you are correct that the environmental permitting has fallen way behind and has slowed up activity there.
And I don’t really understand why and but I’m sure that they’re desiring to collect that is all I can say.
They’ve been better in the past.
And I don’t know exactly what’s caused the issue there.
But it is affecting the market.
I’m sure it will get better.
I just don’t know enough beyond that to tell you.
Okay.
Fair enough.
Thanks.
And then turning back to the U.S.
the 19 or so rigs that are rolling off contract this quarter and next.
As you are renegotiating these how many do you view as candidates to move out of their current locations in order to keep utilization high if any? I would say that there will be a few of them in that group -- not I mean the vast majority will stay right where they are.
But we’ve got some opportunities that we’re already discussing just an example one of the mechanical rigs with the top drive out in the Bakken.
We are already having discussions with moving that rig into a different market with the same operator.
And there will be some cases like that.
We don’t -- it will be small relative to the group of 19 though.
Okay.
Okay.
And then maybe one more as a follow-up and you touched on this earlier.
But with regards to your Q4 guidance on cash margins and so at the midpoint it’s fairly flat quarter-over-quarter.
And I’m just making sure I understand this right it’s cost will likely come down a bit with less startup costs related to the new builds.
And then maybe a little bit further pricing declines that evens out and that’s what yields the Q4 cash margins flat quarter-over-quarter? Yeah.
Okay.
Basically right on the money.
Okay.
Thank you Stacy.
Okay.
Thank you.
Okay.
Well that concludes our third quarter call and we appreciate everybody participating today.
Thank you.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you! Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by.
Welcome to the Pioneer Energy Services Fourth Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
(Operator Instructions) I would now like to turn the call over to Lisa Elliott with DRG &amp; L.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Marissa and good to morning to everyone.
Before I turn the call over to Pioneer’s CEO Stacy Locke and to CFO Lorne Phillips for their formal remarks I do have a few items to go over.
First a replay of today’s call will be available and accessible via webcast by going to the IR section of Pioneer’s website and also by telephone replay.
You can find the replay information both in this morning’s news release.
As a reminder information reported on this call speaks only as of today February 13 2013 so any time-sensitive information may no longer be accurate at the time of a replay.
Management will be making forward-looking statements today that are based on beliefs and assumptions and information currently available to them.
While they believe the expectations in these statements are reasonable they can give no assurance that they’ll prove to be correct.
These statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that are described in this morning’s new release and also in recent public filings with the SEC.
If one or more of these risks materialize or should underlying assumptions prove to be incorrect actual results may vary materially.
Also please note that this conference call may contain references to non-GAAP measures.
You’ll find a reconciliation to these in this morning’s news release.
And now I’d like to turn the call over to Stacy Locke Pioneer’s CEO and President.
Stacy? Thank you Lisa and good morning.
And joining me on this morning’s call is Red West President of our Drilling Services segment; Joe Eustace President of our Production Services segment; and Lorne Phillips our Chief Financial Officer.
As you can see from the press release our fourth quarter of 2012 was a little bit better than we added – expected in pretty much all categories.
In Drilling our utilization was 87% higher than we thought it was going to be and basically a result of the markets in general holding up just a little bit better than we had anticipated plus we’re able to put two rigs back to work in December down in Colombia.
Another nice improvement there was our average margin per day was up about $1 000 a day over what we had anticipated.
And that was really kind of combination of several things.
One is lower supply repair and maintenance in part that is due to just lining up this new build rigs.
We’ve been put in a steady supply of new builds and they have a little bit of startup supplier per maintenance costs associated with them and that’s hitting kind of lined out so we are getting good margin contribution there and our guys are doing a great job controlling cost on a daily basis.
Another kind of improvement in overall employee cost also in part due to the guys just doing a great job controlling the labor cost but also we had a reduction in our Workers Comp allowance which is usually is a once or twice a year type event and that just due to our ongoing efforts and safety.
We’ve had several very very good years of safety this year it was the best year ever for us and it’s paying – paying off.
So – and then lastly we had some higher mobilization cost really in the third quarter some one-time relocating rigs et cetera.
and we saw an improvement in cost on that front in the fourth quarter.
The Production Services group was down as expected but it was certainly at the more favorable end of our range there and margin we thought to be flat or slightly down in the fourth quarter due mostly to the holiday period and we’re actually up 1%.
So that fared better than we thought activity levels were just a little better and pricing held up a little better than we expected.
So overall revenues were down but EBITDA was up 8% to $60 million which we’re pleased with.
2012 was also another year of steady growth in all of our core businesses.
As the press release discusses we put out a total of eight rigs in the year.
We’re currently moving a rig presently to the Bakken.
But thus far we’ve put out six 1500 horsepower rigs five of those have gone to the Bakken one to the Eagle Ford and then two 1000 horsepower rigs those both have gone to the Marcellus.
So we’ve had nice growth.
The rigs have performed exceptionally well and we’re pleased with that.
On the Production Service side wireline we had another 14% unit growth year.
So we ended the year at 120 units.
We also – in the first quarter – we had ordered in the fourth quarter two additional cased-hole skid units for the offshore market.
Those will come in in this first quarter and then we’ll be retiring one unit in the first quarter so but in the first quarter level 121 wireline units.
Now that’s up after a 25% unit count increase in 2011.
So we’ve a good steady growth in wireline.
Same in well service we’re up 20% well service rigs in 2012.
We ended the year at 108.
We have one final rig to be delivered that will be delivered in the first quarter and so we’ll be 109 at end of the first quarter and that’s after a 20% increase year in 2011.
And then coil which was new to the company at the end of 2011 we grew 30% three units in 2012.
So when you kind of look back over the last couple of years we’ve had some very substantial improvements in the company overall.
Revenues at the end of 2010 were $487 million at the end of this year 2012 $919 million that’s 89% increase in revenue due to an improved market and this growth in all of these core businesses.
Probably more importantly than that we ended 2010 with a $103 million in EBITDA and this year at $249 million.
So we’ve had a 142% improvement in EBITDA over two years.
So we’re proud of those accomplishments and kind of varied within those numbers.
You look at the Production Service group in 2012 we almost generated as much revenue from Production Services alone in 2012 than we did from the entire company in 2010.
So our strategy of diversifying into the Productions Services space we’ve executed on it.
They performed extremely well and we’re proud of those accomplishments.
Now looking briefly at some of the core business lines.
Drilling today is at 84% utilized now that includes three rigs that are earnings but are not working.
Our biggest division is West Texas with 23 rigs and there we have a little bit of instability.
We’ve actually got seven rigs back in West Texas that’s after running basically 100% utilized for the last couple years.
And what that reflects is a shift from our client base which is all the big – publicly traded companies for the most part to more horizontal activity and deemphasizing the vertical drilling.
Now three of those seven stacked rigs as I mentioned are earning and they will be earning on their term contracts through this summer but we definitely have some instability there that were evaluating and we’ll talk a little bit more about that in a minute.
South Texas our second largest division 14 rigs.
We have two rigs stacked there today.
Those are both the low horsepower mobile rigs one electric and one mechanical and those kind of go up and down and in fact those are both scheduled to go back to work here but they do go up and down because they are not on long-term contracts.
The third biggest district is the Bakken where we have 12 rigs with a 13th mobbing there today.
We have two stacked rigs in that market and both of those are mechanical rigs that we knew at some point would stack out with all of the supply of SCR and AC joystick rigs that have come available on the market in the latter half of the of 2012.
So we kind of expected that.
And then Colombia eight rigs back to 100% utilization there.
Utah five rigs 100% utilization there.
Appalachia four rigs 100% utilization there and East Texas still about the same we have three rigs with two rigs down.
And then we have the one rig still in the rig up yard that’s in Houston that we’ve never did deploy to West Texas due to the instability in West Texas so that’s 70 total rigs.
And I would say their rates are firm pretty much in all markets and may be a little uncertainty there in West Texas but we are still adjusting rigs as they roll on to off existing term on to new term at the lower day rates that we’ve talked about kind in the last quarterly call.
Quickly looking at production service.
Well servicing doing great.
Today utilization is up in the 95% range.
Pricing is still held in the $600 an hour range and up.
Outlook is very positive there.
Wire line pretty much the same started the year fairly strong Outlook is positive we think for the year.
We are seeing possibly some pricing uncertainty in a couple of markets but it’s too soon to tell we don’t know whether we’re seeing any trends there or an enormous events.
In coil we’ve now received the two new deeper capacity – 22 000 foot capacity units.
We – and the one offshore unit we received earlier in the year so that’s really helping us where we’re in the process and using those new units to help pull four of our existing units out and retrofit the injector hedge to the new hydra rig heads that allow for a little greater capacity use for those units.
I think we’ve done two and we have a couple left and most of that should be done in the – by the end of the first quarter.
We also are retrofitting a couple of offshore units.
I got one in now that we’re retrofitting you just need to do that every so often because of the tough environment and – but overall the market to us looks fine and we think pricing is holding up so we expect a much improved year in coil in 2013.
Now I’d like to turn it over to Lorne to go through some of the financials.
Thanks Stacy.
This morning we reported revenues of $228 million flat with the prior quarter and as Stacy mentioned EBITDA was $60.3 million up 8%.
Earnings per share was $0.06 compared to $0.04 from the prior quarter.
Our Drilling revenue totaled $130 million which is the sequential increase of 3% quarter-over-quarter.
Most of that was driven by additional new build rigs and higher turnkey revenue which was – the turnkey revenue was $4.8 million compared to $1.9 million in the third quarter.
Average drilling margin per day was 8 103 a 13% increase driven by factors that Stacy outlined a few seconds ago.
Currently 59 of our 70 drilling rigs are generating revenue and 43 of these rigs are under term contracts that range from six months to four years.
37 of those are on term contracts in the U.S.
of those seven are up for renewal this quarter eight in the second quarter 12 in the third quarter and 10 are expiring beyond that point.
The average remaining term is 10 months for drilling contracts in the U.S.
And as Stacy mentioned as they renew there will be a downward trend in pricing as the contracts adjust to the current market.
And the combination of this repricing and our moderately reduced utilization guidance is expected to decrease the Drilling margin quarter-over-quarter by around $3 million to $4 million when you look at the first quarter.
With the recent softening of demand in West Texas as Stacy mentioned we have seven rigs that are not working.
We have an additional two that are expected to be released by the end of the quarter.
Of that nine five of those rigs will continue to earn a standby rate until contract expiration which ranges from early June to mid August.
Our operations in Colombia accounted for $24.6 million of our total Drilling revenue that’s up slightly from the prior quarter.
All eight of our rigs are currently working with six of those rigs working under a contract that has been extended through March – through the end of March and we are continuing to negotiate a longer-term contract.
In December we began mobilizing two rigs in Colombia that had previously been idle for most of 2012.
These rigs are now working under contract for a minimum of one well plus two optional wells.
Historically Ecopetrol our customer for those rigs had us drilled the optional wells.
If they were to drill them it would take one rig out to July of 2013 and that the other rig out to May of 2014.
Turning now to our Production Services segment revenue totaled $98 million in the fourth quarter which was down 6% due to normal seasonal factors.
Gross margin for Production Services was $37 million which was down approximately $1.7 million or 4% compared to the third quarter.
Our margin as a percentage of revenue increased modestly from the prior quarter to 38%.
Pricing in Production Services has stabilized in most areas in the fourth quarter while servicing averaged 601 per hour down from 606 in the third quarter.
Utilization for well services was 83% down from 91% in the prior quarter.
And all the businesses had moderate dips in utilization due to the anticipated seasonality and a pullback in spending as our clients closed out their yearend budgets.
Looking at our expense trends for the quarter interest expense was $10.4 million approximately $900 000 from the prior quarter.
This primarily reflects the continued reduction in capitalized interest and in the fourth quarter we capitalized $1.8 million of interest expense related to our new build drilling rig program compared to $2.4 million capitalized in the third quarter.
For the first quarter of 2013 we estimate interest expense to be approximately $11.5 million and we expect to capitalize approximately $600 000.
We expect our interest expense for the full year 2013 to increase to a range of $47 million to $49 million due primarily to the reduction in capitalized interest year-over-year.
G&amp;A expense for the fourth quarter was $21 million which was down about $300 000 from the third quarter.
In the first quarter of 2013 we expect G&amp;A to be in the $23 million to $24 million range as we accrue incentive compensation at target due to the start of the new year and also have increased payroll taxes some of which reset at the beginning of each year.
For the full-year 2013 we expect G&amp;A to be in a range of $93 million to $96 million and depreciation and amortization expense was $44.3 million which is up about 5% sequentially.
That reflects the continued additions to our Drilling and Production Services fleet in the fourth quarter.
First quarter D&amp;A is estimated to be in the $45 million to $47 million range and $180 million to $190 million for the full year of 2013.
Our effective tax rate for 2012 was 35.3% and again we – for 2013 we expect a rate of 38% to 40% before the impact of any foreign exchange gains or losses.
Turning now to the balance sheet we had cash and cash equivalents of $23.7 million and $100 million drawn on our revolving credit facility as of year-end.
We expect to begin paying down the revolver in the second half of this year.
Our full year 2012 CapEx spent came in at $364 million which includes approximately $10 million of capitalized interest.
For 2013 our CapEx spending is now estimated to be in the $140 to $160 million range which includes approximately $40 million of carryover related to the new build rigs $65 million to $75 million of routine expenditures an additional well servicing rig.
The upgrade of a Colombia rig to 1 500 horsepower and some other discretionary expenditures primarily focused on U.S.
land drilling.
And with that I’ll turn it back over to Stacy.
Thank you Lorne.
Just a couple of comments on our kind of outlook and the guidance.
I’d say in the Drilling segment generally we see a very favorable outlook for most of the United States day rates are bottomed and stable and we think utilization is going to be good everywhere except for West Texas probably.
I mean East Texas has been – that will continue to be weak but West Texas is the only kind of new change in there.
And we don’t know yet how that market will develop.
With little surprise with oil prices as high as they are that there isn’t more continuation of vertical drilling I don’t know for sure that it won’t creep back up in the course of the year.
But I would tell you that it’s uncertain at this point what’s going to happen there.
And so for that reason we are going to guide for lower utilization we’re going to guide for 81% to 83% utilization now that includes the stack but earning rigs we’re earning revenue on them and average margins a little over at the 7 300 to 7 600 per day mostly as a result of all of the renewal of contracts at the lower day rates that we have in the market today.
On the Production Service side of the business that market looks very good going forward.
Other than Q1 is a seasonally typically the weakest quarter for Production Services just shorter days weather typically and new budgets take a little while to kick off.
But we definitely see a positive outlook for the year for Production Services.
But for the first quarter we’ll guide kind of flat revenue and flat to a little bit down may be 2% down on margin as a percent of revenue.
So that’s our outlook for the first quarter the whole year outlook I think is very favorable with one uncertain market really West Texas and we’ll just evaluate that through the course of the year.
So at this point we’d be happy to answer any questions.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) Our first question comes from the line Michael Cerasoli with Goldman Sachs.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
Good morning.
Good morning.
On your services you stated in your opening comments you mentioned some pricing uncertainty in a few markets you’re kind of little bit like you’re not sure if you’re seeing a trend or anything can you just clarify what regions or – I may have missed it what assets you’re referring to? Well I would say what was on my mind was in wireline mostly in the Bakken.
It seems to have gotten a little competitive up there.
We just have isolated data points so I don’t whether it’s a trend.
I mean I think they got off for a good start this year.
I think wireline across the board has gotten off to a good start.
But when you see those little things you’ve got to pay attention just to see if it’s going to be pervasive through the market or not so we just don’t know at this point.
Okay.
And then you separately mentioned some improvement in coiled tubing can you just give us a sense of how much more – how much more if any operational efficiencies you think you extract as you kind of improve that business or does any further improvement at this points sort of require kind of activity that pick up more broadly? No I think what I was kind of referring to there is that we’ve had some challenges in 2012 part of it was not having the right equipment and not having enough equipment and maybe not even having the right management in certain markets and we made changes in all those areas and broadly speaking the market has held up fine.
We are not seeing a big meltdown in that market.
The rates are very reasonable.
And so the game is really just to get utilization and by making the changes that we’ve talked about equipment people we feel like we have a far greater chance of getting our utilization up through the course of this year mostly starting in the second and third quarters.
And so as a result of that it can be a big contributor to overall margins and EBITDA and to that’s really what I’m referring to.
Okay and then – and just my final question on the weakness in West Texas.
Would you move rigs out of that region or is it safe to say that the vertical rigs aren’t working in West Texas and they are probably from anywhere to move them? We’ve always had a few vertical rigs working or handful I’d say vertical rigs working in South Texas and those will continue to work there may be more so than say East Texas which has been largely – other than the Haynesville has largely been a vertical market but that’s a gas vertical market and that’s pretty dead.
South Texas is mostly gas with some associated liquid and we’ve had fairly good activity on our vertical rigs in South Texas.
West Texas has been our shining star over the last couple years.
We’ve had basically 100% utilization improving day rates a number rigs there with top drive earnings exceptional margins but now our customer base which as I mentioned earlier kind of the bigger bigger publicly traded companies with massive programs they are kind of shifting their attention to the horizontal play.
And so for us we’ve got to find new clients that are going to be drilling vertical with those rigs.
Some of the mechanical rigs are drilling horizontally but I think the mechanical topdrive rigs are not the rig of choice for the developing horizontal plays out there because laterally links are just getting deeper and longer.
So we do expect to keep a number of those mechanical rigs with top drives working in the horizontal play.
But we’ve got to find a new home for those vertical rigs.
And as you mentioned there is really not a lot of other markets to take those rigs to at this point in fact we brought one of the mechanical rigs from the Bakken down in the third quarter that was part of the shale expensive I referenced earlier in the third quarter relative to fourth.
We brought it to Texas but we thought that’s where it most likely works.
So now we have this vertical instability there the question is going to be is it going to persist or are we going to be able to put these rigs back for new clients or is the market just going to get stronger and some of our past clients come back into that vertical market because oil prices certainly aren’t a problem.
Oil prices are strong and I would think that activity be better there.
So we’re just trying to evaluate it all this kind of hit it right at the beginning of the year.
One client had five of these rigs another client had two other rigs.
So we’re just trying to evaluate it.
Okay.
Just one I’m sorry one last question.
Did you say well servicing rig utilization is back into the mid 90%? Yes right now it is.
I don’t know if its averaged but hadn’t averaged that high quarter to-date but it’s probably up in the upper 80s average for the quarter ut right now we’re back over a little 90%.
Okay.
Little over 95% actually.
So it’s just a real strong well service market for us.
That’s great.
Thanks for taking my questions.
You bet.
Thank you.
Our first question comes from the line of Jim Rollyson with Raymond James.
Please go ahead.
Good morning Stacy Lorne.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Great work on the quarter.
I guess first one going back to your comments on margins and kind of some of the things that drove the upside versus what you originally guiding.
As you look at that going forward and I know you’re guiding things down but do you think some of the issues that hurt you in 3Q that helped you 4Q on the cost side? How much of that’s repeatable over time? I know you’re going to have payroll tax pick up and you do have kind of getting a couple of those rigs back out in the field in Colombia and in the states but as we go beyond the first quarter and you look in to the rest of the year but how are you thinking about cost and the impact of margins outside of movements in their rigs? Well there is several – there are several thoughts on that.
One certainty is that putting the two rigs back to work in Colombia and having amend for the full first quarter you’re going to see average revenues and average cost go up going forward because the cost structure and revenue structure is still much higher on a per day basis down in Colombia and we barely got any of that in the fourth quarter.
So that’s going to have an impact that we didn’t see in either the third quarter or the fourth quarter.
So that’s going to muddy things up a little bit.
But in terms of the that I illuminated the employee cost savings quarter-over-quarter probably was mostly due to the reduction in the worker’s comp allowance.
And that won’t be tested again until the summer.
We don’t know whether that’ll be an adjustment or not and then it’ll be tested again in December of next year.
And we’re hopeful that we’ll have further reductions but we’ll just have to wait and see on that.
It’ll depend on our experience.
And then the SRAM cost I think those trends are going to remain fairly favorable.
I think our guys are doing a very good job of controlling costs.
And I think that these new-builds were doing a lot of more of the work in the yard on them before they get to the field.
So I don’t think we’ll experience the same SRAM kind of impact as these first quarter rigs go out.
So those could be improvements.
I’d say there is some upside there but we got a lot of moving parts it’s hard to get gauge that.
So it sounds like the safe bet beyond the first quarter is something probably in the range of what you’re thinking about for the first quarter? I would think so yeah.
Okay that’s helpful.
And for a follow-up Lorne you talked about a couple of things CapEx is obviously getting cut in half and then some and you mentioned debt pay down’s really going to start in the second half.
I assume that implies that your CapEx is a little more weighted first half than second half if you could give us maybe some magnitude there.
And likewise just kind of how much debt you think you can pay down this year based on what your view is today? Yeah you’re correct about the first half waiting.
In fact I would say it’s more of a first quarter waiting.
I think that it’s because of the new-builds there is still around $40 of carryover and the majority of that I think will be spent in the first quarter.
And then at and I think I believe we’ll be delivering the well service rig around late first quarter or early second quarter.
So it’s going to be first half of the year it’s going to be heavier on CapEx but as you really get into the second quarter it should start to be pretty steady.
I think at that point because it becomes more of a – more focused on routine and a little bit discretionary.
In terms of debt pay down we – I’d say probably as we look at it today we think the range is probably $40 million to $60 million of debt pay down by the end of the year but that’s our current outlook and hopefully it could get higher but we’ll – that’s the range I’d give you right now.
Okay very helpful.
Thanks guys.
Okay.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Brian Uhlmer with Global Hunter.
Please go ahead.
Hey good morning.
Good morning.
Now I want to start off with something that’s going to be gross millions and want to publicly applaud you Stacy for writing a check for a bunch of your own company shares as a lot of CEOs have not been doing that in this downtime.
So I just wanted to make sure people recognize that and I’m sure I am going to catch some grief from my competitors for saying that but there you have it.
Thank you.
No problem.
And then I want to head south to Columbia and discuss that a little bit with the 6 rigs coming up for contracts do you see that as one contract for all six is that where we are heading with that and then can you just discuss the market down there and what you are thinking with the market down there; and if you are fully utilized are you tapped out at those eight rigs? Well let me start with the last one first.
I think from our perspective with the U.S.
market being so rich now as opposed to when we were evaluating Colombia back in 2006 and moved in 2007 we would not anticipate adding additional equipment down there at this time.
We just feel like there’s going to be some continued strong opportunity here in the U.S.
The market though overall I think is good and probably getting stronger.
I think it – I still believe it’s probably one of the best markets internationally to be in.
It’s all oil and they are a big multinational company and there is challenges with any big organization of that size.
But we are very optimistic.
We have a great relationship with Ecopetrol.
We expect they are using all eight of the rigs now and a number of things could happen.
We could roll in another rig and add it to the six and it could go long-term as long as anywhere from two to five years in length.
There is a chance – everybody is very very busy.
There is a chance to roll forward these contracts a little bit longer to give time that to analyze to negotiate a good long-term contract.
We just don’t know for sure what will happen.
but we do believe and we’ve been – we are fairly reassured that they’re planning on using us for the long-term there.
We’ve been one of their top-performing if not the top performing if not the top performing contractor for them.
So we see it as a positive very positive market.
Good deal.
Thank you.
And my second question is you get knocks on the door all the time from the bankers how would you characterize the M&amp;A market right now as far as are guys struggling and there is some stuff that maybe available to you at a discount or people just waiting out the cycle or folks expecting too rich of a multiple on the businesses right now just characterize that market in general and kind of what your views are over the next six months or so in that market.
Well I would tell you the – for us on the Production Services side our organic growth model works so well that it would have to be a very special deal situation to cause us to want to go buy something else.
We have the core businesses that we want to be in now and so organic growth probably makes the most sense for us.
And then on the drilling side really what you need in the fleets are more of the new build state-of-the-art rigs like we’re putting out now.
So there is just very few if any real acquisition opportunities on the drilling side.
And our stock currency is too low to really use.
We wouldn’t want to dilute ourselves by using our stock.
We don’t want to use cash because we’re trying to repay indebtedness.
So I just don’t see really much M&amp;A activity that will be involved in.
Do you want to add anything to that Lorne? No.
I think you covered it.
Okay.
And quick one for Lorne why the – I may have missed this but why the 10% increase in G&amp;A year-over-year? It’s driven really by few things.
One is is the incentive contemplation resets that target.
so that guidance is based on target performance which I would – give you little more flavor on that in 2012 was little bit less than that given the results that didn’t meet our budgeted expectations.
On top of that is you have some merit increases and then some healthcare costs the payroll tax roles in we had that last year but it’s arguably little bit higher given some of the structural changes the payroll taxes and the legislation.
Those were the primary causes of it.
Perfect.
I’ll turn it over someone else.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of John Keller with Stephens Inc.
Please go ahead.
Hi.
Good morning guys.
Good morning.
I was hoping that may be you could help us hone in a little bit on sort of the leading edge or spot rates out West Texas and maybe how they compare to what you’d seeing as recently in the fourth quarter and may be over the last – progression over the last year? Well I would say that when we went to West Texas I would say the rates were kind of in the 15 to – this for vertical rig 1 000 horsepower vertical rigs no cut drive.
I’d say they were in the kind 15 to 16 five range and then we due the course over couple years we were there it’s been like that was going up more to the 16 17 range.
I’d say that it’s kind of reverted back closer to where we started now for our class rig.
We’re kind in that 15 to 16 range again I think is kind of the going rate.
Now others are bidding lower some substantially lower I’ve heard rates and prices you may have color on this but I’ve heard rates of $12 000 to $14 000 a day out there.
But they aren’t our own rig and they don’t come with the safety that we bring.
But that is a challenge for us.
On the mechanical rigs we’re top drives.
The market there is that’s where the greatest change has occurred.
We were obtaining rates of kind of 20 to 21.5 before and that’s come down to more in the 18 to 19.5 range which is a little bit – it’s kind of reset to where it probably always should have been which historically for FTR rigs and mechanical rigs their top drive usually brings about a $3 000 a day margin increase.
We were actually getting $5 000 to $6 000 a day margin increase on those mechanical rigs.
It was just a bit of an anomaly but that’s kind of come to an end but it’s – that’s kind of where the rates are out there right now.
Perfect.
I appreciate the detail on that.
And then I’d like to just get your thoughts out there more broadly as it pertains to the mechanical fleet.
Is that – you noted that the horizontal the shift on horizontal by your customer base is sort of cycling in maybe higher spec maybe some AC rigs is what I would presume.
How does that play into your thinking about the mechanical rig fleet as it goes forward and potentially how does that position you from a competitive standpoint in West Texas if that indeed is the trend going forward.
Well we aren’t – we aren’t building new mechanical rigs really nobody is anywhere.
And so if West Texas slows it’s a liability.
The West Texas vertical markets slows because natural gas prices the recovery there has been pushed out due to the mild winter at least a year if not longer.
So I think that we were kind of hoping that by 2014 gas prices would be looking – looking more favorable.
And that – that would put some competitive day rate pressure on the West Texas mechanical rigs and therefore the whole mechanical fleets which start going up in rates.
Now the gas prices is kind of still out of the picture for the medium-term.
You’re left with the oil market and at West Texas a lot of – like I said a lot of our players customers clients have chosen to chase the horizontal market more.
So we’re recalibrating there but I would say it puts the West Texas mechanical – really mechanical rigs in general in a riskier category.
Because there are fewer places for vertical drilling.
Now that’s what it appears right now.
I don’t know if by the summer there will be quite a bit more vertical oil prices are very good if they stay up 95 100 whether there will be more activity picking up through the course of the year in the vertical side I don’t know.
But I do know that we don’t expect to be able to take any rigs back to gas markets.
So it’s a little bit of a risk there and so we’ll always be evaluating.
We were careful not to put a lot of money into these rigs.
We fixed them to take them to West Texas.
There is a chance – we retired nine rigs.
There is a handful of rigs that we didn’t deploy out in West Texas and didn’t upgrade and refurbished to deploy there.
So we’ll be evaluating those rigs through the course of the year.
And stacked rigs we just don’t want to have them sitting on the grass for a long long period of time.
We’d rather think about doing something else with them.
But that’s something we’ll just have to evaluate.
But clearly our long-term direction is going to be continuing to add state-of-the-art new build rigs like we put out this year and last year.
That’s really the future.
It’s a shale play.
So that’s the direction we will be going.
But those mechanical rigs when they are working they earn a very good return on investment.
So we can get the utilization back up where we were.
You’re a lot better off owning them than you are selling them for example because they will generate one – three good mechanical rigs will earn almost the same margin as a new build.
Sure.
It makes sense.
Maybe you keep it utilized.
Yeah absolutely.
And then just one more quick one if I could just I wanted to get a little color on this.
I was a little unclear.
Your guidance for the Production Services business in the first quarter is the lower sequential guidance really a function of seasonality or just kind of current market dynamics relative to where we’ve been say in the fourth quarter? It’s really a 100% seasonality.
First quarter is always the worse fourth the second worse and then third second and third are great quarters.
So is it fair to characterize that business is pretty stable both from an activity and pricing standpoint and really what we’re seeing is just kind as a low in activity and shorter daylight hours? Right.
Okay.
I think that – those businesses are very stable and we got very solid businesses in the right markets and our outlook for really the rest of this year and next year is positive.
Perfect.
I appreciate it guys.
Okay.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Daniel Burke with Johnson Rice.
Please go ahead.
Good morning guys.
Good morning.
Hey Lorne.
Just before I forget this one is there just to true up the rig margin progression.
Can you quantify the worker’s comp recovery in Q4? Yeah.
That was – it was a $1 million roughly which was it was about 185 day impact on the margin per day.
Okay.
That’s helpful.
And then Stacy looking at West Texas can you talk about your exposure rolling forward you alluded you got the nine rigs that are working off a contract a handful of those are I guess actually maybe the majority continue to get paid for a bit.
But I guess that means you got 14 still working do you have the – may be the contract schedule on those or any way to identify what level of risk you feel like you’ve got on those 14 as the year advances? Well we have seven down now and we have two more that we think will be down by that end of the first quarter and five of those within 9 rigs will be earning through June July August they kind of staggered in there.
Then we have a couple of those rigs that we – at this point feel like they’re going to go back to work as well.
So we’re – one of the rigs we have two – well actually we have three rigs that are stacked that have top drives.
Two of those rigs we’re hopeful will be going back to work here.
So you have some coming down some coming up.
In the fleet that’s still working we have one significant client – we have a number of clients but we have one significant client in there and it’s one of the very large publicly trading companies.
And we feel like based on our conversations with them that they plan to keep those rigs busy all year.
In fact they’re looking at one or more of these other rigs that are stacked to pick up.
So we are still – we don’t think it’s a total meltdown but we’d rather not have 70% utilization in that market.
We’d like to get it back up closer to what we’ve been enjoying last couple of years.
So we’re just trying to sort all that out but we’re – and it may take trying to find some new clients that our bread and butter has been the bigger guys with the massive programs and we can start looking at other folks.
Yeah that’s helpful.
And maybe just to append the last one.
It’s called a question or two but wireline had a rough Q3 but the message coming through today seems to be pretty optimistic.
I think last quarter you’ve alluded to some customer mix changes going on there you maybe just bring us up the speed on whether the improvement or the relative stability of wireline how much of that is due to just broad base that market maintaining its strength and how much of that is due to you guys really getting your arms around that business after a tough Q3? Daniel this is Lorne I think it is sum of both because in Q3 we did – I think we talked about – we had one customer that went to sliding sleeves and then we had another customer who just went in house bought their own fleet and in the third quarter that hit us and we had to kind of redeploy those assets and put them to work.
I think we were successful in doing that in the fourth quarter.
So that contributed to a little better performance.
But then there is some overall stability that Stacy talked about.
So it’s a little of both.
Okay guys.
Thank you.
You bet.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Dave Wilson with Howard Weil.
Please go ahead.
Good morning gentlemen.
Thanks for taking my questions.
Stacy I just want to get a better idea about the rigs that roll off contracts and whether or not they’re rolling into the spot market or getting re-contract.
I think last quarter you mentioned that circa about three fourths of them would be re-contracted.
I’m just trying to get a sense of how the day rates will soften over the remainder of the year trying to get a difference between the spot rates and contracted rates? Well I’d say that as the contracts are rolling the majority of them we are rolling forward on term again.
It might be the median might be more six month term than one year term like we had last year but we are still rolling the majority of them on to new existing term contracts.
I guess the day rate delta that’s kind of what we’re factoring in our margin per day – do you have any – do you want to share any line on that Lorne.
I think well when we renew down from a pricing perspective when we renew and then pricing rolls it seems like it’s anywhere from kind of 500 to 1 500 depending on the rig.
Stacy had talked about in the past that some of the – we’ve had 10 top drive mechanical rigs out there and those rigs are performing very well.
They had been priced at good levels and so those are definitely renewing down compared to when you have SCR and AC rig stack but it’s probably generally in that range not in every case some are flat or up for various reasons but and then from a tenure perspective it’s kind of a – it’s more of a six-month market but we do have some of that renew longer than six months.
And we’re increasing some day rate contracts as well.
So we’re – there is a – so you have a mix of – you got the one’s repricing then you have some going up and I’m not – we’re not seeing 1 000 or 1 500 leaps but well actually I would say $500 maybe to a $1 000 increases on some and then you have the new build flaring in there which you’re at substantially higher margin.
So that’s – but you kind of get the blend of all of that and that’s where we derive our guidance.
Sure okay.
And then just as a kind of a follow on the rigs that are stacked or expected to be stacked how many of those are – I guess kind of your vertical only are I guess another way to ask how many of those will be able to – are able to drill horizontally? Well three of them have – three of this current rigs that are stacked have top-drives on them and have been drilling horizontally in the past.
Two of those are being considered by client right now to be picked up.
So – and we would – right now we’re not planning to add anymore top drive unless we relocate one top drive from one rig to another but we like to just keep the rigs that we have utilized as we don’t want to have additional allays of capital for those mechanical rigs.
But – so that – I think we answered the question.
Okay.
And then one final one on the well service side.
We’ve seen the demand uptick for the taller mast equipment and you guys responded by adding additional units.
Do you think this trend of demand will continue and be more pervasive or is it just limited to a certain play or two out there? Well the greatest demand for the taller mast has been in the Eagle Ford.
I think that we could source additional units into that market and what we’ve done a number of times as we’ve rolled out these 116 foot tall mast we’ve taken 104 foot mast out of that market and moved it to another market for instance North Dakota where 104 foot mast works fine.
Okay.
Great.
I’ll turn the call back over.
Thanks for taking my questions guys.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Travis Bartlett with Simmons &amp; Co.
Please go ahead.
Hi guys.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Good morning.
It sounds like the well servicing business has been pretty favorable for you guys despite some seasonal slowness in Q4.
Rates now have been above $600 per hour for the past two quarters and it sounds like they are still above $600 per day our – sorry per hour today.
Are you seeing any relative weakness in certain areas or is it pretty strong across all areas? And then secondly how should we think about rates for the balance of 2013? I would say rates are stable through at these levels through the year possibly with some increase in the latter part of the year.
I’d say all – not all markets generate the same rates but they’re good.
They’re good.
We like to have a – we don’t want to have all of our units in a given market we have too much concentration.
So we actually still deploy units to markets that might have an average hourly rate of under 500 an hour.
But there is still good strong steady markets.
So we’ll have a blend of rate pricing across different markets.
And that will be how we continue our strategy just to kind of diversify the assets across a number of different good markets.
Right.
Are there any markets where you are seeing pricing declines or is it pretty stable across the different markets for well servicing? Yeah it’s fairly stable.
I would say there is probably one market that we are evaluating that we might be better served by moving some of those units to a more favorable long-term market.
But we’re constantly evaluating – in all of these businesses we are constantly evaluating relative long-term market strength and we’ve moved – we make the call on that on a pretty regular basis in each business.
And it’s not a lot of movement but we probably move assets from one area to another couple of few times a year in every business.
Great okay.
And then my second and last question I was curious on the Colombian rig contracts on the six rigs that are under extension through March.
Should we expect those rigs to be priced lower or should they be contracted at similar pricing compared with current levels? I would say that we don’t really know yet.
I would say the bias would be slightly lower but we obviously will try to – we would if we could keep our existing rates we would lock it them for 10 years.
So we like to – we’re going to fight hold them where they are and keep them as always we keep them but there would be – there is always – it’s always pressure on them but we don’t know the outcome yet but I’d say it’s going to be close to the current rate or bias downward a little bit.
Okay.
Great.
Well thank you all.
I’ll turn it back.
Great.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Trey Cowan with Clarkson Capital Markets.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
Thank you for let me sneak in here.
You bet.
I am looking at your Production Services.
How much your business is offshore right now as part of the mix? Our Production Services coil tubing four of our 13 are in the offshore market cased-hole wireline presently we have four cased-hole Skid units in the offshore market and we’ll be adding two more.
That market is getting better.
Now that offshore is settled out a little bit and we’re seeing improvements there in activity levels and pricing.
So we’re going to – we have made the decision going to add two additional cased-hole units and there were – it’s a real benefit for both of them to have the other to have in coil and cased they can cross sell their services pretty effectively.
Right.
Very complementary.
With that in mind do you think the growth outlook for your offshore is somewhere to what we’re seeing in the Gulf of Mexico industry wide or little bit better little bit worse how do you think it shell? Where we are – for 2013 we’re – other than the two-cased hole units and the one remaining well served with 116 foot mast well servicing rig.
we are not planning to add units to any market.
We’ve had a lot of growth and we are at the point where we like to build up a nice cash reserve so we can make a meaningful reduction in our indebtedness and so we are just kind – we’ll have all the full-year effect of all the equipment that we’ve added through the course of the year impacting us in 2013 but we don’t really plan to add other than these couple of trailing – few trailing new build rigs and the two-cased hole wireline and the one well service we are not playing to add units.
Got you.
And then back to the onshore site and the drilling side actually started to be the dead horse here on the West Texas but it sounds to me if I’m connecting the dots that for the rigs that will be on standby the rolling to a new term in the future looks three top drive units and two of them go to work.
It sounds like the Delta is about $3 000 on margin that’s what we’re talking about here is am I in the ballpark? Well I think you could say you are in that range going from say 18 to 21.5 – going down to 18 from 21.5 or 19 from 22 kind of that range is in the ballpark.
Okay.
All right.
Well thanks a lot gentlemen and congratulations on a great quarter.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Brett Hendrickson with Nokomis Capital.
Please ago ahead.
Hey Stacy and Lorne how are you doing? Fine.
Good.
So I just – I want to get just a little bit of detail if you could on your restricted payments basket on the senior notes.
I think the filings I saw just say that it’s a customary kind of customary levels of restricted payments.
Do you have any details for us on kind of how that calculation is done? No not with me I don’t.
It’s something we monitor all the covenants in our bonds and it’s not something that is an issue for us.
No no I know it’s not right now.
But – I just want – I’m curious by customary you mean it probably is for some percentage of net income or some percentage of free cash flow you can allocate the things like dividends and share repurchases going forward is that kind of how we mean by customary? Well I would need to have it in front of me to go through.
I don’t – I can’t really recall it and I apologize for that.
But it’s not something that those things you just mentioned the share repurchases as an example is something that we’re not contemplating right now because we we’ve talked about reducing debt.
So it’s not something that has come up as a discussion relative to our bonds.
Yeah.
I know it has I was being a little more forward-looking we are long-term holders and I guess that’s kind of the next question.
I mean I thought was after a quarter or two of debt pay down just talk to me just of a second about it would that maybe make sense because we look at your discretionary free cash flow where we just take your maintenance CapEx and forget the $50 million or so debt pay down this year if you’ve got some growth CapEx that’s benefiting the company.
So when we kind of calculate this quote-on-quote discretionary free cash flow yield it’s in the after closing price where your stock traded yesterday it’s in the mid to upper 20 free cash flow yield if we add back the growth CapEx which we think will be economically positive investments in crucial.
So we kind of wonder after the debts gets paid down a little bit in the free cash flow not linearly but generally continues to grow why it wouldn’t make sense to buyback from stock at that kind of valuation? Well I think – no it is something that we need to evaluate and – but as you said in the future as we get further down this path and so – and we will evaluate it.
But as we look at it right now the – obviously we could do something with the bonds earlier than March 2014 but they are callable in March 2014 and as Stacy said earlier we would like to be able to make a sizeable dent in the bonds when we do something.
So it looks like 2014 event right now and after we have dealt with that we would certainly look at what you’re talking about and it is a good point and it is something we should be looking at and we do.
Okay.
And in my mind I guess I had it calibrated it more like a quarter or two you get ways into this big free cash flow you guys are going to have that you’ve been waiting for a long time and that you would be prepared to do.
But it sounds like as part of that maybe you want to – you wouldn’t want to do that before you refinance that debt because all other things equal buying back stock would hurt you as the rate you get on the new debt if you call in current markets? We have talked about that we would like to reduce the overall debt level and not have the same level of bonds outstanding and I hope I’m understanding your question but – so when Stacy was talking about making a meaningful impact on the debt it was to pay down our revolver and then have the ability to not only do something to hopefully improve the rate on the debt we have outstanding but reduce the total amount that’s outstanding as well and that will take some quarters of cash flow generation.
And so it could be an early 2014 event it could be a late 2014 event but that’s in our minds that’s the concept right now.
Yeah I got you.
I think I’ve been on the same page and understood what you guys have been saying for multiple quarters but I guess that’s due to the definition of the meaningful debt pay down might have been not different in my mind.
So that’s fine we can talk more offline and...
Yeah.
We will be happy to do it.
We’d like to reduce debt high-yield debt by half if we could.
Yeah I know it’s – I know it’s expensive debt especially relative to what the company could probably issue today I mean even with the make hole penalty you might be able to cut into it and then refinance the portion of it and walk out of the whole deal with less debt and a lower rate.
You’re exactly right.
It’d rather be a double whammy on your interest payment going down.
That’s what we are after.
Okay all right.
We’ll talk more offline.
Thanks guys.
Good.
I appreciate your question.
Okay.
Thank you.
And at this time I’m not showing any further questions.
I’d now like to turn the call back to Mr.
Locke.
Please go ahead.
All right.
Well thank you everybody for the participation and we look forward to visiting on the next quarterly call.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen that does conclude our conference call for today.
If you’d like to listen to the replay of today’s call you may do so by dialing 303-590-3030 using the access code 458-9184.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Good day ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by.
Welcome to the Pioneer Energy Services First Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
During today's presentation all parties will be in a listen-only mode following the presentation the conference will be open for questions.
(Operator Instructions) This call is being recorded today April 30 2013.
I’d now like to turn the call over to Anne Pearson with Dennard - Lascar Investor Relations.
Please go ahead ma'am.
Thank you Camille and good morning everyone.
Before I turn the call over to Pioneer CEO Stacy Locke and to CFO Lorne Phillips for their formal remarks I have a few the usual items I need to cover.
First of all a replay of today’s call will be available and is accessible via webcast by going to the IR section of Pioneer’s website and also by telephone replay.
You can find the replay information for both of these in this morning’s earnings news release.
As a reminder information reported on this call speaks only as of today April 30 2013 so any time-sensitive information may no longer be accurate at the time of a replay.
Management may make a few forward-looking statements today that are based on beliefs and assumptions and information currently available to them.
While they believe the expectations in these statements are reasonable they have no assurance they’ll prove to be correct.
They are subject to certain risks and uncertainties and assumptions that are described in this morning’s new release and also in recent filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
If one or more of these risks materialize or should underlying assumptions prove to be incorrect actual results may differ materially.
Also please note that this conference call may contain references to non-GAAP measures.
You’ll find reconciliation to the GAAP measures in this morning’s news release.
Now I’d like to turn the call over to Stacy Locke Pioneer’s President and CEO.
Thank you Anne and good morning everybody.
Joining me on this morning’s call is Red West President of our Land Drilling segment; what I was saying about Joe Eustace is not able to be here this morning who is President of the Production Services; and then also joining us Lorne Phillips our Chief Financial Officer.
Generally our first quarter of 2013 was a very solid quarter and kind of came in about as we had anticipated.
In the land drilling segment utilization came in a little above expectations at 84% versus our guidance of 81% to 83%.
I would say the biggest factor impacting that improved utilization was Colombia where we had all rigs basically fully all eight rigs fully utilized.
Likewise our margin per revenue day was 8 258 considerably better than the 7 300 to 7 600 a day guidance that we had given.
Again a big part of this was the improvement down in Colombia we had a terrific quarter there very tight cost controls improved revenues per day and that compared to the US market where we did have declining margins per day and declining utilization as well.
In the production services segment of the business slightly softer than anticipated on the top line revenues were down 1% as opposed to our guidance of being roughly flat.
And margin as a percent of revenue was also down 1% but right in the middle of our guidance to 37%.
Coil tubing followed by wireline suffered the biggest decreases in performance relative to the prior quarter.
Going through each of the four core businesses in a little bit more detail drilling as I mentioned Colombia had probably the best quarterly performance ever 99% utilization and very strong margins per revenue day.
All six of our rigs were extended through the end of the year that are working in (inaudible) Field there and then the other two rigs while not on term but with our expectation of them drilling the optional wells as part of their contract we expect one of those rigs to be busy through the end of the year as well and then another one into the middle of 2014 if they choose to drill option wells which we believe they will do.
Switching back to the United States so anyway Colombia outlook looks very good for the rest of this year.
Switching to the United States South Texas continue to be very strong for us we occasionally will have a rig or two down but they don’t stay down for a long generally go right back to work.
We think that’s going to continue to be a strong market for us I think today we're at 100% utilization there.
The Bakken also at 100% utilization all under term contracts rigs performing extremely well there.
The Marcellus likewise at 100% utilized we do have one rig that is a little questionable we were optimistic we will have it renewed but we don’t know at this point.
And then turning to the Uinta Basin we did move a new build into the Uinta this quarter this past quarter and we've also transferred a mechanical rig with a top drive from the Bakken down there and both of those are under long-term contracts.
But our shallower rigs that we've had there some of our 60 series are struggling just because the well depths and lateral links are getting a little too great for those rigs.
We have one of those down now we anticipate another one coming down in a month or so most likely.
So it's a little bit weaker for the shallower rigs but generally an okay market.
East Texas is actually operating East Texas proper at 100% utilization because we've only left one rig in that market and that rig is working.
We’ve sold and closed the sale of one of East Texas's mechanical 1 000 horsepower rigs.
We hope to be closing this week on the sale of a second rig also a 1 000 horsepower mechanical both kind of in that million and a half range pricing wise and will generate a little bit above net book value in profit for us.
We still have a rig in Houston yard that came from East Texas that was originally scheduled to move to West Texas that remains in the Houston yard so that is assigned to East Texas but the one rig that’s actually working in East Texas is active and utilized.
West Texas market is probably our weakest market; it's mostly weak in the vertical mechanical market.
The outlook remains a little uncertain about putting the stack rigs back to work we'll have to just see how that market develops through the course of the year; we're running about 61% utilization out there today.
Lorne will provide a little bit more color on the West Texas contract status here in just a second.
Returning to our well servicing business remains very solid; we were almost back to 90% utilization and $600 an hour in this first quarter which is typically a seasonally low quarter for us so they performed extremely well.
We expect the second quarter and the third quarter to kind of go back to those levels or better outlook is extremely good there.
The 109 rig which is the only rig that we have left to be delivered it's another 116 foot masthead rig that will begin in June working for a super major in the Eagle Ford.
So all in all it’s doing extremely well.
In wireline which has always been one of our top performing areas the activity levels in the first quarter were roughly on par with what they were in the fourth quarter.
These two quarters are seasonally lower quarter then the second and third quarter.
And the revenue per job did decline about 3% in Q1 over Q4.
We do think the pricing has bottomed and stabilized and we're optimistic about the improvement taking place in the more active second and third quarter.
So generally wireline continues to be a very strong business for us.
Turning now to coil tubing I would say coil continued to underperform in the first quarter even though offshore market which was strong throughout 2012 took basically the whole quarter to get kick-off today activity is up offshore units are back to work.
Land utilization is also improving and we continue to believe that the second quarter will be improved over the first quarter and third quarter better or even than the second quarter so I would say that our outlook is cautiously optimistic that that business is improving.
Now I would like to turn the call over to Lorne for some financial discussion.
Thanks Stacy good morning everyone.
This morning we reported consolidated revenues of $229.7 million which is up 1% from the prior quarter.
Our EBITDA was $55.9 million which was down 7% from the fourth quarter.
We reported a net loss of $0.02 per diluted share compared to earnings of $0.06 a diluted share in the prior quarter.
Drilling services revenues were $133.1 million which represent a 2% sequential increase that reflect strong activity in Colombia and the fact that all our new build rigs were working during the quarter.
These two items offset our lower utilization rate and lower pricing in the US versus the fourth quarter.
Average drilling margin per day 8 258 up 2% quarter-over-quarter with the increase being driven by the same factors I mentioned regarding revenue.
In Colombia all eight rigs worked steadily throughout the quarter and Colombia generated revenues of $30.8 million which is up 25% from the fourth quarter and represents 23% of total drilling revenue.
Six of our Colombia based rigs are under term contracts that have been extended through the end of the year.
Five of these rigs are currently working sixth rig is temporarily down in April and May prior to drilling one to two wells for another customer and then will resume working again for Ecopetrol after that.
For the two other rigs in Colombia we expect our customer to elect to drill optional wells that would keep one rig working into the first quarter of 2014 and the other rig working into the third quarter this year.
Overall drilling services utilization in the first quarter was 84%.
Currently 62 of our 71 drilling rigs are generating revenue including five that are not working but earning standby revenue through late second quarter into the third quarter.
44 rigs are currently under term contracts including the earning not working rigs.
Of the rigs on term contracts in the US eight are up for renewal this quarter 15 in the third quarter four in the fourth quarter and 11 are expiring beyond that point.
The average remaining term for drilling contracts in the US is 10 months.
During the first quarter we renewed five of seven rigs that were up four renewal in the US with two moving to working on a spot basis both of those in West Texas.
Now the renewals the average decrease in day rate was approximately 750 per day.
The rigs coming up for renewal this quarter the average renewal day rate is expected to be down on similar amount as they adjust to the current pricing environment.
In West Texas nine rigs are currently down with five of those nine earning but not working.
Based on a visibility today we expect to be flat this quarter in terms of rigs working in West Texas but will likely have an additional one to two rigs go down in West Texas in the third quarter and then we expect to stay flat through the end of the year.
In regards to the revenue utilization impact three of the five earning not working rigs roll-of contract in mid to late June one rolls up contract in early July and the other in late August.
If we’re not able to put those rigs back to work you would see the impact the negative impact on our utilization which really be seen in the third quarter.
When you combine the continued re-pricing of US term contracts lower expected utilization in the US due primarily to the West Texas shift to the horizontal market and one Colombian rig down for two months during the quarter.
The second quarter drilling margin is expected to be down by approximately 3 million from the first quarter.
I should point that we to reiterate what Stacy said that we did sell one mechanical rig and we do expect to close on another this week.
In total the percentage of total company's gross margin from non-top drive mechanical rigs in the first quarter was approximately 9%.
Turning now to our production services segment Q1 revenue totaled $96.6 million which was down about 1% sequentially.
The decline is due in part to normal seasonal factors along with somewhat slower spending ramp up this year by our clients.
In addition we had an unexpected activity slow down in our coal tubing business related to poor weather conditions and some permitting issues both of those delayed the start of some offshore projects.
We were also impacted by plan downtime for upgrades to some of our coil equipment on land.
April is experiencing higher utilization as Stacy mentioned and we expect to more normal level of activity in this business in the second quarter.
Gross margin for production services was $36.1 million which is down about 2% compared to the fourth quarter and our margin as a percentage of revenue was 37.4% down slightly from 37.8% in the prior quarter.
Utilization for well servicing in the first quarter improved 89% compared to 83% in the prior quarter.
April has started out strong and overall for well servicing and production services we do expect activity to increase as the year progresses.
I should also point out that with natural gas prices now around the $4 per MCF we're beginning to see a small pick up in gas related activity in production services.
Looking at our expense trends for the first quarter interest expense was $11.5 which is up about $1.1 million from the prior quarter.
The increase reflects additional borrowings as well as the reduction in capitalized interest that was related to our drilling rig program.
Capitalized interest in the first quarter was approximately $0.8 million versus $1.8 in the fourth quarter.
For the second quarter of 2013 we estimate interest expense will be approximately $12.5.
The increase is due to the elimination of capitalized interest and the drawdown of our credit facility in the first quarter.
General and Administrative expense was $23.2 million an increase of $2.3 million driven primarily by payroll taxes and incentive base compensation.
For the second quarter we expect G&amp;A to be in the $24 million range.
Depreciation and amortization was $46.3 million which is up 4.5% sequentially and reflects the recent additions to our fleet.
With the new build program and drilling services now complete we expect G&amp;A to grow at a slower rate as our overall capital budget declines this year.
We expect second quarter depreciation in the range of $47 million to $49 million.
Our effective tax rate for the quarter was 29.7% which was low primarily due to foreign currency exchange loss.
Excluding the impact of currency gains or losses we continue to expect a tax rate of 38% to 40%.
Turning to the balance sheet we had cash and cash equivalence of $10.5 million and a $140 million outstanding under our revolving credit facility at March 31st.
The increase in borrowings was primarily used for payments on our new build.
With our new build program now complete we expect to begin paying down on our revolver either late this quarter or early in the third quarter.
Our total CapEx spend for the first quarter was $71.3 million with approximately half of that amount dedicated to new drilling rigs and production services fleet addition.
For all of 2013 we continue to expect CapEx to be in the range of $140 million to $160 million.
With that I'll turn it back over to Stacy.
Thank you Lorne.
Looking to our guidance a little bit I think that we still are optimistic that rig activity will pick up in the second half of the year it's been fairly sluggish in this first four months of the year.
But the commodity prices have held well and we can believe that activity levels will improve to the course of the remainder of the year.
So with that backdrop we think our drilling utilization will come down a little bit we're guiding in the 80% to 83% range and that’s kind of taking into consideration this continued softness in West Texas a little more softness in the winter basin for our 60 series shallower rigs and a slight bit of uncertainty up in the Marcellus.
And then we also know in Colombia will have one rig not earning for a couple of months mostly due to timing and location issues.
But the rig will be contracted it's going to go drill for another client and we have winter outfalls with Ecopetrol but there has some delays in that location.
But Traubel (ph) would assist a little bit there in Colombia for that one rig.
And in terms of margin we're guiding there a little bit lower to take into consideration the day rates that have come down and the renewals of the term contracts at these new lower rates and our guidance here is 7 600 to 7 900 a day.
And then on the production services side we do see an improvement on the top line we’re going to guide in the 6% to 10% up on revenues but I think we will hold with flat kind of margin guidance just to make certain that we’ve got pricing bottomed out like we think.
And it could possibly even be down maybe a percent.
But generally I would say the outlook is pretty positive and we will see how the second quarter performs and then the third quarter we think should a better year.
So I will end there and we would be happy to entertain any questions.
Thank you.
Thank you sir.
Ladies and gentlemen we will now begin the question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions) Our first question is from the line of Jim Rollyson with Raymond James.
Please go ahead.
Good morning Stacy Lorne.
Good morning.
Just kind of circling back to your comments on margins for the guidance for the quarter when we think about the moving parts on rigs softness in West Texas you mentioned in a couple other areas just the short-term timing issue on Colombia one rig.
How much of the sequential dip in margin is day rate related versus just what you're thinking about cost and I guess if you take that forward beyond the quarter knowing what you guys know about contract renewals over the course of the year and kind of where leading edge rates are and once you get Colombia back working like how do we think about day rate trends beyond the second quarter with what you know today? That’s a good question.
I would say that it's all day rate cost we're not seeing really any cost creep at all Colombia had an exceptionally favorable cost controlled quarter which that built in we would like to see that repeated but it was an exceptionally good one.
So we built in a little bit of normalization there or hopefully this will be new norm.
So that’s factored in there and so its all really related to the day rates having come down and then having those being reflected in the renewals.
And then of course the West Texas market we do have some uncertainty there in terms of what rates are going to do we have a number of rigs down they were being paid on through the second quarter for the most part and a little bit into the third.
But if we are able to put those back to work will it take a lower day rate to do it? We don’t know there are a lot of rigs working there there are lots of folks working a lot at a lot lower day rates and we have been willing to work just because we provide a lot more for the client then just a rig with the safety and the downtime control.
So it’s a little uncertain but I would say guidance going forward is it’s a tough call right now I'd really rather wait and see what the second quarter shows before I guide beyond I would say kind of flattish until I know more.
Do you have anything you would add to that Lorne.
Not - well I guess I would just say that as I broke out the rigs up for renewal there were eight this quarter 15 in the third quarter.
And so kind of depending on where the rates are going to your point the third quarter there is a lot of uncertainty because there is - and nine of those 15 rigs in the third quarter are in West Texas and some of those included they went over to some of the earning not working rigs.
So West Texas is going to have a big impact on how the overall dollar margin works in the margin per day in the third quarter.
Understood that’s helpful.
And Stacy or Lorne now that your 10 rigs are delivered you've got one more well service rig coming in I think you said in June I think that’s about all the equipment you have coming in how are you thinking about your kind of targeted plans for reducing debt as the year progresses from here like how do you think about that today? Well the only thing where you're missing there are two skid wireline units that are I think due to come in May and then those are the last two pieces of equipment other than the 116 foot mast well service rig and so after that at this time have no plans to add any incremental units at all.
We're focused on applying all the cash flow to reduce our revolver initially and then try to prepare ourselves to take a whack into the higher yield debt next year.
Any magnitude thoughts Lorne? Well I think we had as I said earlier we plan to start paying down late this quarter or early in the third quarter.
In terms of magnitude I had guided that we’d end the year in that $40 million to $60 million range on a revolver.
Last quarter I think it will be a little higher than that but it depends on collection rates and timing of some of the CapEx.
So I would maybe increase that to maybe instead of 40:60 it might be in the 60 to 80 range and it would be a target.
But that will be dependent on timing of some those items.
Got you.
Well helpful guys I appreciate it.
Okay.
Thank you.
Our next question is from the line of Michael Cerasoli with Goldman Sachs.
Please go ahead.
Thanks good morning.
Looks like your outcome looks like a solid outcome in Colombia this a little counter to what we’ve heard about that market.
Did you have to make any concessions to achieve that result or that is to secure utilization etcetera or…? No we just renewed the contracts for the six rigs operating in one field there in Southeast of Bogota in [Castillo] [ph] field and then we have also put to work the other two rigs.
The pricing is a little improved actually even over what we had through the back half of last year that we roll it forward one quarter and now we roll it forward three more quarters.
And on this last round we actually strengthened that rate just a little bit.
So it's I think it's really tied to performance we  - our group there has continued to perform at the top of the market in pretty much all respects.
In terms of downtime they virtually have no downtime we do only scheduled maintenance and keep the rigs in great operating condition.
Safety has been stellar footage penetration rates has been stellar.
So I think that’s really what's driving it’s just really strong performance and then once we got other two rigs back to work I focus very hard on getting the cost under control I think we've seen the effects of that here in this first quarter a little bit.
So it's just really exceptional performance there.
That’s great to hear.
And then my follow up question just on production services specifically the work over rigs I was actually little surprised to see pricing come in a little bit quarter-over-quarter given I think it's been two year streak of increases.
Can you give us a little more color on that is that just a function of the type of work that was done in that specific quarter? Yes I think it's more a mix.
When you just step back and look at it from afar it's been fairly firm around the $600 per hour level and so in any given quarter you can have a shift in mix of doing different type of work with different people.
And it will throw that a few dollars one way or the other and that’s I think essentially what happened here.
I think that our group feels like that activity is going to be strong we have the right rigs for the right work we're doing quite a bit of 24-hour work I think yesterday we had nine units on 24-hour work.
We average anywhere from 5 to 10 I would say.
But the pricing we're not feeling really any pricing pressure it's competitive out there but I think that we’re hopeful in the third and fourth quarters we might even see some pricing improvement if activity levels do pick up.
Great that’s it from me thank you.
You bet.
Your next question is from the line of Brian Uhlmer with Global Hunter Securities.
Please go ahead.
Very good morning gentlemen how are you? Good morning.
I had a couple of quick follow ups I guess kind of partially answered.
I wanted to ask on Colombia on the day rates on those rigs the six versus the two are the six all of the same or eight has the other two or is there some varying in the rates across those rigs down there? Basically all seven of the 1500 horsepower rigs are at the same rate and then 1000 horsepower is at a modest discount to that.
Okay perfect.
That’s very helpful.
Moving onto production services while I look at coal tubing and your optimism over the land businesses that in terms of just more utilization increase more 24-hour potential 24-hour ops or some completions work or from the cost cutting and operations what's going to be the primary driver or just seasonal benefit of more daylight hours and more work? Well on a coil the first quarter of this year in the offshore market was very very slow from I don’t know that we really fully know why just our particular clients were slow to get started.
Whereas a year ago quarter we had a terrific quarter and both offshore and onshore but offshore was a big surprise for us in this first quarter but it looks like the projects are now lined up and we really got going at the end of March and April was much more active in the offshore.
It looks like the outlook is very positive there with kind of a backlog or work behind it so that looks very strong.
And then on the onshore market we talked about that quarter-over-quarter about all of the changes we made there and as Lorne mentioned in this first quarter I think we were placed three or four injectors heads on units and then we had one of the offshore units down for a complete makeover and all that back onto the field now.
So we're fully functional in terms of the equipment I think the equipment upgrades or making a difference.
And so we're just utilization it just takes time but our utilization is just gradually building and we're building a stable of repeat customers and so it just steady growing process and I think that will really see it take all in the second quarter.
And then hopefully continue to improve on this point forward.
I mean that’s what our other than maybe little seasonality but I think we're building a foundation of good solid business we believe.
Thank you sir.
You bet.
Thank you.
Our next question is from the line of John Daniel with Simmons &amp; Company.
Please go ahead.
Hi guys.
Thanks for taking my question.
Just a few from me the first is on the production services you mentioned that you got nine rigs running 24-hours and average 5 to 10.
In light of the fact that there is you sort of filling up the order book now for the 109 rig coming in and nothing officially ordered.
Do you see opportunities with customers to transition to more 24-hour rigs and realistically how many could you convert to continue to grow the hours for the business? Well it is a growing trend I mean we used to we look back just a year-and-a-half ago or so two years ago maybe we were only doing just a few and now it kind of got pretty steady in the 4 to 6 range now it's pretty stable and there is 7 to 10 range and I think that we will see a gradual increase in the number of 24-hour works.
It does as you know you need more labor and initially it causes you to cannibalize one of your daylight rigs that get crews.
So you need to build out your crew base in order to do that work.
So it has some challenges to it because the majority of daylight hours.
So we're just kind of gradually trying to be conservative we don’t want to staff up a bunch of crews and then have the 24-hour work fall off.
But I think the trend is definitely towards more 24-hour work and we're staffing up slowly and steadily to handle it.
So we don’t have to cannibalize our daylight units and I think that’s we could really go as far as the market takes us on 24-hour work because 100% of our units can do 24-hour work.
So there is a right size as such for the work that’s why you do 20 hour work.
Is it one particular basin where you're seeing the shift to 24-hour or is it just across your portfolio? I would say it’s a little mixed but we're doing 24-hour work in the Eagle Ford we're doing 24-hour work in the Bakken we're doing it out of El-Campo yard as well that I can think of.
Did you think anything else Lorne.
So it's kind of around.
Okay.
Just want to come back to Jim's first question and sort of attack it another way and I understand your likeness to want to avoid forecast beyond Q2 but can you give us the sense as to what the average cash margins are on those 15 rigs that will in Q3 and just how that might compare to what the stock market is today? Well the 15 are I said nine are in West Texas the other six are through the rest of the country.
So I don’t have an average of those 15 that would roll together.
We've talked about in West Texas and for the vertical rigs on average margin per day and that 3500 to 4500 before some of the pricing pressure that were out that was out there.
So potentially it could dip lower on those rigs and we do expect to renew the majority of them so that would factor in into that analysis.
I would hope that the clients were working for out there appreciate what we’re giving them and we won't Don will come sit in here but I'm hoping we won't much on day rate.
If we do it at all it will be I think minimal do you agree Don? I do.
Yeah I don’t think it would be an impact it's more of the 500 a day I bet you.
I think there is a highlight that will renew at current rate.
Okay fair enough alright.
But from a modeling standpoint that it sounds like and then all wells being equal world it’s probably going to be down slightly Q3 versus Q2 the cash margins but probably not materially? I think it will I think it will here we have the benefit of the new builds all working first quarter we will have them all working and the earlier new builds will get lined out so that they're trending upward towards the margins that they should be operating now.
These latest winds hopefully will get there quicker so you kind of got that element going on then you have the loss of the stack but earning rig margin factored in there.
And then you have a little bit of Colombia which we had like I said stellar first quarter we would like more to have another quarter despite the one rig being down for two months.
For the rest of them to have another great quarter but it was such an exceptional quarter we have to be little cautious there that that could come in a little bit and that will affect the margin.
So we just have quite a few move in parts and makes the estimates complicated.
I don’t think what I would say generally I don’t see anything on the cost side where you can interject that’s going to impact it’s not anything on the cost side its coming at us I think the day rates I would say across the board in every market excluding West Texas I think firmed up and in some cases we have some pricing strength we’ve been able to roll some pricing higher.
So really everything is very firm except that grouping of West Texas rigs and then the shallower capacity 60 series rig in the Marcellus they're struggling that’s more of a utilization issue less pricing.
But if you when your utilization goes down you usually have stack up cost in order to park those units somewhere if in fact you can't get them active.
So you have to be careful of the cost there that will impact margin.
And then the Colombia whatever we hope it will be another great quarter there but first quarter was just off the chart.
So we will have to see there.
But day rates are firm if not improving cost is completely under control it's more of these other moving pieces.
Okay thank you very much.
You bet.
Our next question is from the line of Daniel Burke with Johnson Rice.
Please go ahead.
Good morning guys.
Good morning.
Stacy on the production services side you have been constructive on your comments on coil and the seal progression what we typically see in production services.
So just in terms of the margin guide in the business for Q2 is that really in deference to ongoing pressures in wireline or is it just taken at generally conservative package as you enter the second quarter? Well I think wireline is for the most part we think it stabilized.
We do want to wait and see as Stacy said but there is a little bit of the roll in the end of fourth quarter if any negative pricing impact had occurred in the first.
But Daniel some of it is or lot of it is just going to be mix of businesses that we think are going to pick in revenue.
So pricing we feel is pretty well servicing like Stacy said we’re optimistic that’s its flat.
In wireline we're optimistic it's stabilized.
Coil there maybe some pressure out there and so and then when you put the mix of where the revenue growth is coming from our estimate is conservative our estimate is that’s it flat.
And if its down its flat to down 1% is what Stacy said I think that’s reasonable right now we'll just have to kind of see how it unfolds.
Yeah Lorne brings up a good point.
In wireline the pricing really has come down in the third quarter last year fourth quarter last year first quarter less so this year and we think now it's bottom then activity levels are building and that outlook looks good and we hope that we will recover some pricing in the back half of the year on that business.
The coil probably he mentioned the pricing there has probably come down a little bit and for us we really just need more utilization I think that if we can get our utilization up like we hope to even at the current pricing that could be a pleasant upside to it.
But we can't forecast that based on our experience.
But the pricing we don’t talk about that pricing too much just because for us we got to get the utilization up for pricing to make that difference.
But the pricing has softened in coil a little bit but I think if we get our utilization up you're still going to have a great contribution from it at some point there even at the current pricing.
But that’s been our struggle there as utilization.
Okay great.
Those are helpful.
And then I want to just point of clarification Lorne.
I thought you said was it 9% of revenues from the nine top drive mechanical rigs was it 9% of drilling revenues or total? It was 9% of the total company's gross margin.
Total company including production services and it was for the non top drive mechanical rigs and that does the earning not working rigs as well was that 9% of the total company's gross margin was their level of contribution.
Okay great.
Thanks for the clarification thanks guys.
(Operator Instructions) Our next question is from the line of Trey Cowan with Clarkson Capital Markets.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Just looking at West Texas for a second and I get the sense that the inventory of viable vertical wells really hasn’t changed if anything has probably grown a little bit.
So against that what have you seen as far as your customers of why they're moving away from drilling those wells at this time? Well not all of them are moving away from the vertical we've enjoyed some fairly high concentration from a few clients out there.
One of them has their own drilling rigs and so their choice was to drop their third-party rigs utilize only their own drilling rigs and focus that capital that they were spending on third-party vertical rigs into their horizontal program.
So it just kind of changing of their approach which I think probably for them makes a lot of sense.
But they had at one point they had six of our rigs out there.
So that was a big blow to us that was almost over a quarter of our fleet.
We also have another big client out there who as far as we know fully intends to continue their vertical program certainly through the end of the year that we know and maybe longer.
And then we have others that have maybe one or two rigs that change their focus more towards to the horizontal but then we still have others that are steady on the vertical drilling.
So what we're trying to find we had the good fortune of having a lot of the bigger publicly traded companies out there as our client and we would like stay with those folks because they generally appreciate that work that we put into the rigs as I have mentioned down to four our rigs are different from a lot of other people out there and that they have (inaudible) a lot of them have 500 ton top drives they have big hydraulic horsepower pumps.
So we have a lot more in those rigs then you're traditional West Texas.
So the bigger operators tend to appreciate that more and the service safety and the downtime that we kind deliver.
So we're trying to look for those higher end clients out there to replace the ones we have lost.
So it's taking a little time we would rather not go to the spot market with these units if we can avoid it.
So that’s where we're going to hunting for to replace that business with other good operators.
Great that makes sense.
Switching gears can you give us a little color as far as your fleet of rigs that will be used pad drilling what the number is magnitude kind of client may understand out there for pad drilling? Well we have seen a steady increase in the number of clients that are wanting to go to pad drilling.
As an example where our 10 new builds we had clients wanting walking capability on all 10 of those new builds so all of those have it.
And then we have been adding walking systems to our existing SCR fleet so we think it’s a rapidly growing trend we're seeing it a lot more in the Eagle Ford now as I mentioned in the I should have mentioned in the Bakken prior to our first new build going there none of our rigs had walking system and no one had ever required it before.
But now I think all the six of our 10 new builds went there they're all doing pad drilling we're in discussions with one of our other major client there about putting walking capability I think it's three other rigs three other rigs in the Bakken and then in the Eagle Ford I think we're putting currently two rigs currently and then we've ordered walking systems for a third rig.
So it’s a growing trend and I think it's great it does cost us a little money but it does make these rigs more what clients want in today's world.
And the pad drilling is a big help for us and we're asking to be paid back for the cost of the pads through an increase in the day rate and an increase term.
But it makes these rates a lot more competitive in the growing trends toward pad.
And these are true walking rigs that perform very very well on the pad sides with a lot of flexibility they're the kind of walking systems that the operators prefer.
In addition we have we're installing on these ones we had the walking systems to our SCR rigs we're adding on fasting (ph) systems like we've noticed in our flick that we've got a picture fasting system where all your cabling is kind of accord in the lawn as you walk the rig in a nice neat controlled safe manner.
And so we're doing both the walking system and the fasting system to handle all the wiring as we operate these rigs.
So I think it's going to be beyond the increase and it keeps us on day rate not old rate and we like it.
Great.
And just one quick question on that is there any difference in the crew size for whatever you're talking about a rig that are walk versus one that doesn’t? No same crew.
Alright thanks a lot.
You bet.
Our next question is from the line of John Keller with Stephens.
Please go ahead.
Hey good morning guys.
Just a couple of quick kind of picky ones I guess.
Stacy I think you had mentioned the average sale price for those two rigs you're selling one that was sold one that’s pending about a million-and-a-half each? Right.
And I guess how many more rigs are left in the fleet that you guys sort of think of disposing it what I would guess are pretty low valuations? Well those rigs were literally unique in that we had really put any capital in them at all.
And when we sold them they didn’t include the (inaudible) or the tubular.
So we kind of took off the valuable components of it and our netbook value was in the low ones I would say.
Now of course that’s a gross sale amount to there will be commission taken out of that.
But as we move into some of these other rigs do we have any more like that that are at that real low those were the two at the lowest netbook value? It's only two.
Only two? So those are gone we think the other one will be finalized here this week.
But then we will go into another tier of rigs that will have a higher netbook value that will have to will try to add for a higher price on those rigs as they have a little more they're in better condition and a few more bells and whistles on them.
But I would say the way we're approaching it John is if we have an asset that’s down and we think that the utilization outlook is low for the next 6 to 12 months then we're going to try to monetize that asset.
We will keep a core of these mechanical rigs to drill the vertical oil and then or course when the gas price proves a little bit more we will see vertical gas really come back and that will put a little more demand on this asset plus because right now you only have oil demand for it.
And so we will allow the chance to drill vertical gas and vertical oil with it and so we will keep a core group of them the ones in real good shape try to sell the ones along the fringe that we don’t feel like we have chances of keeping hardly utilize.
And I would say that’s probably another four to six rigs potentially in that range.
At the most.
Yeah at the most.
Okay perfect.
And then I think you had mentioned just sort of off-hand there that you had seen some pockets of strength recently there maybe you had seen some days were you able to increase on success in current tracks could you elaborate on that at all? We've got Don (Inaudible) he is the man that does it so I'll let him comment a second.
The part of that is that Marcellus has been adjustment on some pricing in that market and also in addition I associate that with the gas pricing helping a little bit utilization or the market out there has been pretty well.
Relatively holding flat out there and then the Golf Coast market there has been a little stimulus there when it comes to pricing readjustment on some pricing that either hold them flat or have increased slightly.
Yeah some of those Eagle Ford rates got pretty competitive there and in the fourth quarter early first quarter where the rates dropped I would say in the 19 even some in the 18 level and for the most part would say those have kind of gone back up to the 19 20 level at the floor.
Correct.
Just everybody was assessed and what was going on in the market pricing wise and now there is stabilization reassessment value added on what’s out there and the prices have adjusted accordingly.
So I don’t see any market other than West Texas on the mechanical vertical rigs where we really have pricing pressure on drilling do you Don? I agree with that.
So things pretty stable and opportunity for improvement.
Perfect.
Well that’s it from me guys thanks.
Okay thank you.
Our next question is a follow up from the line of John Daniel please go ahead.
Hey guys thanks for putting me back in.
Just one quick follow up on the production services.
Lorne the margins there you get back to 2011 and part of 2012 just historically they're sort of low of 40% gross margins and then the last several quarters were sort of high 30% I mean if you look out beyond the guides that you did just something structurally different that weren’t new normal if you were on sort of the mid high 30s or is there anything out there like a big pricing increase that will take effect to the historical levels? Well we have had some impact related to wireline pricing which is I think kept it from getting to that 40% plus level.
I think that’s the biggest contributor I think if you had the stabilization there and if you can get some pricing benefit back in the say second half of the year either in wireline or coil or both.
I think that could give you some potential to get back there but that’s probably what you need.
I think well servicing as we talked about is going to be pretty stable and maybe some opportunity but it's really probably going to be done by pricing in wireline and coil.
And rig count is really what cause that I mean we had the declining rig count in Q3 Q4 of last year that’s persisted into this first part of this year.
And so if rig counts starts moving upward in the back half of this year then all of these businesses will have a chance to get their pricing back.
We think about the Bakken as an example that rig counts come in quite a bit so all those wireline units are chasing those top downs on the fewer number of rigs so the pricing has come down per stage pretty significantly but is stabilized now.
So the rig count picks up another 20 30 40 50 rigs that’s you're back into very favorable pricing situation.
Okay thanks guys.
Okay thank you.
That does conclude the Q&amp;A session.
I would now like to turn the call back over to management for closing remarks.
Okay.
Well those are good questions we appreciate everybody's participation on the call today and we will look forward to the second quarter call.
Thank you very much.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes the Pioneer Energy Services First Quarter Earnings conference call information for accessing the replay is available in this morning's press release.
ACT would like to thank you for your participation you may now disconnect.
Good day ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by.
Welcome to the Pioneer Energy Services Second Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
During today's presentation all parties will be in a listen-only mode.
Following the presentation the conference will be open for questions.
(Operator Instructions).
This conference is being recorded today Tuesday July 30 2013.
I would now like to turn the conference over to our host Ms.
Anne Pearson of Dennard - Lascar.
Please go ahead ma'am.
Thank you and good morning everyone.
Before I turn the call over to Pioneer CEO Stacy Locke and CFO Lorne Phillips for their formal remarks I have a few of the usual items I need to cover.
First of all a replay of today’s call will be available and is accessible via webcast by going to the Investor Relations section of Pioneer’s website and also by telephone replay.
You can find the replay information for both in this morning’s earnings news release.
As a reminder information reported on this call speaks only as of today July 30 2013.
So any time-sensitive information may no longer be accurate at the time of a replay.
Management may make forward-looking statements today that are based on their beliefs and assumptions and information currently available to them.
Although they think the expectations reflected in these statements are reasonable they can give no assurance they’ll prove to be correct.
They are subject to certain risks and uncertainties and assumptions described in this morning’s new release and also in recent public filings with the SEC.
If one or more of these risks materialize or should underlying assumptions prove to be incorrect actual results may differ materially.
Also please note that this conference call may contain references to non-GAAP measures.
You’ll find a reconciliation to the GAAP measures in this morning’s news release.
Now I’d like to turn the call over to Stacy Locke Pioneer’s President and CEO.
Stacy? Thank you Anne and good morning everybody.
Joining here in San Antonio this morning is Red West President of our Drilling Services segment; Joe Eustace President of our Production Services segment; and Lorne Phillips our Chief Financial Officer.
As you can see from this morning’s press release we have decided to take a $45 million impairment charge on our Go Coil acquisition from December 2011.
As we previously talked about operations in our coil tubing business are improving just too slowly to support the $110 million purchase price paid.
I would actually say that today I am more optimistic about coil tubing prospects than I have been at any time over the past year.
We have made many personnel changes equipment changes process improvements and are building a solid base of clients here over time and we are absolutely committed to the coil tubing business over the long term and firmly believe that it will be a profitable business as our well service and our wireline businesses have been.
Now taking a look at the quarter excluding the coil tubing write off we had a very nice second quarter.
Revenues were up 8% overall particularly from our production service segment which was up 14% and EBITDA also improved by 14% during the quarter to $64 million.
So overall a very nice quarter.
In addition we held the line on expenses and capital expenditures and were able to begin paying down on our debt as we talked about for a number of quarters now.
We paid $10 million down during the quarter and another $10 million in July.
So we are very pleased about that.
Looking at our diluted earnings per share without the write off we would have been $0.2 for the quarter.
Looking into our drilling services segment overall the segment performed very well in the quarter.
Utilization continued to be a surprise at the high end at 87% despite losing three of the earning but not working rigs in west Texas from the utilization at the end of the quarter in June.
Our margin as well at 88.41 was considerably higher than we had anticipated.
A lot of that is somewhat artificial in that it was onetime benefits like the contribution from the earnings but not working.
I think we underestimated their contribution during the quarter.
And then we had fuel reimbursement and some other onetime thing.
So we will adjust that down accordingly as we go forward here.
Overall the rig fleet performed very very well.
We’re running less than 2% downtime fleet wide and that’s including downtime on the many top drives that we have on these rigs.
That is extremely good performance.
Most of the new-build rigs are running less than half of 1% downtime so they are just doing exceptionally well and there are also performing pad drilling moves exceptionally well.
Release to spud on these pad moves is generally less than 12 hours for across the board and many under 12 hours.
That's release nipple up test and go back and they work on the next call so really outstanding performance.
Equally as good are the 7500 PSI fluid in mud systems we put on matched up with the 2000 horsepower mud pump packages that we have on eight of the 10 rigs six of those in the Bakken one in Utah and one in Eagle Ford and these systems have really given us a competitive advantage.
We've now drilled along this lateral so far in Utah and we've drilled some of the record lateral wells in the Bakken one a little over 15 000 foot lateral.
These mud pump packages and mud systems with our program the operators can run a continuous pressure at 5000 PSI and greater which is what allows for this good penetration rate out in these long laterals and it just gives us really a competitive advantage for these new AC rigs.
We have quite a bit of good comparative performance data in many of the areas that we operate in and our engineering staff looks at that and I would say that we consistently perform in the areas where we work in at the top of the pack and that's not just our AC joystick rigs but our SER rigs and some of our top drawer mechanical rigs as well.
So we're really pleased with how everything is running on the drilling side.
When you look at utilization the few pockets of issues that we have we've talked about in the past East Texas is hit or miss currently it's pretty dead West Texas has become a little softer on the vertical side the vertical drilling for oil but we have put three rigs back to work since our last conference call.
We’re running 78% utilization there but it is a little pocket of weakness.
The other pocket of weakness is with our 60 series style rig which is the 1000 horsepower trailer managed rig that we originally built for the Barnett shale when they were drilling 3000 to 4000 foot laterals and you went to base them early on and basically the depth and lease the laterals are just outgrowing these rigs' capability.
Now we have a total of nine of them two were down in Utah one other one will be going down in Utah and then we had one go down in East Texas but we still have five more that are working and I would say it's a challenge keeping those 60 series rigs busy.
South Texas is another area where we're not really at a 100% utilization but we average anywhere from 75% to 100% just depending on the timing but generally those things stay pretty busy too.
And in Columbia we were 92% utilized in the quarter.
That was mostly just waiting on location otherwise we would have been a 100% utilized had another very strong quarter of margins drilling margin per day and so Columbia continues to be a bright spot for us.
Also kind of at the request of some of our clients we continue to upgrade some of these rigs.
Currently we're adding walking systems to four of our SER rigs one we've already done and put out in the field.
We got another one in process that will move out here shortly and then we've got a third one that will go into the Eagle Ford and then we're beginning a walking system on our rig in the Bakken.
So that's a total of four that we will do this year.
With the walking system we usually put a well we do put a festooned system on it to keep it cabling nice and neat and track along as the rig walks and BOP and line equipment.
And in exchange for coming out of pocket for these costs we usually get an improvement on the day rate and some form of termed to help offset the cost.
But the rigs are performing well.
The clients want to continue using us using the SER rig as opposed to picking up an AC rig that already has a walking system and so we feel like that these will keep these rigs very competitive for a long time to come.
Turning now to the production services segment going by our three core business well service toward a 109 rigs very solid performance 92% utilization in the quarter over $600 an hour.
Margins are very firm generally have anywhere from six to 12 rigs on 24 hour work which really amounts to about a fifth of our working hours.
Revenue and EBITDA were both up in the quarter.
Wireline 118 units.
We still have two skid units coming for offshore that we ordered at the end of last year.
We’ve made some modifications to those and so they've been delayed a little bit but they're coming pretty soon now.
There the activity levels have been good pricing has been firm margins have been basically firm with a slight downward bias.
That's mostly due to just a few areas that are not performing as well as some of the other ones.
But having said that revenue and EBITDA were both up in the quarter.
Coil tubing that really already addressed by 13 units profitability is slowly improving and we are absolutely seeing some bright spots for the future there in coil tubing.
Now let me turn the call over to Lorne to give you a financial recap.
Thanks Stacy Stacy already went over the EBITDA EPS and the impairment.
So I'll start by talking about drilling services where the revenue was up 4% from the prior quarter to $138.3 million.
Again based on the strong utilization of 87% and inclusive benefit of all our new build rigs working for the entire quarter.
Margin per day was 8 841 up from 8 258 in the prior quarter.
The increase was driven the strong utilization more efficient operations from the new build rigs revenue from the earning not working rigs of 1.8 million fuel reimbursement we negotiated in Colombia and a $0.8 million gain from the sale of two rigs.
In Colombia all eight rigs worked during the quarter although one of the rigs generated revenue for only one month as planned.
And the revenue in Colombia was $30.6 million during the quarter which included the fuel reimbursement.
As we’ve mentioned in the last call we sold two mechanical rigs during the quarter which leaves our count at 70 drilling riggings.
Currently 60 of our 70 drilling rigs are generating revenue including 43 under term contracts.
One of those rigs is earning but not working.
During the quarter the revenue from rigs earnings but not working totaled 4.8 million and we expect that number to be down to approximately 800 000 in the third quarter.
Of the 37 rigs working on term contracts in the U.S.
six are up for renewal this quarter nine in the fourth quarter 10 in the first quarter of 2015 and 12 expire beyond that point.
The percentage of the total Company’s gross margin from non-top drive mechanical rigs in the second quarter was approximately 11% and if you include all mechanical rigs in the fleet that number is approximately 15% of the total Company’s gross margin.
Turning now to production services the revenue increased 14% to $110.1 million due primarily to the seasonal benefit we typically experience in late spring.
Gross margin for production services was $39.8 million which is up 10% versus the first quarter.
Margin as a percentage of revenue dipped slightly to 36.2% from 37.4% in the prior quarter.
As Stacy mentioned this is due to some modest activity and related pricing pressure in certain markets and also some slight inflation in labor cost in some of our businesses as result of the higher activity levels.
Our utilization for well servicing increased to 92% from 89% in the prior quarter.
Utilization of our coil tubing units was 46% compared to 41% in the prior quarter and 61% in the year earlier quarter.
The average rate per hour for well servicing was 606 up from 596 in the prior quarter while pricing for both wireline and coil tubing was flat or slightly down.
Looking at our company wide expense trends for the second quarter interest expense was $12.3 million and increase of approximately $900 000.
Capitalized interest was less than $100 000 compared with about $800 000 in the first quarter.
Interest expense is expected to be flat for the third quarter.
General and administrative expense was $23.8 million in the second quarter and we expect G&amp;A to be in the $24 million range again in the third quarter.
Depreciation and amortization was $47.3 million up approximately $1 million sequentially as a result of the recent fleet additions.
We expect third quarter depreciation to be around $48 million.
Our effective tax rate for the quarter is 36.6% and excluding the impact of currency gains or losses we continue to expect a tax rate of 38% to 40%.
Looking now at our balance sheet we had cash and cash equivalence of $17.6 million at June 30th and a $130 million outstanding under our revolving credit facility.
We paid down an additional $10 million in July.
So our current outstanding balance on the revolver is $120 million.
With our capital spending requirements declining significantly we expect to continue paying down the revolver in the second half of the year.
CapEx spending in the second quarter was $41 million down from $71 million in the first quarter.
Our full year estimate of CapEx pending remains $140 million to $160 million.
And with that I’ll turn back over Stacy.
Thank you Lorne.
As we look out over the rest of this year I would say that we see a fairly good market ahead of us.
I say we still hold out hope that we’ll see capital budgets turned upwards a little bit towards the end of the year.
Hopefully that will impact rig count a little bit that we’ll have to wait and see but we’re cautiously optimistic there.
When you look at our business specifically first looking at our drilling we do know we’ve got some rigs coming down.
As I already mentioned two more of the 60 series rigs we have two down now so two more coming down that will be four of the nine.
We think we have another rig in West Texas possibly coming down; our East Texas units are down now.
So with that in mind understanding that these are kind of our lower end units and therefore lower margin contribution units we are going to revise our guidance on utilization downward to 78% to 82% for the drilling segment.
Margin I would say we're looking at it being flattish but that's after adjusting for about $1 000 a day in these one-time related expenses that Lorne detailed a second ago.
So we're bringing our guidance down to margins of 7 600 to 8 000 a day which are more or less the guidance that we originally had for the second quarter before these one-time expenses and for recognizing that the earning but not working rigs were contributing more than we thought.
Turning to the production services business the outlook looks good.
Our June quarter as we reviewed was good and particularly good for the environment we're in.
We expect well servicing to continue to be solid wireline to continue to be solid coil tubing flat to improving and therefore we're going to guide the overall production service business revenue and margins roughly flat with maybe a little risk on margins to the downside but not much.
So with that I will conclude the remarks and open to questions at this time.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions).
Our first question comes from the line of John Keller with Stephens.
Please go ahead sir.
Stacy you had talked about I think on last quarter's call about seeing some pockets of opportunity or at least maybe some firming of pricing in the land rig business.
Just if you could give us an update on what you are seeing out there sort of real time on a spot basis? Obviously you are bidding all these contract rules into the market I presume and just kind of directionally and qualitatively what's going on with day rates out there? Well it varies a little bit by region but I would say that the AC joystick rigs that are coming off term there is quite a bit of variability quite honestly.
For us I would say that we're seeing those rigs kind of come in the 20 23 to 25 range on reprising.
I have heard of others offering up the AC joystick rigs quite a bit lower than that just because they have got ongoing build programs.
But we've been able to hold our rates well there and then you look at your FCR rigs; I would say that when you look across the regions including the Eagle Ford I would say those range from 20 000 to 23 000 a day for the FCR rigs.
I would day the mechanical rigs with top drives are probably in the 17 to 19 range and the mechanical rigs without top drives probably in the 14 to 16 range more or less.
So that's kind of where we are.
I would say that the day rates are I would say pretty firm.
It's fairly competitive in certain markets on the high end rigs just because of competitors continuing to rollout new builds.
They have got to do something with them and they have a number of ACE new builds that are op-term contracts they have got to put it in the market as well.
So we're seeing some activity there that's putting a little pressure on rates.
But so far we've faired very well.
Got it.
And then just to turn into your outlook a little bit.
It sounds like you are cautiously optimistic about maybe some rig counts improving in the back half of the year and as we enter 2014.
But assuming I guess you noted in the press release four to five rigs that you don't expect to renew here in the third quarter I guess that would take you to about 54 or 55 active rigs something in that range.
I mean do you think that is kind of the bottom or is there further downside risk to that as you kind of sit here today.
I think that's the bottom from what we see.
Everything else is vibrant and busy if things are going to come down we certainly don't see them at this point at all.
So I think that's kind of the bottom for us.
And some of that can be improved as we move towards the winter if gas prices firm up because a number of those are kind of gas related as well.
So if gas strengthens a little bit we may be able to do better than that.
But I would say that’s kind of flow.
Our next question comes from the line of Jason Wrangler with Wunderlich Securities.
Please go ahead.
Just curious in Columbia what you’re seeing obviously been great for the last couple of quarters.
As we get in the third and fourth do you see the performance continuing as the historic has been? As far as we know it will continue and continue on into 2014.
It’s going very well.
We’re doing good business where the rates are at a very acceptable level.
We expect the contracts to be renewed going into 2014 possibly for longer term again.
So best we could tell that outlook is positive.
Great and then just on the coil tubing side with the struggles you guys have had could you maybe just elaborate or maybe talk about is there thoughts of moving some units around or what’s the plan of trying this utilization higher in the tough market that we’re in? Well I would say our safest area for that business has been Louisiana onshore and offshore.
And all but six units are over there.
And the utilization has been pretty steady there.
Four of those are in the offshore maintenance market and those rates are little lower.
But overall those markets have been pretty firm.
Where we’ve been hurt has been in lower utilization in Oklahoma and the Eagle Ford and we are evaluating exactly what you’re pointing out there.
We see opportunity to reduce cost and focus on areas with the greatest upside and that’s what we’re doing.
So we’re definitely taking action on many fronts there and that’s why I am optimistic about what we see over the next four quarters.
(Operator Instructions).
Our next question comes from the line of Emmett Wright.
Please go ahead sir.
Year-to-date you spent about $112 million.
Now you’ve projected $140 million to $160 million in CapEx.
Can you describe the type of assets that you may be acquiring with the $30 million to $50 million remaining CapEx for the year? Mostly going to be retained in maintenance.
So as you look forward I mean Stacy did mentioned we’re putting some walking systems on.
So include some of that.
We have some a little bit of payments left on the wireline skid units but that’s not really consequential.
And then the majority will just be routine in maintenances.
We’ve taken delivery of all of our units.
And so I would say walking systems the upgrade items as Stacy mentioned and routine maintenance are the primary use of funds for the rest of the year.
And looking back on a year-to-date basis on the roughly $112 million you’ve spent can you likewise break that out by maintenance? We spent $32 million on routine and maintenance year-to-date and approximately $41 million on the new builds on the drilling rig new builds and then another probably $4 million on production service items fleet additions and then the remainder would be items such as facilities some other walking systems that have been installed some higher horsepower pumps some wireline tools items like that catwalks.
And at this point in time looking into 2014 have you offered a CapEx budget and if so how fluid is that? We have not presented a CapEx budget for 2014.
It is fluid at this time.
But a primary focus that we’ve set for some time now is to make sure that we’re able to be in a position to continue paying down our revolver and deal with reducing our total debt in 2014.
So when you look to that land it obviously impacts how we look at CapEx spending in ’14.
The new build rig expenditures that we had in the first quarter so that won’t be there.
And in conclusion what does the ideal capital structure look like for you on a longer term basis? We’ve talked about targeting in two times total debt to EBITDA or less and we’ve talked about wanting to get our total debt down to a $250 million to $300 million level in total and we feel like we can achieve that in time.
It would be a 2014 event.
That’s what we’ve talked about.
Our next question comes from the line of Michael Cerasoli with Goldman Sachs.
Please go ahead sir.
Let me ask that CapEx question just a different way.
It seems like your first half run rate for a routine and maintenance is around $15 million.
It seems like the back half for the year you’ll be somewhere along those lines.
So if you just kind of think about that in 2014 terms is a good base for CapEx around $60 million and then kind of on that we’re not sure exactly what the growth CapEx will look like is that a good base for just a routine and maintenance portion of 2014.
Michael I think I would use $65 million to $75 million for routine and maintenance but it maybe a little bit high on the $75 million side.
Obviously it’s activity dependent.
So if utilization dropped off it would come down a little bit but I think that number should be fine.
I think also you may have some additional walking systems that you need add or some catwalks but wouldn’t be many.
So I don’t know it would be little bit more than the $65 million to $75 million at this point but that's about what I could say right now routine and maintenance $65 million to $75 million we have some on related to some of that other equipment I was just talking about and you'd also have probably some wireline tools and things but those are not much.
So it will be a reduced number.
That’s very helpful and just real quick on the drilling your new build area.
Remember you guys talked about overtime they would become more efficient and the earnings power of those 10 new builds would grow et cetera.
But from what it sounds like you got some very low down time on those rigs.
So does that statement still hold up and kind of just thinking maybe orders of in magnitude or just exactly how much kind of efficiency you can still extract out of those rigs and maybe if you can explain how you will get those efficiencies it might be helpful too.
They’re already performing well now.
What we were really referring to it when those rigs first come out their cost run higher in the first two to four five months somewhere in there.
They is just a higher level of expense associated with them when they first come out.
Now that was more so on the earlier rigs and the later rigs that were brought out but I say they’re pretty lined out already right now doing well.
(Operator Instructions).
Our next question comes from the line of Travis Bartlett with Simmons &amp; Company.
Please go ahead sir.
Couple of quick one's for you just wanted to get the update on well servicing.
It seems like pricing is been pretty firm for the past couple of quarters.
Do you have any expectations for pricing increases going forward and if not what do you think it takes to the next step higher here.
Well it’s hard to say it depends on if activity levels pick up a little bit definitely if there is opportunity for some pricing improvement there but I would say that in the market we’re seeing right now we’re looking fairly flattish I would say.
Maybe a slight upward bias that we really need activity levels to increase little more reach out for that to really strengthen.
And then second one here when you think about the guidance where production services and the flat to down margins there quarter-over-quarter what’s driving that possible down ticking margin sequentially.
Is that from wire line thinking about Q3 margins? It’s primarily from wireline we just have a few pockets there that are weak and we’re just trying to see how those will maybe improve over the going forward here but right now they’re kind of weak.
Some of that is gas related.
In some cases its customer related where we had a big customer doing lot of the work and they’re doing some different now.
But we just put that in there.
It’s a possibility it could go down slightly.
Mr.
Locke.
There are no further questions in the queue at this time.
Please continue with your closing remarks.
Okay.
That concludes the second quarter call and we appreciate everybody’s participation.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen.
This concludes the Pioneer Energy Services Second Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
If you would like to listen to our replay of today’s conference the information was included in today’s press release.
ACT would like to thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and thank you for standing by.
Welcome to the Pioneer Energy Services Third Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
During today's presentation all parties will be in a listen-only mode.
Following the presentation the conference will be open for questions.
(Operator Instructions) This conference is being recorded today October 30 2013.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Anne Pearson.
Please go ahead ma'am.
Thank you George and good morning everyone.
Before I turn the call over to Stacy Locke and Lorne Phillips for their formal remarks I have a few of the usual items I need to cover.
First of all a replay of today’s call will be available and accessible by webcast by going to the IR section of Pioneer’s website and also by telephone replay.
You can find all the replay information for both in this morning’s news release.
Also as a reminder information recorded on this call speaks only as of today October 30 2013 so any time sensitive information may no longer be accurate at the time of a replay.
Management may make forward-looking statements today that are based on their beliefs and assumptions and information that’s currently available to them.
While they think these expectations reflected in these statements are reasonable they can give no assurance they’ll prove to be correct.
They are subject to certain risks and uncertainties and assumptions described in the news release and also in recent public filings with the SEC.
If one or more materializes or should underlying assumptions prove to be incorrect actual results may differ materially.
Also please note that this conference call may contain certain references to non-GAAP measures.
You’ll find a reconciliation to GAAP measures in this morning’s news release.
And now I’d like to turn the call over to Stacy Locke Pioneer’s President and CEO.
Stacy? Thank you Anne and good morning.
I appreciate everyone joining our third quarter call.
Joining me here in the conference room is Red West President of our Drilling Services segment and Lorne Phillips our Chief Financial Officer.
As you can see from this morning's press release we had a very solid third quarter.
Revenue of $244 million EBITDA of $60 million and breakeven net earnings when you net out the impairment on the drilling rigs.
We made progress on several of our key initiatives during the quarter.
We kept a very tight rein on capital spending allowing us to further reduce indebtedness since the beginning of the quarter and including our October payments by another $25 million.
We also saw another quarter of relative stability in our coil tubing business.
Still nowhere near where we wanted it to be but directionally it is getting subtly better and we are still optimistic that we will continue to improve that business.
And then also during the quarter we were -- or just after the quarter we were able to successfully sell another eight of our mechanical rig fleet.
These were rigs that had been stacked for a pretty good period of time that we felt like we were not going to have an opportunity to put to work in the near term and so we just recently sold those thus the impairment.
So that now is a total of 18 mechanical rigs including a lot of our lower horsepower rigs that have been sold in the last two years.
As we sit today with the remaining 82 rig fleet -- excuse me 62 rig fleet 74% of those remaining rigs are capable of drilling the horizontal plays and the majority of those are contracted in doing exactly that.
Looking down at our production services segment.
Both wireline and well services had record quarters in terms of revenue helping our production service segment overall achieve a 3% increase in revenue on a stable 36% operating margin.
Wireline has had a very steady couple of quarters in a row with higher average revenue per job which is in part as a result of a changing mix of the business to in an increased amount of plug and perf completion work as opposed to pricing improvement.
However I would say companywide pricing is stable in wireline.
On the well servicing front we continue to perform very very well.
Another quarter of high utilization and 90% with actually a modestly improved average hourly rate of $628 an hour which was up from $606 in the second quarter.
And they achieved not only their greatest revenue in any quarter but their greatest EBITDA ever in this quarter.
So we are really pleased with that success.
Coil tubing was actually off a little bit in revenue and EBITDA relative to the second quarter but utilization was an improved 53%.
We have had to adjust some pricing in the onshore market which has helped utilization and that’s also helping us build up a steady client base in that market that we feel like is important.
We have taken some of that pricing power back and some modest increases and we will continue to try to do that.
Soon probably in December we will be operating our two and three-eighths coil in the offshore market and we believe that space is considerably less oversupplied than the two inch coil market.
So we are excited about those prospects for 2014.
Turning now to the drilling services segment.
It was off 5% in revenue and over 10% in EBITDA quarter-over-quarter but that is in a large part due to having a tough comparative quarter.
You know as we talked about in the second quarter call we had some one time benefits that materially helped the second quarter in that you had the earning and not working rigs and some fuel reimbursement done in Colombia that for the most part dropped right to the bottom line.
But outside of that drilling had a very solid quarter both in the U.S.
and in Colombia.
Utilization was down a bit and that was mostly due to the stacked mechanical rigs the majority of which were in West Texas though we had a few sprinkled at other places and those have now been sold.
Average margin per day was also off a little bit compared to the second quarter mostly for the reasons that we have already talked about the fuel reimbursement and the earning but not working rigs.
Colombia was actually off quarter-over-quarter in margin as well and that was largely due to cost associated with stacking out a couple of rigs.
One on a temporary basis that is actually on a contract and expected to go out in the next week or so and then the other one is stacked looking for work at the present time.
Seven of the eight rigs in Colombia are contracted including the rig that is about to go out is waiting on location to be completed.
And we operated at 90% utilization for the quarter in Colombia.
Six of the rigs in [indiscernible] field are up for renewal at the end of this year and we are in the kind of customary negotiations to renew these rigs.
However this year our client is desiring all of its contractors to enter a new contract form that runs more services through the contractor which is making this current process a little bit more challenged.
But I would say we are still optimistic about the outcome.
We have been through the renewal process many many times over our six years in Colombia and it's always turned out pretty favorably.
So we are hopeful that that will be the results again this year.
Looking at the rest of the United States.
Our rigs are performing extremely.
We are 100% utilized in the Marcellus Shale with four rigs.
We are 100% utilized in the Bakken with 11 rigs.
We are 92% utilized in our South Texas division which incorporates the Eagle Ford Shale with 13 rigs.
Therefore we have just one rig down in that market today.
89% utilized in the Permian Basin with 18 rigs which means two rigs are down.
71% utilized in the Uinta Basin with a total of seven rigs.
There again two rigs down.
And then we have one stacked rig in East Texas.
So in total seven of our 62 rigs are currently stacked as of today and 69% of those working rigs are operating on a term contract.
So at this point I would like to turn the call over to Lorne to go over some financials and then I will end it with some guidance.
Thanks Stacy.
This morning we reported consolidated revenues of $244 million and adjusted EBITDA of $59.4 million.
We reported a net loss of $6.2 million or $0.10 a share in the third quarter which includes a $9.5 million impairment primarily on the sale of eight idle mechanical drilling rigs.
As Stacy mentioned if you exclude the impairment we had an adjusted net loss of $0.2 million or breakeven earnings per share.
Revenues in the drilling segment were down 5% from the second quarter to $131 million driven by the two items Stacy discussed.
There was a reduction of $4.4 million quarter-over-quarter and revenue related to rigs that were earning standby day rates but not working.
Second in the second quarter we also had the benefit of $1.8 million of fuel cost reimbursements in Colombia that we did not have in the third quarter.
If you eliminate the impact of those two items from the second quarter our drilling revenues would have been down approximately $1 million quarter-over-quarter.
Average drilling rig utilization in the third quarter was 80%.
Removing the eight rigs we sold from the third quarter calculation that number would have been 89% which is also our current utilization.
Drilling margin per day was 8056 and the decline in margin per day is mainly due to the same two items that impacted revenue.
With the sale of the eight rigs we now have 62 drilling rigs.
Of these 55 are earning revenues and 38 are under term contract.
Breaking out more detail on the term contracts.
Six are in Colombia under contract to the end of 2013 and as Stacy mentioned we are negotiating to renew those rigs.
In the U.S.
five rigs are up for renewal in the fourth quarter ten in the first quarter of next year and three in the second quarter of 2014 and 14 expire beyond that point.
The percentage of the total company's gross margin from non-top drive mechanical rigs in the third quarter was approximately 5%.
If you include all mechanical rigs that number is approximately 11%.
Looking at production services.
Revenues increased 3% to $112.9 million.
Gross profit was $41 million also up 3% from the second quarter.
Gross margin was 36.3% flat with the prior quarter.
Looking now at companywide expenses for the third quarter.
Interest expense was flat at $12.3 million.
We expect the fourth quarter interest expense to be approximately $12 million.
G&amp;A expense was flat at $23.9 million and is expected to be in the $23 million to $24 million range again in the fourth quarter.
Depreciation and amortization expense was $47.4 million also flat versus the prior quarter.
In this fourth quarter this expense is estimated to be around $47 million to $48 million.
Our effective tax rate for the third quarter was 36.7% and excluding the impact of currency gains or losses we continue to expect the tax rate in the neighborhood of 38% to 40%.
Turning now to the balance sheet.
Cash totaled $17.1 million at the end of the third quarter and we had $115 million outstanding on our revolving credit facility as of September 30.
An additional $10 million was paid in October which puts our current total outstanding under our revolver at $105 million.
Since the beginning of June we have reduced the outstanding balance under our credit facility by $35 million and we are positioned to continue to make meaningful reductions in our debt level over the next several quarters.
Capital spending in the third quarter totaled $26 million down from $41 million in the prior quarter.
We expect full year CapEx to be the in $165 million range up from our previous guidance of $140 million to $160 million.
To help secure term drilling contracts we invested in additional walking systems and other upgrades for certain drilling rigs which lead to slightly more 2013 CapEx than originally forecasted.
We are still developing our capital spending plan for next year but it should be substantially lower than in 2013.
Our preliminary expectation is for the 2014 CapEx budget to be approximately $100 million or a little higher with around $65 million to $75 million representing routine and maintenance spending.
And with that I will turn it back over to Stacy.
Thank you Lorne.
I think as we look out into 2014 I think we believe that unquestionably it will be a very active year barring some unexpected decline in oil prices.
I think the question that exists out there is what's going to happen with capital spending.
I think we are of the belief that capital spending on average will be greater in '14 than it was in '13 and possibly will cause rig count to improve.
I think we lean in that direction.
It's hard to know at this point.
We did not see that occur in '13 but with improved spending and from what we are hearing from a number of our clients we have a number that are planning to pickup in rig counts.
Some going lower but I think the majority are holding the same or increasing the rig count for '14.
So we are cautiously optimistic.
And if that occurs we feel like that will lead to some pricing improvement opportunities in not only just drilling but all of our core businesses.
You know and I would I tell you that generally in the production service side I think it's pretty indisputable that that’s going to be very active side of the market as well for '14.
So for our fourth quarter I think our guidance leans a little to the conservative side but we do have some unknowns in the quarter and that’s why we have guided where we have guided.
If you look at drilling we are guiding 84% to 87% in the fourth quarter as opposed to the 89% that we have today.
And that’s largely because we feel that there is some risk for one or two more rigs in West Texas possibly going down.
Another rig possibly going down Utah.
But we are currently marketing these rigs and things change on a regular basis there and overall I would say in the Permian the market is pretty solid right now.
In terms of margin per day we are forecasting 7500 to 7900 in margin per day versus the 8059 that we experienced in the third quarter.
And that would be the result of downward movements in some rigs on pricing.
One area that we had pricing pressure has been in the Bakken mostly due to peers competing on pricing there very very aggressively.
Trying to kind of buy market share.
We have not had to lower our pricing anything close to what they are bidding but we have had to come down some.
And we continue to perform very well.
We haven't lost any rigs there we don’t anticipate losing any rigs there.
But it has put a little bit of a downward pressure on the pricing.
Hopefully that will become more favorable next year but.
And then in few select cases in other parts of the country we have had some of the pricing adjustments.
But that’s what we are forecasting for the margin that it will come down due to the full realization of some of the downshifts we have made on pricing.
Looking on the production services side.
We are forecasting a decline in revenue which is customary for the fourth quarter.
79% in total with a margin decline of perhaps 1% to 2%.
I would say 5% to 6% of that is normal seasonality.
But we have added a couple of few percent on top of that because we had some cases where clients have discussed that they front-end loaded their budgets in '13 and we have seen a few indications of clients starting to slow down into this fourth quarter already which we fear could impact it a little or exacerbate it a little greater than the normal seasonality.
So that’s the logic behind our forecasting.
I hope it proves to be conservative but I feel like we have got it fairly well covered.
So that concludes our prepared remarks.
We would be happy to entertain any questions that you have.
(Operator Instructions) Our first question is from Brian Uhlmer with Global Hunter.
Please go ahead.
I had a couple of quick ones.
First one on your decrease in production services for Q4 is that primarily utilization or is that going to have some price effect as well on your hourly rate? I would say it's mostly utilization with some modest price deterioration.
Okay.
And following up on that cue was there a mix impact to help you on price in this quarter? Was there a specific basin or is there something that led to this nice price increase number one? And number two how do you see that holding up as we go through '14 on that hourly rate? Well on well servicing the hourly rate has run very very high.
In this quarter the third quarter it was the highest we have seen ever.
There that is a mix.
There is mix associated with that and if that mix changes which we would anticipate that it would during the quarter just as people slowdown some of that 24-hour work.
That that we could see a little bit of pricing pull -- what would appear to be a pricing pullback which in reality is more of a mix adjustment.
But we also see a utilization pullback there in this quarter which is seasonal.
And then as I mentioned previously there could be a little early spending on budget that may cause it to pull back a little further than normal.
On the wireline front I think that the same is true.
We probably increased our mix here of late in the plug and perf market which causes revenues to go up costs go up too.
But we have seen a little bit more of that in this third quarter in particular and that will probably continue into the fourth quarter.
Okay.
Then for 2014 do you think you can hold above 620 or even go above that for '14 as we get through the year or get back on the...? On the well servicing front I think...
On the [indiscernible]? Yeah on the well servicing front I think that I would say that -- I would say on average we think that the low 600s would be a floor and that there is a lot more upside than there is downside.
You know the space is still underserved.
We want to add more equipment to that market but we are trying to get some debt paid down first.
But it's a very very strong market.
We think it will probably be stronger in '14 than '13 which would allow us to move the pricing a little bit.
Perfect.
And a quick question.
My second question is on Colombia.
Curious on the contract.
Does that imply that your revenues are going to go up and your margins are going to go down? You are going to have more pass-throughs or what were you trying to point us to in regards to the contract negotiations with more services being included? Well that was more a truth and lending clause.
You know they are just a change here.
We have had the same contract for a number of years down there and it's what we know and has worked well for us.
And this is quite a bit of different and I don’t know whether in the end that this contract is going to be the form that people sign because it is extremely complex and adds a number of variables in there and other services that we are not -- we don’t customarily run through our side of the business.
And I think there is a lot of resistance to the contract for them.
And so I wanted to point it out because it is something new and different.
We have faced challenging negotiations in the past in the country.
This is no different than the past but it does involve this new contract form.
But to answer your question specifically if we do move to the form for sure revenues will go up significantly but I don’t yet know what margins would do.
You know because of increased cost and potentially even risk to the contractor the margins could go up.
We are just in that stage of trying to -- there is a lot of Q&amp;A going back and forth between the various contractors and Ecopetrol on this contract from and so we don’t -- it's so complex that to me it's hard to see how it can be resolved prior to year-end.
But I don’t know.
It possibly could.
They say that’s what they would like.
So that’s the way we are proceeding on it.
Thank you.
And next we have Dave Wilson with Howard Weil.
Please go ahead.
I know you guys have been very focused on debt reduction but given the asset sales the underutilized rigs and competitors that continue to build new rigs how far are you guys in the process of evaluating further newbuilds? Is that something on the docket for 2014 especially given Lorne your comments on CapEx? The difference between maintenance and what you all [probably] expect to spend next year? Well I would say that we have had opportunities to bid newbuilds and we have basically passed on them.
I think the opportunity for us due to the performance of the rigs that we have put out is a good opportunity.
But we need to get some debt reduced before we are ready to start signing contracts.
So we don’t know the timing of that yet but I would say at the earliest it will be kind of the middle of next year or later if at all in '14.
And the terms and conditions too aren't quite as favorable presently due to a lot of our peers offering equipment as I mentioned earlier in my comment about the Bakken there is a number of our peers that are trying to gain their market share back and they are bidding very competitively.
So we don’t have as many bullets to fire so want to make sure that each one counts and we have a very good contract with excellent terms and conditions in order for us to spend that kind of money.
So I think it's going to be a more favorable pricing or contracting environment late in '14 and into '15 than it is today.
So I don’t feel like we have missed a lot but we certainly could have probably been building on a rig or two or three already just due to the success of our newbuild program.
Lorne do you want to add any -- to that on the debt? Well I just think we are extremely focused on that to your point David.
And we definitely view probably the whole year but definitely the first half of the year as the primary focus being reducing the debt.
And so I would just second Stacy's comments.
Great.
Thanks for that guys.
And then also you have been providing guidance for the quarters immediately ahead.
And I know fourth quarter has some seasonality in particular on the production service side.
So wanted to go a little further out and see if you accept that seasonal weakness to extend into the first quarter of next year as well? I think the way we see it is that as Stacy said we expect 2014 to be very active.
First quarter does have seasonality in it as well just like Q4.
But I guess we expect it to be improving in the first quarter.
But also in past years there has been times when people have expected it to -- the first week of January to kick off with a bang.
And we think that that’s usually the exception so we wouldn’t expect that to happen this year where it just takes off.
It's typically a gradual improvement.
But we are very positive about the outlook for '14 and we think that will start in the first quarter but it will be gradual and not immediate at the turn of the new year.
And that’s only for half of our business as you know because drilling has almost no seasonality to it.
Right.
Maybe a little bit in the fourth quarter as I mentioned earlier relating to rigs on spot as they come to the budget year-end.
But really very minimally.
So Lorne is really referring about the production service side of the business.
Right.
And then one last one if I could sneak one in.
Off the assets that were sold were any of those the Series 60 rigs? No.
Thank you.
And next is John Daniel with Simmons &amp; Company.
Please go ahead.
Any chance we can get a little bit of color on the margin differences between the three production service business segments.
Well...
[Indiscernible] I am asking.
I would just give you the strong businesses in production services are wireline and well service.
Historically wireline has been the strongest but due to the improvements we have seen in well servicing in 2013 I would say from a margin perspective it's definitely right there with wireline.
Wireline has come down well servicing has improved.
Wireline is a down 10 or so percentage points of margin relative to revenues over about a year little in a year and a quarter maybe.
Whereas well servicing has just been steadily improving.
So those have become pretty neck and neck.
Wireline is still a little bit larger than well service but those are two big powerful core businesses of ours that are getting close to being neck and neck.
Coil on the other hand is considerably less in revenue and margins.
We don’t want to -- we don’t really put a lot of color around that but it's just not even comparable in terms of margin.
But we do -- hopefully that’s going to improve as we offer two and three-eighths and we maybe get a little bit -- we seem to see some settling out in the coil market and so we hope that will pickup.
At the time we purchased it we fully anticipated it to be on par with wireline at the time.
Sure.
Okay.
You did provide -- I am just going through the release again -- utilization for the well servicing business and from the coil business.
Can you just give us some color on utilization and then wireline this quarter versus last quarter? Like how do you track on 24-hour day 5-day week what's the measure -- how do you measure that? The measurements we -- we look at lots of different things as you know but one of the primary ones that is the number of jobs we have completed and the revenue per job and then try and dig into the revenue per job to sort out mix versus pricing.
But in terms of utilization I think it was flat to slightly up.
So it was a busy quarter as you would expect.
Third quarter is typically strong for wireline.
And utilization was there and as Stacy said pricing was pretty stable and we saw a little more emphasis on the plug and perf and then helped cause the revenues to go up a little higher.
It brings cost up as well but that was contributing to the overall performance of production services.
Okay.
And I think that evolution to more pad work is why the mix change.
We are going out on a number of pads in certain markets where we are doing two-way three-way even four-ways zipper fracs.
So you are out there with -- well we are even doing it on coil where we have two coil units out on one location at the same time on different wells.
Wireline we are out and we are servicing four different well bores at a time.
So you are out there for a very concentrated period of time.
24 hours a day for a week or longer.
Okay.
All right.
And then just last one from me on the capital structure and I am sure this is in the 10-K but just to save me the trouble when are the senior notes callable and at what point do you start [portraying] to bring those down.
I think that I [indiscernible] end of the call that it was March of '14? That is correct.
It's early March of '14.
And from a timing perspective I think we are just going to be continuing to evaluate it.
We talked about the fact that we would like to get a lower coupon but we would also like to reduce the total amount outstanding out of the bonds.
And so the timing is going to be dependent or in fact variable and the timing is going to be how quickly we are able to pay down on the revolver.
And so we are going to evaluate that as it goes.
We would like to do it as early as we can but we also want to make sure that we reach that outcome of having reduced total debt on the bonds and that requires a certain level of capacity on your revolver.
Thank you.
And our next question is from Mike Urban with Deutsche Bank.
Please go ahead.
Stacy you talked a little bit about if you do see the rig count improve next year you ought to be able to get a little bit of pricing really across your businesses and that I think you included the drilling rig business in there.
But right you are I guess are actually still seeing a little bit of net pricing pressure.
What's kind of the threshold there or the point at which that flips positive if you kind of maintain this flat market or maybe it's up a little bit.
I mean would you still expect to see that pricing where is it kind of stabilizing.
Just trying to get a sense for the order of magnitude improvement we would need to see before you think you can begin to see these prices back in the right direction.
Well that’s somewhat dependent on what the peer group does.
But I would say in the normal environments when -- you know it's a very active market that we are in for sure.
Average rig count across the country and our fleet and others fleet is still is high.
So it's still a it's good solid market except that we have had just a slightly declining rig count which puts the leverage in the hands of the operators.
And typically if you could just change that and add a little bit more demand and have that leverage just shift slightly towards the contractors as if there is a more need for rigs then you can start getting that pricing power back.
As soon as someone feels a little bit of a scarcity or difficulty of getting a rig that price can start moving.
And we are so close to equilibrium that that can happen fairly easily.
The issue out there that we have seen in 2013 is that in a declining rig count market certain of our peer group have been continuing to put a number of newbuilds out.
And in order to do so they have had to materially lower their day rates and their terms and conditions for the newbuilds.
In other words the longer ten-year of churn that we had in the '11 and '12 environment has really shortened.
So these guys are essentially buying market share back with newbuild which is their individual strategy.
I think that’s going to continue into 2014 and that there will be more newbuilds at it for sure.
So it's a little complex.
You need demand enough to absorb those newbuilds in addition to causing little bit more demand on the existing rigs.
So it's tough.
But I think if you get a 50 to 100-150 rig improvement in the overall market that will be sufficient to drive a little bit of pricing.
But just time will tell.
I mean we have disagreements right here at our camp about what will happen or won't happen it's tough to figure out.
You got a lot of moving pieces.
But in the years past what I have observed is if you can get this a little bit of incremental demand over the market you will get some pricing power back.
And of course any rig count improvement will assist all of our other production service sides of the business particularly on the completion side of their mix which varies amongst those businesses but it does have an impact on it which will help that pricing.
Great.
That’s....
Did I do a good job of not answering your question? Excellent as always.
Actually that was very very helpful.
And then on the production services side of the business.
You guys seem to hold up much better than what we have seen from some of your larger peers in this segment.
And I don’t have a feel for this because again you don’t have insight into their business but do you think that’s a function of just where you are and where you have located equipment.
Is it that you generally have newer better equipment because you have the -- and cut price in certain instances.
Just trying to get a sense for them.
There has been a clear divergence in your performance in that business versus others.
Well we have had -- it's a little bit like the H&amp;P story in the land drilling market.
We have had the chance to come out with a newer modern fleet all at the high end of the market.
And it just happened to be in the sweet spot of where the activity has gone to.
You know all of the deeper horizontal high decline rate oil on the conventional plays.
And of course we are doing still a lot of the deeper gas but a lot of the new growth has come from the new shale plays.
So we were just -- we built the right fleet for what's evolved as a marketplace and we just are in the sweet spot and our people are extremely good.
Our safety is off the charts good in well servicing.
PRIR of well under 1 which I am sure is the best in the industry by a pretty good margin.
Management is superb.
We would put them up against any management team out there.
So it's just -- they are doing everything right.
They watch your cost.
They have the right equipment.
They maintain the equipment.
They are very safe.
And we just get -- once we get in with the client they typically just want more of our rigs.
So it's just -- that team is just doing a very very good job.
And I would say the same for wireline.
That wireline group is stellar.
They are just first rate and we have in both of those business lines we have completely blue chip customer base.
We have pretty much all repeat customers and we are taking on new big independents and super majors on a pretty regular basis.
So they are both doing an excellent job.
Thank you.
And next is Michael Cerasoli with Goldman Sachs.
Please go ahead.
Just a follow up on the debt pay down strategy.
Looks like that story is on track.
When you talk about always being able to go after new organic growth in mid-2014 are you sort of implying there is a way that you can accelerate those pay down without losing any competitive advantages or are you comfortable with the current pace? That’s a good question.
I think as we have discussed in the past Mike is that we are exploring ways to accelerate the debt payment.
We are looking for any assets that we view as non-core to our strategic direction to monetize.
Good example of these drilling rigs.
But we have other things that we are looking at.
We don’t know that anything will happen on any of these other ideas.
But if they all happened it could put us in a position where we could accelerate that debt repayment.
But we are not planning for it.
We are hopeful but the plan as Lorne said is to keep blocking and tackling and building cash flow and plowing it towards the debt.
And we will do it at the first opportunity that we can lower the total amount of the bond indebtedness.
That’s great.
And then kind of thinking about the sales of the mechanical rigs more recently.
These were all idle rigs.
Would you consider selling any of the mechanical rigs that are currently working or is that not in the cards as they are just too much of a gap between the bid and ask to get that done.
Well you hit it on the last point there.
There is just really no incentive to sell a rig that’s working because it is generating EBITDA and a return on that asset.
And a number of these rigs that we sold were rigs that we recently fixed up added some equipment and deployed into the West Texas oil market.
And that’s why this batch had a higher impairment.
You know if you look at the 18 rigs across the board as a whole the impairment is somewhere on the order of $0.5 million a rig I think.
So it's a lot less when you take it in total.
But this batch a number of them were recently upgraded.
And so time is our friend in terms of depreciation.
Every year down the road further that we can keep these rigs working since that upgrade process recently as we more rigs to West Texas the depreciation is steep.
And so our preference is to continue working them and let the market determine that outcome.
If we do stack rigs if there is some change say for instance in West Texas that we today don’t foresee and some of our key clients discontinue their vertical program and we stack some rigs out and they are stacked for a while and we don’t see an opportunity to put the rigs back to work then we will do what we did here and turn that into cash and help it reduced our indebtedness.
But we are not seeing that right now.
I would say in fact just yesterday I was reviewing with our head of marketing four of our rigs I think all of them were in West Texas that are just renewing for another six month term.
So I think that we are still seeing a fairly good market.
But that can change.
It changed on us rather abruptly about a year ago.
It could happen again but we don’t have any knowledge of it at this point so we are optimistic we would rather work them then sell them like we did in this recent sale.
We would rather have them contribute to EBITDA than not.
Okay.
And then kind of thinking about the other end on the conversation you talked about opportunities to build more new rigs.
Were these opportunities more general in nature? Were they specific to a single client or a single region? Well these were not specific.
One of the clients is someone that we don’t do drilling for but we do other services for them.
They are very very big independent that one or more of our rigs in their program which is a pretty massive program in the Eagle Ford solely because of the performance they have heard about of the rig that we have down the Eagle Ford.
So that’s the best.
When you can have someone hear how good a rig is performing and say we would like one of those.
Because our rigs are a little different than the rigs that are being offered out there by our peers.
The same are in two other markets.
We have the same type situation where the existing client either wants more of the newbuild or someone in that market is seeing and hearing what our rigs are doing in that market and they too would like some.
So I would just say that I am really pleased with how well those newbuilds have performed and it's opening up these doors and opportunities to us that we will walk through at some point and we are eager to get back to building but we were just committed to get in our balance sheet in a spot that we are comfortable with and then we can start building on a more selective basis going forward out of cash flow.
So our indebtedness improves over time as opposed to it gets worse.
Yeah I am all for concentrating on the balance sheet but just to kind of press the newbuild point.
I am curious if your talks ever went this far but was the customer thinking two-year three-year contracts or did they never really -- did you never get that far with the conversation? Well I would say that -- well I can tell you for certain that there are a number of folks out there doing one-year and two-year and maybe getting some three-year done.
We would not do one that’s not three-year.
We are going to stick to the terms and conditions that we have had in the recent past and we would require a three-year term.
Because these rigs are costly and the cash payout is actually north of four year.
So we just like to get at least two-thirds of that cost of the rig paid back in the primary term.
And equally important for us is the rate which gives us the internal rate of return.
You know our internal threshold is about a 20% IRR.
So we would like to achieve at a minimum of that.
So we are going to stick to that.
And as I mentioned earlier in the call it's a little tougher to achieve that in today's market.
So we did not get to that point with our clients but I feel like with our clients that at the right time that we will be able to get that.
(Operator Instructions) Next up is Daniel Burke with Johnson Rice.
Please go ahead.
Lorne I thought when you sketched out what the CapEx budget for next year could look like it looked like there could be $30 million or $40 million in discretionary spending.
What makes the cut given the debt pay down prioritization? Yeah what would not be in that is new units.
So what could possibly be in that number would be really just some -- if there is probably two or three more rigs that if needed if desired and it made sense we could put walking systems on.
I think there are some cases where there is some bi-fuel opportunities on the engine.
Things like that that are not new units but they might be investments that are needed to keep the rigs active and working on term.
And then in that also would be some replenishment of some probably some down hole tools on the wireline side potentially then some IT.
And so like I said we are still sketching that out but it would be -- it's discretionary in the sense that we could choose not to spend that and we don’t want to spend.
What we would like to spend is the absolute minimum which we think is that routine maintenance around $65 million to $75 million.
But if the right opportunities are there and it's required and we feel like we can get a return on it then we may need to spend more and that would be it.
The majority of it would be on the drilling side of that discretionary piece.
But again we are still sketching that out and I wanted to give a preliminary indication and we firm it out more when we have our next call.
The only thing I would add to that is I think that for sure the discretionary chunk of CapEx is less in '14 than '13 because we did put four walking systems this year 7500 psi fluid into a -- I think we put on a few automatic [cat] walks.
Most of the rigs are in pretty good shape so there is not much left that we can do on rigs that we are willing to do it on.
So even if everything happened that we are anticipating in '14 I still think that discretionary piece would be smaller than '14.
But I don’t think everything will in '13 -- I mean I don’t think everything will be reflective of it or that we will want to do it.
So we are in better shape.
The fleet overall is in very very good shape.
Okay.
Great.
And then Stacy maybe one more on Colombia.
There is a little bit of uncertainty out there right now.
I think last year you had some year-end contract expiries and early on into this year you were rolling those rigs month-to-month.
Is there anything different right now about the expiries you are facing in Colombia? In other words is there a harder cliff that you are in if you don’t get a formal contract resigned or is it just tough to tell exactly how this shakes out.
Well I would say that it's definitely tough to tell how it shakes out at this moment.
But we have never really rolled them month-to-month ever.
We have rolled them in chunks.
You know the rigs came off three-year term contracts at 12/31 last year and we rolled it for one quarter.
You know Ecopetrol is pretty big and there is lots of people there to negotiate with.
And they can't always come to terms at the deadline and so we rolled it for a quarter.
And then kind of the same thing happened as we moved to the end of March 31 so we rolled it for nine months and that’s where we are today.
The only thing I would say that’s different rather two things that are different about this renewal is one is the contract form is vastly different than what contractors have signed in the past.
So that’s causing everybody a lot of exercising on that because it's complex.
There is I think the fellow that heads Colombia was telling me there is over 70 annex pages of details or annex sections.
It's just a lot of details to go through.
So us and the other people that are working in [indiscernible] field and then a few other invitees are pouring over that.
So it's just very complex.
And it's going to be a challenge to have that fully understood and clarified even by 12/31 I think.
So I think it is a possibility that these may get extended again while there is more thinking on this contract form.
But I don’t know I am speculating.
The other wrinkle in this particular renewal is it is an election year in 2014 there.
And the government oil company is not allowed and I am going to tell you my understanding of it and I maybe off by a month or two and I have heard different interpretations of this.
But our current understanding is that if the contracts are not renewed by December 31 then you have to wait for four months roughly till the election is over before you can enter into a contract of this nature.
And then if there is a run-off that could extend it another two months.
So theoretically if you don’t have something inked up by December 31 you could if there is a run-off be on the sidelines for six months into the new year because they don’t want contracts made for the new regime before it comes in.
Carlos Pena that’s basically he is in here as a General Counsel [indiscernible] I think more or less accurate.
Now what does all that mean? Well what that means is that we are aligned with Ecopetrol in their desire to renew these contracts this year.
Because they certainly don’t want -- we have been one of the primary providers in [indiscernible] field and they certainly don’t want to not continue drilling and establishing production for what could be half of a year.
That would derail their production goal.
So I feel like everybody is aligned that they definitely want to get that drilling done but we have these issues that we need to deal with with this contract form and/or an extension of the existing contract however it works out.
Thank you.
And next is Brad Handler with Jefferies.
Please go ahead.
May I will just focus on a small point but as we try to fine tune our cash flow expectations for you guys can you help with deferred tax kind of roll offs.
Where do you -- it has been a use of cash for you in the beginning first nine months of the year.
Where do you expect that for the fourth quarter Lorne and maybe some commentary around '14? Well from a tax perspective we are not going to be a cash tax payer this year in the U.S.
really or in Colombia is our expectation.
This year or in 2014.
We have quite a bit of NOLs to work through and so to the extent that -- well that’s what we are going to be working through.
So I don’t think when you look at cash forecasting there is some very minimal cash taxes that would be paid in each quarter primarily related to Colombia.
And that’s all I think I would be thinking about from a cash tax perspective.
Maybe just to press the point but maybe I am not looking at this right but in your cash flows has it not been a use of $21 million to date? Well I think what you are looking at it is when you have a loss a net earnings loss that the book is a -- you show the book taxes the net benefit but you are not getting that cash back.
It shows up as a net benefit but it really is just an NOL that you will use in the future.
So what you do with the cash flows and you add it back you have to show that as a -- not as a cash benefit.
I see okay.
Maybe we will take that offline.
Just maybe a quick follow up on Colombia also.
I am just curious Stacy some of your comments sort of made it sound like there was almost a collective push back.
Is that at all part of the dynamic? Is there is a consortium of you all involved or is this just an individual negotiation you have with Ecopetrol? No it's an individual negotiation that we have with Ecopetrol.
But I think there is a total of seven people invited to participate in the drilling there in [indiscernible] field.
And there a lot of this give and take is online and so we see the questions asked by others as they will see the questions asked by us and the answers from Ecopetrol on our question.
So that’s where we can gain some of that information I see.
That probably has some influence on the whole process what everyone else is pushing on.
That’s interesting.
Thank you.
And next is Jason Wrangler with Wunderlich Security.
Please go ahead.
Just curious on obviously you talked about the Bakken and I think you said 11 rigs up there.
Do you have an idea or do you just have offhand how many of those are in term contract versus once that are at least I guess potentially going to get targeted by the guys kind of cutting price.
Well they are hundred percent on term.
And so what I was referring to is the term renewal.
Right.
Okay.
And then just off the I think if my math is right there is 17 rigs I guess that are vertically focused.
I assume that obviously eight are in Colombia.
Can you just have a breakdown of where those all kind of live right now? Well the actual numbers.
The eight in Colombia are mostly drilling high angle if not horizontal wells and those are all top drive walking rigs.
So those are 100% vertical in Colombia.
And that market in fact is going that way gradually.
But our rigs are kind of ahead of the game and that they all have 500 ton top drives and they all have walking systems of some sort on them.
What we have in the U.S.
market that is vertical is 14 total rigs.
And that’s it.
Then we have nine mechanical rigs that are drilling horizontally that all have top drives.
And half of those are under term contracts the others are just contracted.
Thank you.
And next is John Daniel with Simmons &amp; Company.
Please go ahead.
I just had one question.
Stacy in equal world as you look to first half '14 and consider the contract expirations and where spot pricing is today how would you see cash margins evolving in the Q1 and Q2 in the Q4 guidance.
For drilling? Yes.
That’s a good question.
I guess I would say to be safe flattish.
I don’t see after we kind of adjust in this fourth quarter the guidance we have given and depending on where we actually end up there.
I don’t see much change in the first quarter.
If you start getting pricing power back you probably really wouldn’t see that much even in the second quarter.
I think that would be more evident in the third and fourth quarters of the year because not as much will happen in the first quarter.
It just typically doesn’t I don’t think.
But I would say we are more constructive on that in the back half of the year.
Thank you.
And I am showing no further questions I will turn the call back to Stacy Locke for closing comments.
Great.
Well I appreciate everyone joining the call and enjoyed all of the good questions today and we will look forward to having this call again in February.
Thank you very much.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes our conference for today.
Thank you for your participation you may now disconnect.
Good morning ladies and gentlemen and thank you for standing by.
Welcome to the Pioneer Energy Services First Quarter Earnings Call.
During today’s presentation all parties will be in a listen-only mode.
Following the presentation the conference will be opened for questions.
(Operator Instructions) This conference is being recorded today Tuesday April 29 2014.
And I would now like to turn the conference over to Anne Pearson of Dennard Lascar Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Thank you and good morning everyone.
Before I turn the call over to CEO Stacy Locke; and CFO Lorne Phillips for their formal remarks I have a few of the usual items to cover.
First of all a replay of today’s call will be available and accessible by webcast by going to the IR section of Pioneer’s website and also by the telephone replay.
You can find the replay information for both in this morning’s news release.
As a reminder information reported on this call speaks only as of today April 29 2014 so any time sensitive information may no longer be accurate at the time of a replay.
Management may make forward-looking statements that are based on beliefs and assumptions and information currently available to them.
While they believe the expectations in these statements are reasonable they can give no assurance they’ll prove to be correct.
They are subject to certain risks and uncertainties and assumptions described in this morning’s news release and also in recent public filings with the SEC.
If one or more materialize or should underlying assumptions prove incorrect actual results may differ materially.
Also please note this conference call may contain references to non-GAAP measures.
You’ll find a reconciliation to the GAAP measures in this morning’s release.
Now I’d like to turn the call over to Stacy Locke Pioneer President and CEO.
Stacy? Thank you Anne and good morning.
I hope everybody has had a chance to review the press release.
Joining me here in San Antonio on the call today is Red West President of our Drilling Services segment; and Joe Eustace President of our Production Services segment; and Lorne Phillips Chief Financial Officer.
As you can see from our press release we had a very good start to the New Year.
The strength that we saw in the fourth quarter carried over into the first quarter and activity levels were very robust particularly in Production Services in what is normally a seasonal low quarter for us.
So we’re very pleased to see that as you can see revenues were up EBITDA was up.
Our Production Services segment hit an all-time record of a $121 million in revenues.
And that was on an improving margin over the prior quarter.
So that’s terrific.
It was the best ever quarter for the wireline business line and for the well service business line.
And the second best quarter for our coil tubing business which is extremely good news.
And for the first time ever Production Services actually generated more revenue in the quarter than Drilling.
However with some of the developments we’ll be talking about today Drilling will hopefully soon catch up as we move forward into 2015.
Taking a look at the Drilling segment in more detail.
I’d say the U.S.
drilling market was essentially unchanged from the last quarter.
We’re still 100% utilized in our West Texas division with 18 rigs.
We’re 100% utilized in the Bakken with 11 rigs.
The same two rigs were down in Utah out of a total of seven rigs.
The same two rigs were down in the Marcellus out of four rigs.
Those four rigs that have been down are 60 series rigs.
We do have some hope of putting them back to work or some of them back to work but for the current time they remain down.
And then we have one of the same rigs down in South Texas which is a rig that’s been kind of warm stacked small cap at 750.
And then we have one other rig down in South Texas just on a temporary basis.
I think it’s going back to work either today or tomorrow.
But generally speaking and we have 14 total rigs in South Texas.
Generally speaking the drilling market is strong and we think has a very positive outlook.
And due to that we have began our marketing efforts on a new generation 1500 AC design rig that’s going to be very similar to the 10 rigs that we built most recently which have performed extremely well just a minor tweaks on them to improve rig-up rig-down and mode [ph] times.
So we’re excited about that new design and we are having some good dialogs with clients on that rig.
As we did before we are not trying to capture market share on these rigs at least some but we’re not trying to recoup market share and mostly interested in a good investment.
So we’re looking for a minimum three-year term and a very good rate of return on that rig.
Dayrates across the board have been firm and are beginning to improve a bit.
I think in the first quarter we really didn’t have any rate increases.
However we did improved some rates that we’ll start to see in – you were seeing them in the second quarter – or the rate adjustments occurred in the second quarter and we’ll see the impact mostly in the third and fourth quarter but with the strengthening environment we’re confident we can secure the kind of dayrates that we’re looking for our newbuilds.
And those rigs would be delivered in 2015.
In Columbia as we talked about on the last call all the rigs are contracted.
However locations for two of the rigs still have not been completed.
Rig 21 is going to be moving within the week.
It’s now going to be moving not to Castilla field as we have previously thought but up to the middle Magdalena valley.
So it will be on a long move here beginning sometime next week.
And then Rig 52 which is the rig that we upgraded from 1 000 horsepower to a 1 500 horsepower rig the location has been delayed there.
But we hope it will be moving on also starting the next week it will take some time to rig it up.
And then once its rigged up and accepted by our client then it will go on full dayrate.
A change from last quarter no revenue has actually been recorded for these two rigs in the first quarter.
And this is part of a negotiation that we have ongoing with our client there where we’re trying to work with them on the fact that they were unable to complete their location in exchange for an extension on the contracts for those eight rigs.
So that is a negotiation in process that hopefully we’ll be able to update you on in the near future.
With those two rigs down in Columbia and the other rigs that I mentioned that gives us an overall 87% utilization for our Drilling segment which is still quite good.
Turning now to Product Services.
Just did great in the quarter and the outlook is very positive there.
All of our core business lines are doing well.
Well services has been very strong utilization as you can see in the press release and we’ve had firm pricing with an upward bias on pricing for the remainder of the year.
In the well servicing we will be adding three rigs by the middle second quarter.
And then we are in the process of ordering six additional rigs at the earliest of which probably would arrive in about September and then into the fourth quarter.
So we should end the year with 118 total units.
Wireline also doing very well very busy active and we are adding a few units there.
We’ll add one in June and then a couple of more in the third quarter.
So we’ll end the year in wireline with 122 units.
In coil tubing we had as I mentioned the second best quarter we’ve had since we’ve owned that business line.
Offshore market was actually soft in the first quarter mostly due to weather.
One northerner after another that chopped up the Gulf of Mexico.
So it made hard to get out.
And then – but on the onshore after a slow start in January which is customary we’ve actually picked up quite a bit of activity there in February and March.
So we ended the quarter in what I would call a major improvement over prior quarters.
And I think part of our reorganization there and focus in key markets as well as the addition of the 2.375 coil has really helped.
We are actually going to be growing coil as well.
We’re going to be adding another offshore sub two-inch unit for maintenance work in the second quarter and then a second small pipe unit in the second quarter that will free up another unit to work more on the two-inch diameter coil market.
And then we have a 2.375 unit that we should be adding approximately in September.
So we will end the year with a total of 16 coiled units.
I’d like to turn the call over to Lorne now to review the financials.
Thanks Stacy.
Good morning everyone.
This morning we reported consolidated revenues of $239 million and adjusted EBITDA of $63.3 million.
Excluding the impact of costs associated with our recent debt financing we had adjusted net income of $2.4 million or $0.04 per share in the first quarter.
And that compares against a net loss of $0.04 per share in the prior quarter.
Our adjusted EBITDA and adjusted net income in the quarter benefited from combined gains of approximately $5 million from the sale of the trucking fleet and litigation settlement and reimbursement of fuel costs in Columbia.
Our Drilling segment revenue declined by $8 million from the fourth quarter to $118 million reflecting more utilization of certain lower horsepower vertical rigs primarily in South Texas.
As Stacy explained this has since improved and those rigs are back to work.
Drilling revenue was also impacted by reduced utilization in Columbia as Stacy described resulting in revenue of $22.2 million for the quarter in Columbia.
Utilization is currently at 87% and our average utilization was 83% in the first quarter compared to 86% in the fourth quarter.
Drilling margin per day increased by 6% sequentially to $8 987 and this was in part the result of the previously mentioned benefit from the sale of our trucking division and the fuel cost reimbursement.
If you exclude those two items our margin would have been about $400 per day lower but still slightly ahead of the prior quarter.
We currently have 62 drilling rigs on our actively marketed fleet.
Of these 54 are earning revenues and 40 of these earning revenue are under term contract.
Of the 34 rigs currently on term contracts in the U.S.
six are up for renewal in this quarter 12 are up for renewal in the third quarter one is up for renewal in the fourth quarter and 15 expire beyond that point.
All eight Columbia rigs are under term contracts with six currently earning revenue and the remaining two rigs expected to start earning revenue again in early May.
The percentage of the total company’s gross margin from non-top drive mechanical rigs in the first quarter was 4%.
And if you include all mechanical rigs that number increases to approximately 10%.
Turning to Production Services.
Revenues increased 8% from the prior quarter to $121 million with the strongest performance improvement coming from well servicing.
Gross margin for Production Services increased by 14% to $43.3 million.
Our gross margin as a percentage of revenues was 35.8% versus 33.9% one quarter earlier.
Utilization for well servicing increased to 95% compared to 85% in the fourth quarter and coil tubing utilization was flat at 50%.
As Stacy mentioned the coil tubing utilization was driven by improved land activity offset by a slower start to the offshore coil business.
And we do expect to offshore coil activity to increase as the year progresses.
Our average rate per hour for well servicing was basically flat at $645.
Our other Production Services business experienced stable pricing during the first quarter as well.
Looking now at our overall expense trends.
G&amp;A costs in the first quarter were up slightly to $24.5 million.
We expect G&amp;A to be approximately $26 million for the second quarter.
Depreciation and amortization was $45.5 million which was down about $1.3 million from the prior quarter.
As new equipment on order is delivered into our fleet we expect depreciation to move up some during the year.
For the second quarter we expect D&amp;A to be in a range of $47 million to $48 million.
As you are aware in March we issued $300 million of 6.125% senior notes.
The proceeds will be used to redeem $300 million of 9.875% senior notes.
A $100 million of which was tendered on March 31 and the remaining $200 million will be redeemed on May 1.
This will save us approximately $12 million in annualized interest expense.
Looking at our interest expense in the first quarter it was $12.4 million and is expected to decrease to approximately $10.7 million in the second quarter as a result of the debt financing.
That quarterly expense will decrease further in the following quarter since the $200 million of 9.875% notes will be redeemed on May 1.
As a result of the $100 million redemption of notes in the first quarter we recognized $7.9 million of loss on extinguishment of debt.
When we redeem the remaining $200 million of notes in May we expect to recognize another loss on extinguishment of debt of approximately $14.6 million.
Since our pre-tax loss for the first quarter was not far from breakeven the impact of the foreign currency loss other permanent items and state income taxes had an amplified effect on our effective tax rate.
Excluding the foreign currency gain or loss and other unusual items we would expect our effective tax rate to be in the 36% range.
Capital expenditures in the first quarter were approximately $32 million.
Including the additional units that Stacy discussed earlier on the call our revised guidance for CapEx spending in the year is $135 million to $145 million.
If we were to contract the new drilling rig this CapEx guidance would increase.
Given the opportunities in the market we think a balanced program of organic growth while continuing to focus on debt reduction is the best way to optimize shareholder value in the current environment.
And with that I’ll turn it back over to Stacy.
Thank you Lorne.
I would say our outlook is positive for the remainder of the year.
While dayrates were not up on the Drilling side in the first quarter they are adjusting a bit now.
And we do think that will be a gradual process but we should see some positive impact to margins in the third and fourth quarter of the year.
In the second quarter we will have a couple of long moves where we’ll have no or low margin.
We have the rig in Columbia that as I mentioned that will be move into the middle Magdalena valley.
That’s a long multi-week move.
We also are going to be relocating two AC rigs from the Bakken down to West Texas to start new contracts there.
Those are going to be fairly long moves as well.
And then at some point either late in the second quarter most likely or still – and possibly spilling over into the third quarter we will be installing walking systems on both of those rigs.
So we’ll have a little downtime there.
And those things contributing with the dayrates mostly impacting later in the year is why we’re guiding our average drilling margins in the $8 500 to $8 700 a day range for the second quarter.
And utilization kind of roughly in line at 85% to 88%.
On the Production Services side that market continues to look very favorable.
We do expect another quarter of increased revenues something on the order of 5% 6% range.
And most likely a continuation of improvement in margin maybe up another 1% to 2%.
So looks like another good quarter ahead of us.
And we’ll end the prepared remarks and be happy to entertain any questions at this time.
Thank you.
Thank you sir.
We will now begin the question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions) Our first question comes from the line of Jim Rollyson with Raymond James.
Please go ahead.
Good morning guys.
Good morning Jim.
Stacy 95% utilization in well servicing in 1Q sounds a pretty good indicator of demand and historically high.
Curious as you think about that business going through the year how you think about – you would suggest there is not a huge amount of upside in terms of utilization other than in new units.
Can you maybe talk about what you’re seeing in terms of opportunities for pricing improvement and how much of that might stick in terms of margins versus just what you’re kind of wage rate increases look like this year.
So just maybe help all that businesses outlook is for the year from that perspective? Okay.
Yes I think you’re right.
There isn’t a lot of upside on the utilization front.
And anytime you run in that 95% utilization that has a lot to do with the amount of 24-hour work that we’re doing which that percentage of total has creeped up over the last year or so.
So it’s hard to get a lot of improvement in utilization but I would say in certain markets there is just tremendous demand.
I would say all the equipment available in certain markets is utilized and that is leading to some pricing opportunity there.
And the demand is very strong or the higher quality assets out there.
So I think that we’ll see pricing gradually improve throughout the remainder of the year and enough to cause margins to also improve slightly as we progress this year.
Okay.
That’s very helpful.
And then just as a follow-up on the coil side of things.
It sounds like at least in your mind things are starting to get better.
Utilizations picked up a bit.
Can you maybe talk about kind of the supply demand dynamics there in terms of pricing because obviously that’s been one of the markets that throughout the course of the last year or so had kind of got an oversupply and things weakened a bit.
Just curious to your read on that market today? Well it’s a little hard to understand quite honestly.
I think some of the improvement is unique to us just because our operation has improved so much.
Our team has really banded together.
We’ve got strong management in the key positions.
And we’re delivering the goods and services out there to the client safely.
And that’s really what it’s all about.
And if you can do that you build up a steady clientele.
And as you build up that clientele the word spreads and the demand increases.
So I think some of our improvement is related to that probably at least half of it but overall I think the market is getting better.
And I look around and listen to other folks as well.
And it seems like everybody’s coil business has picked up a little bit.
And so I know that there are some carcasses on the side of the road in that business line.
So some folks have fallen out when things were rough.
Those of us that are still in it it can – if we continue to perform I think definitely we’ll peak out some price improvement as well for the rest of this year.
So I think we have those two factors helping us.
I think we’re going to see utilization improve probably certainly in the second and third possibly fourth quarter as well as we’ll have some new additions to our fleet.
And I think there is just pricing opportunity in the marketplace.
So that is a pretty optimistic view I think.
Great Stacy.
I appreciate the color.
You bet.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Mike Urban with Deutsche Bank.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
Good morning guys.
Good morning.
So obviously a lot of the demand that we’ve seen so far in the U.S.
in the current cycle has come from unconventionals and horizontal wells.
Have you seen any pick-up in any of the conventional markets or vertical markets gas markets or anything like that? Well there really hasn’t been an increase in gas vertical drilling.
We are doing some drilling there but I wouldn’t say that it’s been any market change.
We have seen a little improvement on the Production Service side from gas that kind of enhanced production there but on the Drilling side it’s still oil demand.
I would say I keep saying last couple of quarters for us in West Texas after some instability during last year the West Texas vertical oil market has been pretty strong.
So we’re pleased there.
We are cautious in the second and third quarter of last year as we look towards the end of ‘13 and end of ‘14.
I would say now we feel like that’s a pretty stable market.
And stable to the point that I think we’ll have some pricing opportunity there on the vertical rigs as well.
Okay.
Great.
And the only other thing I had was Columbia has started to look pretty good for you again.
Again I was acknowledging some of the delays again those rigs will be working.
Any additional appetite there or any other international markets at this point? I’m sorry.
Say that again Mike? Any additional international opportunities either in Columbia or elsewhere? Well I would say that right now we’re up actually higher in terms to the number of rigs that we ever intended to take to Columbia.
We’ve got eight good rigs there all top drive walking all 1 500 horsepower heavy class.
We don’t really envision – we possibly could look at a newbuild or two down the road there in Columbia but really we would prefer to utilize our CapEx in the U.S.
We’ve had some great opportunity there.
We’re pretty confident that we will have some newbuild opportunities here that we’ll be contracting through the rest of this year and then probably more next year.
So I think our preference is to focus on the U.S.
market for now.
Okay great.
That’s all for me.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Matthew Marietta with Stephens.
Please go ahead.
Good morning guys.
Good morning.
Congrats on another good quarter.
I guess my question is more focused on how you prioritize debt reduction and grow CapEx and the thought process there.
And you see the improvement that we’ve seen in North America.
Is that influencing a decision point to grow a little bit more as you look into 2014 and maybe talk around that capital allocation? Yes this is Lorne.
The market is definitely influencing our decision to slow down the debt reduction and add some more units.
We still would like to be able to de-lever some but it depends on our availability – our ability to sign up new drilling rigs at attractive terms and conditions because with what safety outlined on the Production Service side we can add those units and still reduce debt somewhere probably between the $40 million to $60 million through the year to the extent that we sign up additional drilling rigs that would clearly – even though they wouldn’t be delivered until 2015 that would decrease our debt paydown cadence.
And so it’s one of those situations where we don’t intent to borrow in order to add new rigs.
And ideally we’d be able to pay it down some but if the right terms and conditions are available for newbuild rigs to us then we will sign them and slowdown the debt paydown through the year.
Okay.
When you think about it signing contracts at this point for delivery roughly 12 months from now we don’t speculate on building the rigs.
Once we have the signed contract like we have one signed contract now.
Once we have that contract in hand we will deliver approximately in 365 days.
So a portion of that spend is going to be this year but as we work on the newbuild marketing for the remainder of the year the majority of the spend will be in 2015.
So it will allow us to contract two three four newbuilds this year with the cash spend being predominantly in 2015.
And as I mentioned previously on that it’s a market driven opportunity.
We’re looking a minimum three-year terms.
We’re not trying to put out a bunch of market share.
We’re just trying to get a good return on investment so we’re careful with good clients and we want a good return on the cash spend for the newbuild because the rigs have been performing extremely well.
And so we’re going to take it slowly and methodically and continue to work the market there.
Thanks.
That’s very helpful.
And along the same lines are you guys still looking at asset sales and kind of testing the waters there or do you feel pretty comfortable with the asset portfolio as it sits today? No that’s a great question.
I’m glad you brought it up.
No we are aggressively – I think you saw in this press release we did sell some rig moving trucking assets in the quarter.
We continue to market a number of other non-core or non-strategic assets.
And we’re pretty confident that we will generate some cash from that as well which that cash would flow immediately into debt reduction and then kind of ladled out overtime via organic growth.
Great.
Well that’s all for me.
I appreciate the time and congrats on another good quarter.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Daniel Burke with Johnson Rice.
Please go ahead.
Good morning guys.
Good morning.
Stacy I thought I heard you address on the Columbia side that you were discussing extension of the contracts there.
Did you mean on simply the two rigs that have been delayed or for the group of eight rigs? And can you give us any indication on what level of extension you could potentially get in those discussions [ph]? Well I don’t want to give too much because it’s an in-process kind of negotiation.
But we did not book any revenue in this first quarter.
So that should give you an indication we’re fairly confident that we’ll reach satisfactory agreement but it would be an extension on all eight of our rigs with the client.
And so that’s something we’ve been – you remember we’ve had that kind of exhaustive contracting process previously but we obtained a one-year extension kind of in the last hour of 2013.
And so we’ve been kind of working on improving that to a longer term program.
And so that’s what’s at play here.
I would say that order of magnitude I’d say a year type extension on top of the year that we have currently in that range.
It could be a good little more probably but it will be somewhere in that range.
We’re working on it.
Okay great.
That’s helpful.
And then just to stay on the Drilling side real quick.
I think you had also said you were hopeful that Drilling could catch back up with Production Services here looking forward.
I was just wondering if you saw that as possible in the second half of 2014 or if catching back up at this point was going to require newbuild rig additions some incremental CapEx coming in on the Drilling side to catch back up with Production Services given how well that business is performing? Well we’ll continue to grow both businesses for sure.
They are both doing extremely well.
What I was really referring to we’ll continue to sell some of the lower margin rigs when we have the opportunity as we’ve done in the past I think rigs where we sold like 18 or 19 mechanical rigs over the last few years.
We’re going to continue in that effort to sell any of those drilling assets that we feel like afford less opportunity in the future for us in terms of utilization and margin and redeploy that capital into rigs more similar to the rigs that we’ve built more recently.
So what I was really referring to is I know we’ll sell additional newbuilds.
And so I think that we will layer in some newly built rigs into the U.S.
market in 2015 and that will allow Production Service – I mean Drilling to catch up but we will have a little bit of a rate improvement later in the year on the Drilling side but we are going to continue growing Production Services and we positively will grow it even more than we’ve outlined now at some point later in the year.
But that too would impact mostly ‘15.
So both markets look extremely strong to us.
We’re excited to have as much organic growth opportunity as we see in front of us.
But we don’t want to – we’re not going to borrow so we do have some limitation.
It will be somewhat dependent on other asset sales as to total availability of cash.
Okay.
That’s helpful.
Maybe last one just to cram on.
The comments on coil.
Can you talk about where then your current utilization would be on the coil business in March and April as particularly I guess offshore conditions should have improved somewhat? Well I’ll give you a flavor.
Offshore is picking up and I honestly don’t know the kind of the utilization range there but I know its north of 50%.
And then on onshore February March we saw that utilization up in the 60% range as well.
And it’s been very active in the current month.
I don’t know exactly the utilization there of the different segments but it’s definitely strengthening no doubt about it.
Great.
All right.
Thanks so much.
You bet.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of [indiscernible] With Simmons &amp; Company.
Please go ahead.
Good morning guys.
Good morning.
Really just one question for me and that is when you expect pricing to go higher how much higher do you really expect it go? Any additional color you can kind of provide to that.
Well on the Drilling side.
Are you talking about Drilling or Production Services? Both.
Both.
Okay.
I would say the Drilling – we’re seeing increases really anywhere say from $500 a day in some cases up over $1 500 $2 000 a day in isolated cases.
So average is going to be – it’s not every rig it’s as contracts roll.
So it takes time to have it affect the entire drilling fleet and not all of the fleet will be affected.
So I would say the average margin change in third and fourth quarters is going to be maybe in the $100 to $200 a day range.
It’s not going to a market improvement.
And so it will be a gradual part of the cycle.
Of course as you saw layering in newbuilds in 2015 you will see that step-up and then of course if we sell between now and then any of the lower margin rig then that fleet average will improve as well.
So but I’ll tell you that’s order that we’re looking at the kind of the range.
On the Production Service side it’s also going to happen in pockets.
It won’t be across the board until it will be averaged but I would say we’d be real happy if we could see 1% 2% margins growth for Production Services each quarter going forward.
That would be terrific.
Don’t know if we’ll that be high.
We’re guiding for the second quarter 1% to 2%.
That’s on top of a couple of improving quarters.
So we’re real pleased with that trend but it’s – so I don’t think we’re going to pick up tremendous stain but steady 1% to 2% increase would be wonderful.
Okay great.
I appreciate the color.
Thank you.
You bet.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Jason Wangler with Wunderlich Securities.
Please go ahead.
Good morning Stacy.
Just had one.
You talked a lot about the potential for newbuilds and that sounds great.
Just curious because the market obviously seems pretty robust for these new higher spec grades and I know you’re moving too over.
Where are those contract terms look like as far as when do you have some of the existing 10 rolling offs just curious when you may be able to see pricing increases on those? Well we’ve had one of the new – the last 10 block of newbuilds we’ve had one rolled so far and we went up several thousand a day on that one due primarily to performance.
We’ve got a second one rolling off in pretty soon here and that one will go up as well kind of on the range of $1 000 $1 500 $2 000 a day range.
And so it’s definitely a strong market for the performing no doubt about it.
That’s helpful.
I appreciate it.
You bet.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) Our next question is a follow-up question from the line of Matthew Marietta with Stephens.
Please go ahead.
Yes I was just trying to circle back on kind of the outlook for 2015 either from an asset standpoint or a CapEx standpoint how we can begin to look at kind of first take at 2015 CapEx? Well I know that Lorne hasn’t put any dollars to it but generally speaking I would say that we’re going to definitely add some newbuilds drilling rigs.
I would say just in terms of scale thinking for now I would start with three to four newbuilds.
We’re certainly going to have more well service rigs in ‘15.
You could be thinking of eight to 12 certainly probably going to add some additional large diameter coil I’d say two to three.
Definitely going to add some more wireline units six to 12 there.
So it’s going to be kind of steady growth across the business lines organic growth.
And I still think as Lorne pointed out that we can do that definitely well within cash flow and still be able to reduce indebtedness.
Now we might increase some of that CapEx depending on asset sales but we’ll wait for appropriate time there.
That’s perfect.
That’s very helpful.
Thank you.
You bet.
Thank you.
And I am showing no further questions at this time.
I’d like to turn conference back over to Mr.
Locke for any closing remarks.
All right.
Well thank you all very much for joining us on this morning’s first quarter call and we’ll look forward to visiting here in a couple of months on the second quarter.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude our conference for today.
As a reminder replay information for this call is available on today’s news release.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by.
Welcome to the Pioneer Energy Services Second Quarter Earnings Call.
During today’s presentation all participants will be in a listen-only mode.
Following the presentation the conference will be opened for questions.
(Operator Instructions) This conference is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Ms.
Anne Pearson of Dennard Lascar Investor Relations.
Please go ahead ma’am.
Thank you and good morning everyone.
Before I turn the call over to CEO Stacy Locke; and CFO Lorne Phillips for their formal remarks I have a few of the usual items to cover.
First of all a replay of today’s call will be available and accessible by webcast by going to the IR section of Pioneer’s Web site and also by telephone replay.
You can find the replay information for both in this morning’s news release.
Also as a reminder information reported on this call speaks only as of today July 31 2014 so any time sensitive information may no longer be accurate at the time of a replay.
Management may make forward-looking statements that are based on beliefs and assumptions and information currently available to them.
While they believe these expectations are reasonable they can give no assurance they’ll prove to be correct.
They are subject to certain risks and uncertainties and assumptions described in this morning’s news release and also in recent public filings with the SEC.
If one or more materialize or should underlying assumptions prove incorrect actual results may differ materially.
Also please note this conference may contain references to non-GAAP measures.
You’ll find a reconciliation to the GAAP measures in the release.
Now I’d like to turn the call over to Stacy Locke Pioneer President and CEO.
Stacy? Thank you Anne and good morning everyone.
Joining me on the call this morning here in San Antonio is Red West President of our Drilling Services segment; Joe Eustace President of our Production Services segment; and of course Lorne Phillips our Chief Financial Officer.
We had another quarter of steady revenue growth and increased profitability.
Overall revenues were up another 9% EBITDA was up 10% and EBITDA as a percentage of revenue had seen a steady improvement over the trailing four quarters to 27% of revenue in this second quarter.
Overall our best quarter ever in revenue and EBITDA.
So we’re very pleased with that.
It was another best quarter in our wireline services business it was another best quarter in our well services business and it was the best quarter in coil tubing and the past nine quarters.
So overall we’re extremely pleased with our results for the second quarter.
As you may recall on the first quarter conference call approximately three months ago we mentioned that there is a strengthening in the U.S.
land drilling market that we would begin marketing newly built 1500 horsepower AC rigs.
That effort has gone well for us so far.
We have executed contracts to build three rigs so far; one will be going to the Eagle Ford and two will be going into the Permian all three are on three-year term contracts at attractive days rates that will yield very attractive rates of return for the company.
Deliveries for these three rigs will be in the second and third quarter of 2015.
And I would say that based on the level of ongoing conversations that we’re having with our clients we are highly confident that we will be executing additional contracts to build rigs in the future.
Looking at our existing land drilling market day rates continue to creep up.
I would say something on the order of two thirds of the rigs as they renew go up in day rate.
It’s kind of the median range would be $500 000 per say although we have cases where they don’t go up in some cases where it’s than that.
But overall I would say a healthy outlook for day rates.
In addition utilization continues to be very strong for the company overall.
We were 87% utilized in the second quarter.
We’re currently 90% utilized.
Just like on our call three months ago for the first quarter we continue to be 100% utilized in West Texas 100% utilized in the Bakken and we have one rig down in our South Texas operations.
In Utah we did have another 60 series rig go down and we possibly will have the last of our 60 series rigs in Utah go down later in the year but currently it’s still working.
But offsetting that we did have one of our 60 series rig go back to work in Utah.
So we do continue to struggle with keeping our 60 series stall rigs fully utilized.
If you look at our six rigs that are down for the total company today four of them are the 60 series rigs three in Utah one in the Marcellus.
But we continue to offer these rigs for sale to foreign markets where the rig might be more suitable as it was in the early days in the Barnett shale here in the U.S.
So we’ll continue to struggle with that for a while longer but we do try to market them for sale and we do try to market them put them back to work.
Outside of the four 60 series rigs that are stacked in the U.S.
we have the one in South Texas that I previously mentioned and then the other one is now in Columbia and it’s rig 52 it’s a rig that we upgraded for our client early in the year to a 1500 horsepower rig and that is still not started it’s under contract but still hasn’t started earnings it’s day rate.
We struggled with that rig and several other ones in the Columbia market as a result of our operator not staying out in front of their location preparations and they build very large concrete pads with multi-locations on them multi-well locations.
And they have been running way behind and that has caused us it -- has affected negatively our utilization and it’s affected our profitability because the rigs don’t earn with full day rate.
You probably noticed in the press release there was a scope of work agreement that was executed very favorable to Pioneer as a one-time event in this quarter to some degree that related to some of that stack rig time and loss profitability.
But we view it as a non-recurring item and we’re hopeful that we’ll return to full potential profitability once these rigs have a runway of locations ready for them in the future.
So turning now to our production services business.
In well servicing it was another record quarter in revenue.
Well servicing has become our most profitable production service business very pleased to see the development and growth there.
It continues on a very steady slightly upward slope in trajectory.
For the year we’ll add a total of nine well servicing rigs.
We still have six more to be delivered and those will be delivered in this current quarter the third quarter and the fourth quarter.
And so we will end the year with 118 total well servicing rigs.
And we placed an order for 16 additional well service rigs to be delivered throughout the 2015 year.
Wireline as with well service again another record quarter it remains as our largest PPS segment but only slightly.
And we are seeing some green shoots of opportunity on pricing there that gives us some optimism for future quarters.
We’re still off significantly from the gross margin that we had in 2011 and 2012 as much as 8 percentage points of revenue still yet to regain.
But it does look a little bit more promising there in that market.
We will add a total six units in wireline in 2014 four have been received two more will be coming here I believe by about September.
We’ll end the year with 125 wireline units.
We do plan to order shortly eight additional wireline units for 2015 deliveries.
Turning now to our coil tubing business as I previously mentioned it is the best quarter we’ve had in the last nine quarters showing very steady improvement.
We will add a total of four units to coil tubing this year two we received two more to come.
We’re very focused on three kind of core markets the Eagle Ford Onshore Louisianan and Offshore Louisiana the offshore be in the maintenance market a smaller diameter coil.
And then we broaden our breadth of service offerings on the onshore to include sub two inch and two and three eight so we’re not able to fully service our client base in the onshore markets.
And I would say our service has improved significantly.
I would say today that we are offering the consistent high quality service in coil tubing that we offer in wireline well service.
So we’re extremely pleased with the progress that business line has made through the course of the year.
I’d like to turn the call over now to Lorne to give you a financial recap and then I’ll come back and briefly talk about kind of our outlook for the next quarter in the market.
Thank you.
Thanks Stacey.
This morning we reported consolidated revenues of $259.8 million and adjusted EBITDA of $69.7 million.
When excluding the after tax impact to the loss on early retirement of debt of $9.3 million our adjusted net income was $8.9 million or $0.14 per share in the second quarter.
That compares with net income of $2.4 million or $0.04 per share in the prior quarter which is also adjusted to remove the after tax impact of the earlier debt refinancing.
Our net loss as reported for the second quarter was close to breakeven at $319 000 or $0.01 per share.
Our drilling revenue increased by $9.6 million from the first quarter to $127.6 million which reflects higher utilization of lower horsepower drilling rigs.
Overall reported drilling margin per day was 8 946.
Our second quarter drilling margin includes a non-recurring benefit from the scope of work agreement in Columbia which resulted in additional revenue from earlier quarters of approximately $2.4 million or 480 per revenue day.
Columbia revenue in the quarter was $25.5 million.
Currently drilling rig utilization is 90% and average 87% in the second quarter up from 83% in the first quarter.
We currently have 62 drilling rigs in our fleet.
Of these 56 are earnings revenues and 43 are under term contracts.
Of the 35 on term contracts in the U.S.
nine are up for renewal this quarter nine are up for renewal in the fourth quarter eight in the first quarter of 2015 and nine expire beyond that point.
But Stacey mentioned all eight of our Columbia rigs are under term contracts through the end of the year with seven currently earning revenue.
We did increased our capital budget just in drilling to construct three 1500 horsepower AC rigs that will delivered in the second and third quarters next year and I’ll discuss the overall capital expenditure guidance after discussing production services.
The revenues for this segment increased 9% from the prior quarter to $132.3 million.
Gross margin as a percent of revenues was 38% versus 36% in the first quarter.
Our average rate per hour for well servicing was 648 compared to 645 in the first quarter.
Our other production service businesses experienced steady pricing during the second quarter as well.
Utilization for well servicing increased to 101% compared to 95% one quarter early which is the highest quarterly utilization level in our history.
Coil tubing utilization increased slightly to 53% and we expect activity to continue increasing as we move through the rest of the year.
The improvement in coil utilization was primarily in South Texas land-based work which is seeing an increase in demand.
We plan to take delivery of six new well service units two coil tubing units and four wireline units in the second half of this year two of those four wireline units we’ve already received.
For 2015 we plan to order an additional 16 well service units and eight additional wireline units.
Looking now at our overall company-wide expense trend our general and administrative expenses were up slightly to $25.3 million and we expect G&amp;A to be flat for the third quarter.
Depreciation and amortization was $45.8 million and with the planned unit growth through the rest of this year our depreciation is expected to trend upwards in the second half of the year.
For the third quarter we expect D&amp;A to be in the range of $47 million to $48 million.
Interest expense in the second quarter was $10.7 million down from $12.4 million in the prior quarter.
We have now redeemed a total of 300 million of the 9 and 78 senior notes with proceeds from the 6 and 18 senior notes that were issued in March.
As a result we expect quarterly interest expense to decline further in the third quarter to approximately $9 million.
In addition to the note refinancing we reduced debt outstanding under our revolver by $10 million in June and another $10 million in July.
We currently have $60 million drawn in our revolver for $14 million in letters of credit.
Due to a near breakeven loss for the quarter as reported the foreign currency translation gains state taxes and other permanent items had a amplified impact from the effective tax rate.
Excluding the impact of foreign currency gain or loss and any other unusual items our effective tax rate is expected to be in the 36% to 38% range in future quarters.
Cash capital expenditures in the second quarter were approximately $43 million bringing our year-to-date spending to just under $75 million.
Including the additional units we discussed earlier our revised guidance for CapEx spending in 2014 is $185 million to $200 million.
Also based on commitments we’re making for additional equipment to be delivered in 2015 and including estimated routines and maintenance cost our preliminary 2015 spend today would be estimated in $190 million to $210 million.
This number is preliminary and it could move higher if we signed up more rigs or/and also depends the market conditions.
This time last year we were focused on repaying debt and given the strong demand we’re seeing today we believe the more balanced program of organic growth in the lower level of debt reduction will drive the greater shareholder value in the current environment.
And with that I’ll turn it back over to Stacey.
Thank you Lauren.
Our outlook for the remainder of the year is very positive as I previously mentioned I do think we have more new builds in our future.
Utilization looks like it’s going to continue to be strong but we still are playing with the 60 series and so we’ll guide drilling utilization slightly up to 86% to 89% for the third quarter.
We do think average day rates in the U.S.
are certainly trending up but that is been offset to some degree by little bit of margin softness down in Columbia until we get that operation lined out with locations out in front of us.
So we’re going to hold our margins relatively flat at 85 to 87 -- 100 a day for drilling.
On the production service side the outlook continues to be very strong there.
I think after a quarter a 7% growth and at second quarter 9% growth.
Unless we have additional units layering in it’s going to be hard to continue that level of growth.
So we went to slow that a little bit to 3% to 5%.
We would expect more unit additions to impact the growth number in the fourth and first second third quarter next year.
That is still very positive outlook for revenues.
And margins as we stated before I think we will continue to grow the margin slightly quarter-over-quarter we are forecasting 0.5% to 1% for the upcoming quarter.
So that’s very positive and then we’ll be layering in these additions of units that I’ve outlined previously.
So it gives us a pretty good outlook for 2015.
I think we’ll end the prepared remarks and be happy to entertain any questions.
Thank you.
Thank you sir.
We will now begin the question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions) Our first question comes from Matt Marietta with Stephens Inc First I wanted to hit on a little bit on the drilling markets.
If you can provide some color on where drilling spot rates are relative to contract roll-offs? And you look at the guidance and I'm trying to get a sense for is there any upside to that guidance when you consider the number of rigs that may be rolling off in the third quarter or have rolled off in the late second quarter to offset some of the Colombia commentary? The biggest factor would be if we could get the Colombia rigs back to work center at full day rate that we don’t think that’s likely based on the situation with locations.
So there may be very-very limited upside there.
I mean clearly the U.S.
land market it is improving.
We talked about that as I mentioned before most of the renewals are going up on the order of 500 to 1000 and the three of our new-builds from the last cycle that have renewed have all gone up over $1500 a day.
So clearly it’s a positive impact to average margins but Colombia is an important piece of that and it is weighting down on that average for now.
So we just have to wait and see.
And I would say the other competition there is -- we’re trying to estimate the impact of that kind of one-time settlement down in Colombia and Lorne has approximated that impact but that's probably plus or minus $100 or $200 a day there as well.
It’s just very hard to be specific on that.
It's possible there is some upside but I think we are comfortable with our guidance as presented on drilling.
Thanks and switching over to the Production Services side there's obviously a little bit of variability in the service rig results between you guys and some data points from some of your peers in market commentary.
Can you maybe speak to how much of the work you all are doing is completion versus rework or recompletion type work work-over type work? And is this simply a capability benefit of your fleet having the high horsepower rig or is there something else that I'm missing there? We have been doing a very steady maintenance and recompletion level of work for quite a long now.
Certain markets that’s improving like in the Eagle Ford now that we have a little more time on those boreholes the Bakken we’ve been doing it for a long time.
I think that mix is more or less 65%-35% where 35% will be completion work.
Is that right Lorne in that range?  Yes.
So we are doing a lot of maintenance oriented work.
With respect to the relative performance with us versus others one distinguishing factor there is that we’re focused strictly on the higher and deeper markets which where we are able to package additional equipment with our base rig unit like in the Permian while that’s a very exciting growth margin market.
We haven’t yet moved there because we can’t see the profitability opportunity there like we do in these other markets.
Historically you contract just your base well servicing unit there and you lose the benefit of providing these other equipment items that we typically package with our well service rig which would be mud tank mud pump closing unit BOP swivel that sort of thing.
So that really helps our overall profitability and it’s a big benefit to the clients that want a complete service rig.
So that’s one distinction there.
And of course I would also say I think our people are exceptional that’s probably the single biggest determinant they truly are very good at what they do.
All of our growth is really based on the job that we’re doing for mostly existing clients a lot of that demand we started the year with plans at three service units but demand from our clients causes to order six more.
I’d say demand from our clients is what’s really precipitating the order for 16 additional units.
So I think our guys are doing a very good job.
They are the safest in the industry and we have the right equipment for the big shale play.
So I think it’s just a combination of factors there.
I appreciate the color.
Congrats on the quarter.
Thank you Matt.
We’ll now move to Marshall Adkins with Raymond James.
The new workover rigs you're ordering couple questions on those.
One are they all incremental or are they replacing older stuff? And what does the fully outfitted workover rig high end one like you guys are ordering run these days? Well the full package is running about 1.85 million in the field working kind of in that range.
And the rigs that we’re ordering are like the ones we’ve ordered in the past there 550 or 600 horsepower all tall masted units we’ll have some that we’ll order at 104 some at 112 some at 116 foot.
So in certain market particularly the Eagle Ford where they put these monstrous BOP stacks you need that 116 foot derrick to work those jobs.
So that’s basically what we’re providing there.
And is it all incremental or are you placing some of the older stuff with this? Yes these are all incremental units.
We have a kind of a active refurb program going on with the rest of the fleet.
But no we don’t plan to replace any of our existing units.
Colombia you gave us some guidance short-term on the issues.
Looking past this year you have contracts rolling off of at the end of this year if I remember correctly how does that market look out into 2015 and beyond? Well we’re pretty optimistic about Columbia I guess the one of the bright spots is that they are running behind even behind their revised new quota for the year which they lowered.
And they’re running behind that and so they have a need to drill and increase production.
And so we’re confident that they’re going to need all eight of our rigs and they continue to request newly built rigs that we are entertaining.
But we want to obtain the same recurrence that we make on those rigs at a minimum here in the U.S.
But we’re pretty confident we’ll renew those contracts they’re good contracts.
You remember last year there was a lot of consternation towards the end of the year about going to a new form of contract.
They continue to want to evolve their service providers to that new form and we are looking at that form of contract today although it’s not a bid process like we went through last year.
So we’re working through the renewal now which is great as opposed to at the end of the year and doing the process that we had last year.
So I think the outlook is a little more favorable there.
And then in addition to the one big client there there are other opportunities developing there in the country that we have some U.S.
based operators that have taken positions in Columbia that have yet to really start requesting rigs.
And those will be focused more on the shale market.
And so I think there is lot of excitement.
We’ve been drilling horizontally there for quite some time but we’re not in the shale.
And so we really would like to segway some of our work into work force these folks as they develop the tremendous shale opportunity that exist there in the country.
So I think overall very bright feature.
Thank you Stacey.
We’ll now take the question from Dave Wilson with Howard Weil.
Please go ahead with your question.
Stacy I know you talked about the new-builds at the beginning of the conference call and you're having more conversations with other potential customers.
You got the three rigs coming in next year but as far as those additional conversations could you give me a frame of reference of is an incremental three rigs four rigs or one or two? Put some parentheses around what conversations you're having and how many rigs that could represent? Well that’s an unknown.
Really I would say for sure we are looking at a couple of more rigs that we could what we’re really trying to do is figure out how many we could go to without increasing our debt to capitalization and so I think we are very comfortable that we can go to the 7 to 8 particular newbuilds so that having to increase our overall indebtedness and possibly more possibly even up to 9 or 10 total newbuild units added alongside of production service growth.
But that will just depend on the overall market conditions.
And in terms of gauging how many specific rigs it’s hard to say we’re talking to some clients that could put in some multi-rig orders multi-year which would push us up fairly rapidly.
Those are tough contracts to get.
There's a lot of competition for it.
We’re kind of demanding three year terms and we are also demanding higher day rates.
We are at the absolute highest end of the day rate environment and so that makes us -- and of course we are not building in advanced.
We are signing contract we deliver approximately a year later.
That puts us in a little bit of a competitive disadvantage.
So I don’t really want to try that to be too specific.
But I think for modeling purposes you could were very conservatively model 2 3 or more rigs.
But we will have to see as the market develops going forward.
Sure great.
Thanks for the additional info there.
That leads me to my next question.
Lorne regarding having a more balanced approach toward debt and new-builds what targets are you setting looking at 2015 to have debt levels and debt to cap assuming no more additional new-builds?  Assuming no additional over the 3 we would be in a position where we would pay down some additional debt in 2014 not a lot we’ve paid down 20 might be another 10 million to 20 million in ’14.
I think in ’15 if we don’t sign up any additional rigs then we would have a decent pays of debt pay downs next year and I don’t want to get too specific on that at this point.
We would also measure that free cash flow against how production service is going and what the opportunities there in terms of unit growth.
But I think if we didn’t sign up any more newbuilds we would whittle away at the debt reduction but it's just going to be balanced against what is the protection service market doing and what opportunities are there.
Adding 16 well service rigs in 2015 that’s a good amount to add and the question will be how much more could you add in the various figure.
(Operator Instructions) We will now take a question from Jason Wangler with Wunderlich Securities   I'm curious on the guidance for the Production Services side.
Obviously the utilization has been fantastic.
Is there a ballpark number that you guys use when you look at that as far as when you give us the guidance just trying to see where your heads are at as far as utilization going forward? I would say on the well servicing side we are pretty much at full utilization.
I think if we can maintain utilization at 90% to 100% we’re doing terrific there so you can’t really expect to gain too much more in that business.
In Wireline in these summer months and the second quarter third quarter we're running also at very-very high utilization there.
It’s hard to gain much more in the third quarter over the second quarter.
We were very-very highly utilization there.
So the gains in revenue come from a combination of a little bit of pricing and little bit of growth in unit count.
Does that what you are kind of after? That's helpful.
Just obviously the numbers are great.
Just seeing where you guys were thinking about it given where they are at? And then just on coil...
Coil just on that I didn't touch coil.
Coil we do expect the see some utilization so that’s one where we do have capacity to run more business.
That's helpful and actually I was going to ask about that too.
Just under the [guidance] you guys have seen the number come up lately which has been great.
Adding more units is there just a different dynamic of how that business is utilized versus the others because obviously the utilization rates are so high in the others.
Is it just a different dynamic where there is a peak utilization that's just a lower number and that's why you're still unable to add units or just maybe walk me through that?  Well that’s exactly right.
Well servicing without 24 hour work would be peaking Joe in the 75% range it kind of would be pretty good utilization but with 24 hour work it able to bring it up into the 80s and 90s and even above a 100.
So coil is a little more like well servicing without 24 hour work.
If you can hit 70%-75% utilization there is not much more to gain because in order to provide that good service when you perform a job you need to bring your unit in do preventive maintenance and have it prepared for the next job.
You just can’t go from job to job to job to job without doing the preventive maintenance.
Sure.
That's helpful.
Thank you.
And Mr.
Locke there are no further questions at this time.
Please continue.
Well thank you all very much for joining the call and we will look forward to visiting… Pardon me Mr.
Locke we just had an additional person queue up for the question would you like to take them now.
I bet that’s Marshall coming back.
I'm your worst nightmare.
Yes we love it we love it.
Sorry about that.
I tried to push it before but didn't get it right.
Two more quick ones for me.
As was mentioned earlier your workover business relative to your peer group is crushing it.
And I know you downplayed your guidance as slower growth from what you have been seeing.
It is still meaningfully better than what most people in the industry have been guiding to.
What's giving you the confidence that the workover business is going to keep chugging along and kicking butt like it seems have to been doing recently? Well that’s a great question and one that we ponder frequently and often.
But as long as rig count stays steady as it’s staying Eagle Ford is down a little bit but it’s very steady Bakken is down little bit but very steady Permian is increasing and other markets are increasing.
But even with the steady rig count the rig efficiencies have greatly improved.
We’re drilling wells quicker and we’re drilling them on pads and that’s putting four holes into the ground at a faster pace.
So that is kind of the underlying reason that there is more work out there.
Plus I think that kind of a couple aspects there.
One is its kind of hard to gauge the service intensity of a borehole we know that high decline rate oil wells drill horizontally or about the most service intense we all speculated that to be the most in service it’s in well bore out there and I think if anything we’ve underestimated that to some degree.
So we think the service degree maybe greater.
The other good news is that I risk that we perceived a couple of years ago has not developed and that is that some of the service work could theoretically be performed by a lower horsepower well service rig the 400 horsepower the 350 horsepower rigs out there which we don’t have any of those.
And you can get them cheaper but what we’re seeing that we’re pleased about is we’re working mostly for the big publicly traded operators and they want flexibility in the rig.
In other words they’ll take the 550 or 600 horsepower rig and they’ll use it to do 24 hour work they’ll run it overdue two or three maintenance jobs go do more completion work.
And they get’s comfortable with the crew and the rig can do anything that they want to have done.
And so we’re not seeing them switch over to a lower cost unit which is great.
And I think that’s pardon parcel to the fact that we’re working for the bigger and publicly traded companies that have these massive campaigns they just want to grab a unit that they can stick with and so everything.
So I think those two things are big positives for us.
Anything Joe you want to add on that.
Yes the other thing we found is with all these wells that they’re drilling so it seem that first year is for sure there is multiple jobs.
You go in you do a completion and then with 90 to 120 days going back and possibly putting a long tall.
So we think that every well borne is drilled has at least two jobs the first year and exit more in many cases.
So that creates lots of shortfall.
And certainly markets like the Bakken remember to using the same example because it was a real eye opener to me Lorne and I were in the Bakken it’s been a couple of years and more now and we were on a well that was six months old and I think it was our third trip out there with a well servicing rig already.
And the well servicing rig was on location when we were there.
And that’s pretty service intense.
That's great color.
And then last one final one for me.
On these three new-builds and maybe this is a question for Red give us a little bit of insight on -- you gave us detail on what these workover rigs are costing.
How much are they costing -- I assume you're putting walking systems in them and whose equipment are you using for the major parts all that stuff? Just give us an overview of what these rigs should look like?   We have engineering staff and we design them ourselves and then we subcontract out to have the rigs built.
NOV gets $6 million to $7 million for a piece; VFD House Drawworks Amphion Operating System; were going to Gardner Denver for the pumps.
We go to someone else to build the mast and the sub.
So it’s a lot of different vendors there.
And then we will assemble it in some yard.
But these 1500 that we are building are just they are similar to our 1500 horsepower of the last generation with a few optimal changes that we are limiting -- yes last cycle we built eight 1500 horsepower rigs and they were all the same.
And then two that what we called our Marcellus glass.
This rig that we're building now is going to limit the height and width and weight of our loads more similar to the Marcellus glass so we're going to have one rig fit all where it could work in the Marcellus or the Utica or in the Bakken or the Eagle Ford or the Permian.
By doing so we also limiting the number of loads even further than our last generation of newbuilds that performance is what’s driving the demand for these newbuilds.
They have really performed exceptionally well.
And these are all true walking rigs.
They are all 2000 horsepower mud pumps 7500 PSI fluid in which is kind of our signature on that last round of newbuilds and now you are seeing a lot of other contractors kind of gravitate the direction because it works even penetrates faster even clean your wellbore better and the operators have loved that.
And then we think we made some further enhancements in the rig up – rig down procedures.
So we think we have a very highly competitive rig on a rig mover anticipating three to four day maximum which moves on this new rig which is maybe a day quicker than our last rig.
But even those we had some rig moves under three days on that rig.
But it’s going to be highly competitive rig.
We think it’ll be an absolute top performer in the market and it will all in cost be in the 25 million range.
That’s for an unwinterized rig and that's tax title license tubulars handling goods everything on it.
That may be a little higher than some of the other rigs just because not everybody puts -- we put 2000 horsepower Gardner Denver pumps on them which are little more expensive than and we are putting a 7500 PSI fluid in mud system that’s more expensive.
That’s all in that’s what it’s going to get around us.
And that’s where we based our internal rate of return on.
There are no further questions at this time.
Please continue All right.
Well thank you very much for joining us on the call this morning and we will look forward to visiting again on the third quarter result.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes the Pioneer Energy Services second quarter earnings call.
If you like to listen to a replay of this presentation you may find the dial in information on this morning’s news release of the conference.
And I would like to thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Greetings and welcome to the Pioneer Energy Services third quarter 2014 earnings call.
(Operator Instructions) As reminder this conference is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to your host Anne Pearson.
Thank you Ms.
Pearson you may begin.
Thanks Bob and good morning everyone.
Before I turn the call over to Pioneer CEO Stacy Locke; and CFO Lorne Phillips for their formal remarks I have a few of the usual items to cover.
First of all a replay of today’s call will be available and will be accessible by webcast by going to the IR section of Pioneer’s Web site and also by telephone replay.
You can find the replay information for both in this morning’s news release.
Also as a reminder information reported on this call speaks only as of today October 28 2014 so any time sensitive information may not be accurate at the time of a replay.
Management may make forward-looking statements that are based on beliefs and assumptions and information currently available to them.
While they believe these expectations are reasonable they can give no assurance they’ll prove to be correct.
They are subject to certain risks and uncertainties and assumptions described in today’s news release and also in recent public filings with the SEC.
If one or more were to materialize or should underlying assumptions prove incorrect results may differ materially.
Also please note this conference call may contain references to non-GAAP measures.
And you’ll find a reconciliation to the GAAP measures in this morning’s release.
Now I’d like to turn the call over to Stacy Locke Pioneer President and CEO.
Stacy? Thank you Anne good morning.
Joining me here in San Antonio is Red West President of our Drilling Services segment; Joe Eustace President of our Production Services segment; and Lorne Phillips our Chief Financial Officer.
Generally the third quarter was another solid quarter for the Company.
Revenues were up 5% EBITDA was roughly flat when adjusted for the one-time time events quarter-over-quarter.
Again record quarters for our wireline business for our well services business and continued nice improvement in our coiled tubing business.
U.S.
drilling was very steady both in terms of utilization and in margin.
Colombia was really the only area of our operations that struggled and this was primarily due to delays in the preparation of drilling pad sites.
And anyway however we think that most of that is behind us.
We should have a little trailing cost of there in this fourth quarter but we are on the right track for the future it looks like.
Diving down a little more deeply into the drilling services segment we have five new-builds under construction.
Two of these will be delivered in the second quarter of 2015.
Two will be delivered in the third quarter and one in the fourth quarter as it sits today.
One will be going to the Eagle Ford one to the Bakken and three to the Permian.
We continue to have ongoing conversations with customers about potentially additional new-builds.
Across the company in drilling we are at 94% utilization which is very very good.
100% utilization in our South Texas division 100% utilized in our West Texas division 100% utilized in the Bakken 100% utilized in Colombia.
And really there is only four rigs down company-wide and those are all 60 series three of which are mechanical 60 series and one is an electric.
Three are stacked in Utah and one in Appalachia in the Marcellus.
If you look at utilization kind of our rig category our AC rigs are 100% utilized our SCR rigs are 96% utilized.
The one rig down there is a 60 series and the mechanical rigs are 87% utilized.
And three mechanical rigs that are down are part of the 360 series.
So all in all doing extremely well on rig utilization.
In Colombia today we have got seven of our rigs working on day work.
We haven't been that high all year.
So far we have had rigs down at various points waiting on locations to be built.
And then we have one rig that is on a fairly long move presently and we just completed a rig move and started day work a couple days ago on a second rig.
So we are in the midst of final negotiations on a renewal of all eight of those rigs that we think will extend these rigs working in Colombia for the same client sometime into 2016.
So we’re going to continue to work on that and feel like we are getting pretty close to having that complete.
Turning now to our production services segment I would say excellent overall.
Revenues were up another 10% a record quarter for the Company.
We were able to sell during this quarter our fishing and rental business which was the smallest segment of the production services segment and one that we felt was non-core to the Company long-term.
So that sale has been completed and we took the proceeds and reduced our indebtedness.
On the well servicing front another record quarter in revenues a back-to-back quarter with utilization at 101%.
We are sitting today at 130 rigs with seven more to be delivered by the end of this year and then we have an order for 16 rigs to be delivered throughout 2015.
In our wireline operation also a record quarter with very good and improved profitability.
We sit at 123 units in our wireline with one more unit to be delivered before the end of the year and we have placed an order for eight more units for delivery throughout 2015.
Coiled tubing operations continue to show steady improvement.
We achieved 57% utilization in this third quarter which was the best so far this year.
We recently signed a favorable one-year term contract in coiled tubing which that is the first one of those we have seen in a long time.
We are presently at 16 units in coiled with 1 2 and 3/8 inch unit a bigger unit arriving in November.
So with that I would like to turn it over to Lorne for some more color on our financials.
Thanks Stacy.
For the quarter we reported consolidated revenues in $273.3 million up 5.2% from the prior quarter.
And adjusted EBITDA of $78.1 million.
If you exclude the $10.7 million pre-tax gain on the sale of fishing and rental assets our EBITDA was $67.4 million.
Our net income for the third quarter was $12.5 million or $0.19 per diluted share.
Adjusted to exclude the benefit of the tax gain fishing and rental net income would have been $6.2 million or $0.09 per.
By comparison our second quarter earnings adjusted to exclude the impact of debt refinancing was $8.9 million or $0.14 per share.
Our drilling revenue increased by approximately $0.6 million compared to the second quarter the increase reflects steady performance in the U.S.
market which was offset by the issues we experienced in Colombia which Stacy just described.
Our combined drilling margin per day was 7 810 which is 1 130 lower than the prior quarter.
The quarter-over-quarter decrease in the drilling margin per day reflects the impact of the downtime in Colombia also combined with the scope-of-work agreement we signed in the second quarter that boosted the second quarter drilling margin by $480 per day.
Revenue from our Colombian operations in the third quarter was $22.9 million.
Currently our overall drilling rig utilization is 94% and on the 62 drilling rigs on our fleet 58 are earning revenues and 44 are under term contracts.
Of the 36 under term contracts in the U.S.
9 are still up for renewal this quarter 14 are up for renewal in the first quarter of 2015 2 in the second quarter of 2015 and 11 expired beyond that point.
All eight of our Colombia rigs are earning revenue and are under term contracts at the end of the year as Stacy described.
We contracted to build 1 500 horsepower AC drilling rigs during the third quarter so we now expect to deliver five new rigs in 2015 all of which are supported by term contracts.
Turning now to production services revenues for this segment increased 9.7% from the prior quarter to $145.2 million which reflects record-level revenue from all three business lines in what is typically a seasonally strong quarter.
Gross margin as a percent of revenues was up about 20 basis points quarter-on-quarter 37.8%.
And our average rate per hour per well servicing was $661 compared to $648 in the second quarter.
Pricing for other production service business was steady.
During 2014 we made several improvements to our debt structure.
In late September we amended and extended our revolving credit facility increasing capacity by $100 million for a total of $350 million of availability and extended the facility through September 2019.
We also redeemed the remaining $125 million of our 9-7/8% senior notes on October 23 of this month and will be recording $8.8 million pre-tax charge related to that transaction in the fourth quarter.
This redemption was funded by borrowings on the revolver and cash on hand.
As of today the revolver balance is $160 million.
At the beginning of the year we have redeemed a total of $425 million of the 9-7/8% senior notes using proceeds from the new 6-1/8% senior notes along with proceeds from our upsized revolver and cash on hand.
We applied $15 million of proceeds from the sale of our fishing and rental assets to debt reduction.
These improvements in our debt structure during the year resolved in an annualized interest expense reduction of approximately $23 million.
In addition we have reduced total debt by approximately $95 million since March 31 2013.
For the quarter interest expense was $9 million down from $10.7 million in the prior quarter.
And for the fourth quarter we expect interest expense to be approximately $7 million.
Looking now at other company-wide expense trends our G&amp;A expenses were $26.6 million up from $25.3 million in the prior quarter.
We expect G&amp;A to be flat to slightly up in the fourth quarter.
Depreciation and amortization was $46.1 million with ongoing unit growth and production services we expect D&amp;A for the fourth quarter to be approximately $47 million.
Our tax rate for the third quarter was 44% excluding the impact of foreign currency gains or losses and any other unusual items our effective tax rate is expected to be in the 38% to 39% range in future quarters.
Cash capital expenditures in the third quarter were approximately $46 million bringing our year-to-date spending to approximately $121 million.
We expect to come in at the low end of that range of our previous range which is a $185 million to $200 million.
And the two additional new build rigs now in order will fall primarily into 2015.
Based on commitments for equipment that will be delivered in 2015 and including estimated routine and maintenance cost our new guidance for next year’s CapEx budget is now on the range of $250 million to $270 million.
However if activity levels drop in 2015 as a result of lower oil prices that CapEx spending level will decrease by potentially as much $40 million to $60 million.
As we said last quarter we will continue to pursue a balanced capital structure that gives us the flexibility to add equipment if appropriate while still working to enhance our balance sheet and with that I’ll turn it back over to Stacy.
Thank you Lorne.
I would tell as we look out into the future excuse me one has to be cautious with the oil prices where they are today.
If they persist we feel certain that capital spending will be adjusted downward relative to prior expectations and this more the likely will affect the pricing and utilization.
I think it’s hard to determine today the magnitude of those adjustments but it’s likely that they will come and it’s also likely that 2015 will grow increasingly more difficult through the course of 2015 if the low oil prices persist.
Looking specifically to the fourth quarter I think we would expect normal seasonality in the quarter.
As in the past our production services segment revenues are typically down in the fourth quarter and margin is off slightly.
We do have new additions coming in for the quarter which will offset the effects of the efficient rental sale.
So information we’re guiding in the fourth quarter for production services revenues down 5% to 7% and margin off 1% to 2%.
In the drilling services segment we see utilization improving as I mentioned previously we’re currently 94%.
Our channel checks looks pretty strong at the present time for the fourth quarter.
So we’re guiding up in utilization 89% to 92% and then in terms of average daily margins we think they’ll normalize as Colombia situation is improved.
I think there is a little bit of tail on the Colombia improvement that it will affect our margin guidance slightly but we are guiding for average drilling margins of $8 400 to $8 700 per day in the fourth quarter.
With that those concluded our prepared remarks and we would like to open the floor for questions.
Thank you.
Thank you.
We’ll now be conducting a question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions) Thank you.
Our first question comes from the line of John Daniel Simmons.
Please proceed with your question.
Hi guys good morning.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Stacy first one for you the nine rigs that are up for renewal on Q4 the 14 that are up for renewal on Q1 at this point given what you see and we know what the commodity price would you anticipate that they would get renewed at higher pricing same pricing or lower pricing? I would predict that the majority of them would be renewed and I think the pricing is probably if I had to guess at this point flattish.
I don’t see any downward Don Lacombe is sitting in here with me but I don’t think we’re seeing anything that we’d suggest downward pressure on pricing.
I think we pretty good visibility about the work schedules of these clients and I think most of these will be extended and probably at – we actually may have a few go up but the majority will be flat I’m guessing.
Does it sound right Don? That’s correct.
Okay.
And so then as we just think about the cash margins going into Q1 in all likelihood flattish as well maybe down given opinion like that? I think as we’ve kind of talked about it in last couple of calls I mean I anticipate that if we can hold the day rates flat with Colombia improving and then later in the year having the new build rigs come into play I think we could see a gradually improving margin.
Now with lower oil prices that could change at some point during the course of the year possibly even as early as the first quarter by quarter end.
We’re just not seeing that yet.
Colombia has been the drag.
I think our average margins we would even got it little higher for Q4 and but Colombia has been a drag on that and we’re changing some of the terms and conditions that kind of got us in this trap in this past year’s contract in the new contract that we’re negotiating.
So I think that we’ll have a few more protections and the outlook is pretty positive there.
Okay.
One more then I’ll turn it over to others.
And you guys Mr.
Eustace and team has done a great job with the well services businesses here year basically growing when others can't.
But we’re now as you alluded to – we’re in a slightly different environment with oil prices bleeding lower and hopefully you guys know there is a whole lot of work over rigs being built still so at this – at what point do you see the industry supply which is growing beginning to impact your pricing and utilization levels? I wish we could answer that.
I really don't know but I would suspect that it could come in the first half of the New Year that we could see a little bit of push-back.
I think we are probably being asked to rebid more now than we have in the past and so that suggests a little bit of a tone change.
We work hard to defend our pricing on performance and safety but that is tougher to do as these oil prices persists.
So if we had to predict at this point I think that you could see a little turn during the first half of the year I don't know if you could see this quickly in the first quarter but possibly but more likely second third quarter if it happens.
Thank you for the candid answers.
Thank you.
Our next question is coming from the line Matt Marietta with Stephens.
Please go ahead with your question.
Good morning guys.
Good morning.
Is there any color you can provide on what customer conversations are like from a CapEx perspective for 2015? And obviously with the moving oil prices there is a lot of uncertainty out there.
But any sense or details you can provide in call it a low $80 oil case do you think there are certain types of programs that gets slowed or even decline in this environment or different basins that are more at risk than others?  Well that’s a good question and I don’t know that we know the answer because I would say that it’s still a little early.
I mean we are – we virtually heard almost nothing from our client base.
I mean you can hear a little bit of murmuring but you know the conversations are going on in the board rooms of these companies as you approach the 2015 budget.
And so we would still think it's a little early in that process but it’s probably coming soon where we will hear more plus a fair number of these clients have hedged at fairly healthy prices so we do here some of that from our clients that they are less concerned about it in the short medium term.
And in terms of the basins and the activity levels we honestly have been trying to figure that out and I can't say we've reached any great conclusions.
We speculate a little bit about West Texas whether the vertical drilling might actually be a little more attractive with lower pricing just because the cost of the wells are so much lower but we don’t know just – we don't have enough insights those are the kind of questions that we’ll be asking operators over the next few months to get a sense of that for ourselves.
But I think it’s hard to say some of the basins like the Bakken has been pretty – it's been in pretty good level.
I think our client there best I know we’re going to stay busy.
Permian right now is just too hard to call.
I'd say the Eagle Ford looks steady right now but it is just too early to tell.
So I wish I could give you a little more color but it’s – Lorne do you have any thoughts you want to add if it…?  No I’ve (inaudible).
Well thanks for that.
Did we totally not answer that question? I mean it was enough to get a little bit.
But switching gears to the production service business I mean given your experience in that business would you expect capital dollars or dollars to get diverted from new well drilling to production maintenance in kind of a flattish rig environment next year if that were to be the case or kind of what is your sense on the trade-off between production maintenance versus new well drilling in this sort of environment? Well the production maintenance side of it has been picking up as these horizontal wells have more time on them and there's more service to be done on.
So that's a historically normal trend.
I think they have a lot of wellbores out there lot more than they used to be and I think that will be the case and we will see a little more spend on the maintenance side keep production up Thanks that's helpful.
That's all for me.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Jim Rollyson with Raymond James.
Please go ahead with your question.
Inc.</strong>  Good morning Stacy and Lorne.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Inc.</strong> Stacy so switch gears to Colombia a couple things around that.
You guys have had some delays with this whole pad issue.
It sounds like that is rectified for the time being.
Just maybe your kind of gut healing on is this something that might pop back down the road as a problem or do think they have got that under control for one? And for two as you are starting to talk about contracts for next year do think that process goes smoother than it did last year and does the delays you had this year push you contracted work into 2015 already?  Well that – there is an eagerness on our primary clients’ part to sign a contract before contract expiration which is at the end of the year.
So that’s why we're working in earnest to that goal.
We hope that something executed here during the month and they are way behind.
And they’re way short of their production goals and that is the impetus behind –starting the renewal process earlier.
So I think I would foresee that renewal to be smoother and sooner than last year.
And with respect to the pads I think that – I don't think they'll look that happen again.
I know for us that we never experienced it previously and therefore we didn't have the adequate contract protection.
And in the contract we put contract protections to prevent it in the unlikely case that it does reoccur.
The challenge there is you hire a lot of people a lot more people than you do here in the U.S.
per rig.
Then we have a 100 man camps down there.
Lots of what they call paddio-hands [ph] working.
And when you bring these people on before they can step on location they have to go through pretty extensive training.
So when we get the order to move the rig we can’t move the rig.
There’s virtually no way we can move it because we have to get the people trained up prior to being able let them all on location so we can move.
So it is a bit of a catch-22 and since we never anticipated that problem previously we’re putting language to protect us in the contracts that we’re trying to renew currently.
So but I don't think they will get nearly that far behind.
I am quite sure I understand why they’ve got so messed up on getting these pads built but it looks like it’s behind it looks like they are eager to establish production improvements that they need these rigs to do it.
So we think by the end of the month of November we’ll have this worked out.
Inc.</strong> That's great color.
I appreciate that.
And then as a follow-up you guys have done a pretty good job this year obviously of working down the debt the 9-7/8% notes refinanced.
As you look into next year and you are talking $250 million to $270 million as kind of your initial CapEx guidance where do you see your debt balance going maybe for Lorne under that scenario.
Well we believe that we can keep it level or I guess a couple of weeks ago we told you we would expect we could do that and still have some debt reduction.
And it’s still possible but we need to be realistic in this lower oil price environment that if activity or pricing or both fall off that would impact us.
But if activity does fall off like I talked about it’d be like we can reduce some of that activity based CapEx spending.
And so that would be our goal as to stay leverage neutral and there are other things there are rigs that for the right price we would consider selling.
So situations like that we’ll continue to look at but – and on the other side there is potential for us to sign up another one or two new builds in this environment which would add to the spending but it would only be done with the term contract.
So yes our belief is that we can hold it flat and we are going to see we can do to just continue work to decrease it but we would be willing to sign up one or two more new-builds if we hit out the right terms and conditions.
Inc.</strong> Perfect appreciate that.
Thanks guys.
You bet.
Our next question comes from the line of Daniel Burke with Johnson Rice.
Please go ahead with your question.
Good morning guys.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Lorne you were just there but could you elaborate maybe just a little more on where the toggles are in next year's CapEx budget maybe on the drilling side versus the production services side if that's carrying back some of the growth capital on the production services side or just watching that maintenance and sustaining budget a little more closely? It's really the latter.
A lot of the drilling CapEx which is usually probably three quarters of our routine and maintenance CapEx cost is very – that piece of it is for activity-based.
So if there was a decrease in drilling activity the majority of the pullback would be in drilling other routine and maintenance.
And obviously there is some discretionary items that are not for new units that if you are in an environment that was – had decreased activity you would probably have the opportunity to just pull that equipment from another rig for the time being if you chose to do that.
Also and I would also say one thing I haven’t mentioned is going back to any of our vendors for the equipment we have on order.
If we were in a situation where we felt that made sense and in fact we do have those discussions and have started to investigate that just to make sure we are prepared in pushing back delivery and delaying that cash outlay if it seems appropriate.
So we are evaluating all those things but to your point the primary pullback would be in routine the maintenance due to reduced activity and it would be primarily in drilling.
Okay thanks.
And then just a quick follow-up.
It was pretty clear that the decline in drilling margin sequentially was due to Colombia.
But I guess I just wanted to clarify your U.S.
day work margins did those increase sequentially I assume? They were pretty flattish.
Most of the – we have had some day rate increases that I think we'll see the effects of those coming in in the fourth quarter more than say the third quarter.
But that's why we are saying earlier in a prior question that we thought once Colombia is normalized that we could see our average increase a little bit barring the unknown from a current yield downward pressure on rates.
Similarly we keep the rates flat and then layer it through the course of the second and third and fourth quarter of next year the new-builds we think we can see average margins improve a little bit.
Okay guys.
That's helpful.
Thanks Lorne.
Thanks Stacy.
The next question is from the line of Brad Handler with Jefferies.
Please go ahead with your question.
Inc.</strong> Thanks good morning.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Inc.</strong> Following up on that last question a couple of your peers have talked about some additional training costs and crewing costs effectively as they gear up for admittedly larger programs larger new-build programs than yours.
But I'm sort of wondering if that's something we need to think about on your end as well if that has some bearing in the US operating – the daily OpEx outlook? I don't think so for us our scale is different.
We've been able to source labor in past cycles fairly efficiently.
And we do have training costs but we have trading costs ongoing it's really probably going to be no different in 2015 compared to 2014 and 2013.
I mean we do a lot of training and we'll just continue to have but when you are trying to source hands for just five rigs that's going to be fairly easy for us.
And we don't have the big manufacturing facilities.
We outsource facilities so we don't have any lingering facility-related cost of labor and property and plant and taxes and everything associated and equipment there.
So that's certainly a benefit during times as things slowdown.
Inc.</strong> Sure sure.
No that all make sense and that's good just to hear it.
Okay thanks.
And then the – a second unrelated question from me on production services and specifically well servicing.
So your answers to a couple of the questions were interesting and potentially at cross currents maybe because you talked about potential pricing pressure presumably related to new-builds but also that the basic idea that production maintenance spending might rise in this kind of an environment next year would presumably suggest a demand increase.
So maybe I could ask you to tie those together or maybe I didn't quite understand a piece of it or maybe the completion services side is more important than I'm thinking but if you could help to reconcile the outlook that would be great.
Well it's tough to do at this stage quite honestly.
I mean we are speculating along with you and everybody else as to what is going to happen.
I think it was John Daniel or I think it was John that asked that question or – but the – we are such in the early stages that it’s hard to know really what's going to happen.
But what we're trying to suggest there is there are a few flags up that cause us to query whether in fact we could be at the beginnings of a crossroads where we might start seeing a little pricing pressure.
Can't say that's going to happen our performance of that group is stellar.
The safety record is very very good working for big publicly-traded companies with big programs where they are going to want to keep their production up.
So having said that it may not impact us for the first quarter say or even the second quarter.
But I think that if price of oil stays low I just think you can't assume that to be the case.
You would have to assume that people are going to cut back on some levels of activity which will put a little pricing pressure on the table and utilization pressure on the table.
But in past cycles when the dollars aren't being spent quite as much on the front end say like a number of analysts are predicting drilling rig count declining down in 2015.
Well if that occurs then you are going to be spending a little less on drilling wells a little less on completing wells but the – there might be a little more capital allocated to keeping your production up.
That's really all we were saying.
And that trend has been true in past cycles.
And I think the I guess the reassuring part of it for us in our space is that there are so many more wellbores out there today than there were in prior cycles due to all of the horizontal plays.
It – I will add another data point.
If you look at the last soft cycle which started third and fourth quarter of 2012 and persisted maybe for the first three quarters of 213 well servicing didn't see that cycle relative to our other business lines.
Drilling was impacted by the utilization and pricing.
Wireline was also impacted by the utilization and pricing.
Coil was also impacted the well servicing really was not.
So I feel pretty good about well servicing actually.
But we'll just have to see how it plays out.
It’s – I think we are in a good spot with the right people and the right equipment and I'm not too worried about it but time will tell we will obviously update you when things change but I think it’s a little too early to make the call on that.
But I do think it's important to recognize a few of the early warning signs that could be out there.
Inc.</strong> Thank you for that.
And maybe just one more please.
Is there a distinction in your mind between what is – you've benefited from having 500-horsepower and up right in taller masks [ph].
Is that – is your answer impacted at all by your fleet disposition or might in a production maintenance environment might it as well serve a 300 or 400-horsepower units? That's a good question.
Our experience so far has been that the completions are not going to stop.
They are going – rig count even if it declines 200 rigs they are still going to have lots of completion activity.
And I think the benefit of our equipment is that operators the types that we are working for want flexibility.
They want the ability to use the same equipment and same people for completion work as well as maintenance work whenever they need it.
So what has happened to us typically is an operator will pick up that rig and it will stay with that operator doing whatever that operator needs it to do which is a combination of maintenance and completion.
I really don't think that will change.
Inc.</strong> All right thanks.
I have hogged the line long enough.
I will turn it back.
Thank you.
You bet.
You bet.
Our next question is from the line of Mark Brown with Global Hunter.
Please proceed with your question.
Hey good morning guys.
Good morning.
Good morning.
I just wanted to say it's refreshing that you are being candid and sharing your views on the outlook without rose-colored glasses.
And what I was wondering and this is actually in line with the question you just answered with.
What sort of oil price or what – how long at current oil prices would it take to get a reduction in the U.S.
rig count or well count? Well that’s tough to answer but I would say if I was going to try to answer it I would say that if $75 to $85 oil persists for a period of time where the expectation becomes that it's going to persist into next year first-half all year then people will adjust their spending.
And so it's just – everybody has called out – those that have more hedging probably less affected but there will be a large group that will be affected.
And so I think that it's just – it's more about expectation than current price.
If people thought this was a blip I don’t think we would see a wrinkle.
But I think it's becoming a little bit more of a persistent concern at this point I know some of you smart guys have come out and forecasted pretty significant declines in oil prices for 2015.
Well all these guys are reading that and seeing that.
And if that's what they are running their economics on and then they are going to reduce capital spending and that's going to affect our businesses a little bit.
So there again we are kind of at crossroads time will tell.
But I do believe that you will see capital budgets turn down relative to what folks thought they would be a couple of months ago in 2015.
Well that's helpful.
Just a follow-up question it didn't seem like the weather or the rains that the Permian Basin experienced had much of an impact on your drilling business or any of your other businesses.
And I just wanted to check is that correct to say that you pretty much – you got through that without a significant impact? Yes I would say we weathered the storm pretty well.
We don't have as much production services out there it is mostly just wireline.
And the drilling rigs are – red to be any material effect that you are aware of I'm not aware of any.
So I think we did fine tune that.
And just one more question.
Are you experiencing any labor cost pressures in any basins or in any lines of business that we – that you are monitoring going forward? I – the only business – well I would say we probably have a little but more in the Production Services segment in wireline and well servicing coiled perhaps more so than drilling drilling is stable.
That – as budgets get wound down that will probably cease to exist as well.
I think folks will pull back on growth a little bit on the service side as well and so I don't see there is an ongoing challenge in 2015 as much.
Well thank you very much.
You bet.
Our next question is from the line of Jason Wangler with Wunderlich.
Please go ahead with your question.
Inc.</strong> Hey good morning guys and thanks for all the color.
Just had one more for you down in Colombia it sounds obviously like they certainly need you guys to keep working ahead and maybe some concessions and maybe even longer contracts.
Could you maybe just comment on what you are seeing as far as the pricing? Is it going to be pretty stable from what are we are at or how is that changing as well? I think the pricing will be stable.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
And really I guess I mean it's just a good sign obviously that the term looks like it may actually extend more than a typical year than we've done recently.
Is that really their push I guess just to make sure they have that continuity more than maybe – or is it kind of a partnership if you will kind of both wanted a little bit more term?  I would say it’s the latter.
We would like a little more term.
And the continuity is a benefit particularly with respect to labor and ironing out your processes and procedure and training and so we wanted more and they wanted more.
So we had a happy meeting of the minds on that.
Inc.</strong> That sounds great.
Look forward to hearing about it.
Thanks so much.
Okay.
You bet.
(Operator Instructions) The next question is coming from the line of John Daniel with Simmons &amp; Company.
Please go ahead with your question.
Hey guys thanks for putting me back in.
Lorne a couple – these are more housekeeping but at least the first one is can you tell us what the drilling days were in Colombia in Q3? I don't know that we typically release that… I know.
I was just asking.
Yes.
Okay then I will probably not release at this time.
Fair enough and I thought I would try.
With rental pools behind you now should we expect you to focus on just the four remaining segments or is there any desire to add a fifth segment next year? No we are not really looking to add anything.
We’re really happy with the businesses that we have and they work very very well together.
Fishing and rental was a little bit of an outlier and it wasn’t really on a growth track and it was gas kind of gas oriented.
And we wanted to – it's better having fewer chicks in the nest to feed and so we can allocate our capital where in our core businesses that we want allocated into.
So that was basically the reasoning behind that.
Okay.
Fair enough.
And all of you guys not to say that you are old but you have lots of experience in the business.
You've been through lot of cycles so clearly everyone is worried about oil prices.
And you had some of the questions with respect to CapEx how quickly could you dial it back that stuff.
But no one this earnings season really seems to focus on the income statement adjustments that might be required if things moderate.
And I'm just wondering as you guys are seeing there internally looking at your budget for 2015 are you proactively doing any preparation for what costs could be removed from the business should activity moderate and how quickly would that – would you be able to implement that? Well we are looking at it and we do that every time that we're potentially on the precipice of a change and we downsized fairly efficiently.
Late 2008 2009 we had some pretty massive reductions and cost and labor and pulled back on spending and across the board and we kept layering in different stages through the course of that cycle.
When you look at the 2012 back half – first half of 2013 that was a very subtle downturn.
And so we did implement cost controls and we did pare back.
As you know we didn’t build any new-builds during that period.
We were assessing and we didn't think we could get the terms and conditions that we wanted either.
The big expense in our capital budget or the newly build rigs more or so than the production service side of the equipment.
But we didn't move into the new-builds until the end of the first quarter of this year when we thought the pricing and terms and conditions might reach the levels that we wanted and we’ve been able to achieve that it make change now then we’ll back on.
We’re not about market share we're about return on investment.
And so we don’t terms and conditions game over for us on building new-builds.
And I think even if we did get the terms and conditions we are in a cautious stance now on spending and so we will not walk out – climb out further on that tree limb.
So we are already assessing it.
We can pullback a lot of costs and expense and we will do that when we gauge that it's required for sure.
Fair enough okay.
Good question.
Well just it seems like this time around the industry has the benefit of seeing where the commodity prices are right now as we are going into budget season? Right.
That’s all.
Yes.
Hey Lorne last one for me and I'm sorry to be a phone hog here but can you remind us just ballpark what a leading-edge partly you are paying now for a new workover package a new wireline package and new quotes are being for package and ballpark is up perfectly fine.
Yes the well service unit is probably about $1.75 million.
(inaudible)   The whole unit working.
Yes.
And then the wireline unit is about $800 000 with the equipment on it.
And totally tooled out?  Yes.
Okay.
And then the coil unit depends somewhat on the size but if you… $7 million for the big ones.
Yes $7 million would be the high-end.
That would be extremely high-end the biggest ones.
2 inch would probably be $5 million to $6 million.
Yes about $5 million $4.5 million.
Thanks guys.
Thanks for all the detail.
All right.
You bet.
The next question is from the line of Jess Patel with Clarkson Capital Markets.
Please go ahead with your question.
Yes thanks guys.
I appreciate all the color this morning maybe just one quick one for me.
Stacy you alluded to it earlier I guess with the lower break-even costs profile in the vertical plays in the Permian is it conceivable if we have kind of a lingering $75 $85 price environment in oil where you could actually see that rig count up a little bit? If that is the case I would imagine that plays in your hands pretty well.
Right.
I – we have just been speculating about that in the office because the cost of the horizontal wells is so high.
And the vertical wells are a quarter of that cost from a third to a quarter and I still make pretty good wells.
And we have not tested that theory on operators.
I have had prior conversations with one of the engineers of – the one of the biggest operators in the Permian about that exact topic in the past.
It would be interesting to see.
I really don't know that we know the answer so it doesn't really matter as much we have both where we have SCR rigs we are taking AC rigs there and we have mechanical rigs there.
And it's kind of nice all those assets provide an operator a different price point the mechanical rigs are certainly cheap.
The mechanical rigs with top drives are in the day rate range of $17 500 to $19 but don’t – it’s just a theory at this point I would say.
Okay.
Appreciate it.
Thanks guys.
You bet.
Thank you.
At this time I’ll turn the floor back to Stacy Locke for closing comments.
All right.
Well thank you all for participating with us on the call today.
We enjoyed the questions and we’ll buckle our seatbelts and see what happens next.
Appreciate it.
Bye bye.
This concludes today’s teleconference.
You may disconnect your lines at this time.
Thank you for your participation.
Greetings.
And welcome to the Pioneer Energy Services Fourth Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
A question-and-answer session will follow the formal presentation.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
It is now pleasure to introduce your host Anne Pearson of Dennard-Lascar Investor Relations.
Thank you.
You may begin.
Thank you and good morning everybody.
Before I turn -- the call over to Pioneer’s CEO Stacy Locke; and Chief Financial Officer Lorne Phillips for their formal remarks I have a few of the usual items to cover.
First of all a replay of today’s call will be available by webcast and also by phone replay.
You will find the replay information for both in this morning’s news release.
Also just as a reminder information reported on this call speaks only as of today February 17 2015 so any time sensitive information may not be accurate at the time of a replay.
Management may make forward-looking statements based on beliefs and assumptions and information currently available to them.
While they believe these expectations are reasonable they can give no assurance they’ll prove to be correct.
They are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that are described in today’s news release and also in recent public filings with the SEC.
If one or more of these risks materialize or should underlying assumptions be incorrect actual results may differ materially.
Also please note that this conference call may contain references to non-GAAP measures.
You’ll find a reconciliation to the GAAP measures in this morning’s release.
So now I’d like to turn the call over to Stacy Locke Pioneer President and CEO.
Stacy? Thank you Anne.
Good morning everybody.
Joining me here in San Antonio this morning is Brian Tucker President of our Land Drilling Segment; Joe Eustace President of our Production Services Segment; and Lorne Phillips our Chief Financial Officer.
I think I am going to focus a little bit more on what kind of trends we are seeing currently and our outlook for 2015.
Lorne will give a pretty good recap here in a second fourth quarter events.
We did have a very good fourth quarter.
But I think everybody seems to be most concerned on what we see for 2015.
As we mentioned in the press release the vertical market which is drilled by our mechanical rig fleet has come down very very rapidly really beginning back in November and escalating in November and December.
And if you recall back in the ’09 downturn all these vertical rigs had been drilling gas and doing very well and then they stacked out through ’09 and then we invested in them in ’10 to move them to Permian and drill vertical oil.
While the vertical oil market has changed since we have been in the Permian originally all of our clients which were mostly the large publicly-traded operators were drilling many many vertical wells and while some still are today were drilling before this drop in oil prices.
A number of them had been reallocating their capital budgets into the horizontal play.
So we have got to face with the decision point here because these rigs are clearly going to stack out.
We don’t know for how long.
But when you stack up rigs for a period of time you do have to invest them to reactivate them.
It won’t be near the investment we had as we’ve upgraded the rigs for the West Texas work.
But nonetheless we see this is a great opportunity to go ahead and exit our lowest margin sector of our drilling segment.
We have been as we have discussed in the past actively trying to sell some of these rigs.
Red West continues to work on that for us and we have been successful after months of work and negotiation and selling six rigs so far this quarter three of them were mechanical rigs and three of them were 60-seriesi rigs that we have had trouble I should say they are little lighter electric rig 1 000 horsepower double rig.
As lateral rigs have grown longer these rigs have been a little more challenging to put to work.
So we have been trying to sell them.
We have had very successful sale here and we are very pleased with that.
We continue to have ongoing negotiations on some additional rigs sales.
But our goal would be to exit essentially 100% of the mechanical market and some additional 60-series during this first quarter.
Excuse me however we planned to maintain out of the mechanical fleet would be two high performing top drive mechanical rigs one of which has walking system.
You have heard me referenced at least one of this rigs in the past that worked in Utah.
Excuse me they have been just top performers and actually completed very very well against SCR and AC rigs of our competitors.
And so we are going to hold on to these two rigs.
One of them is still working today and there is called upon by operators by name to -- for -- to work it.
So we are going to hold on to those two mechanical top drive rigs plus about three smaller turnkey-oriented mechanical rigs that we’ve just said great success with.
We have been on a very extensive program to drill the top oil section for some of our large public and majors here.
It’s slowed up now.
But we think that will activate plus we have these shallow turnkey that we have down for many years very successfully.
So we want to keep that work going.
With respect to the 60-series we still have three mechanical 60-series that were all built in the mid-2000s that we planned to sell and one more electric.
And that will leave us two of the 60-series that are both working today and we feel reasonably good about the opportunity to continue working those rigs.
So our focus going forward is to target the high-end horizontal market which has been a great market for us and our highest margin area.
As you heard us comment in the past our recently build AC rigs have been extremely high performing and well received by the operator base.
We are in the process of building five more new-builds which will deliver two of them in the second quarter two in third and one in the fourth and we think those will be as high-performing of a rig that’s available in the marketplace today.
So once those rigs are out this year our fleet will be considerably high graded with 16 AC rigs 22 SCR rigs which all have top drives and all of the five are walking couple are skidding in there but very good competitive SCR fleet and so we’ll end the year at 43 fleet rigs.
So we ended 2014 with 62 rigs.
We will end first quarter at 38 rigs and then we will add the five new drills and end the year at 43 rigs.
It’s very difficult to gage right now what’s going to happen in the drilling market.
But we feel very comfortable in saying we are confident we will be working 12 to 15 rigs here in the U.S.
this year at kind of a bottom and probably four to five rigs down in Colombia.
But we also have the benefit during the course of the year of $43 million of early term revenue that will be contributing as well.
In Colombia four of our eight rigs are working under an extended contract that expires at the end of June.
We were able to hold.
We’ve had the highest day rates in the country.
We were able to extend that at just a 3% reduction in day rate so that’s worked out well and we are aggressively bidding new opportunities there in Colombia to diversify our client base.
And I think we’ve bid a total of seven or had negotiations with seven new parties there.
So we are -- while it’s a very depressed market and pressure on day rates is immense we are optimistic that we will be able to diversify our client base to some degree.
And of course we are hopeful that in the summer we will be able to renew the four rigs or so under a new contract.
Now turning to the Production Services side of the business starting with the well servicing.
Presently well servicing continues to remain active and is actually holding up better than our wireline and slightly better than our coiled tubing services business both in terms of activity levels and in pricing.
At the present time we have a very steady flow a 24-hour work that’s continued.
We think it will continue.
Pricing has been impacted but somewhat minimally at 5% to 7% so far.
But we anticipate the pricing could come off as much as maybe 10% to 15% by the quarter end still a lot of competition a lot of pressure there.
But our high performing fleet has allowed us to hold pricing fairly well.
Just a side comment there about 8% to 10% of our overall fleet is working in a manner that’s not really subject to the whims of oil prices and less cyclical type of applications such as the chemical plants and strategic drilling reserve caverns or oil storage wells and the like.
So we do have a portion of that fleet that’s pretty insulated.
As we progress through the year in this downturn we do anticipate that we will stack some well servicing rigs similar to what we did in 2009 but it’s hard to gage a quantity at this point.
At the end of 2014 we had 116 well servicing rigs.
We’ll have nine delivered in the first half of the year and we’ll end 2015 at a 125 oil servicing rigs.
Turning now to wireline pricing and activity levels there begin to falloff a bit actually in the fourth quarter.
Some of that is seasonal in nature but we do think the oil downturn has played a role in it.
Pricing declines initially were on the order of 5% to 10% but we feel that that’s intensifying and we could be as off as much as 20% -- 15% to 20% during the first quarter here.
Our utilization has been a little bit weaker in the first quarter.
We do anticipate we’ll probably have to stack out some units there in order to downsize our costs structure.
But there again in these early stages of downturn it’s hard to quantify that.
So we ended the year in wireline with a 120 units.
We will add eight and end the year at 128 into 2015.
In our coiled tubing services business we had a great 2014.
We exceeded our expectations.
What we had hoped to have happen happened.
We had top performance.
I would put them on par with the quality of service and safety that we have in our well service and our wireline.
I can sit on the top notch team at this point and we are very competitive in the marketplace building a great reputation.
Activity there is actually holding up fairly well.
Pricing is off a little bit but we’ve earned the name in the business and we do have lots of inquiries there.
Pricing thus far is off a little bit 5% to 10%.
But so far it’s holding up fairly well.
We ended the year with 17 units and we have no plans to add new units in 2015.
Now I’d like to turn it over to Lorne to give a financial recap.
Thanks Stacy and good morning everyone.
For the fourth quarter we reported consolidated revenues of $238.1 million which is up 4% from the prior quarter.
Our adjusted EBITDA was $66 million slightly down when compared to the prior quarter excluding the benefit of the $10.7 million gain on asset sale in the third quarter.
Excluding the impact of a $72.3 million fleet and equipment impairment and a $8.7 million charge for early debt redemption we took in the fourth quarter our adjusted net income was $2.9 million or $0.04 per diluted share.
I’d like to also point out two additional items in the quarter.
We recognized the $4.5 million foreign currency loss the impact to earnings per share of approximately $0.09 as well as the benefit of a gain on litigation of $1 million and $0.01 per share impact.
The U.S.
dollar strengthened considerably relative to the Colombian peso during the quarter and as a result we recognized the loss on the translation of peso denominated accounts in U.S.
dollars.
Turning to drilling our drilling revenues increased sequentially by almost $16 million compared to the third quarter.
Drilling margin per day was 9 100 which is 1 290 higher than in the prior quarter.
The increases primarily reflects the higher activity in Colombia.
And the revenue from our Colombian operations in the fourth quarter was $33.9 million up 11% over the third quarter.
Since year end we’ve sold six rigs and we intend to sell an additional 18 by the end of the first quarter as Stacy mentioned.
So we’ll exit the first quarter with 38 and effectively be exiting the vertical drilling market.
Currently 38 rigs are earning revenues and 26 are under term contracts four in Colombia and 22 in the U.S.
10 of the 22 contracts in the U.S.
were early terminated.
Of the remaining 12 in the U.S.
four are up for renewals this quarter two in the second quarter zero in the third quarter and six expire beyond that point.
Four of the eight Colombia rigs are earning revenue and are under term contracts to mid year.
I should point out also that the revenue associated with early termination payments will be recognized over the life of each term contract and will total approximately $43 million.
This translates by quarter into an estimated $11 million in the first quarter recognition of $14 million in the second quarter $9 million in the third quarter $7 million in the fourth quarter and $2 million in 2016.
Turning now to Production Services revenues as compared to a year ago were up by 25% due to increased activity levels fleet additions and moderate pricing increases.
Compared to the third quarter revenues were down 3% to $140.3 million reflecting seasonal decline in activity as well as the impact of reduced commodity prices late in the fourth quarter.
Gross margin as a percent of revenues declined about 170 basis points versus the prior quarter and 36.1% which is due primarily to moderately reduced activity levels in all businesses.
Well servicing utilization was 90% in the quarter down from 101% in the prior quarter.
Utilization for the core business was 47% down 56% from the prior quarter.
Our average rate per hour for well servicing was $675 compared to $661 in the third quarter.
Turning now to our consolidated company items.
The G&amp;A expense was $27 million up slightly from the prior quarter.
We expect G&amp;A to be down in 2015 due to actions we have taken and are taking to scale down our cost structure.
Our current estimate for the full year is between the range of $88 million to $90 million for 2015 and approximately $23 million to $24 million in the first quarter.
Depreciation and amortization was $46 million down slightly from Q3 which reflects the sale of our fishing and rental assets.
With the sale of 24 drilling rigs throughout the first quarter we expect to see first quarter D&amp;A drop to around $41 million to $43 million and the full year estimate for D&amp;A to be in the $162 million to $166 million range.
Our effective tax rate for the fourth quarter was 29.8%.
Excluding the impact of foreign currency gains or losses and any other unusual items our effective tax rate is expected to be in 38% to 39% range in future quarters.
Also in the first quarter we will record a $1.4 million charge for the first three annual assessments of the Colombian net worth tax which was enacted in December of 2014.
This amount will show up in other expenses on the income statement and will not impact the other quarters as it is an annual assessment a couple charge paid in the first quarter of this year.
Looking at our balance sheet in the fourth quarter we completed the redemption of the remaining $125 million of our 9 7/8% senior notes and we recorded $8.7 million pre-tax charge associated with the extinguishment of bad debt.
We use our revolver to fund the redemption.
We then take down $5 million on the revolver in the fourth quarter and in January we paid down additional $5 million resulting in $150 million outstanding on the revolver.
As a result of our continued focus on reducing indebtedness as well as our senior notes refinancing in 2014 interest expense dropped from $9 million one quarter earlier to $6.7 million in the fourth quarter.
For the first quarter we expected to be just under $6 million.
Cash capital expenditures in the fourth quarter were approximately $55 million bringing full year 2014 capital outlays to $175 million.
Given the commodity price and industry outlook for 2015 we’re again reducing our CapEx guidance for 2015 to $165 million to $180 million.
With that I’ll turn it back over to Stacy for final comments.
Thank you Lorne.
We were hesitant to provide any guidance in this quarter just because it’s extremely difficult to provide reliable guidance in a market that’s changing as rapidly as this market is.
So we will give it to you.
We’ll take it with the grain of salt.
Rig count is coming down probably will continue to come down and put pressure on rate and pricing and all the business lines.
On drilling the AC newer built rigs rates seem to be off 18% to 22% to us somewhere in the 21 000 to 22 000 a day range.
Now all the data points are in the north in the colder countries winterize rigs but higher operating cost that it’s -- that's kind of where it seem to be settling out to us.
It probably would be a little lower very similar rig in the south without our operating cost.
SCR rates we really don’t have any data points but it seems it is in the 17 000 18 000 a day range for SCR rigs in the south.
I don’t really have any data points in the north to speak off but it would be a little higher in the north.
So I think in terms of our forward utilization in this quarter we’re guiding 78% to 80% utilization with the average fleet of 46 rigs because we’re in a transition period in this quarter with average margins of 10 000 to 11 000 a day.
On the Production Service side there again very hard to gauge.
We do think revenue is going to come off.
We’re going to forecast in the 15% to 20% range with deterioration in margins of 5% to 7% but it’s very hard to estimate those at this point.
So I think that will conclude our prepared remarks.
And we would be happy to entertain questions.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question is coming from the line of Waqar Syed with Goldman Sachs.
Please proceed with your question.
Thank you.
Could you give us some color on what the maintenance level of CapEx number is within this overall capital budget? $165 million to $180 million about $110 million of that is related to new unit additions with probably around $100 million is related to the five new build rigs.
So if you take the $110 million out of $165 million to $180 million what’s remaining there’s probably $10 million or so of maybe discretionary in there but it’s discretionary.
In fact you would -- you would only spend it if you needed to put the rig to work in a certain situation most of that would be drilling related.
And then could you also talk about your input cost reductions what are you seeing there in terms of cost for drill pipe or other material supplies.
You make things like that what kind of deflation you’re seeing there? Brian do you have any thoughts on it? Yeah.
We are seeing some reductions slight reductions.
Vast majority of our day work cost would end up with labor cost.
But we are seeing some vendors that are willing to go down in that 2% to 5% range but the significant piece of our daily cost is on the labor side.
We do -- just to comment on that we do expect labor cost at some point to come down as well if this downturn persist.
Sure.
And is there any precedence of that labor cost coming down in price cycles '08-'09 or '12-'13? Yes.
Okay.
And for us it’s -- we would prefer not to be a labor cost reducer leader it would be better if others led that campaign and then we would follow.
I think if anybody cut labor everyone would follow quickly.
And it’s inevitable.
The labor costs today are the highest they’ve ever been in the 20 years I have been here.
And with rates coming down it could be -- it’s inevitable that labor costs will come down.
Sure.
And then on your Colombia contracts you mentioned four to five rigs in this renewal probably in the summer.
What’s your confidence level that they get -- the rigs get renewed or some of them you find work with other customers? It seems that Colombia is also seeing some pretty significant CapEx cuts.
Well it’s true it’s a softer market and our primary client Ecopetrol is going to be operating fewer rigs going forward.
I think we’ve been real -- we’ve had almost an exclusive relation with Ecopetrol until recently.
And I think we are very pleased we are known as a top performing drilling contractor in the country.
And now that we have rigs available we are having lots of inquiries more than we would have anticipated.
So we are pretty confident we will be able to put rigs to work for other parties but we don’t know how lucrative the contracts will be just because everybody is looking for bargain on rates.
So we are going to do down there just like we are doing here trying to downsize our cost across the board.
So we can be competitive in there and we’ve got a good margin.
But it’s hard to tell you with Ecopetrol there has been pressure from them or request from them for a long time to bring AC new state-of-the-art rig into the country and we’ve resisted that just because our rigs have performed well and we couldn’t justify the return on investment because the rigs cost too much there.
They cost considerably greater than they do here when you outfit them with 100 men camp and redundant pumps and power and other items that are required under the contract.
So with the softer market there is some risk that with others might bring in some AC rigs into the country but we just have to see how it plays out.
We’ve got a great relationship with them.
I think it’s unlikely to renew eight rigs with them again but I think we have a reasonably good chance of renewing four or five and keep them busy.
Okay.
And last final question with respect to your five other construction rigs are there any discussions with the customers or customers asking for maybe renegotiations in terms of day rates or maybe early terminations? Obviously relatively new rigs now in the market sitting idle with customers -- the owners would be happy to settle low rates.
We’ve had some kind of preliminary discussions with folks I mean pretty much all the operators will ask if you can adjust something but the contracts are very good and we are committed on the substantial majority of the cost of the rigs already.
So I think that we think that kind of phase is over with and that we plan to build them and deliver them kind of on-time on-schedule and we think that’s what will happen.
Thank you very much.
Great.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Marshall Adkins with Raymond James.
Please proceed with your question.
Good morning guys.
Just a quick clarification on the 15 rigs you are going to put up for sale.
I presume those are involved in the write-downs.
Correct.
Okay.
And what is the market for those? I mean intuitively I would think well who the heck is going to buy those things right now? Well we’ve had six very successful sales so far in the quarter.
And it’s going like wow that’s impressive.
Yeah.
And one thing that you’ve heard say over the years the mechanical fleet that we have is I think it’s bar none the best out there.
I mean we have three or four these rigs with brand new 1 300-horsepower mechanical Drawworks a lot of them have 1 600-horsepower pumps Iron Roughneck I mean it’s a high quality fleet.
And I think that’s what is going to help us continue to sell them.
I mean Red West knows everybody in the business and he is continued to work on this and we have an opportunity for two to three more right now but we are just -- it’s just become a focus.
And so we are going to keep working on it.
I think whatever we don’t sell in a private sale we will have an option in March and should be able to track quite a few buyers from around the world for -- because of the quality of the equipment and all these six rigs or five of the six rigs are going to international that we sold so far.
So there are buyers out there.
I think quality had something to do with it because there we’ve got a reputation as the high quality equipment and the rigs that we sold previously have gotten great comments back on them.
And so we think we will be successful in moving them this quarter.
Well that implies that the parts that you could just pull off them and use on your other rigs are not as worth not as valuable as selling whole rig as full package I presume? Right.
We are going to sell -- this will be one of the few sales processes where we are selling complete working rigs with two bigger rigs and everything.
And that’s pretty uncommon I guess.
So I think we are -- and since we are basically reading ourselves that most of the mechanical rigs almost all of them where we don’t really want to keep spare parts we’ve got four or 5 rigs we will have remaining are in real good shape.
So we don’t need a huge inventory of additional equipment.
Perfect.
All right.
Actually your guidance was really helpful.
I know none of us really know how it’s going to unfold it’s probably declined faster than any of us thought.
Post you’re getting rid of all these other rigs you mentioned kind of back half of the year you’re thinking 12 to 15 active rigs of what’s left.
Presumably the daily -- average daily margin on those would be higher than what we are seeing now just because you’re hiring rigs.
Is that a fair assumption? I am just trying to gauge kind of back half of the year with the change in the mix.
Is that over average? The rigs that we are selling are by far our lowest margin rigs.
Those day rates have been 4 000 in the 15 000 16 000 a day range 17 000 maybe.
So the margins on those 3 000 to 4 000 have averaged down our average margin.
So with those being sold off our average margins will gradually -- it’s a little muddied up this year because of the earning not working revenue but when you strip that out the average margin should be going up every quarter from this point forward.
Okay.
Perfect.
Last question for me historically the workover rig businesses tended to track with the rig count just because when people have money they spend it when they don’t they don’t it stretch across all sectors? Its sounds like your workover rig business is holding up a little bit better than rig business at least from the higher end 24 hour operations is that correct? Number one number two is the rest of fleet kind of tracking down step for step with rig count or is it holding up better? The rest of it what was the last part you say the rest of it… Yeah.
Yeah.
Is the rest of it tracking down lock step with the drilling rig count? Right.
… kind of historically what’s happen? Right.
Well I think the well servicing fleet is holding up better than the rig business.
We just said it’s a great high quality fleet and they do a super job and it seems to be pretty steady under lots of pricing pressure.
But we’re able to holding that off just because the folks whom we are working with want to keep using it.
So they’ll just try to get the pricing low as I get it that they’ll plan to keep using it.
So we just try to thin it off the best we can but I think its going to hold up fairly well through the course of the year.
Wireline is about half of that business is completion work and a completion business has fallen off and its going to continue falling off probably so that’s playing into our kind of margin guidance quite a bit.
It’s going to still be pretty active.
The good news is before this downturn we were very diversified in services.
We’ve always kind of have that platform where we’ll definitely do the completion work but we want to have a big business its non-completion work that’s kind of playing into our hands right now and we’re seeing kind of an increase on that side.
But I think that market is going to be more impacted by the decline in the rig count and completion.
The coil I think we’re probably disproportionately outperforming a little bit there just due to the quality of the work we’re doing and in both wireline and coil the offshore market has been pretty resilient.
So that’s helping a little bit on those two business line.
But I think wireline is going to be the weaker of the three probably followed by coil a little bit later maybe and then I think well services is going to be weaker but holding up fairly well.
Great.
Thanks Stacy.
You bet.
Thank you.
Our next question will comes from the line of John Daniel with Simmons &amp; Company International.
Please proceed with your question.
Hey guys.
Thanks for [indiscernible] Just a few for you here.
Just on the contract termination payments lets take one of those rigs that are receiving those payments should find a home and back to work later this year? Do you still receive that termination payment or do you have refilled it if you have the customer cancel the contract? How does that work you can -- essentially can you actually double this or not? Well John it’s a mix.
In some cases if we -- in some cases there are no continuing obligations and in some other cases there if we put into work we would -- me too -- whatever we’re receiving we’re putting it to work we would refund to the customer.
So it’s a mix.
And that is -- as we’re recognizing over the term of the contract we can adjust that recognition if we end up where we’re in a situation where we’re putting rigs to work that are on term contracts.
That’s all of the categories reimbursing.
Okay.
Fair enough.
Are any of the rigs going to be a challenge to model if you will? The $11 million of contract termination payments that are coming in this quarter if you were to just had that amount adjust that out what’s the clean cash margin number if you will? In Q1 you say I’m sorry.
What our forecast would be? Yeah.
I would say it’s flat to up slightly.
We still have -- in Q1 we still have a number of rigs that we will be selling but they are still working and wrapping up their last well.
Okay.
So we are still having some contribution from them as Stacy said it’s a lower margin per day.
There is also some noise in the numbers in Q1.
There is some stack out cost obviously in taking rigs and putting them in the yards and those that are being sold ready for sale and so on so.
I would say flat to slightly up in Q1 if you backed up to early networking.
And then that number for the working rigs going forward as Stacy mentioned that would -- we expect it to move up each quarter really through the years particularly as we add in the five additional new-build rigs.
The only one caveat to that that would work against it is if we’re renewing rigs at a lower price or putting to work at lower prices that could make the upward swing slow down a little bit but it should be trending up.
Okay.
Have any customers notified your plans to add rigs in the second half? Not really.
We are having discussions about putting rigs to work in certain markets.
We just -- in fact we're moving one from Utah to the Appalachia soon to start a good contract there and we’ve got some other prospects in the Bakken.
We’re talking to folks but there is not a lot of demand right now.
But I think as these cycles go it would not surprise me to see activity starting to trend upwards maybe late third if not the fourth quarter just the way prior cycles have acted.
I wouldn’t expect this to be too much different and we’ve got a very precipitous decline in rig count and that’s going to help with the oil prices later in the year and that will drive little more activity.
So it would be hard to get much pricing backed that earlier but activity would be a starting point.
Fair enough.
Last one for me then I will jump back in the queue.
When we used the proceeds from the rig sales and the cash from the contract termination payments to reduce debt or will that be needed to fund CapEx this year? Well.
It might be some of both.
As Stacy said it’s not super transparent but our expectation this year is that we are in a stage now that we should be flat and not drawing down the revolver depending on how the rig sales go and is the cash flows in and then the timing of CapEx.
We have some optimism that we will be working the revolver down over the course of the year.
The transparency isn’t great.
Fair enough.
Thanks guys.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question is coming from the line of Ken Sill with Global Hunter Securities.
Please proceed with your question.
Yeah.
Good morning.
Good morning.
My questions -- the northern markets right you guys commented that rates have come down to kind of 21 to 22.
I know the Bakken the fringe areas are going to clearly be hit by lower oil prices but how much visibility did you guys have in the northern regions towards rigs working through Q3 Q4? Are people still kind of sitting on their hands or people moving forward to plans for workover the summer? You are talking about for drilling or workover well service? Drilling.
I’m sorry drilling.
Drilling yes.
Sub-drilling rigs.
Sorry about that.
Yeah.
I would say demand is pretty soft right now although we do -- we are having some conversations.
It’s very price sensitive but I think our expectation would be if oil prices recover a bit later in the year then that will drive a little more activity possibly in areas like the Bakken.
Marcellus is holding up fairly well the Utica Marcellus area.
So we think things later in the year we’ll start getting more inquiries.
Yeah.
I guess what I’m really drilling for is if the oil price stays down is there further downside potentially in kind of rates that you are seeing particularly up in the Bakken? Is it really dependent on oil prices right now or if we stay where we are all it gets to 55 to 60 do you think rates will flatten out how do you think they'll come down another notch? I think it’s hard to say right now but it seems like we’ve kind of bottomed out a little bit.
But if oil was to decline further in the short run I think it impact rates.
But cost is coming down all the cost for the operator and then eventually our cost are going to come down little bit.
So there will be just restructuring of the cost structure and that will allow people to make -- be able to make a little better returns even at the lower oil prices.
That still has to work through the system.
Yeah.
And the final question which you don’t have to if you don’t want to because no one really knows.
But we’re seeing oil rig count dropping 100 rigs last week.
Where do you think the oil rig count or the U.S.
rig count whichever one you want to take a stab at ends up at -- end up and I’ve got $60 to $70 or $70 to $80? And we don’t need 1600 where we would with $100 a barrel but you guys ever view what market equilibrium could be? Well we’ve asked everybody in the room here.
Everybody has a slightly different answer for that.
I would say that rig count is probably going down.
200 300 more rigs would be my guess.
And that’s going to be fairly precipitous decline up to the 100 rig count down from the last week.
And so at some point the rate of rig count decline will start slowing up and then it will flatten out.
And I think the rig count -- that’s the level of rig count decline is going to be enough to curtail production later in the year.
And as that happens one thing we don’t want to do is go through some of the other way.
And so I think it’s going to prop oil prices up a little bit kind of in the late second third quarter of the year and strengthening there after a little bit.
Just a theory.
I mean do you have a view there I mean do you think you end up doing 1400 oil rigs you can give back to 1600 or do you have a view on that? I know it’s a tough question you don’t have to answer… Yeah.
… try to guess at this? Well I don’t think it will be 1600 in 2015 but I do think that it will start bringing up to rig count later in the year and probably continue that through ‘16 and maybe by the end of ‘16 we kind of back where we started that’s just -- it’s hard to say that.
The rig count decline that we have thus far and what’s remaining is going to have an impact on production and that’s really what’s going to be the driver of recovering oil prices.
So there is a benefit.
While it’s painful there is a benefit having a swift sharp decline in rig count.
And so we’re certainly having that and that will I think make the cycle shorter as opposed to dragging it out into a wide U-shape or whatever.
f All right.
Thank you.
I’ll jump back in the queue.
Thank you.
Our next question is coming from the line of Jason Wangler with Wunderlich Securities.
Please proceed with your question.
Good morning.
I just had one kind of the topic on one that was asked before.
But on the rigs that has been brought back you guys so under contracts.
Is there significant or much difference in the margins that you’re getting from the cash spend versus the one that are out working under contract or are those number is pretty similar? Well again it varies somewhat by the contract.
So I do not get too specific but I’d say given that it’s certainly not working revenue it is a higher margin on average than what you would make just working rig.
Okay.
That’s helpful.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question is coming from the line of David Wishnow with GMP Securities.
Please proceed with your question.
Good morning guys.
Good morning.
I guess kind of from a strategic standpoint clearly with the rig count decline and the pain that’s going to be endured on the service side when you guys think out in terms of 2016 with CapEx down and potentially some recovery in the North America landmark you guys start throwing off some cash.
Is there strategically another area we could expand on? Would it be kind of just organic growth new growth? Certainly demand is there.
Or is there another part of the business you guys are willing to pick up? I’ll tell you we are pretty happy with the four core business lines that we’re in currently and we’d planned on growing them all fairly aggressively in '15 and '16.
And so I think the first order of business for us would be to continue growing in these same business lines.
We’ve got pretty good critical mass good operations.
And so that would be the near medium term kind of objective.
Okay.
Great.
And just looking at production services the ones you guys provided revenue down 15% to 20%.
Is it safe to assume that decline kind of accelerates as we move through 1Q so your exit rate is probably something more like 30% or whatever the numbers are versus 15% 20% kind of flat heading into 2Q? Well I wouldn’t make that assumption.
Obviously there is some momentum on pricing decline but at the same time it is a seasonally low quarter.
And I do think -- so I think if you go into the second quarter you start to see more daylight hours and I also -- something that gives us -- that makes it harder to guide is as I am sure you’ve heard on the calls and in discussions with people that not everyone I think is completing the wells they're drilling and letting those wells get completed is what have an impact on obviously activity and potential pricing in 2015.
So we’ll probably stick with guidance just for Q1 and not get too much more specific into Q2 because it is -- there is not great transparency.
Absolutely understood.
Certainly it does change the market.
And just to clarify the 5% to 7% margin decline is that -- should we assume 500 to 700 basis points in decline versus 4Q or are you talking 5%to 7% decline -- sorry 5% to 7%? Yeah 500 to 700 basis point decline.
Thank you.
Okay.
Perfect.
Thank you.
Appreciate it guys.
[Operator Instructions] Our next question is a follow-up coming from the line of John Daniel with Simmons &amp; Company International.
Please proceed with your question.
Thanks for putting me back.
Sorry for all the questions.
Stacy can you tell us what the quarter-to-date utilization is for both well servicing and coil or at least January? Well we can tell you we’ve been running kind of in the 80s 80.
For well servicing and coil has been bouncing around.
So it’s a less meaningful number to hit right now.
But I’d say -- I’ll just give you a well-servicing number which has been in 80s some times low some time high 80s so far.
Okay.
So fair enough.
Are any of the rigs that you have sold or expect to sell I mean are any of them going to Colombia? You mentioned they are going to international markets? Not that we know of.
Okay.
And then the last one for me -- well couple of more.
Production services you got to 81 it’s coming in nine well service rigs.
We also noted that you’ll be stacking some equipment -- clearly new units that are arriving do you have work for those units at this point or are you taking until the market recovers? I think the -- John the plan depending on the activity levels that I think that likely outcome is that you put the new units to work you probably take some of the existing units that might be ready for refurb and maybe take some of the equipments after those -- the ancillary equipment after those open units.
Couple of most of the new base unit and put them out in field working.
And that allows you to hold off some on the refurb cost and keep your CapEx down and wait until you need those units back in the field.
Okay.
And it would be similar approach to product lines as well.
But there is not -- you don’t envision any scenario this year whether it be an impairment issue on your well service fleet? No.
Okay.
All right and then last one for me I’ll try I try to recall those see if I can get.
Production services revenue can you tell us what percent coil tubing represents? This is dollar percentage.
Hi.
I admire your persistence but… [Indiscernible] Okay.
That’s all I had.
Thanks guys for your time.
Thanks John.
Thank you.
It appears there are no further questions at this time.
I would like to turn the floor back over to Mr.
Locke for any additional concluding comments.
Great.
Well thank you all very much for participating on today’s call.
And we will look forward to the first quarter call here.
Thanks so much.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude today’s teleconference.
We thank you for your participation and you may disconnect your lines at this time.
Good morning and welcome to the Pioneer Energy Services First Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
A question-and-answer session will follow the formal presentation.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference to your host Ms.
Anne Pearson with Dennard-Lascar.
Thank you Ms.
Pearson.
You may begin.
Thank you Doug and good morning everyone.
Before I turn the call over to CEO Stacy Locke; and CFO Lorne Phillips for their formal remarks I have a few of the usual items that we need to cover.
First of all a replay of the call will be available by webcast and also by telephone replay.
You will find the replay information for both in this morning's news release.
Just as a reminder information reported on this call speaks only as of today April 30 2015 so any time sensitive information may not be accurate at the time of a replay.
Management may make forward-looking statements based on beliefs and assumptions and information currently available to them.
While they believe these expectations are reasonable they can give no assurance they'll prove to be correct.
They are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that are described in today's news release and also in recent public filings with the SEC.
If one or more of these risks materialize actual results could differ materially.
Also please note in this conference call may contain references to non-GAAP measures.
You'll find a reconciliation to the GAAP measures in this morning's release.
Now I'd like to turn the call over to Stacy Locke Pioneer President and CEO.
Stacy? Thank you Anne and good morning.
Joining me here in San Antonio is Brian Tucker President of our Drilling Segment and Lorne Phillips our Chief Financial Officer.
We appreciate you all being on the call.
The first quarter came in about really as we expected drilling overall little bit better utilization and margin per day than we had anticipated.
U.S.
drilling probably exceeded a little bit on lower cost and maybe a little bit more early term payment than anticipated Colombia slightly underperformed due primarily to three large mobilizations two of which that I mentioned in the last quarter call.
That we moved two rigs to a free zone to avoid some hefty V80 payments and we have done that and taken them back out again and restarted that clock there and but the cost was greater than the demo from our client.
And then we also had a very long move from the upper middle Magdalena valley down to Bogota with another rig.
So on the production service side well servicing performed very well exceeded our expectations in the quarter.
Wireline was probably the biggest surprise we were hit fairly hard on the wireline front harder than we had anticipated in particularly the Bakken as you might imagine just due to completion oriented work.
Coil I would say came pretty much as expected.
The big event in the quarter for us was on the drilling services side where we successfully executed on the sale of 21 of our mechanical rigs mostly and some 60 series rigs.
We were early out into the cycle and had a Pioneer dedicated auction and sold everything that we wanted to sell.
And we are pleased with the outcome.
In addition as we had noted in last quarter's call we had a handful of private sales and we still have a couple that are pending today.
As we look at our fleet today we have a much more competitive drilling fleet with one of the highest percentage pad capable fleets in the industry.
I think it puts us at about 70% pad capable of our remaining 37 rig fleet.
We have a great platform to continue adding our 1500 horse power AC new builds which you have heard me talk about in the past.
They performed extremely well very competitive rigs.
We are most excited about the next four rigs that are coming out because they are a refinement to the last round of new builds.
And we think there are some design improvements and load reductions that are going to greatly enhance the rigs performance.
This particular rig on a pad can walk 150-feet in the x direction up to 50-feet in the y direction so to pin it on the operator spacing we can drill as many as 48 wells on a pad without moving a backyard which is tremendous.
In addition with the higher more capable mud pump and mud circulating systems with 2000 horse power mud pumps 7500 PSI fluid-ins mud circulating systems we can really handle any lateral length an operator wants.
And we designed this substructure to handle up to or actually over 24 000 feet of [five inch] [ph].
So we can handle pretty much any lateral length an operator wants to drill.
So we are very very excited about that of course these are also dual fuel capable like our other rigs that we put out.
And when you take all of that and then you can move the rig into two to three days from release to acceptance by the operator.
I think it's a rig that really sets us apart.
Now that of course would be for a non-winterized rig but that's a very quick rig move for a rig that capable.
So we are very very excited about our drilling segment and its prospects for the future.
Turning down to the production services side as I previously mentioned well servicing continues to outperform utilization and pricing was off a bit but overall we continue to perform very well in well servicing.
I think it's a combination of the right equipment all tall-masted rigs all higher horse power.
I think we positioned ourselves well with the client base.
We have a blue-chip client base.
We have clients that are active today which helps tremendously.
As we have discussed in past our personnel and well services is topflight and we just had an exceptional safety record there year in year out.
So we are still optimistic about the future for well servicing.
On the wireline front I think that was the surprise we have a great market share position in a number of key markets.
But the completion activity was way-off in this quarter which affected pricing materially.
Revenue per job and number of jobs were both down causing revenues overall to come down close to 35% 40% range.
Bakken was hit hard the Mid-Continent Oklahoma market was hit hard Gulf Coast Eagle Ford was hit hard all pretty much relating to the completion oriented work.
But the good news is that I think that the pricing – the brunt of the pricing has been felt and that we see a flooring out occurring we believe activity talk is for the future up a little bit few people have moved back in doing a few – doing things.
So we also are seeing our offshore business beginning to pick up.
It typically is slow in the first quarter and we are seeing signs of that picking up.
And that relates a lot to our coil tubing.
Coil is affected by the same completion activity being down offshore being a little soft in the first quarter.
We are just not following as many frac spread as we were before due to less capital being spent on completions.
But we are here in talk and we are seeing signs of improvement I think that offshore like a wireline is also beginning to see rays of hope again.
So I think I will turn it over to Lorne and let him talk about a few more financial matters and then I will come back with some thoughts on guidance and the future outlook.
Thanks Stacy.
This morning we reported revenues of $193.8 million and adjusted EBITDA of $36.8 million.
Excluding the impact of $6 million impairment in drilling adjusted net loss in the first quarter was $8.2 million or a loss of $0.13 per share.
So aside from the impact of reduced activity and pricing during the quarter I will point a few significant items during the quarter.
We reduced debt by $45 million since January 1 and that was driven partially by cash from early termination of drilling contracts as well as the sale of rigs.
We have had significant headcount reduction and other costs reductions in the first quarter.
And as a result when Stacy talks about the guidance you will see it's our margin percentage guidance is flatter or up in the second quarter in both segments.
Early termination revenue is now estimated at $53 million with all but $4.9 million of that to be recognized in 2015.
And that the sale of rigs that Stacy mentioned we have generated net proceeds of $24.8 million year-to-date we have an additional four still to be sold.
And two rigs that we had previously contracted to sell and I believe we discussed on the last call in a private sale they were to sell for a combined $9 million.
They may not sell as per the executed agreement.
So as a result we took that as the impairment that we took on those two rigs to reduce the carrying value to a lower expected sales amount net of the non-refundable deposit that was made by the buyer.
Talking a little bit about our U.S.
drilling fleet which is 34 rigs currently.
Today we have a 100% utilization of our 12 AC rigs and 43% utilization of SCR rigs these numbers are based on a revenue utilization.
By year-end after we have the additional 4 new builds 47% of the U.S.
drilling fleet will be AC 65% will be capable of walking and 74% will be pad capable.
Turning now to some of the details in the business segments production services revenues were $95.4 million down 32% and gross margin was 28% down approximately 800 basis points from the prior quarter.
Well servicing utilization was 79% and the average rate per hour was $619 and that compares to 90% utilization and the rate per hour of $675 in the fourth quarter.
Coil tubing utilization was 35% down from 47% in the prior quarter.
Looking at drilling overall segment revenues were $98.4 million down 31% and utilization dipped about 500 basis points to 83%.
Margin per day was up quarter-over-quarter approximately 1000 to 10 112 and that was due primarily to the payments from the early term contracts and the removal of the lower margin rigs from our fleet as the quarter progressed.
And that margin also includes the impact of $1.2 million loss on the sale of equipment and approximately $1 million of cost related to stacking out rigs.
If you exclude the benefit in the margin per day from rigs earning not working the loss on the sale of the equipment and the stack out costs our margin per day would have been approximately 9100.
The $53 million of early termination payments is recognized ratably over the term of the contracts.
We recognized $11.3 million of that total in the first quarter which is roughly about $300 000 higher than what we had anticipated on our last call.
In the second quarter we expect to recognize $16 million of early term revenue and then the $11.7 million in the third quarter and $9.2 million in the fourth quarter and $4.6 million in early 2016.
Overall today we have 38 rigs in our fleet that includes a rig – the new rig that went to work in April.
25 rigs are earning revenues under drilling contracts and 20 of those are under term contracts.
Of those 20 nine are earning but not working and of the remaining 11 rigs under term that are working seven are in the U.S.
Of those seven one is up for renewal this quarter nine are up for renewal in the third or fourth quarter and six expire beyond that point.
In Colombia revenue was approximately $20 million down 41% due to reduced utilization quarter-over-quarter.
Turning now to our company-wide expense items G&amp;A expense was just under $22 million which is down 19% from Q4.
For the second quarter we expect this number to be in the $21 million range.
Depreciation and amortization was just under $41.8 million down from $46 million in the prior quarter due primarily to the disposition of rigs.
We expect D&amp;A to be in the $40 million to $41 million range in the second quarter.
Interest expense dropped from $6.7 million to $5.5 million in the first quarter and it is expected to be flat to slightly down in the second.
The first quarter we did record approximately $0.7 million of capitalized interest related to the construction of the new rigs.
Also during the quarter we recognized $2.7 million of expense in the other category included in that is primarily made up of an expense of $1.2 million related to an annual Colombian wealth tax as well as a $1.8 million foreign currency loss.
These two items contributed to a lower effective tax rate of 27% excluding the impact to foreign currency gains or losses and other unusual items our effective tax rate is expected to be in the 35% to 37% range in future quarters.
With the recent debt payments we currently have $110 million outstanding on our $315 million revolving credit facility with an additional $18.5 million committed in letters of credit.
Capital expenditures in the first quarter totaled $45.7 million for the full year we are maintaining our $165 million to $180 million guidance although we expect today to be in the lower end of that range and that full year includes approximately $110 million in spending from the units.
Going forward we continue to focused on working safely and reducing costs and reducing our leverage.
And with that I will turn it back over to Stacy for final comments.
Thanks you Lorne.
As we examined the market that we are in today I think we all know that capital spending has come down considerably rig count as probably fallen down greater and faster than people anticipated it over 50% decline.
Service costs as a result including our services that have come down considerably.
And probably the most important is production in key basin and our key shale plays has started rolling over.
And example would be the Eagle Ford the Bakken Niobrara and so the ingredients to formal recovery are certainly in place.
And kind of consistent with that what we have seen a slight recovery in the price of oil but we are also beginning to hear a little chatter about activity levels picking up in certain cases late third quarter or fourth quarter which kind of further supports a bottoming in this market which we will do believe is occurring.
And our drilling operations utilization they are just very limited demand at the present time so we are guiding for lower utilization 60% to 63% utilization on a lower rig count but at a much higher margin due to the earning not working.
And we feel like that will probably slide a little bit into the third quarter and they probably in drilling that the third quarter might represent the bottom of drilling and then we start the recovery from that point.
On the production services side we see a little further – we have had momentum in the quarter that will cause revenues to come down we are estimating 12% to 15% in the second quarter.
But the good news is that that due to our cost reduction efforts as Loren already mentioned we brought our G&amp;A down even in this first quarter we will bring it down a little further the next quarter we have had a tremendous number of personnel reduction management layers compensation reduction at the peak of our employment in November we had 3 929 employees through about two three days ago we were down 1429 employees or 36% that's just to bring our cost structure inline with activity levels so we've had to stack – cold stack equipment and reduce the employment around that equipment and reduce layers and costs across the board.
And because of that even with the decline in revenues in our production and services we feel like we ought to be able to hold our margin flat if not even improve it a little bit.
So there is a lot of moving pieces in a market like this but we have done what we need to do to bring our cost structure inline with the level of activity and we are going to hold tight on that cost structure as we start working our way out of this downturn.
So hopefully we will see an improvement in production services in the third quarter and an improvement in our drilling side in the fourth quarter.
So with that I will just continue any remarks and open the floor to questions.
Thank you.
Thank you.
We will now be conducting a question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Daniel Burke from Johnson Rice.
Please proceed with your question.
Good morning guys.
Good morning.
Stacy I know that the spot market on the rig side is – has very limited depths right now but I was wondering if you were willing to give us any indications on what you are seeing out there on the rate side in the U.S.
market? I would say in the northern – well there is different rates probably even though they are compressed by class or rig.
I would say the AC rigs in the northern market are probably 28 to 22 a day these will be winterized rigs.
SCR rigs will be a little bit less than that maybe 18 to 20 21 probably 18 to 20.
In the south non-winterized rigs I would say the AC market is probably 19 to 21 somewhere in that range SCR rigs probably as low as 16 to 19 somewhere – Don LaCombe is in here – is that in the ball park.
Question is this additional jewelry on a rig walking rig would be amplified and kick that number up a little bit on a SCR flat rigs so – That's helpful.
On the AC side I'm assuming the quotes provided were for walking rigs since that the preponderance of what you will have ? Right.
Yes we don't have any non-walking AC rigs so yes.
It seems to be – yes just a follow-up on that Daniel the pad drilling is just becoming more and more critical in all of these shale plays and so that's where we have been making a huge emphasis is trying to take – we probably have one more rig that we would be willing to put a walking system on other than that we put that walking systems on all the rigs that we felt should have them.
And I think that's going to be very important as we go forward in this market as we come out of the downturn.
That's helpful.
And I will stick with the rigs for my follow-up question I think Stacy I heard you say Q3 bottom and drilling did that – I see you are referring to utilization more so than financial results but I guess the way we thought about it is the – as the revenue from the rigs on revenue not working sort of roll-off financially we expect to see some drift downwards but just didn't know how to calibrate that comment you made? Well I was actually talking about both.
I think utilization will be lower in the third quarter and financially with early term rolling off.
And then in our case Colombia will weigh on the margins in that third quarter because we are – we think we are in the progress of kind of renewing some term contracts and maybe increasing that in Colombia but it will be at a lower rate and a lower margin.
The market in Colombia is extremely soft and it's kind of a buyers market there like in the U.S.
and so if we were able to renew which we think we will be able to it will be at a lower margin.
So that will weigh in on it offsetting that will be the new builds coming in which are at extremely high margins.
But so it's just – we feel like Q3 is probably where that market bottoms out.
Perfect.
Thanks guys.
Appreciate it.
You bet.
Are there any other questions? Please standby.
It appears there are no other questions in the queue.
I would like to hand the call back over to Stacy for closing comments.
No we did just get another question from Daniel Burke.
Please proceed with your question.
Yes.
Go ahead.
Go ahead with it Daniel.
Yes.
I will keep you guys working for just a little bit longer.
It's a busy day out there.
I was curious how – well service utilization in Q2 that there is some level of seasonal benefit but the completion work you guys do that can't be getting any better how do you see well service utilization trending? I think it's going to stay fairly steady.
It could trend downward a little bit.
But we are still with clients that are very active.
I looked this morning we still have seven rigs today on 24-hour work.
We are with clients that are still doing things.
And probably one that are stuck with term contracts that they have to utilize fortunately.
And it's just that market I think broadly speaking is holding up fairly well.
There is a big maintenance component that and has always been and probably increased because they are just more time on all of these horizontal wells.
So and these things are very as you know service intense.
So you were seeing probably the maintenance side pick up and then we have – we are fortunate enough to have some of the more active operators that are still completing.
Okay.
So Stacy when we think about the top line guidance for production services in Q2 work over stable-ish coil I mean at least you get a bit of bounce or it sounds like maybe you get a little bit of boost from Gulf of Mexico seasonality helpful seasonality in Q2.
So wireline just sort of – I assume wirelines most of the gravity and the guy just given it it made such a big step down from Q4 to Q1 in just sort of lapping that lower level of activity is that right way to think about it? Right.
I would say that the decline in revenue accelerated as you approach March so that will kind of continue a little bit.
And that same for coil and then hopefully it flattens out in the quarter that we – we continue on kind from the decline in February and more so in March and then flatten out and then start the up tick of activity after that.
All right guys we will good to get a chance to ask a couple on the production side as well.
So thank you both.
Yes.
If you have another one key back up.
Thank you Daniel.
Our next question comes from the line of Brad Handler from Jefferies.
Please proceed with your question.
Hi.
Thanks guys.
Good morning.
Hi Brad.
Let's talk some more about production services please and maybe its just framing it in terms – if you had to think about 2Q revenue how much of that – how it is comprised between kind of the maintenance through work over versus the work you do facilitating completions how is that mix in Q2? Well I think it's probably around that 50% range still for completion.
But maybe trending down a little bit below the 50% but when you look at the different segments well servicing is probably 25% completion.
And then the others have been in the past more heavily weighted more than 50% weighted to completion and hence they were hit as Stacy talked about a little harder in the first quarter.
So I think it's probably substantial-50 I don't know if it hits well as 40 but I think that's probably the range that you would look at in terms of the percentage revenue that's oriented towards completion work.
And the offshore work in both wireline and coil that tends to pick up in the second and third quarter it's all maintenance oriented type work it's not completion work for the most.
Right.
So that might shift it further.
I guess I'm just wondering we are hearing you would have obviously heard a lot from the service industry already and certainly the E&amp;P's are talking about stepping down their drilling and completion activity a lot into Q.
So I was – maybe I was expecting an even more dramatic shift as we find a baseline in production services but it doesn't sound like that's necessarily as dramatic a shift as we thought that's interesting.
Presumably from a regional standpoint? So you said so the -- Bakken is clearly the weakest in production services and this – we have a vast majority coming from the Eagle Ford is that probably already the case but is that how we should think about where that's coming from in 2Q? Well it various quite a bit within the business lines in well servicing the Bakken is actually is pretty strong whereas places like Louisiana Mississippi have been very soft.
And the Eagle Ford remains strong.
I think in wireline Bakken has been hit hard Oklahoma market hit hard Kansas market hit hard Eagle Ford hit hard and somewhat in the same with coil it somewhat depending on who your specific clients are if you are lucky like well servicing to have the guys that are busy right now then you are busier.
And coil and wire we had some very very good clients and continue to have them as clients.
But they are not obligated to take keep a bunch of rigs and they let them go most – all operators have let go rigs they could afford to let go.
And of course a lot of paid off early term.
But some of those folks are talking about more activity today and we are seeing a little bit more activity.
But I think it's going to be backend loaded in the year there is just more chatter developing now which gives us encouragement potentially for more activity in the third quarter and certainly in the fourth quarter.
Feeling pretty confident about that.
Okay.
All right.
Maybe just one more for me and I'm sorry if it was addressed early in the call and I missed it.
Can you give us some color on pricing declines across the production services businesses that you are seeing the leading hedge if you will? Yes.
I think if you start with well servicing where we put out that rate per hour that was about 8% decline.
I think staying on where you are at the high single digits to – up to 12% maybe 15% depending on location is a range you are going to have outliers but that's a reasonable range.
I think wire and coil both as Stacy mentioned were hit harder than well servicing on pricing and so I think that range was much broader and probably you captured the majority of reductions in the – if he said 20% to 35% price reductions depending on the market and the customer and where that hit.
I might add one thing but I challenge there for us not being in pressure pumping there folks that are offering up bundles of services and kind of throwing in our service for free almost maybe not quite free but very low in order to get the frac pressure pumping work or some combination of services.
So that's gotten a little bit more competitive in this market and the operators want cost reduction and that's a great way to get it and so that's – heard us in a few cases as well.
Understand.
Would you say that – and thank you for the ranges too would you say that those are – is there further pressure currently or latest rates kind of stabilizing maybe at the high end of those ranges or something but is it are we seeing more stability now in quotes or is there further pressure? I think in wire and coil we are seeing – it's still a dog fight don't get me wrong.
But it seems like the brunt of the price declines have been felt.
There maybe modest price declines but we really feel like we are kind of bottoming out there on pricing reduction.
On the well servicing side it's a – we don't know positively that there could be a little bit more pricing there it's still extremely competitive I wouldn't be surprised to see a little more reduction in pricing 5% maybe 10% there by summer time or so if its harder to say.
We are – we just really don't know.
But there is probably more pricing to give there then there are in these other services.
Okay.
Okay.
Great.
Thanks for all that.
I will turn it back.
You bet.
Thank you.
Are there any other questions? Please standby.
There are no further questions in the queue.
I would like to hand the call back over to Stacy for closing comments.
Great.
Well thank you very much for participating on the call.
And we look forward to visiting on the next call.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude today's teleconference.
Thank you for your participation.
You may disconnect your lines at this time.
And have a wonderful day.
Thank you for your patience.
Your teleconference will begin momentarily.
Greetings and welcome to the Pioneer Energy Services Second Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
A brief question-and-answer session will follow the formal presentation.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to your host today Ms.
Anne Pearson of IR.
Thank you Ms.
Pearson.
You may begin.
Thank you Lucania.
And good morning everyone.
Before I turn the call over to Stacy Locke and Lorne Phillips for their formal remarks I have a few of the usual items that cover.
First of all a replay of today's call will be available by webcast and also by telephone replay.
You can find the information for both of these in this morning's news release.
Just as a reminder information reported on this call speaks only as of today July 30th 2015.
So any time sensitive information may not be accurate at the time of a replay.
Management may make forward-looking statements that are based on beliefs and assumptions and information currently available to them.
While they believe these expectations are reasonable they can give no assurance they'll prove to be correct.
They are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that are described in today's news release and also in recent public filings with the SEC.
So if one or more of these risks should materialize or underlying assumptions prove to be incorrect actual results may differ materially.
Also please note that this conference call may contain references to non-GAAP measures.
You'll find a reconciliation to the GAAP measures in this morning's release.
Now I'd like to turn the call over to Stacy Locke Pioneer President and CEO.
Stacy? Thank you Anne.
And good morning.
Joining me here in San Antonio is Brian Tucker President of our drilling services segment and Lorne Phillips Chief Financial Officer.
Overall the second quarter was fairly close to our expectation.
Our revenue was a little off a little bit lower.
Rain did play a role.
Good news is we had a lot particularly in the south and in Texas and it did impact all of our businesses.
EBITDA fared a little better than we had thought and our net loss was also little bit better than we had anticipated.
So really not a bad quarter given the market that we are operating in.
Looking at each of our four core businesses in a little bit of detail.
First drilling.
I thought I'd just update you on the transformation of our fleet.
We started this year at 62 rigs.
We sold 27 and then we actually combined another sale yesterday so that's 28.
They've averaged over 1.25 million per rigs.
So we're very pleased with that.
Most were mechanical rigs.
And then we've added the first of our five newly built rigs the first one going to Eagle Ford.
And so at the present time we have 35 marketed rigs in our fleet and they are operating at about 49% utilization today.
So it's still a challenging market.
We are moving our second new built rig and that's the first of three to go to the Permian and the others will be following shortly thereafter.
And then we have our last rig that's a new built that where we transferred that contract to an existing rig AC rig in the Bakken and so we will be marketing that rig.
So year-end we'll have 39 total rigs.
And when you break down the kind of the complexion of those 39 rigs; 16 will be AC walking rigs 14 will be FCR pad rigs eight of which are in Columbia and then we'll have six FCR rigs and three mechanical rigs one of which is top line mechanical rig.
The three mechanical rigs are in South Texas.
As we alluded to in the press release we will continue to market for sale some of our less strategic rigs including a few in Columbia and perhaps a few of the non-pad capable FCR rigs and we are in ongoing discussions on those at the present time.
Now looking geographically where the rigs are today we are really just have five operating regions four of which are in the U.S.
one is in Columbia.
South Texas is where we have our greatest concentration of rigs.
And South Texas we have a 11 rigs; four of those rigs are presently working in addition to the four working we have one earning not working which will move into a term the contract in mid-August.
In the Bakken we have eight rigs; two are actually working five more are earning not working and four of the five well are up for renewal in the first quarter of '16.
Those are all very high quality top performing rigs in the Bakken.
One of those five earning not working is where we place the two year term that we had on the last new build the December new build.
So that's going to continue working.
And also in that negotiation all the other new builds are three year term.
That was a two year term.
That was a two year term but we negotiated a six months extension on two existing.
That’s actually the two rigs that are working there currently.
Extensions on those rigs when they expire in the first quarter and so those will be extended six months each.
So they’ll get it solidly into December.
So we’re in pretty good shape there.
And in the Appalachia that’s our most successful operation division.
Right now we have all four.
Four rigs working.
And we have additional demand in that region.
So we’re exploring that.
In west Texas we have just one of four rigs working but we are delivering our three newly built rigs there under term contracts all three year terms at their rates well in excess of 25 a day.
So those will be beneficial to us.
In Columbia at the present time Ecopetrol let all of our term contracts expire like many of the operators have done here in the U.S.
And so we today have zero of eight rigs working.
But we’ve been awarded one three-year term contract and we think there may be a second rig coming with that.
We bid it as two rigs.
And then we also were in final negotiations on potentially one or two additional rigs that could go back to work in the near term.
Things are looking up a little bit better there.
In addition we have ongoing dialog as I mentioned on prospects to sell some of the other rigs there.
But and then of course we have our last newly built rig that we anticipate we are getting quite a bit of interest in that rig.
We want to do a short term contract on it.
And our preference is to put it in the Eagle Ford and the Permian.
So we’re in discussions on that at the present time.
I think our group drilling group’s been really smart in how they’ve contracted and maneuvered these contracts and it’s helping us quite a bit in this challenging market that we’re in.
In addition the performance in the drilling group has been stellar.
And that’s really in terms of safety rig moves penetration rates downtime and basic engineering of our equipment.
They’ve just done a terrific job.
I’m very proud of what they built and I think they were very well positioned for the recovery when that takes place.
Turning now to the production services segment.
First well servicing continues its best in class performance.
We don’t have the 90% to 100% utilization that we had in 2014 but 73% in the second quarter is still superb.
And still best in class.
Same for hourly rate.
It was down and it's under 600 but it's still the highest average hourly rate in the industry.
And certain clients have pulled back and pricing remains competitive but overall we are very well positioned with a 121 550 horse power to 600 horse power taller mast rigs that we have.
And I think one of the benefits besides the terrific client base that they have is they were not weighted in completion only about 20% to 25% of the work is completion oriented.
So that's been a big benefit.
Looking now to kind of wireline and coiled tubing a little bit of the opposite is there.
It's weighted towards completion 70% to 75% and it's been very hit hard as a result of that.
In wireline the number of jobs performed is down about 50% compared to a year ago.
Pricing is up 30% 40% maybe even a little more in some markets.
Coiled tubing is down 24% or so compared to a year in terms of utilization compared to be in over 50% a year ago.
Pricing there is up as well in the 25% 35% range.
One several things are impacting those business lines.
I think the larger frac players are bundling services.
We have seen this in past slow markets where wireline is frequently lumped in and almost given away in order to generate frac business and we are seeing that again today.
Occasionally you'll even see coil bundled in with frac jobs.
So that a game that is played every time there is a soft cycle and we just have to try to defend it off the best we can.
Surprisingly in addition there are a number of startup companies particularly in wireline but also coil.
I guess private equity money is viewing this as an opportunity to enter the market and play the rebound.
But we've been a little surprised at the number of new entrance into the marketplace.
On the wireline fleet we have a 125 total units.
We've stacked about 40% of those units we've rationalized the number of the district offices.
We've reduced management layers and we've done the same in coiled tubing.
There out of 17 units we have four cold stack units four warm stack units out of the 17.
So we're downsizing I think you can see that in the production service margin as a percent of revenue improving.
I think we've done a great job in decreasing our structure there.
We'll continue to look at that and continue to fine tune that as we move into this third quarter.
We have been hopeful that the second quarter was the bottom but it now looks like maybe the third quarter hopefully will be the bottom but we're certainly in the lower for longer mode -- as we sit here today.
So let me turn the call over to Lorne to give you some more specifics.
Thanks Stacy.
Good morning everyone.
So this morning we reported revenues of a $135 million and adjusted EBITDA up $35.2 million.
If you exclude the impact of impairment charges net of taxes and the evaluation allowances or adjusted net loss was $11 million or $0.17 per share.
The 71.3 million of impairment charges was primarily for the reduction of recurring values of assets associated with our Colombian operations and six of our non-AC electric drilling rigs in our domestic fleet that are not pad capable.
Some other key points to note include the following.
Debt has been reduced by $45 million since January 1st and cash has increased to 62.5 million as of June 30<sup>th</sup> driven partially by cash from the early termination of drilling contracts as well as the sale of rigs that Stacy mentioned earlier.
Despite this increased liquidity to be prudent we are evaluating pursuing an amendment to the credit facility sometime in the second half of this year which would the goal would be to increase the total debt to EBITDA covenant above the four times level it is at today to make sure we have plenty of liquidity.
We have maintained ongoing dialogues with our banks and feel confident that we can secure the amendment if needed.
Early termination revenue is estimated to be a total of $53 million with all but 4.9 million of that to be recognized in 2015 and substantially all those payments have been received as of June 30<sup>th</sup>.
Based on revenue utilization which includes earning not working rigs looking at our U.S.
drilling fleet of 27 rigs we currently have a 100% utilization of our 12 AC drilling rigs and 33% utilization of our FCR rigs.
And by year end 52% of our U.S.
drilling fleet will be AC and 71% will be pad-capable.
Turning now to the business segments.
Production services revenues were 76.5 million down 20% from the prior quarter.
And gross margin was 31% up approximately 260 basis point.
As Stacy mentioned all businesses were impacted by continued pricing and activity declines wire and wire and coil were impacted the most and these declines were partially offset by the cost reduction activities that Stacy discussed.
Well servicing utilization was 73% and that average rate per hour was $595 compared to 79% and $619 per hour in the prior quarter.
Coil tubing utilization was 24% down from 33% in the prior quarter.
Overall our completion revenues are estimated in production service to account for 51% of revenues in the second quarter and that compares to 54% in the first quarter.
Some color on that well servicing is more in 20% to 25% completion range while wireline and coil would be the half to that.
And our consolidated basis gets you closer to that 50% range.
Looking at drilling overall segment revenues were $58.6 million down 40% from the prior quarter and the utilization was 63%.
Margin per day was up approximately 1 700 to 12 132 due primarily to payments for early termination of contracts and removal of lower horsepower rigs from our fleet.
If you exclude the benefit of margin from rigs earning but not working our estimated margin per day would have been approximately 8 900.
The $53 million of early termination payments is recognized ratably over the term and their contracts.
We recognized a $11.3 million and $16 million in the first and second quarters of 2015 respectively.
In the third quarter we expect to recognize a $11.7 million of revenue $9.2 million in the fourth quarter and $4.6 million in early 2016.
The revenue days from earning not working rigs in the third and fourth quarters are expected to total 513 and 401 respectively.
We’ve 35 rigs on our fleet today with 17 rigs earnings revenues and 13 of those 17 under term contracts.
Of those 13 under term contracts 6 are earning but not working.
The working rigs that are under term the 7 working rigs under term are all in the U.S.
and of those 7 one is up for renewal in the first quarter of 2016 one is up for renewal in the second quarter of 2016 four in the third quarter of 2016 and one expires in early 2018.
But then in addition to that as Stacy mentioned we’ve two rigs that are currently earning but not working that will begin working on term contracts.
One will begin in the third quarter and that term contract will take it through the first quarter of 2016 and other one will begin in the fourth quarter of this year and that contract will take it through the fourth quarter of 2017.
In Columbia revenue was approximately $14.1 million down 29% due to reduced utilization quarter-over-quarter.
Stacy has already discussed Columbia so I’ll move on to our company wide expense items.
G&amp;A expense was $18.4 million down 16% from the prior quarter and for the third quarter we expect this number to be in the $19 million range.
Depreciation and amortization was $38.5 million down from $41.8 million due primarily to the disposition of rigs.
We expect D&amp;A to be in the $37 million to $38 million range in the third quarter.
Interest expense was $5.2 million in the second quarter and in the third quarter we expect that number to increase by approximately half a million as rigs are delivered and as a result the capitalized interest is reduced.
In the second quarter we had capitalized interest of approximately $0.8 million that was related to the construction of new drilling rigs.
We reported an income tax benefit of $2.6 million during the quarter and this number includes a tax benefit related to the impairment which is mostly offset by evaluation allowance against the Columbian tax assets.
Excluding the impact of foreign currency and any other unusual items our effective tax rate would be expected to be in the 35% to 37% range in future quarters.
We currently have a $110 million outstanding on our $350 million revolving credit facility with an additional $21.3 million committed in letters of credit.
Our cash capital expenditures year-to-date are $84 million and for the full year our current guidance is now $160 million to $170 million that full year number includes approximately $110 million in spending for new units.
With that I’ll turn it back over to Stacy.
Thank you Lorne.
Our guidance was noted there in the press release we’re confident there will be a recovery but we just don’t know when at this point I think the picture is a little more platted then it was a month ago it seem like it was kind of in the early phases.
But so we’re going to stay somewhat conservative on our guidance on the drilling side where we see drilling utilization with 49% today we think it can be roughly in that range 46% to 50% utilization average margin per day roughly in line with the second quarter kind of in that 12 to 12.5 per day.
It is being dragged down in the short run by Columbia.
And then on the production service side I think we were projecting a little bit further of a slide in the third quarter.
Revenue down 12% to 16% and a modest pull back in the margin as a percent of revenue say 27% to 29%.
I would say that it's challenging that give that guidance.
It's particularly hard to give that guidance in where this traditionally one of the strongest production service quarters which is a third quarter.
But it is a soft market and there is not a lot of demand there is not a lot of demand in drilling.
And I think that it's building for a definite recovery probably beginning in 2016 if not at the end of the year but it's probably going to be slow and we have got to manage our business as if it's going to be slow and lower for longer and keep our cost structure tight and that's what we intend to do.
So I think we are anticipating a little bit more pain in the third quarter but perhaps that will be the bottom and we can start the modest recovery from there that will hopefully last multi-years but anyway I think that I’ll conclude the prepared remarks and we would be happy to entertain any questions.
Thank you.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Ken Sill with Seaport Global please proceed with your question.
Yes good morning guys.
Puzzled surprise on the margins.
And then you’re guiding conservatively so I understand that.
I am looking at rigs could you give us some sort of a feel as to what’s going on or if there is a spot market on day rates for the rigs.
I have been hearing numbers all over the board and clearly differentiate between FCR and AC rigs but do you guys have any indication where that is right now? Well the data points are limited but we like in the Appalachia I would say the rates I don't want to get too specific but call it North of 20 a day that might not be universal.
Our performance is everything is kind of performance based our performance has been exceptional there and so we might begin a bit of premium.
And the Texas market it's pretty compressed I would say the mechanical top drive FCR pad rigs FCR rigs in general are kind of in that 16 to 17 range not a lot of differentiation and minimal demand.
I don't know the AC market.
We hear its sub 20 in the Texas market but its soft and very little demand out there on rates.
Go ahead I am sorry.
No I was going to see if Brian had something else.
No I just go with what Stacy said we just don't have a lot of data points.
So we have had a few data points suggest that FCR walking rigs and the Texas market are one to $3 000 per day below some of the AC rates that we see but again they are just – there is not a lot of demand and not a lot of bids going out right now.
Okay that's understandable.
And then for the rigs that you guys have signed in Columbia I don't know if you want to give kind of specific rate information but what kind of cash margin do you think the one that's going to work is going to get and if you add a plus one to that what would the margins there be? Well that contract is not signed yet.
It's been awarded but it isn't signed.
I think it will be signed and we are – we think we have more coming but there – the one hasn't – the second one hadn't been awarded yet but we are into we think that it could be coming and in terms of margin it's I don't really want to speculate because we are revamping our cost structure there as well we are probably making more material changes there as I mentioned will probably downsize the operating fleet and I think we will for sure generate positive cash margins but we really are positive what the average margins will be.
There will be less than what we used to give.
We used to give kind of new build type margins in Columbia but the rates are down and we are kind of running our cost down somewhat in line with those but there will be margin compression but we just don't know where it will come out at this point.
I wish I could give you more specific details but we’ll need to operate a little bit before we know where that settles out.
Thank you it was accretive.
The rates I would say that the day rates without getting specific are kind of well above the 30 000 a day type range just to give you a little context.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from [indiscernible] please proceed with your question.
Good morning guys.
Good morning.
Stacy specifically given spot pricing that remains weak here it would seem that the cash margins are going to be a bit lower in future quarters so recognizing that you guys don't typically provide guidance on the current quarter I was hoping that maybe you could give us a best guess still possible Q4 cash margin as market conditions kind of basically remain exactly where they are today? Well we have a policy of not really guiding out beyond the next quarter as you might have imagined.
It's because it's challenging and I know you have to put something in your models but I don't really – we will have a little assistance going forward later in the year and in the next year from Columbia I think we are going to go back to work and start contributing again as opposed to be in a drag.
We will have the additional new builds which all of those are at very very solid well north of kind of the 25 a day range.
So good solid day rates and those will help and then I don't see at this point for us at least day rates really going below the 16 kind of thousand a day range I know there is other that are bidding below that out there I don't think we are going to have to go there.
Our safety is stellar our performance down time is stellar.
People will use this and we will put some of these FCR rigs back to work for sure.
We have got clients already saying when things get better we will put those some FCR rigs back to work.
So but there will be lower rates than the expire like the ones that are earning not working or under-term now those will come down.
But we have the new builds offsetting that.
So that's probably a good way of telling you nothing right.
I had to try to sneak it in right? Yes right.
It was worth than that for sure.
Yes.
Okay.
I guess looking at coil tubing utilization remains weak for the not just for you guys but for the industry so as you think about the business do you believe that its core to you guys and how does the potential shift to dissolvable plugs influence your thoughts on future investments into this line of business? Right.
That's a great question.
The dissolvable plug we are watching that.
It doesn't seem to fit every market or every operator but it is competitive risks out there.
So we are watching that and I think we have been very honest about coil it is not lived up to our expectations.
I was extremely excited and we all were excited in 2014.
It performed way better than we had thought.
We have got a solid team now I think if coil can become a viable business our team can make a viable business.
I think the jury is still out there is so much competition out there.
There is some companies pulling and there are new entrances into the market so it's dynamic but it's a challenge business.
There is too much coil and it's expensive there seems to be a little bit of a trend not right now but there was to larger diameter coil well that's expensive as a shorter life and it's as yet to be determined whether that's a viable business model.
So we will just have to see where we’re committed to it we really have a team of people that are top lined and if we have – kind of pull back into some core regions and we are going to continue to work hard at it and then we will evaluate it during the recovery as to whether we feel like it will ever burn the returns that justify it for further growth.
And I don't know the answer to that.
I would say if you had asked me that at the end of the third quarter of 2014 I would have said it looked very promising today I would say it's less certain.
Okay.
Alright.
Thanks for that.
And what – if I could squeeze one more and on your question service guidance the revenue decreased or how much of the revenue decrease as a function of pricing and how much of it is utilization specifically related to well servicing? Well Lorne do you want to take that? Sure.
I would say on the pricing front yes well servicing as we discussed been the most resilient.
It looks like it probably has a few percent decrease probably from Q2 to Q3 that could be coming and I would probably add all our comments on production service that as Stacy said it’s challenging the guide and a month ago probably would have been very different guidance and part of what’s driving our revenue guidance is we have seen some customers here in the last couple of weeks that had plans were ready to do work that just kind of hesitate and cancel and they just kind of push it back having – with the reason being just coil dropping and conserving liquidity.
So it's possible that that is different in August and September but we are guiding based on what we really have been seeing in July and so most of the decrease is activity based.
There is some residual pricing impact that relates mostly to pricing reductions that occurred in the second quarter and just having the full quarter of that roll in for the third.
So I would say most of its activity and a limited amount of pricing.
And let me just add to that little bit when you also look at our wireline business in particular the Bakken is historically been a major area for us and that's just been estimated in terms of rig count from over 200 rigs to sub sub 80 75 and also that is real soft and that was a power house for us.
We were the largest or still are the largest and it just been a resistant – a very important market for us and that's off.
The other thing that I alluded to in my prepared remarks is this bundling from the big three or four out there where we might be doing stage preparation work previously in four to five thousand stage and before that more of six to eight thousand stage pricing some of the bundlers in order to get that pressure pumping at drop rate to a $1 000 $2 000 a stage and they are doing that we just can't compete.
We win business because of our performance.
We perform well but when you get that low on pricing and you can’t blame the operators one bid I would probably do the same thing I am going to take these dicer still plenty good enough and when you get the pricing at that level you will do it and they sometimes are coiled tubing in there so that's very challenging in soft market like this because the pressure pumpers got to work their equipment and they will bundle it up and it just makes it hard for standalone people like us to compete and we don't want to go in the pressure pumping just in order to compete on wireline and perhaps a little coil.
So it's just the dilemma in this type of market.
That will change in the recovery because we will spread it out and it will kind of go back the way it was.
So for now just the basic it's the right size.
Okay.
Thanks for – We are not going to work below cash.
We want to make in all of our businesses we are trying to make cash margins other than short term but we are just starting to go that low.
Alright.
Thanks so much for the color.
I appreciate it.
You bet thank you.
Our next question comes from Daniel Burke with Johnson Rice.
Please proceed with your question.
Yes good morning guys.
Not to labor production services out of the business but given the heavier waiting of the work over business to production can we surmise the revenue decline in work over from Q2 to Q3 should be less severe than the 12% to 16% segment guide? Well no I mean that – well servicing piece of that is that what you are asking? Yes.
Yes I think it's – the decline is probably weighted heavier to wire and coil but in well servicing we do think we are seeing at depth in some of the utility that not – it's still quite resilient and still good numbers.
So I think all three businesses we would put in the same categories having a decline but definitely well servicing less so than the others.
You contemplate stacking anything on the work oversight? Yes.
Do we have any stack yet or yes okay we are already stacking some.
Yes I know it's kind of reason we have been – we are still taking a few newly built units and so one that we are maybe at the point where we needed to do refurbishment we have been stacking those and using the newer equipment which has been really helpful.
But I think we’ll have couple of more units to come and but I think right now we have 10-15 coil stacking units I would say that are unmanned.
Okay.
That's helpful and then looking forward to next year how low can you dial down the CapEx or any initial or any refined thoughts on where you can hit CapEx to next year? Yes I think this year based on our guidance you can see the new built pieces is coming in around 50 million and I would say that next year if we are at the same market you could be looking at 30 million to 40 million in spend.
We are as we should be are looking at everywhere that we can control cost and spending on CapEx.
So that's 30 to 40 would be the right number of use.
Okay.
Great and then maybe one last one in Stacy back over to Columbia I think you had expressed some optimism looking ahead to next year for putting again a larger chunk of the ideal fleet whether it's five total rigs or eight total rigs back to work what's given you that optimism as you said there today? Well it definitely I would say that it is the most likely will not be eight rigs back to work because we would like to divest some of the units there and we are currently marketing and in discussions on some we would like that when we went into Columbia originally our goal was to have kind of three to five rigs in Columbia and due to the primary operator we work for and pressure to put more unit down there we kept adding and so we would like to downsize that footprint more into that three four maybe five units and take the opportunity to sell some of those other units and bring the cash back to the U.S.
and pay down debt in the short run.
And so we anticipate doing that.
So I think you got to remember back to the reasons why we went to Columbia it was there was no oil in the U.S.
and we didn't want all of our business be in natural gas drive business other than we had some vertical wells in the Bakken way back then.
And now we are predominately oil in the U.S.
and that probably isn’t going to change and so we don't need the same size of footprint there and there is ongoing risks and issues in Columbia just like you see from other folks in international broadly speaking.
So we would rather minimize that risk by reducing the footprint and have it less part of our total.
We really want to expand here in the U.S.
where we see some great market opportunity down the road and so I think we need to think about it in terms of three to five rigs in the future.
We are already talking about including potentially two three four rigs back to work now.
[indiscernible] is already kind of back talking a little bit so activity will definitely come back there just like in the U.S.
with a bit of recovery in oil prices.
So we think the market is going to come back and be stronger next year and probably stronger the year after that but we just would have a smaller footprint.
And we are pretty open to all of our alternatives really for Colombia.
Okay.
Guys I appreciate.
That's a helpful background.
You bet.
[Operator Instructions] Our next question comes from John Woodall with Raymond James.
Please proceed with your question.
Hi.
Good morning.
Good morning.
I was curious within the drilling side particularly in the U.S.
I was wondering how some of the conversations you have had with customers has been changing lately and what their thought process is as oil prices are falling closure to the $50 level.
Well that's we are having a variety of different types of conversations.
But we are – we have got the new built rigs that we are marketing for that December delivery Brian and his team has had a steady stream of large players coming and viewing that rig and so we think that that's going to market well and go well and we will be able to put that rig back to work and say we are getting quite a bit of interest in any of our other AC pad rigs walking rigs that when they come off term I am confident we are going to be able to put all those back to work.
And then we have already have conversations with clients that use some of our FCR rigs in the past that we will pick some of those back up.
And so and then on the smaller kind of independent market which for us is predominately in South Texas we have been working our mechanical top drive rig and South Texas pretty steady here lately for a variety of independence.
We have already we have got another FCR rig that's non-walking working in South Texas we contracted a walking FCR rig that's going to when it comes off earning not working in August it will go to term contract.
We still have an FCR rig working out in West Texas at one point a few months ago it was almost certain they were going to let the rigs go and downsize their rigs but that rig has performed so well that right now we think it will continue in the future and we are having conversations about going back to work it's just I think that it's like Lorne was saying it’s a little bit on pause right now due to the pull back in oil price but once you get back to kind of where we were a month ago with a little more firm footing on oil being slightly upward slope you are going to see activity come back and I think our rig fleet is going to come back with it for sure.
Alright.
That's extremely helpful.
And then kind of looking towards the cost side obviously in 2Q your margins performed abnormally and looking forward your guidance little bit lower obviously pricing will be down a little bit but how much cost do you think that you can take out of business particularly on the production servicing side? Well that evaluation is ongoing.
We try to stay ahead of the market.
It's tough to do that.
It's but we are kind of in that process again right now and looking at that and I don't really want to give any specific number but we are going to try to defend our margin as a percentage of revenue to the best of our ability and that will take maybe some wage reduction as well as elimination of personnel and maybe a few more stack units and if they – if the until isn’t higher we might go more to cold stack than warm stack some of that type of stuff.
And then in drilling the big unknown there is whether we are going to be able to reduce wage cost there.
We haven't to my surprise so far this year but we are pretty much – our rigs we felt the bread of our decline as Lorne alluded we are very little rolling off for the remainder of the year yet a lot of our peer groups have rigs rolling off in increasing – at an increasing pace and level.
So hopefully at some point we will have a wage reduction.
It makes sense because in order to put these rigs back to work you are going to have to lower your day rate and if you don't bring your wages the wages in the field and drilling are the highest in history and they don't need to be that high.
But little guys like us we can't be a wage reducer or leader we need to follow the big guys and hopefully that as they stack more rigs and are attempting to put them back to work in a recovery they will see the benefit of having those slightly lower wage.
If you could not $500 to $1 000 of daily wage cost out you can retain your margin and bid a little more aggressively.
So that's what we just kind of wait and hope that will happen but it hasn't happened yet.
Alright.
Thank you.
I appreciate the detail.
I will turn it back guys.
Thank you.
Thank you.
At this time I would like to turn the call back over to management for closing comments.
Right.
Well thank you very much.
We know it's a busy day out there and we appreciate your time and your good questions today and we will look forward to talking about our brighter future shortly we hope.
Thank you.
Thank you.
This does conclude today's teleconference; you may disconnect your lines at this time and have a great day.
Welcome to Pioneer Energy Services' Third Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions].
I would now like to turn the conference over to Anne Pearson Dennard-Lascar Investor Relations.
Thank you please go ahead.
Thank you and good morning everybody.
Before I turn the call over to Stacy Locke and Lorne Phillips for their formal remarks I have a few of the usual items that we need to cover.
First of all a replay of today's call will be available by webcast and also by telephone replay.
You can find that replay information for both in this morning's news release.
Just as a reminder information reported on this call speaks only as of today October 29th 2015.
So any time-sensitive information may not be accurate at the time of a replay.
Management may make forward-looking statements that are based on beliefs and assumptions and information currently available to them.
While they believe these expectations are reasonable they can give no assurance though proved to be correct.
They are subject to certain risks and uncertainties and assumptions described in today's news release and also in recent public filings with the SEC.
So if one or more of these risks materialize or should underlying assumptions prove to be incorrect actual results may differ materially.
Also please note that today's conference call may contain references to non-GAAP measures.
You will find a reconciliation to the GAAP measures in this morning's news release.
So now I would like to turn the call over to Stacy Locke Pioneer's President and CEO.
Stacy.
Thank you Anne.
Good morning appreciate you all joining our call.
Here with me in San Antonio is Brian Tucker President of our drilling services segment Lorne Phillips our Chief Financial Officer.
As you may recall from our second quarter call our guidance regarding the third quarter was fairly negative especially for the Production Services segment but unfortunately it turned out to be fairly accurate as well.
You know we guided Production Services revenue down 12% to 16% and we came in down 13% a little bit more on the favorable end of that guidance.
Our margin as a percent of revenues we guided 27% to 29% and came in at the low end of that range of 27%.
On the drilling services side we got a utilization to be 46% to 50% came in at the high-end at 49% and our margin per day for drilling services we guided 12 to 12.5 and we dropped out of that range at 11 349 a day margin and that was pretty much a 100% attributable to Colombia which is a bit of a good news bad news.
We actually started up two more additional rigs over what we felt at the time of the call and accompanying those start-ups were costs kind of one time up front cost and that kind of hammered our average margin per day in the third quarter.
Diving down into a little more detail in our drilling services segment today we have 38 drilling rigs with one final newly built rig to be delivered before the end of the year.
In our South Texas market we have 10 rigs operating last quarter we had 11 we relocated one of those rigs an AC rig to the Permian but we have three -- these are rigs that are actually working and not earning but working these are working rigs.
We have three rigs working in South Texas today one is an AC rig one of the newer built ones one is an FCR rig and one is a top drive mechanical rig.
In West Texas last quarter we had four rigs as I mentioned we relocated one from South Texas there so that takes you to five rigs and then we have added three newly built rigs into the Permian.
Those were all contracted last year at three year terms at healthy day rates.
So those three are now working there.
So we have a total of four AC rigs out of eight rigs in the Permian working.
The Bakken is essentially unchanged.
We had two of eight rigs working there last quarter.
We have the same working there today.
In the Appalachia also unchanged we had four rigs working out of four and we have continued to have four rig working out of four.
Colombia quite a big improvement there we had no rigs working last quarter and today we have three rigs working two of which are under three year term contracts and one is on a one year term contract.
So when you look at actual working rig utilization we had 31% utilization last quarter at this time of the call and we have 42% today.
So quite a nice improvement there.
When you kind of look at the overall fleet then we have 11 AC rigs working four FCR rigs working three of those down in Colombia and one top drive mechanical for a total of the 16 rigs working.
We continue to market for sale as we have talked about in some of these prior calls certain rigs that we view as less strategic for our long-term future are namely three to four FCR rigs in Colombia and a few of our none walking FCR rigs in the United States.
We are having active dialogues on a number of rigs and we're optimistic we'll culminate some sales at some point here.
Looking now at our Production Services segment just a general comment as I kind of discuss that segment it's been a difficult market in the Production Services with the tremendous fall-off in completion activity.
So what our goal has been is to match costs with the new level of demand.
So we have been downsizing the marketed fleets in each of our three core businesses in the Production Services segment as we go along.
Typically when you kind of figure out where demand is you have got a little bit of a lag to bring your costs in line but we're constantly evaluating that in each of these businesses.
When we look at our well services fleet today we're probably actively marketing about 75% of the rigs in that fleet.
We continue to do very well on a kind of a peer comparative basis.
It's been a more resilient business line for us than some of the others.
But we did take a pretty good hit from the second quarter to the third quarter as we had the oil price pullback this second time there during the summer.
A lot of these operators just pulled in and completion activity in particular went way down.
As an example of the completion activity going down there is quick look at our 24 hour work which typically is 100% completion work.
You know previously six months or a year-ago or maybe closer to nine months or a year-ago we probably would have a given time 8 or 12 rigs working on 24 hour completion work.
Today we have four yesterday we had five but I have seen twos and threes hereof late so that activity is way off not only the 24 hour work but the daylight work is also falling off as well as weekend work.
So operators have cut back they're not spending near the capital that they have previously been spending.
Pricing is down as well slightly only about 3%.
But we do expect these downward trends to continue into the fourth quarter as operators many of which have expressed they have basically about finished up with their 2015 budgets and we expect the holiday kind of seasonality to be a little greater than normal and it to be a pretty rough quarter.
Looking now at our wireline business we're marketing probably a little over 50% or so of our total fleet in wireline effectively.
A lot of that having to with our completion activity it's way off as well which overall activity therefore is off which creates greater pricing pressure so that's you know that puts us in continuous evaluation mode all the time about trying to keep that cost structure aligned with the demand as it changes but it's very very competitive.
We are doing well.
Our activity levels for the marketed fleet are fairly good and we're performing a good service and competition is falling out.
We're seeing people close up go out of business and we have no intentions of doing that so we're going to be one of the last men standing and we think we will build market share as the market starts to recover.
In our coil tubing businesses we’re probably marketing about 60% of our 17 unit fleet there.
I think it was actually stable quarter-over-quarter but it is hard to generate positive free cash flow when our utilization levels are that low as in wireline we continue to evaluate the costs but it's a challenging market but we're doing -- we're performing well.
We've had competitors fallout of that market as well which allows us to pick up new clients.
We continue to perform on the work that we do get extremely well and in all of these businesses including drilling our safety continues to be absolute state -- you know kind of top tier.
Very proud of what the team has accomplished on that front and our overall performance.
With that I would like to turn it over to Lorne to make a few comments about the financials.
Thanks Stacy.
Good morning everyone.
Today we reported revenues of 107.5 million an adjusted EBITDA of $18.8 million.
Excluding the impact of impairment charges our adjusted net loss was $16 million or $0.25 per share.
Production Services revenues were $66.2 million down 13% from the prior quarter and gross margin was 27% down from 31%.
Our well servicing utilization was 62% and average rate per hour was 577 compared to 73% and 595 in the second quarter.
Coil tubing utilization was 25% up just slightly from 24% in the prior quarter.
In drilling we currently have a 100% revenue utilization of our 15 AC rigs and 17% utilization of our FCR rigs in the U.S..
By year-end 52% of our U.S.
drilling fleet will be AC and 68% will be capable of walking drilling revenues of $41.2 million down 30% from the prior quarter and utilization dropped to 49%.
Our margin per day was down approximately 800 to 11 349 again as Stacy said that was primarily due to the impacts from the start-up of three rigs in Colombia.
If you exclude the benefit of margin from rigs earning but not working our margin per day would have been approximately 7200 in the third quarter which compares to approximately 8900 in the prior quarter.
If you also exclude Colombia in the third quarter this number would have been approximately 8900.
We have received notices for $53 million of early termination payments which are recognized ratably over the term of the drilling contract.
We recognized $27.3 million in the first half of 2015 and $11.7 million in the third quarter.
We expect to recognize $9.2 million in the fourth quarter and $4.6 million in early 2016.
Revenue days associated with earning not working rigs in the fourth quarter is expected to be 401 and in the first quarter is expected to be 200.
We have received all of the cash payments associated with the early termination notices.
Today we have 38 drilling rigs in our fleet which includes a new built rig that went to work in early October.
21 rigs are earning revenues and 19 of those are earning them under term contracts.
Of the 19 that are under term contracts three of those are in Colombia and 16 are in the United States of the 16 in the United States 11 rigs are working and five rigs are earning not working.
So let me start with the 11 rigs working in the United States and talk about their term roll-off.
None of those rigs -- none of those 11 are up for renewal this quarter.
Two are up for renewal in the first quarter.
One is up for renewal in the second quarter.
Four in the third quarter and four expire in 2018 of the five rigs in the U.S.
currently earning but not working one expires this quarter but upon completion of that term would move to a new two-year term contract at attractive day rates.
And the remaining four rigs expire in the first quarter.
Also of the five rigs earning not working four are AC and one is FCR.
Colombia revenue was approximately $2.7 million down 81% due to reduced utilization.
Turning now to our company-wide expense items G&amp;A expense was $16.8 million down 8% from the prior quarter and for Q4 we expect this number to be in the 16 million to 16.5 million range.
Depreciation and amortization was $35.3 million down from 38.5 million in the prior quarter due primarily to the disposition of rigs and impairment charges we have taken earlier in the year.
We expect D&amp;A to be in the neighborhood of $37 million in the fourth quarter.
Interest expense was 5.5 million in the third quarter and is expected to be approximately $6.2 million in the fourth quarter.
The third quarter interest expense was reduced by approximately $0.7 million of capitalized interest primarily related to the construction of the new drilling rigs.
Our effective tax rate in the third quarter was 27.6% excluding the impact of foreign currency gains or losses in any other unusual items are effective tax rate is expected to be in the 35% to 37% range in future quarters.
We currently have $110 million outstanding on our $300 million revolving credit facility with an additional $17.3 million committed in letters of credit.
During the third quarter we amended our credit facility which reduced facility commitments from $350 million to $300 million while providing relief to the total debt-to-EBITDA covenant beginning this quarter through 2017.
However in the current environment we continue to closely monitor our liquidity and we have maintained ongoing dialogues with our banks and if necessary we feel pursuing a further amendment to the credit facility would be the appropriate next step regarding the balance sheet.
Capital expenditures in the third quarter totaled $46.4 million and year-to-date total $130 million.
For the full year we are lowering our expected spend to approximately $150 million to $160 million.
However $7 million to $10 million of payments on new equipment that we had expected to spend in 2015 we now think will carry over to the first quarter of 2016.
When we look forward CapEx our routine maintenance CapEx levels in 2016 we expect to be in the $30 million to $40 million range.
So that would result in estimated cash spend in 2016 of $40 million to $50 million when including the previously mentioned carryover amount.
With that I'll turn it back over to Stacy for his final comments.
Thanks Lorne.
As we look towards the fourth quarter looking at drilling first there's very little demand for rigs other the highest tier AC rigs.
Those we do have demand for it and we are confident that as those roll-off that we will be able to put those rigs back to work.
We're in a number of conversations at the present time and as you heard me mention previously we do have a mechanical top drive rig working and an FCR rig working and those are working at positive cash margins.
Day rates are low.
There isn't a lot of demand for other rigs but we think that hopefully there will be some in the New Year and at the rates that are being discussed today we can still make positive cash margins.
Just to give you a flavor for the rates out there in the Texas market the mechanical top drive FCR kind of portion of our fleet kind of leading-edge rates are probably 15 000 to 16 500 kind of in that range.
Those contracts that we have currently would fall into that range.
If you were getting demand for those rigs in the north say in Appalachia the Bakken you would probably be up a $1000 a day or so because cost structure is a little higher there.
Maybe 16 - 17.5 but I'll be honest there has been little -- essentially no demand for mechanical FCR rigs in those markets but on the AC front there has been some demand and in the Texas market I would say that the range is probably 16.5 to 18.5 it's definitely come down but it's still positive cash margins.
If you can get at the high end of that range you can make 5000 - 6000 a day margin or more.
In the north where we are getting a little bit more demand those rates we expect to be a little bit higher.
We haven't priced one too much here lately but we have booked some for work up there and we are in discussions.
We're optimistic about the first quarter but those I would probably say fall in the 75 to 95 range.
So there again you can make kind of 5000 - 6000 a day at the high end there.
So definitely positive cash margins across-the-board just not a lot of demand but we hope that will change.
With respect to utilization we have another new build coming in so we're forecasting utilization to be up a bit in the fourth quarter somewhere in the range of 50% to 53% utilization and margin per day kind of in the 10500 to 11 000 per day range.
On the Production Services side that guidance is pretty negative again.
We're probably be viewed negative by you all but it's driven by what we're hearing from many of our operators that they're going to pull in here shortly as we approach the end of the year probably extensions on vacations Thanksgiving Christmas.
Just operators are trying to keep their spending within cash flow and in many cases already spent their 2015 budget money.
So we think it's going to be an abnormally difficult fourth quarter and perhaps a fairly difficult first quarter but hopefully those will be the two more difficult quarters and then we can start a good all improvement in 2016.
But on the Production Services side we're going to guide revenues for the Q4 down 13% to 17%.
I will say it's very difficult to give that guidance but that's the best that we can do.
Margin as a percentage of revenue also we think down slightly kind of in that 23% to 25% range.
So that concludes our prepared remarks and we would be happy to entertain any questions.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions].
And our first question comes from the line of John Danielle with Simmons &amp; Co.
Please go ahead with your questions.
Stacy given just where the [indiscernible] ahead the tough November December just given greater customers slowing down on their spending run out of money and really the potential for lower drilling activity quarter-over-quarter in Q1 do you see a further downside pressure on the day rights if you have to start repricing in Q1? I tend to believe no and I think a lot of it has to with performance.
The reason we're confident we can work our AC rigs is because they have been performing extremely well.
Quite frankly I don't know how many people have mechanical top drive rigs working out there or FCR rigs working.
You know I think we have been able to keep our pricing at a little bit of a competitive advantage just due to the overall drilling performance safety performance and I don't anticipate for us at least that we're going to be seeing much resistance to that range that I provided you.
And we don't really have -- our outlook is probably going to stay the same and improve from this point forward because we have pretty good clarity we have a lot of term contract coverage and we're pretty confident based on the performance of these AC rigs and the confidence that we're kind of hearing from our clients that we're going to continue putting those to work.
So for us I would say we're kind of -- this is where we're stabilizing and it's all upside from here on the drilling front would be my guess.
And I think I know the answer to this question but I will ask it anyways.
You noted that you have added some customers in coil tubing and so when we see customers or customers rather see the incumbents provider shutting down and going out of business do they then expect you to work at the same price that their incumbent providers have been charging as they went out of business? Seems like madness to me.
Well we're trying hard not to work at a negative cash flow so I want to purge our basis -- we're in this business to make money.
We do a great job we're very very safe.
We price at a profit where your challenge is when you can't keep the overall utilization up it makes it hard because you have to carry cost of employees and we have taken some of the employees as well from these companies that have shut down we have kind of cherry picked their very best employees and so no I would say the answer is we don't inspect to price at the level of the company going out of business obviously.
I know you don't but does the customer? You know what I mean are they? No.
They're pretty good.
They want good service and safe service.
We provide that.
So we have been able to maintain our pricing not the pricing they were paying the other guy.
Okay.
And then last one for me and I will let others jump in.
But Lorne can you give us a quick frame work for where you see free cash flow or just cash flow in Q4? Yes.
Well with our guide of 150 to 160 cash spend you inspect that CapEx wise if you use the mid-point there's $250 million so likely we're not guiding on EBITDA but embedded in our guidance is the $9 million of early termination recognition.
We have already received that cash.
So our expectation is we'll draw-down some on our cash balance.
And you know I probably will just leave it at that without getting more granular.
I personally think it's better as you get into Q1 though to your working model in terms of the cash flow.
Yes.
Just keeping in mind that that carryover that we talked about will likely hit in Q1 but obviously it does get better because you -- outside of that carryover we expect to be routine maintenance really probably starting late December or the rig we're building right now should be completed in December.
So we'll be into that routine maintenance before the end of the year and then we just have that carryover of $7 million to $10 million that roles into Q1.
[Operator Instructions].
And our next question comes for from the line of John Woodall with Raymond James.
Please go ahead with your questions.
I was just curious when you look at Colombia you had handful moving parts obviously you had the rigs show up late in the quarter the other two rigs.
You had the one that came in in the quarter and then also you had the higher costs.
I was hoping we could get a magnitude of the sense of what the higher costs in particular were and what margins are in relation to Colombia versus the U.S.
I would say that the impact from the start-up of the rigs and really the -- let me back up for a minute.
In July we were mostly demobing rigs that were coming off term and then August no activity and then September we were [indiscernible] some rigs to get them on dayrate at the beginning of this quarter.
So in both cases you hit a little bit.
I would say the impact of all that on the margin level was probably a little more than a million.
And then obviously you gave some color on where 4Q SG&amp;A could come out.
Obviously you had some really good cost reductions this quarter.
I was wondering how much more meat on the bone is there that you can take out into 2016 if this downturn extends for a couple more quarters? Well recognizing that that -- it's extremely fluid right now and we're still working on budgets and so I just want to tell you there's a lot of fluidity to that number.
Obviously we have pulled out as much as we can as fast as we can.
So that the pace and the magnitude of reduction in that number is going to slow down considerably.
There is still some opportunities in costs that we've probably taken out in the third that will roll and help us in the fourth and some costs we're taking out in the fourth in operations and G&amp;A and G&amp;A but that pace is going to slow way down and it -- as Stacy said earlier we're focused on right-sizing our businesses to match the demand levels and so part of it is dependent on how things do play out.
He also asked about kind of margins down in Colombia relative to the U.S.
and you know they should be comparable or even slightly greater than kind of the average margins of the re-priced AC rigs here in the U.S.
They're healthy dayrates in Colombia we need a little run time to verify that but they should be in that range of where we're kind of repricing these AC rigs in the U.S.
That gives you a little more color.
[Operator Instructions].
I would now like to turn the floor back to Mr.
Locke for closing remarks.
Great.
Well we appreciate people joining the call this morning and know it's a busy day out there.
A lot of calls and anyway we'll look forward to visiting with you on the Q4 call.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
A replay for today' call will be available in today's earnings release.
This does conclude today's teleconference.
You may disconnect your lines at this time and thank you for your participation.
Greetings and welcome to the Pioneer Energy Services Fourth Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
A brief question-and-answer session will follow the formal presentation.
[Operator Instructions].
As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
It is now my pleasure to introduce your host Anne Pearson of Dennard-Lascar Investor Relations.
Thank you.
You may begin.
Thank you and good morning everyone.
Before I turn the call over to Pioneer's CEO Stacy Locke; and to CFO Lorne Phillips for their opening remarks I have a few of the usual items we need to cover.
First of all a replay of today's call will be available by webcast and also by telephone replay.
You will find the replay information for both in this morning's news release.
Also as a reminder information reported on this call speaks only as of today February 17 2016 so any time sensitive information may not be accurate at the time of a replay.
Management may make forward-looking statements based on beliefs and assumptions and information currently available to them.
While they believe these expectations are reasonable they can give no assurances they'll prove to be correct.
They are subject to certain risks and uncertainties and assumptions described in today's news release and also in recent public filings with the SEC.
So if one or more of these risks materialize or should the underlying assumptions prove to be incorrect actual results may differ materially.
Also please note that this conference call may contain certain references to non-GAAP measures.
You'll find reconciliation to the GAAP measures in this morning's news release.
So now I would like to turn the call over to Stacy Locke.
Thank you Anne and good morning everybody.
Joining me here in San Antonio is Lorne Phillips the Chief Financial Officer.
All in all I think we are managing through the downturn very well.
We have cut a tremendous amount of cost out of the businesses we have a solid positive EBITDA we are active in our four core businesses and performing very well in each one of them.
Wireline just took the gold medal in safety in 2015 which we're very proud of and U.S.
drilling also was number one of the top 15 drilling contractors in safety in the United States in '15.
I think when you look at our total company TRIR we are the industry leader or very close to it with a total company TRIR of 0.7 which I'm extremely proud of.
But overall we're busy we're performing well we're safe and we're earning the respect of our clients which is the greatest measure.
And I'm very proud of what our team is accomplishing throughout this downturn.
Drilling down partner fund drilling down into the segments a little bit let's start with drilling.
I mentioned up above kind of solid positive EBITDA.
In drilling we have five strong contracts that last pretty much all of '16 and all of '17 generating somewhere between $5 million and $6 million per contract per year.
We also have two other term contracts in existence earning somewhere between $4 million and $4.5 million a year through the third quarter.
We also have additional three rigs working also contributing to EBITDA.
In 2016 unexpectedly we had another $9 million of early term payments come in right at the beginning of this year.
Our performance in drilling overall is exceptional we're breaking performance records on a regular basis and throughout 2015 we totally transformed our drilling fleet by selling all of the lower horsepower older kind of classification rigs and fit today with 31 rigs 52% of which are AC powered and 94% are pad-capable.
No more mechanicals exist in our fleet today.
We continue to be in discussions as kind of throughout '15 with potential sales of equipment.
We continue to desire to sell four to five of the drilling rigs down in the country of Colombia and we continue to hold four rigs for sale here in the U.S.
At Colombia we have three rigs under term contracts.
However the three are suspended and so unfortunately Colombia will be an EBITDA drain on us in this quarter and possibly into the second quarter until we get those rigs back to work.
Looking at the production services businesses starting with well servicing very steady utilization there at 55% very steady average hourly rate at 562 per hour which is down really only 9% from our first quarter of 2015.
Very lucky to be working with the large independents and the majors as clients they're the ones that are active and as a result we're generating steady EBITDA each month in that business.
We have downsized the marketed fleet there from the 125 total units to today where we are marketing 89 to 90 of those rigs.
Our better markets are in the Eagle Ford the Bakken and then we have a core group of rigs that work in the underground storage and those are all steady basis of activity for us.
Looking at wireline and coil tubing kind of together where when you look at wireline we believe we're continuing to be one of the most active wireline if not the most active wireline provider across the United States.
We generally have 35 to 45 units out working each day.
I think we're considered quite good and recognized by the variety of services that we provide.
It's not just the plug-in perk that you hear a lot the big tickets that you see in the horizontal plays we do do that.
So we do a lot of cement bond logs gamma ray neutrons free points gyros pipe recovery open-hole logging a whole variety of bond logs bridge plugs chemical cuts slip line caller locators et cetera.
And that's really expanded for us during these times as the pump down activity has decreased.
So fortunately we have that capability we do a lot of training on that and I believe that that will help us continue to stay busy through this downturn.
Now in wireline and in coil we've been trying to find equilibrium between supplying equipment in the demand in the market and it's been a challenge because it's continuing to decline.
I think that first quarter is kind of probably going to be the four in those business and so our cost is lagging there but we think going forward we're going to be able to manage those businesses at a minimum breakeven cash flow hopefully a little positive and we decreased the marketing fleet say of wireline steadily through the year we’re down now to marketing about 60 of the 125 total units.
In coil we also have been active although a little less active but like wireline where we broadened our services and we're seeing a lot of activity in the sub-two inch pipe market some in the two inch and some in the two and three-eighths but more of the drilling out of plugs work has been deemphasized in this market.
And there again we've downsized the number of units that were actively manning and marketing to about 7 out of 17.
We had previously been around 9 or 10 we brought that down lower to try to balance cost and I think we're doing a real good job of that I think we will see the improvement in those two businesses as we get further into this quarter and into the second quarter.
I think generally speaking the next couple of quarters are going to be better in the production-services business.
I'd like to turn it over now to Lorne to go through some of the financials in a little bit more detail.
Thanks Stacy.
Good morning everyone.
For this last quarter we reported revenues of $104.5 million and adjusted EBITDA of $20 million.
Excluding the impact of impairment charges net of taxes our adjusted net loss was $16.1 million or $0.25 per share.
Some key points for the quarter include the following items.
First we amended our credit facility which reduced commitments from $300 million to $200 million and also while doing that eliminated the total debt-to-EBITDA covenant and adjusted the senior debt-to-EBITDA and interest coverage covenants to be more flexible.
The senior debt-to-EBITDA covenant increases each quarter until it reaches 4.75 times in the fourth quarter of 2016 and stays there until it began stepping down again in the third quarter of 2017.
For year-end 2015 senior debt for this calculation totaled $95million borrowed on the revolver plus $17 million in letters of credit and our ratio was 0.96 times.
The interest coverage covenant is now set at 1.5 times until it decreases to 1.25 times in the third quarter of this year and it stays there until it takes back up to 1.5 in the fourth quarter of 2017.
Also we reduced our expected 2006 capital expenditures to be approximately $25 million.
That does include approximately $8 million of previously ordered long lead time equipment associated with the drilling business and new builds.
And those amounts will likely be paid in late second quarter or early third quarter.
We also sold four SCR rigs for gross proceeds of $17.3 million in aggregate and classified four additional non-core drilling rigs as held for sale.
So our current drilling fleet today consists of 31 rigs of those 31 94% are pad-capable and 52% are AC.
We have 23 drilling rigs in the U.S.
16 of those are AC rigs and 88% of those 16 rigs are utilized and our SCR rigs are currently idle.
Turning now to the business segments.
Production services revenue was $53.4 million down 19% from the prior quarter and gross margin was 19% down from 27%.
Stacy went through the businesses there so I'm going to move onto drilling.
Revenues in drilling were $51.1 million up 24% from the prior quarter and utilization was 54% based on a fleet of 37 rigs.
Our margin per day was up over $2 000 a day to $13 578 as primarily due to the full benefit of the new builds we delivered through the year and the contribution from the rigs in Colombia going back to work and some about 1 million of accelerated earning not working revenue related to the sale of a rig.
If you exclude the benefit of margin from rigs earning but not working our margin per day in the quarter would have been approximately 11 000.
This compares to the prior quarter which was 7 200 including Colombia and 8 900 if you excluded Colombia.
And the reason for that increase was primarily due to cost control I think our drilling group did a great job in both Colombia and the U.S.
of controlling costs and as a result driving a little higher margin per day than we anticipated when we gave guidance on the last quarter.
And regarding consolidated operating costs per day we reported 14 152.
That number includes the impact from Colombia operator pass-through items mobilization impacts.
And so for purposes of comparing average operating costs per day in the U.S.
if we put a rig back to work and compare that to current day rates in the market we estimate that our cost per day would be approximately $12 500 to $13 500 for putting the rig back to work in the U.S.
It would be closer to the $12.5 if it's working in the southern part of the U.S.
and on the higher end of that if you're in the northern part.
Since 2014 we have received termination notices on 19 rigs totaling $62.8 million.
The termination payments are recognized ratably over the term of the underlying drilling contracts.
We recognized $49.2 million in 2015 of which $10.3 million was in the fourth quarter.
We expect to recognize $7.2 million in the first quarter of this year $4.4 million in the second quarter and $1.8 million in the third quarter.
The revenue days associated with earning not working rigs are expected to be 296 in the first quarter of '16 182 in the second quarter and 72 days in the third quarter.
We expect to receive the remaining $9 million of cash payments associated with the early termination notices by the end of this quarter.
As stated earlier we have 31 rigs in our fleet today 14 of those rigs are earning revenues under drilling contracts in the U.S.
and 12 of those are under term contracts.
Of those 12 that are under term contracts four are earning but not working that leaves eight that are working under term contracts and their roll off is as follows: one will be up for renewal in the second quarter of 2016 two in the third quarter of '16 one in the fourth quarter of 2017 and the remaining four expire in 2018.
For the four rigs that are currently earning but not working all four are AC rigs and two of those contracts expire this quarter and the remaining two expire in the third quarter of 2016.
In Colombia revenue was approximately $7.2 million which was up $4.5 million due to the three rigs going back to work during the quarter.
As Stacy mentioned those three rigs are now suspended and they are not earning revenue during the suspension period.
Turning now to our companywide expense items G&amp;A expense was $17 million in the quarter which was up 1% compared to the third quarter.
The $17 million number did include approximately $1 million related to severance and lease terminations and some other legal cost that we do not expect to repeat in the first quarter.
And for guidance we expect G&amp;A expense to be in the $15.5 million to $16 million range and for the full-year we expect that number to be approximately $60 million to $64 million.
Depreciation and amortization was $35.4 million compared to $35.3 million in the prior quarter.
We expect D&amp;A to be approximately $33 million to $34 million in the first quarter and in the neighborhood of $130 million for the full-year.
Interest expense was $5.5 million in the fourth quarter and that was reduced by about approximately $0.5 million of capitalized interest.
So for the first quarter we expect that number to be higher to be approximately $6.4 million due to not having the capitalized interest of slightly higher borrowing rate due to the amendment in December.
The effective tax rate in the fourth quarter was 33%.
Excluding the impact of foreign currency gains or losses and any other unusual items our effective tax rate is expected to be in the 35% to 37% range in future quarters.
Also in the first quarter of 2016 we expect to recognize an annual Colombian wealth tax of approximately $0.7 million which will impact EBITDA.
After the debt repayments made earlier in 2015 we now have $95 million outstanding on our $200 million revolving credit facility with an additional $17.3 million committed in letters of credit.
With that I'll turn it back over to Stacy for final comments.
Thank you Lorne.
I think in markets like this performance is key and the cream typically rises to the top in tough markets and that's exactly what I'm seeing happen with Pioneer.
In drilling demand is soft but the rigs that we have working are clearly outperforming.
Over the whole we are drilling our wells faster than our peers and that's really all of our peers.
On rigs moves we consistently move our latest new builds in 2 to 2.5 days which as far as I know nobody can touch that kind of track record.
And as I mentioned before we are the safest.
This performance will drive demand when demand returns to the market and we expect to outperform in both utilization and in margin per day when the market recovers.
However for this first quarter it's going to be saw capital spending down demand is very light.
So we're going to be conservative and guide 45% to 50% drilling utilization and margins of about 12 to 12.5 per day.
On the production services side of the business as I've stated before our well-servicing fleet is the best in the industry bar none highest utilization rate highest average hourly rate and the best clientele in the business.
Wire and coil are highly regarded by our clients and recognized for the broad services that we provide.
While Q1 will most likely be the bottom recall than in prior cycles the production service type of activity generally is what leads us in the recovery.
The first quarter is going to be challenging both combination of less spending but also seasonal as it is every year.
So we’re guiding a further decline in revenue of 10% to 15% and margins probably down a little bit more kind of in the 15% to 20% of revenue range.
But in closing I think we are standing strong in the recovery and I believe we’re going to outperform as we come out of it.
Thank you and be happy to answer any questions.
Thank you.
We will now be conducting a question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions].
Thank you.
Our first question comes from the line of Brian Uhlmer with GMP Securities.
Please proceed with your question.
I wanted to ask a couple of quick questions first off when we’re talking about well servicing here that’s a phenomenal job and obviously we know that you have the best equipment out there and always had the highest hourly rates.
However the decline has been much less than anticipated.
And is that a factor of job mix a factor of the cost of switch you guys off of rigs off of equipment that that’s running on similar pads for long amount of time or what do you say are the primary factors to keep those rates up there and what kind of risk do you see in the current environment to those rates? Well yes I think it’s a combination of things but as I mentioned before safety plays a huge role in that because we’re extremely safe TRIR of under one in well service it’s been a leader in safety year in year out.
And so for the type of clients they were working for that’s just a pre requisite.
The second part of that is that type of client that the clients that we’re working for are the bigger publicly traded independents and majors and they are the ones that are still active in this market.
And so we have a very solid core of clients that are still doing business and they like the versatility of these larger or higher horse power taller master rigs because they can do maintenance work they can do completion work they can segway over 24 hour work.
They have total flexibility with that caliber of an asset.
And another component of it is I mentioned the storage wells we just have a block of rigs I think it’s close to 10 or 11 rigs that work for like the strategic reserve and chemical companies and those rigs are just extremely steady year in year out we’ve been on some of these projects for over a decade and so that you kind of keep that baseline in there of that work.
But pricing we’ve had to reduced pricing but I think our performance and safety has allowed us to just kind of hold our pricing a little more favorably than others and the type of equipment we have.
But we perform and we can charge a little more but bring in the performance on a safety and just operational performance and the clients are happy and they don’t want to change and they work with us on the pricing.
So it’s just a very high quality operation head and toe.
Great thanks.
And on production services if you could handicap your revenue decline across your three service lines between how much let me try and word this correctly you're guide for revenue decline is under $15 million is that going to be disproportionate to wireline or well servicing or coil tubing or they all going to be down about the same? And I'll just leave it at that.
Yes Brian I would say we expect them all to be down in revenue part of its seasonal but obviously huge impact is decrease spending of our customers.
So we expect all the business lines to be down in Q1 on revenue but more so related to wire and coil things so.
Okay.
I was getting at.
And my last one should hope for a quick answer can you handicap the sale of those Colombian rigs give us a projected timeline or are there any hot leads or is this something that is just starting to play out? Well I would say that we have had some hot leads but they were a little harder before the most recent drop in oil prices.
So I'd say it’s a little cold right now but if we get any improvement to the course of this year.
I think they’re extremely nice rigs they’re ideally suited for international work as they got all the redundant equipment that's required and all walking rigs with top drive big 500 ton top drives and 100-man camp so they’re really suited well for international markets it’s just everything is so soft right now.
We had interest from other South American countries and Mexico prior to this last drop in prices and I think – I think you’ll see that come back to us.
I would say there is at least a 50:50 chance; we will move some of those rigs this calendar year.
I couldn’t say really any more than that because I do think things will get a little better later in the year from an oil price perspective and I think that could drive that demand back up a little bit.
Our next question comes from the line of John Watson with Simmons.
Please proceed with your question.
John Watson your line is live.
Good morning.
So understanding that very little visibility exist but as you look forward to Q2 you believe that current cost cutting initiatives will allow you to maintain flat to possibly higher margins in production services or will they expect to decline in Q1 into lower margins in Q2? I think John I think Stacy mentioned this but we continue to reduce cost throughout the company and including in the first quarter.
So there is going to be a benefit as we roll Q1 to Q2 of cost coming down.
I think as you said the visibility is pretty limited but I think we would expect that Q2 is at least a strong for the revenue perspective better than improved seasonality in Q2 over Q1.
So I hesitate to say this is the margin but as Stacy said we are kind of we are thinking that it’s likely Q1 is the bottom for production service.
And certainly we know we’re going to be rolling some cost savings in full quarter benefit in the second quarter.
Okay great and then my follow-up.
Are the four rigs out for sale will those be auctioned or will there be privately negotiated sale? And is there a point where insufficient scale exist such that you just exit Colombia altogether? Well on the four rigs we are not in a great rush to sell them we have done better.
We sent rigs to auction at the very beginning of the year.
We were the first big auction of the year of 2015.
That market's probably deteriorated through the course of 2015.
So we really don’t have any interest to run that equipment at auction.
So we’re going to market private sale basis and take our time with it because it’s pickled well and good shape and we’re not in a rush to sell it and we’re in dialogue with some people on in it already.
And then in Colombia we’re pretty open I guess right now we have three rigs that are under contract the operator expects to go back to work in April we were making nice margins on that work before they were put in suspension.
And so we certainly want to preserve that optionality to go back to work there and we think with improving pricing Colombia will also improve.
Having said that our primary goal would be to downsize at least four rigs because for all the reasons we went there really don’t exist anymore so we just like to make that footprint smaller more on the range of three to four running rigs and then sell the other ones.
I think we had a number of people interested before the market got real soft.
So we’re pretty confident that interest will return at whatever point the market gets a little favorable.
So there again we’ve got all the rigs nicely stacked rigged up painted looking great in a yard and we’ll have buyers come for sure at some point.
Our next question comes from the line of Daniel Burke with Johnson Rice.
Please proceed with your question.
In the U.S.
drilling market Stacy certainly there is not much of a spot market right now but you got a couple of rigs active out there in the spot side.
Can you just talk about what that market is like right now and what are the prospects of being able to sustain what you got in the spot market and potentially add a couple of rigs on the spot side given your phasing you got a couple of idling on the AC side and we’ll hit some contracts rollovers later on? Yes that’s a good point.
In this market there is very little demand for equipment we were able to take a rig that came off term at the beginning of this year and we were able to put it with another operator and now we’ve got it with the second operator after the current well is over.
So we’re hopeful that the top performing rig we're helpful that rig we can keep active but there is no guarantees but I’m optimistic about it because it’s really performed for everybody that its worked for.
And then the other spot rig is up in the Marcellus and that well is also performing very well and we have indication on the clients that that work will continue.
So I think we feel fairly good about those coupled rigs and then we’re in conversations I think kind of everything shutdown in Q1 in terms of discussions we’re having in Q4 about Q1.
But I don’t think that’s going to last through the year there is a lot of term contracts of our peers rolling off in the first and second and third quarter of this year and what we’ve had a number of conversations with folks about high grading rigs that can perform a little better move a little faster are more flexible on pads than some of these other rigs out there.
And so we’re pretty optimistic that even in a soft market like we have as these terms roll off and they want to keep some semblance of program going we’re going to have an opportunity to move a rig and as a replacement and I think that I feel pretty comfortable even in a soft market we’ll be able to put two or two three rigs back to work over the next three six months.
Now if you had any sort of improvement at all I think that could go up quite materially but we just don’t have the improvement yet.
I think it’s going to get better and when it gets better rigs that perform are going to go back to work kind of what point I was making earlier.
So I think we will go back to work.
But we I think we go back to work even if it doesn’t improve a little bit but a lot more so if we get some green shoots of recovery out there.
That’s helpful.
So one of the two idle ACs is the last build delivery I assume.
Yes.
What we stripped you may recall we had an opportunity to strip the term contract off of that last new build which is 84 and apply the contract to an existing AC rig for the same client that have used it previously that they had early termed out.
And the client we gave him a little discount one the day rate and they didn't have to mow the rig from Huston all the way to their.
So they saved on that got to use that rig.
So we still have that new build that it was committed at one point in December and then it was uncommitted like a day later but it's just that kind of market.
But we're -- we think as things -- we're not going to just pull it out the yard to go to work for anybody we're looking for the right client ideally a new client and that wants to try some performance.
And so we're going to take our time and put it out preferably in Texas and wait till we have a right opportunity.
We're not expecting to make the big day rate on it but just get it to work for our new client that could drive demand for more rigs like it down the road a year or two.
That's helpful.
And then the last one for Lorne any thoughts on working capital trend here in Q1 '16 as you take in a little bit of early term revenue.
And historically it hadn't been a great quarter for sourcing funds out of working capital but as the top-line coming down Lorne any thoughts on Q1? Yes.
I think we might pull a little bit out of working capital but the majority came out in 2015 and so there might be a little bit more in Q1 as we have guided down on the top-line.
And obviously with Colombian rigs being down and then we collect down there that also could hope drive pulling a little bit of cash out of working capital.
Our next question comes from line of Ken Sill with Seaport Global.
Please proceed with your question.
Wanted to follow-up on Colombia real quick.
One was kind of a housekeeping question.
But how many days did you guys work in Colombia in Q4 and did those rigs work any at all in January? I don't believe that we give those days out publicly.
But -- so I think that -- well what I would say in January is we did have one rig working for most of January before it was put on suspension.
And then during the third quarter they were working through most of the quarter the three rigs.
Okay.
And on the term of those contracts so you're going to have some negative EBITDA because those are carry because the rigs are just suspended.
And right now you're saying they come back in April.
Is that kind of dependent on commodity price or is it just the customer has the option to kind of stop and start given the market conditions whenever they're comfortable going forward again? Well they -- obviously they -- given that they're on suspension without revenue they do have that right.
So it is dependent on our understanding on some improvement in commodity prices it's unclear exactly how much improvement is required.
So the guidance we're giving is that we don't expect -- our guidance assumes that we don't expect those rigs to go back to work in the first quarter.
And then we'll see how the second quarter goes.
That's fair enough.
And I wanted to double check you said you have another four rigs for sale in the U.S.
that are SCR rigs? Yes good question.
There are four rigs held for sale.
The held for sale rigs are all US rigs.
And then in Colombia -- Those are three mechanical and one SCR.
Right.
Okay.
And those are in the US.
And then the Colombia rigs that Stacy was talking about are not classified held for sale because as he said we may -- they could be marketed and go to work.
So -- but we'd also said we would entertain selling it in the right situation.
So out of the 31 rigs you have left in the fleet those three mechanicals that were held for sale aren't included in that 31? Correct.
Correct.
Correct.
So it's 31 over half of them were AC and then you got one SCR and three mechanical rigs for sale in the US plus you'll sell in Colombia if the opportunity arises? That's right.
Okay.
That clears it up for me.
Thanks.
That's all.
Okay.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from line of Jason Wangler with Wunderlich Securities.
Please proceed with your question.
Hey good morning guys.
Just looking on production side as far as the equipment you're kind of stacking for now is there a much of a CapEx spend that would be required to bring that stuff back out and get to work just kind of just dovetailing with your comments about seeing some improvement hopefully throughout the year.
Just kind of your thoughts on how to manage that again inventory so to speak? And is there any associated cost with that? I would say that very little on the drilling side very little on the coil wireline side.
Some of the well servicing rigs are ones -- we do a full re-inspection of the mass every 10 years and sandblasted and check all the wells and prime and paint it.
We do a complete overhaul basically every 10 years.
So some of the earlier ones that we stacked were ones that we're at or approaching that point and so in order for us to put it back in the service we would do that work first.
Yes that was going to be required whether there is a downturn or not.
So we wouldn't put a rig back to service without doing that complete inspection.
So that's just a kind of -- that would be required on a handful of rigs probably.
Okay.
Would have been I guess -- just -- I mean it seems like it's relatively nominal and I guess my question too is it based on the kind of $25 million that you're looking at? If we get there would that be the good thing that if we got incremental activities that you would be bringing those output obviously there would be incremental revenues going on with them? Well we would bring out the equipment that doesn't require any CapEx first.
So you wouldn't -- in that $25 million it wouldn't include those types of things because we don't expect to get down to that level in this market.
Next year we -- if the market really got heated up in the back half of the year when drilling off rolling off we know we might amend our CapEx guidance if we needed to pull that equipment out but I think that's an unlikely scenario.
[Operator Instructions].
Thank you Mr.
Locke; it appears we have no further questions at this time.
I would now like to turn the floor back over to you for closing comments.
Okay.
Well thank you all very much for participating on today's call and we look forward to a brighter future later in '16.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude today's teleconference.
You may disconnect your lines at this time.
Thank you for your participation.
And have a wonderful day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and thank you for standing by.
Welcome to the Pioneer Energy Services Fourth Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
During today's presentation all parties will be in a listen-only mode.
Following the presentation the conference will be open for questions.
(Operator Instructions) I would now like to turn the conference over to Anne Pearson of Dennard Lascar Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Thank you George and good morning everyone.
Before I turn the call over to Pioneer CEO Stacy Locke and to CFO Lorne Phillips for their formal remarks I have a few of the usual items that we need to cover.
First of all a replay of today’s call will be available and will be accessible by webcast by going to the IR section of Pioneer’s website and also by the telephone replay.
You can find the replay information for both in this morning’s news release.
Since as a reminder information recorded on this call speaks only as of today February 13 2014 so any time sensitive information may not be accurate at the time of a replay.
Management may make forward-looking statements that are based on beliefs and assumptions and information currently available to them.
While they believe these expectations are reasonable they can give no assurance they’ll prove to be correct.
They are subject to certain risks and uncertainties and assumptions that are described in today’s news release and also in recent public filings with the SEC.
So if one or more of these risks materialize or should underlying assumptions prove to be incorrect actual results may differ materially.
Also please note that this conference call may contain certain references to non-GAAP measures.
You’ll find a reconciliation to the GAAP measures in this morning’s release.
Now I’d like to turn the call over to Stacy Locke Pioneer’s President and CEO.
Thank you Anne and good morning everyone.
I appreciate you joining us on the Q4 call.
Joining me here in San Antonio is Red West President of our Drilling Services Segment and Joe Eustace President of our Production Services; Lorne Phillips our Chief Financial Officer.
As you can see from this morning's press release we had a surprisingly good fourth third quarter one that is typically off a little bit due to seasonality and holidays but all four core business lines drilling well servicing wireline and coil tubing contributed and we’re very steady throughout the quarter and this trend really continues into the first quarter which is typically the lowest seasonal quarter of the year.
Both pricing and utilization across the board was steady in Q4 and is steady today.
Looking at land drilling in Columbia as we previously announced we were able to extend our contracts there the involved and complicated new contract process that we discussed in some detail on the last quarterly call never really came to fruition.
We kind of anticipated that it might not come to fruition it was complicated and I don’t think in the end we’re serving the client well and the 11<sup>th</sup> hour they aborted that contract process and came to us for an extension of our existing contract which allowed us to work throughout the holidays and right on into the New Year and so it worked out very well.
In addition we actually increased our contract to include all 8 of our rigs in the country of Columbia in this new contract form and we’re able to improve our day rate a little bit as well.
So very pleased with the outcome there we fully anticipate that we will start that renewal process earlier in the year this year and hopefully have it a simpler process as we go forward but our relationship remains very very strong with our client and we enjoy working for them there.
In drilling overall presently we’re at 85% utilization today we averaged 82% in January we did get off to a slow start in certain areas mostly South Texas but we expect to be up to 90% utilization within a couple of weeks from now.
Looking at our specific regions of operation in South Texas in a couple of weeks we’ve got two more rigs about to go back to work we will be at 93% utilization which is all 13 of our 14 total rigs back to work and we’ve opportunity to put that 14th rig back at the end of the month or early next month we believe.
So that’s looking strong.
West Texas by this weekend will be back to a 100% utilization there that’s started the year off strong and we’re excited about that.
In North Dakota has remained at a 100% and with a total of 11 rigs West Texas I failed to mention is 18 rigs.
In Utah we’re 71% utilization that’s 5 of 7 rigs working the rigs are down are two of the 60 series which are the smaller trailer amounted 1 000 horse power double rigs that we’ve talked about in the past we’ve had some challenge keeping those busy.
We’ve got the majority of them working but we have two down there and we’ve two down now in the Marcellus Shale.
So in Appalachia where 50% utilized two or four rigs working there the two down as I mentioned out of the 60 series.
In that market we do anticipate that we will put these two rigs they did work in the fourth quarter and we anticipate they’ll go back to work in late March April we hope.
And then in Columbia all eight rigs are contracted but one of them is undergoing an upgrade from a 1 000 to a 1 500 so that rig is presently not working so we’re 88% utilization.
We anticipate we’ll complete that by mid March and put it to work so we will be back 100% utilization there.
So overall day rates on average holding firm and term contract coverage continues to be very high for us we’re about the 79% of the rigs that are working are under term contract.
So that’s terrific.
We continue to roll contracts over on a regular basis and so that process that we went through last year just continues into this year and we’re keeping them turned up and keeping them working.
Turning now to the production services segment looking at well servicing very steady utilization there throughout the year we’ve averaged to 85% to 92% 85% was the lowest quarter which was our fourth quarter but basically doing extremely well there with an early rate that hunched up and stayed ahead of cost pretty much through the year.
We had a 109 well service units today and we will add three new five of the old star units by the second quarter.
Looking at our wireline business that continues to be the largest contributor to the production services segment very steady utilization and margin for the past three quarters in our wireline business.
We’re at 220 units today there and we will add three additional units by the second quarter in wireline as well.
Oh excuse me 120 yes yes thank you Lorne I’m getting ahead of myself.
Given you a window into the future.
Off note wireline is the success in two of our operations one is our expansion into the Permian we’re now up to five wireline units there and that is going extremely well.
We also have expanded me in the Niobrara area mostly in Colorado and that we’re up to nine units there.
So those have been two more recent expansion areas that have played out very very for us and we’re excited about the future in both those areas.
Turning now to our coil tubing business really for the first time in well we’re showing real progress and grow tubing.
We’ve consolidated our operations in just a few core markets we’ve added two and three inch coil to our offering and we’re beginning to build a nice client base and actually a backlog of business for the first time.
We expect 2014 will be the comeback year for our coil business and we’re excited about that.
Currently we’re at 13 units and we will be adding an additional offshore unit during the second quarter late in the second quarter of this year.
Let me turn it over to Lorne at this point.
Thanks Stacy.
Good morning everyone.
This morning we reported consolidated revenues of $238.2 million adjusted EBITDA of $55.8 million.
We had a net loss of $2.5 million or $0.04 per share in the fourth quarter.
Drilling segment revenues declined 4% from the third quarter to $126 million primarily due to the lower Columbia utilization rate and increase standby time in Columbia.
Average drilling rate utilization in the fourth quarter was 86% versus89% in the prior quarter when adjusted to exclude the eight rigs that were sold in October.
Drilling margin per day was 8 518 an increase of 6% from the prior quarter.
This was primarily the result of two items first is additional equipment primarily boilers that are used on the rigs in winter months in the Bakken and Marcellus in the winter and reimbursement for damage drilled pipe in our Columbia operation and in the U.S.
another minor gains on asset disposal.
And combined these items represent approximately 400 of the drilling margin per day increase when comparing quarter-over-quarter.
With the sale of 8 rigs in October we now have 62 drilling rigs.
Of these 53 are earning revenues and 42 are working under term contracts.
Of the 35 rigs on term contracts in the U.S.
4 are up for renewal this quarter 9 are up for renewal on the second quarter 10 are up for renewal in the third quarter and 12 expired in the fourth quarter or later.
The percentage of the total company's gross margin from non-top drive mechanical rigs in the fourth quarter was approximately 4% and if you include all mechanical rigs that numbers approximately 11%.
Looking now at production services revenues were $112.2 million which was down approximately 1% from the prior quarter.
Gross margin was $38.1 million down 7% from the prior quarter.
A gross margin as a percent of revenues was approximately 34% down from 36%.
The decreased in margin percentage was the result of slightly decreased utilization due to the seasonality some higher labor costs and an increase in the sales tax accrual in the segment.
Utilization for well servicing was 85% compared to 90% in the prior quarter and coil tubing utilization was 49% compared to 53% in the third quarter.
Average rate per hour well servicing was 648 up from 628 in the prior quarter.
This increase in rate was offset primarily by higher labor costs and pricing for the wireline and coil tubing businesses help steady during the quarter.
Looking now at overall expense trends interest expense was approximately $12.2 million.
We expect the first quarter interest expense to be about the same approximately $12 million.
G&amp;A cost in the fourth quarter was $24.1 million and for the first quarter we expect G&amp;A to be in the $25 million to $26 million range driven by higher payroll taxes that we said at the beginning of each year and higher incentive base compensation that will be accreted target at the beginning of 2014.
For the full year our G&amp;A forecast is approximately $100 million and $102 million.
Depreciation and amortization was $46.9 million down about half a million from the prior quarter.
For the first quarter we expect D&amp;A to be approximately $47 million and for the full year 2014 our estimate is $191 million.
For 2013 our effective tax rate was approximately 35% for 2014 excluding the impact of currency gains or losses or other unusual events we expect our tax rate to be in the 34% to 36% range.
Looking now at the balance sheet during the fourth quarter we paid down a total $35 million of debt reducing the amount outstanding on our revolving credit facility to $80 million given the interest payments on our bonds we expect to have limited debt reduction in the first quarter but picking back up again in the second quarter.
Capital expenditures in the fourth quarter were $27.4 million for the full year 2013 capital expenditures totaled $165 million.
We currently expect capital expenditures in 2014 to be approximately $115 million to $125 million.
This amount includes the spending related to the upgrades we are making in Columbia and additional funds for three well servicing rigs three wireline units and an offshore coil tubing unit.
And with that I will turn it back over to Stacy.
Okay.
Thank you Lorne.
Turing now to kind of the outlook for 2014 and the first quarter I would say that our outlook really for 2014 and 2015 is positive.
We believe activity levels will remain strong and likely and prove a little more later in the year and in the 2015 which hopefully will lead this to some surprising enhancement opportunities.
I would say generally we see the outlook is steady with an upward bias for the year.
Looking specifically at drilling and in the first quarter regarding that we should operate about 83% to 86% terms of utilization during the Q1 and have average drilling margins of 8 000 to 8 300 per day and then our production services business even as we look to the seasonally lowest quarter of the year just do the activity levels we are seeing today we would project the revenue remain roughly flat and we do anticipate some margin improvement in this first quarter of 1% to 2%.
With that I will conclude our prepared remarks and would be happy to answer any questions.
Thank you sir.
Ladies and gentlemen we want to now being the question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions) Our first question is from the line of Jim Rollyson with Raymond James please go ahead.
Inc.</strong> Good morning Stacy Lorne.
Good morning.
Morning Inc.</strong> Stacy you have done a good job of bringing debt down through the course of 2013.
It sounds like you have got more plans in 2014.
Maybe a little thought on do you have a target you are looking to get down to and how to weigh that versus looking at getting back on to the new build land rig bandwagon again given the strength that’s been seems to be out there in the market these days? Well I would say we have some opportunistic pricing on bonds in the market today.
So our preference would be to do something with the bonds sooner rather than later to take advantage of the pricing.
Having said that it calls us to look hard at all of our various operations and try to monetize anything that we view as non-core non strategic to us going forward.
So we are looking at that as you have seen through 2013 and will continue to 2014 we have really pulled in our capital expenditures and we are generating quite a bit of free cash flow.
So we are hoping that the combination of freeing up some cash through some divestitures and combined with billing cash flow will allow us to do something ideally in the first half of the year.
It might be a little longer than that but we are in very preliminary discussion with people about new equipment and we just aren’t ready to really pull the trigger until we have a little more clarity on when we are able to lower our net interest amount and lower the rate on that indebtness.
So that’s a little big vague intentionally but Lorne would you like to add anything to that? I think that covered.
Okay.
Yes.
Perfect.
Inc.</strong> I appreciate the answer.
And then just on Columbia great job getting those back contracted in for the full-year.
When you think about going into the next round of negotiations to extend this beyond 2014 you mentioned the process will hopefully be little simpler.
Just kind of curious how you handicapped being able to continue to extend these given your history down there? Well we have extended every renewal since 2007 and we have a great working relationship with our primary client there and we are performing kind of at the top at the pack.
We have been able to garner higher rates because of that performance with our client and so we think its relationship of mutual respect and we would fully expect to continue working with them.
This process that we went through was I think painful for all parties involved including the client and it didn’t end in a favorable result for the client and so I hope that there will be a re-thinking process going forward that maybe we can start on negotiations late summer at the latest and kind of have a plan to how to renew these rigs more simply next year and we will certainly be proposing that and be proponent of that and I am confident that we will be able to renew the rigs again and hopefully maybe for a little bit more term.
Inc.</strong> Perfect.
I appreciate the answer.
Thank you.
Next we have Dave Wilson with Howard Weil please go ahead.
Good morning gentlemen.
Thanks for taking my question.
Stacy on the production side production service side of things your well service is performing quite well even concerning the seasonal impact of last quarter and with the industry having another year wells drilled under the collective belt have you seen or expect to see a higher ramp in demand for well services.
I mean I think the answer might appear obvious but trying to gauge the overall supply and demand of the well service market to see if the supply side might be caught a little flat footed by increase in demand and can we see the 600 plus rates move dramatically higher because of that? Well you are getting at the crust of our strategy.
That’s exactly why where we are and doing what we are doing is because with the steady rig count and the efficiencies with which the rigs are drilling today in terms of drilling time and move time by going to the pad or in a drilling we are just putting lots more boreholes on the grounds.
There is lots of completion work and lots of boreholes going in and time on the boreholes requires maintenance and we are seeing that We have been seeing that in the Bakken we are seeing it ramp up in the Eagle Ford.
That will only continue with time because these are high decline rate horizontal oil wells are the most service intensive well bore out there.
So we anticipate that there will be great demand.
We plan to add more units in it to meet that demand and we think that probably is inclined to be a bitter scarcity and could create some continue pricing opportunity there.
Great thanks.
And then just a follow-up on comments around debt repayment.
I know the bonds are callable here in March but did I hear you right when you said that you don’t expect another repayment on the revolver in the first quarter maybe that will resume in the second quarter? Could you kind of I am sorry to miss that.
Just Lorne step in.
Yes that’s correct David.
We have our interest payment on the bonds in the first quarter and annual bonds pay out and it should be a minor uptake in CapEx spending for some of the new unit stations mentioned.
So all that combined it will be limited to know debt pay down on the revolver in the first quarter but then get right back to additional pay downs at a good pace in the second quarter.
Great.
Thanks.
Thanks for clarifying that.
I will turn the call back over.
Thank you.
Thank you and our next question is from the line of Matthew Marietta with Stephens please go ahead.
Good morning guys and congrats on the quarter.
Thank you Matt.
So I believe last update that you provided you are in the process of converting a couple of coil units.
I know you may have touched on this in the opening remarks but can maybe provide an update on where we at on that whether that’s reflected in fourth quarter utilization numbers or when we could possibly see an impact in the coil utilization numbers from those conversion from incremental contribution there? I think you will see that impact this year.
We really got those in service at the very end of Q4 and then it's little slow as you move in to new year.
So I think you will start seeing that in the first quarter and growing throughout this year.
Perfect.
Thanks and you kind of hit – you kind of touched on the service rigs and what's driving pricing there but I guess what I wanted to try to do is get an idea of how much of that pricing is due to the top two rig fleet that Pioneer provides and how much of that is really tied to a market where services rates are just simply more demand as a whole? Can you maybe elaborate on the capabilities at the higher horse power rigs that you provide offer? Right.
Well you can see where we are located.
We are located in these markets for a reason with the concentration being in the Eagle Ford and Texas gulf coast are actually the U.S.
Golf Coast up in the Bakken we thus far shied away little bit from the Permian just because the pricing dynamic there is different from these other markets.
Part of our success in terms of our overall hourly rate is that say different from the Permian we usually package our rig with mud pumps mud tanks survivals BOP clothing unit so we sell it as a package in share markets that is Permian you frequently can only get the basic rig and those other items tend to be rental items for the operator.
In our model we capture all of that by sending out the package rig.
So I would say probably over 90% of the cases we are sending out a complete package and that’s what our average hourly rate plus as you mentioned they are all tall masted 104 to 116 foot mast 550 600 horse power class so they are ideally suited for any of the newer horizontal carriers and not every unit out there in fact the majority of the units out there aren’t really suited for the longer lateral horizontal blade.
You really you can probably just some of that work with the 400 horse power but sub 400 you are basically out of that market and really most of the clients prefer the taller mast 550 600 horse power set rigs.
So that’s why we built our entire fleet around.
Thanks a lot.
That’s all from me very helpful and congratulations.
Thank you Matthew.
Thank you.
Next is Daniel Burke with Johnson Rice.
Please go ahead.
Good morning guys.
Good morning.
Stacy with regard to the rig margin guidance for Q1 does that fully encapsulate the margin benefit even if nominal that you all expect to generate in Columbia or there are little bit more of a margin benefit from Columbia that will roll through in subsequent quarters? I think there is some margin benefit that could roll through in subsequent quarters because we have got one rig that’s not even working at the new day rate it's not working at all.
Another rig is currently finishing its work up in the middle Magdalena Valley at a lower day rate.
So we won’t have the full effect of all eight units at the new day rate until the second quarter and beyond.
So you have that impact but our waiting it's a mix of those high margin Columbia rigs our new builds which are also very very high margin but we still have a lot of rigs in the West Texas vertical market that are earnings substantially lower margins.
So that’s what averages down that margin or the vertical rigs in West Texas.
You mentioned that the vertical rigs in West Texas are now fully utilized.
A lot of the scrutiny on the rig market has been on the AC side of course I mean are you seeing opportunity to begin the notch pricing on the mechanical side in the West Texas given you are fully utilized? I don’t see that yet.
Before we have been fighting utilization there for the latter half of 2013 and we actually were pleased to get these rigs back to work.
We are seeing some opportunities.
There is quite a bit of vertical drilling continuing and of course there is no pressure on the vertical market from AC joystick rigs because they don’t drill that market.
So there is still a lot of stack rigs out there that could drill the vertical market but I think that we have been able to stay a little busier because we are operating something to a kind of higher inclined that is less available out there which is safety and minimal down time higher end mechanical type work.
But it's still a declining vertical market.
We have done – we have probably out performed a little bit there because it is – rigs have gone down in the vertical market and that is a concern if it continues to go down we are going to be challenged there.
But we have been able to keep those rigs busy and our mechanical rigs that have top drives those actually are competing with AC joystick rigs.
Those right now are at 100% utilization.
We are fighting it out pretty well there.
That probably won’t last forever as more and more new builds are put out in the market but for now we are holding our own pretty good and but I would say there is some pricing opportunity there.
In fact Red just put a rig out under a one year term at an improved rate.
So we are seeing it as for new client we have never worked for one of the busier guys out there and so we are excited about that.
They want high quality and we are able to secure that.
So we see rays of hope there.
I think it's too early to say that it's a clear cut opportunity to raise rates.
Okay.
Great that’s helpful.
Maybe to squeeze one last one on the coil side that the business has been challenging for you all.
Now I will be at the absolute revenue contribution it makes is considerably smaller than the wireline and work over business but if coil mends this year for you all could it mend sufficiently that we could see sort of coil driven improvement in margin coming out of production services? It sure is possible.
We are obviously staying purposely a little conservative on it just because we need to kind of see it to believe it ourselves.
Last year it was a very very rough year in coil.
But we have optimism today that we have not had before and I think our challenge was we were in the very crowded [2-inch] market.
We were just not able to really build up a client base and now we are able to build up the client base and I am hoping –now it's not about onshore land not onshore offshore we are very steady that’s why we are adding an offshore unit there.
That’s been steady and remain steady but on the onshore side we just needed to build up steadier client base and we are now doing that which I hope that utilizing the two and three inch will bleed over into using some more of the two inch unit.
So we are excited about it.
I think an overall improving market will help to the opportunity there such as the activity levels continue to pick up a little bit that will only help the overall coil market but so I definitely think there is some upside there.
We will just have to see as the year develops that it's truly happening.
We will report on that as we see at the [belt].
Understood.
Thank you all.
Thank you.
Next we have John Daniel with Simmons please go ahead.
Hello guys.
Stacy two questions from me.
I jumped on a little bit late on the call.
So I apologize if you talked about this but just with respect to the well service rate per hour how much of that increase is due to the benefit of ancillary equipment and/ or rig mix versus a true price increase? John this is Lorne.
I will handle that one.
I would say probably the majority of it well really I think all of that rate increased this quarter was ancillary equipment and also increased to help cover labor cost.
So it's a combination of those two.
So in the rate per hour increase a $20 rate per hour I think that basically went to cover those two items this quarter.
Got it.
Okay.
And can you just tell us a little bit about utilization trends in well servicing within your Fayetteville and Haynesville areas? Any uptick? Fayetteville is very.
In fact we are talking about relocating some of equipment there.
We have had a strong client relationships and that’s gone extremely well.
We anticipate that will be robust through the year and we will probably add equipment there.
And then what was the other area that Haynesville Joe would you want to comment on that.
Joe is here.
We will probably be doing more in the -- Fayetteville has been very good for us John.
And there has been some strong rates up there and strong utilization – is not just back a little bit in the last 30 days but once that [rolls] out we think we will be very happy with it.
Haynesville no real big improvement there.
As we have been talking some of the rig builders on the work hour side and most of them have told us that they are sold out for this year in most that the rigs are going primarily to private companies and/ or start-ups.
And I just wonder when you hear this type of enthusiasm on their part does it then temper your enthusiasm and can you share with us just perhaps the recent employee turnover trends within that business unit that’s it from me.
A little bit of pressure from some of the start-ups.
I think the biggest limiting factor in the well service business is going to be quality crews and we have that.
We just need to hold onto them.
Okay.
Just to add to that I mean a lot of the client base we are working for are the big publicly trading companies who care about extremely good service and safety and our group just won the gold award in safety this year as the best safety records of all the big well servicing contractors.
So that is – that’s the client base that cares about that or the people that we are targeting and not everybody can work for them.
So that’s really part of our strategy.
Fair enough.
Thanks guys.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) Our next question is from Jason Wangler with Wunderlich Securities.
Please go ahead.
Good morning guys.
Just and you maybe kind of talked about a bit there just on the labor side maybe across the board not only on well servicing just what you are saying as far as ability to pick some people up and get out there as it does seem like you are seeing better and better activity levels going forward? Jason I think it's just in there is some labor pressure on cost and that’s in certain market not across the board.
It's in most businesses in certain markets.
I’d say drilling is probably steadier than the other ones but in production services a little more pressure but again it's not across the board.
It's just in certain markets but like you said it involves servicing that was the contributor to the rate increased basically just covering increased cost and so it is out there but it's manageable and that it’s manageable so.
Okay that’s all I appreciate it.
Thank you.
Thank you.
And I’m showing no further questions I’ll turn the call back to Stacy Locke for closing comments.
All right.
Thank you all for participating in today’s call and we look forward to update you after Q1.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen replay instructions of today’s call can be found in this morning’s press release.
We thank you for your participation you may now disconnect.