Good morning ladies and gentlemen welcome to the PHH Corporation’s Third Quarter 2012 earnings conference call.
Your lines will be in a listen-only mode during remarks by PHH management.
At the conclusion of the company’s remarks we will begin the question-and-answer session at which time I will give you the instructions on entering the queue to ask your questions.
Today’s call is also being webcast and recorded for replay purposes.
The audio replay can be accessed either on the company’s website at www.phh.com/invest or by telephone at 888-20-311-12 or 719-457-0820 and using conference id 6417933 beginning shortly after the conclusion of the call.
It will be available until November 23 2012.
This access information is also described in the company’s earnings release and I will repeat it again at the end of our session.
At this time Jim Ballan Vice President of Investor Relations will proceed with the introductions.
Thanks Tasha.
Good morning and welcome to PHH Corporation’s Third Quarter 2012 earnings conference call.
Please note that statements made during this conference call includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 as further described in slide three of our third quarter 2012 investor presentation of supplemental schedules.
Such forward-looking statements represent only our current beliefs regarding future events and are not guarantees of performance of results.
Actual results performance or achievements may differ materially from those expressed or implied in such forward looking statements due to a variety of factors including but not limited to the factors under the headings cautionary note regarding forward looking statements and risk factors in our periodic reports filed with the U.S Securities and Exchange Commission including our most recent annual report on Form 10-K and quarterly reports on Form 10-Q which are available in the investor’s section of our website at www.phh.com.
Investors are cautioned not to place undue reliance on such forward looking statements.
During this call we may also discuss various non-GAAP financial measures including core earnings pretax core earnings after-tax and core earnings per share.
Please refer to our earnings release and accompanying investor presentation of supplemental schedules for description of these non-GAAP financial measures as well as a reconciliation of such measures to their respective most-directly comparable GAAP financial measures.
The earnings release we issued yesterday may be accessed from our website or you may request a faxed or mailed copy by calling our investor hotline.
In addition an investor presentation of supplemental schedules is posted in the investor’s section of our website under webcast and presentations.
Speaking on the call today will be Glen Messina President and Chief Executive Officer and Rob Crowl Chief Financial Officer George Kilroy President of Fleet and Dave Tucker President of Mortgage along with other members of the senior management team are also with us and will be available to take your questions.
First Glen will discuss the company’s performance in the third quarter and our strategic objectives.
Then Rob will review our financial results and provide an update on our liquidity position after which we will take questions.
With that I will turn the call over to Glen Messina.
Thank you Jim.
Good morning everyone and thank you for your interest in PHH.
In the first nine months of 2012 we have made solid progress in the execution of our four key strategies which remain discipline growth in our three franchise platforms operational excellence and unwavering commitment to customer service and in the near term the prioritization of generating liquidity cash flow and deleveraging.
We believe the implementation of these strategies will maximize for our shareholders by positioning us for growth and making us a more competitive more profitable and more capital efficient company.
We’re pleased to have once again delivered solid operating performance in the third quarter.
On a GAAP basis we reported a net loss of $42 million or $0.74 per share but core earnings after-tax which excludes the net MSR mark with a positive $42 million or a positive $0.74 per share.
Our results would have been even higher if not for a $13 million pretax or $0.14 per share after-tax charge in the quarter from the early retirement of our 2013 unsecured debt.
Retail applications and mortgage loan origination volume in our retail platforms remain at high levels and fleet continuous to provide recurring segment profit and operating cash flow in the quarter.
This was also a strong quarter from a leverage and liquidity standpoint.
If you recall this time last year there were concerns over our ability to repay our 2013 unsecured debt maturity.
I’m now proud to report that we have fully repaid our 2013 unsecured debt maturity with the combination of proceeds of a successful debt offering and cash on hand.
We closed the third quarter with $677 million and unrestricted cash and cash equivalents.
For our mortgage business the environment remained highly favorably and the combined core earnings of our two mortgage segments mortgage production and mortgage servicing reflect that.
We see significant growth opportunities in our mortgage franchise channels Private Label Services and real estate through both increased penetration of our existing clients and expansion of our client base.
We have accessed to abroad of more than 55 000 financial advisors throughout PLS clients and we believe our real estate relationship provides us with access to approximately one and every four home purchase transactions throughout the U.S.
which should position us well once the purchase market recovers.
We believe a combination of high customer service levels and the demonstration to financial advisors and real estate brokers of the ancillary benefits of selling mortgages creates attractive growth potential within our existing client base.
We expect the integration a ramp up of our relationship with HSBC which is expected to come online in the first quarter of next year to contribute to growth at our mortgage business as well.
As a reminder upon launch we will resume approximately $52 billion of subservicing UPB from HSBC and begin operating as the HSBC is outsourced mortgage services provider for to the U.S.
operations.
Once fully ramped HSBC is expected to be among our top PLS clients.
We remained committed to our corresponded channel and the current market environment this channel is profitable and cash efficient.
We have now and we’re focusing correspondent to business partners we believe will consistently deliver high quality loans and we continue to hold them to strength and standards including delinquency rates prepayment rates and defect rates.
Although this has reduced volumes in the short-term we must consider these risks when acquiring NSR via this channel.
We believe our mortgage model is well positioned for the current trends and at the mortgage industry is evolving toward our strengths.
Residential mortgages remain a cornerstone consumer financial product and an important source of fee based revenue for U.S.
banks.
And we believe increased regulation and increasing complexity in the mortgage business favor outsourcing.
Further we believe our scale and specialized expertise make our customized product and service offerings highly attractive then create high barriers to entry.
These dynamics contributed to our solid operating performance in the third quarter but we have more work to do.
As I have said in the past we believed both our mortgage and fleet businesses should be able to achieve low to mid team core returns and equity.
While our fleet business is approaching net level our mortgage business has room for improvement.
We believed the bridge from today’s return to meeting our potential in the mortgage business is reducing our mortgage quality related costs.
Year-to-date results of our combined mortgage segment were negatively impacted by $201 million in year-to-date mortgage quality related cost.
If not for the mortgage quality related cost our pretax core earnings for the combined mortgage segment so far this year would have booked more than double what we are reporting.
This is why we continue to invest in operational excellence and while we’re committed to defect reduction and process simplification.
As we’ve mentioned last quarter Fannie Mae has significantly reduced its loan review sample size for our performing loans as a result of our progress in reducing defects and new loan originations which we believe should reduce performing loan repurchases going forward.
We believed defect reductions are especially important given the FHFAs new requirements on repurchases and in the third quarter we’ve made continue progress in this area.
The largest of our mortgage quality related costs is the provision for loan repurchase and indemnification liabilities.
Mortgage repurchases and repurchase demands remain at an elevated level in the third quarter and we’ve recorded $41 million in foreclosure related charges during the quarter a slight increase from $39 million in the second quarter.
Our foreclosure related reserves at quarter end was a $176 million.
We have also updated our estimate for reasonably possible future losses related to repurchase and indemnification requests to $70 million which would be above and beyond our recorded foreclosure related reserves.
This is down $35 million from our estimate of $105 million at the end of the second quarter.
The assumption we used to estimate reasonably possible losses are substantially unchanged including that repurchase demands remain at elevated levels for the end of 2013 and that our success rate in defending against such claims is lower than what we have experienced.
Based on our ongoing discussions with the GSEs we continue to believe that by the end of 2013 there may be substantially complete with their review of our seriously delinquent and defaulted loans related to origination years 2008 in prior which at quarter end represented 87% of our outstanding agency invested repurchase request.
With respect to regulatory matters as we’ve previously discussed since 2010 we have seen a height and level of focus from governmental bodies in reviewing past mortgage origination and servicing practices.
We are providing comments and responding to increase and request for information and connection with these activities and we continue to invest in our compliance and servicing functions and information systems.
Specifically the New Jersey Attorney general has conducted an investigation of our mortgage servicing practices and has recently informed us that they believe we have violated New Jersey State Law in connection with customer service and other matters related to laws mitigation activities for certain borrowers in the wake of the financial crisis.
We have also undergone a regulatory examination by a multistate coalition of certain mortgage banking regulators and such regulators have alleged various violations of federal and state laws related to our mortgage servicing practices prior to July 2011.
We believe we have meritorious defenses to these various allegations.
However there can be no assurance that claims or litigation will not arise from these inquiries or similar inquiries by other governmental authorities or that fines or penalties will not be assessed against us in connection with these matters.
We believe outstanding customer service is one of the most critical drivers of improved penetration rates in our franchise channels.
In the mortgage business maintaining a quality customer experience is a top priority for us and we remained committed to continually raising the bar on the quality of customer service.
It is also clear that a high quality customer experience is a critical deliverable from a regulatory perspective.
For fleet our call centers handle approximately 2 million calls per year from drivers who have had an accident on a maintenance event we’ll have a question concerning their company’s fleet policy.
We continually invest in employee training for these extremely important call center roles and regularly evaluate our effectiveness.
We’ve received eight separate customer service awards in fleet in the past nine months including most recently the exceptional Customer Support Performance Award.
This is the highest possible rating from the Fraser Group a leading management consulting firm focused on customer support process improvement and we are the first of their partners to ever have earned this award.
We’ve made significant progress on our liquidity and financing objective so far this year.
Our next unsecured debt maturity is our convertible debt too in 2014.
We ended the third quarter with nothing drawn on our revolving credit facilities and with the successful execution of our liquidity plans we believe we are well positioned to fund upcoming maturities and estimated repurchase demands with existing liquidity and cash flow from operations.
We also ended the third quarter with an uncovered asset ratio of 2.64 times continuing with our progress towards our target ratio of three times or better.
As we’ve discussed before diversification of our funding sources is an important component of our liquidity plan including exploring funding options for MSR.
We believe MSR funding structures recently used by others work for highly delinquent portfolios but may not be a medley transferable to ours.
We continue to explore MSR financing structures that we believe could make sense for our high quality low delinquency MSR and deliver acceptable returns for our shareholders.
With that I’ll turn the call over to Rob to discuss our results for the quarter.
Thanks Glen.
On a GAAP basis net loss attributable to PHH Corporation for the third quarter 2012 was $42 million or $0.74 per share which included a $150 million negative mark-to-market adjustment on our MSR asset partially offset by $8 million in derivative gains which we’re driven mainly by a 37 basis point drop in the primary mortgage rate.
Core earnings which exclude the net MSR mark was a positive $42 million on an after-tax basis or $0.74 per share.
In addition this quarter’s results were impacted by a pretax loss of $13 million or $0.14 per share after-tax as a result of the early repayment of our 2013 medium term notes.
Regarding mortgage core earnings for the combined mortgage production and servicing segments was $59 million in the third quarter up $34 million from the $25 million earned in the second quarter of this year.
The primary drivers of this sequential quarter improvement were mortgage production margins of 420 basis points up 39 basis points from the second quarter great pipeline hedge gains and the $16 million non-recurring loss related to our reinsurance subsidiary in the second quarter.
Partially offsetting these increases and production profitability was higher prepayments in our capitalized servicing portfolio.
While we benefited from record production margins in the third quarter margins are volatile and the sustainability at these levels is difficult to predict.
Retail applications in the third quarter were $15.6 billion and retail interest rate lock commitments expected to close in the third quarter were $4.8 billion both consistent with solid levels in the second quarter.
Although we continue to see an environment supportive of strong demand we expect reduced activity in the fourth quarter due to seasonal factors especially in the purchase market.
Correspondent loan application volume was up slightly from the second quarter but down 62% from last year consistent with our strategy to narrow our focus and our correspondent platform to business partners we believe will consistently deliver high-quality results.
Our correspondent channel represented 13% of total closings in the quarter and 20% in the first three quarters of this year in line with our expectations at this channel will represent approximately 15% to 20% of total closings for the full year.
Competition for volume has increased and tighter margins are possible for lenders in this channel.
Our total loan servicing portfolio has grown 4% over the past four quarters to $185 billion reflecting much more rapid growth in our subservicing UPB.
Subservicing UPB declined relative to the second quarter due to an $8 billion transfer in subservicing related to our previously announced termination of an agreement with Charles Schwab.
We expect to more than double our subservicing UPB from the third quarter level with the assumption of approximately $52 billion in subservicing UPB related to our private label agreement with HSBC in the first quarter of next year.
We view this growth in subservicing as a positive because there is less capital intensive and has limited rep and warranty risk.
Our capitalized servicing portfolio of $145 billion in UPB at the end of the third quarter is essentially unchanged from the end of the third quarter of 2011.
As our replenishment rate has continued to be below 100% primarily from the scaling back of our correspondent channel and higher prepayment rates.
We anticipate returning to a replenishment rate in excess of 100% in 2013 with the ramping up of our PLS relationship with HSBC in the first quarter.
A greater than 100% replenishment rate generally should coincide with growth in our capitalized servicing portfolio.
The credit quality of our servicing portfolio continues to be strong as our delinquency rate remains less than half the level reported for large residential mortgage servicers.
Out total delinquency rate at quarter end excluding foreclosure and real estate owned was 3.04% down from 3.24% at September 30 2011 and up from 2.77% in the second quarter of 2012.
Our portfolio’s particularly low delinquency rate helps us keep our prolonged servicing cost low and reduce the potential for future cost related to delinquent mortgage loan put backs.
At September 30 2012 we valued our MSR at 69 basis points of our capitalized loan servicing portfolio representing a 2.3 times capitalized servicing multiple.
These valuations are down from 78 basis points and 2.6 times respectively at the end of the second quarter.
The value decline was primarily driven by a decrease in mortgage rates.
Meanwhile our fleet business continued to provide recurring segment profit and operating cash flow in the quarter.
Third quarter segment profit for fleet was $21 million consistent with the third quarter of 2011.
Growth in fleet management fees due to growth in average service units and lower interest expense were offset by a decline in fleet lease income due to a 3% decline in the average number of leased vehicle units and lower operating lease syndication volumes.
We are pleased with the significant progress we’ve made on our liquidity objective so far this year.
In the third quarter we issued $275 million in senior notes due 2019 and use the net proceeds along with cash on hand to fully repay all of our 2013 unsecured debt.
We also closed new multi-year revolving credit facilities including $300 million in unsecured U.S.
revolving credit facilities and a Canadian C$125 million three-year secured revolving credit facility to provide working capital for our fleet businesses Canadian operations.
As Glen said we closed the third quarter with $677 million in unrestricted cash and cash equivalents.
The decrease some $700 million at the end of the second quarter was due to the repayment of a portion of our 2013 debt with cash and higher collateral postings mostly offset by improved efficiency in our secured debt financing and cash flow from our business segments.
And now I’ll turn it back over to Glenn.
Thanks Rob.
We continue to demonstrate solid execution against our four key strategies.
Our franchise platforms continue to demonstrate growth and position PHH for continued success.
With regard to operational excellence we are achieving significant progress in reducing defects in new loan originations which should reach significant benefits going forward.
We remain focused on delivering excellent customer service in both fleet and mortgage and we are committed to continuous improvement in this area.
And finally we are pleased with our cash generation and deleveraging over the past few quarters putting us in a considerably better position from both the financing and operating perspective.
I want to recognize and thank my colleagues at PHH for the hard work and enduring commitment.
And with that we’re ready to take questions.
Tasha?  Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) Our first question will come from Paul Miller with FBR.
Please go ahead.
Yeah thanks a lot guys and good quarter.
I want to go back to the comment you made on Glen about repaying the debt that’s due next April.
I believe it’s about $500 million.
So you’re planning to pay that at a current cash and cash generation over the next two quarters? Good morning Paul.
We actually prepaid our 2013 debt maturities with cash flow from operations and proceeds from our debt issuance earlier in the second quarter.
So that’s already been done.
Okay.
Is there any other debt – you made a comment is there any other debt that can be prepaid that can be paid down? Right now we’re evaluating alternatives on looking at our liabilities structure and perhaps restructuring our maturity latter but for now we’ve dealt with our 2013s.
Okay.
And then on the MSR is there a floor where you can write where you’re able I mean is there a floor how well you can right this down 69 basis points roughly two times servicing fee.
It looks like grades are going to stay flat to down here a little bit but is there a relative floor of how low this MSR could go? Paul there is no from an accounting perspective range like that there is no floor it really is driven by the assumptions and the model.
And as you know prepayment speeds and interest rates are the biggest driver.
So to the extent that your weighted average coupon in your portfolio comes very close to current market interest rates that provide some natural refinancing burnout so to speak in evaluation of the model and with tamper potentially some valuation adjustments.
But there is no natural floor so to speak.
Okay.
And then what was your percentage of HARP? I don’t think you’ve been a big HARP player am I correct? You just don’t have a lot of HARP eligible loans in your portfolio.
That’s right Paul.
As we’ve talked about before maybe 15% 20% of our portfolio is HARP eligible.
We did see an uptick in HARP volume in the third quarter.
So HARP volume was up 6% vis-à-vis the second quarter.
And right now it’s about 6% of our total refi volume.
Now that’s 15% what about the HSBC portfolio? Does that have a bigger chunk of HARP eligible loans? Right now we’re probably not have liberty to discuss the details of what we’re going through in the integration of HSBC.
So I’ll wait till that portfolio is boarded.
Okay.
Thank you very much gentlemen.
Thank you Paul.
Thank you.
We’ll take our next question from Bose George with KBW.
Please go ahead.
Hey guys good morning.
Actually I just wanted to first go back to the prepared remarks – the comment you made in your prepared remarks about the actions that by the New Jersey regulators.
Is there any – in terms of that is there something qualitatively different in some of these actions or is this similar to stuff that you’ve seen over the last two years and should we see that as being fairly routine? That when you look specifically at the New Jersey action for example.
The New Jersey action is focused on very small cross-section of ours focused on customer service and loss mitigation legacy customer service and loss mitigation practices.
And really is focused on specific matters to New Jersey State Law.
So I’d say it’s a much more narrow focus.
Okay.
So it’s reasonable to make that it’s I mean it’s obviously important to rectify it but it’s not in the scheme of things it’s not hugely detrimental to what you guys are doing.
I look at bear in mind we’re not the size and magnitude of the big banks.
We don’t have trillions of dollars of servicing here.
We didn’t do subprime didn’t do option arms didn’t do portfolio loan and we’ve got the lowest delinquencies in the industry.
So on a scale basis it’s much different.
Okay.
Now that’s fair.
Thanks.
And then just going back to the MSR question just in terms of the MSR potential MSR mark in the fourth quarter it looks like mortgage rates are roughly flat primary rates the farnichar (ph) and coupon is up since quarter-end.
Given that scenario is it fair to think it’s unlikely you’ll have a negative mark in the fourth quarter? Bose we can’t speculate on what’s going to happen to the market going forward.
As you know there is a number of assumptions that go into the valuation of mortgage servicing rights.
There are option-adjusted spread there is the difference between primary and secondary mortgage rate shapes low to the yield curve so on and so forth.
So I really can’t forecast or predict what the mark would be on the servicing.
Okay.
That’s fair.
Actually then one last thing on switching to HARP.
I mean historically I guess you guys didn’t do HARP refis of – didn’t refi HARP loans from others.
I’m wondering is anything changed there like I said have they’ve done anything out in the refi and working side that maybe makes you more comfortable to do that? There’ve been no changes to-date and I go back our focus is growth in our franchise channel.
So we’re going to continue to focus on our the business that we originate it through PLS and (indiscernible) and continue to invest in those channels and obviously take advantage of the HARP opportunities that we have within our portfolio and new clients as we bring them on board.
Okay great.
Thanks Glen.
Nice quarter guys.
Thank you.
Thank you.
We’ll take our next question from Henry Coffey with Sterne.
Please go ahead.
Yeah let me go back some of Bose’s questions and the questions on the MSR and then I’ll get on the hoard and listen in.
In the state of New Jersey is that part of a systematic enquiry they’re doing across the board with all the banks that are active in that region as services? And then on the MSR bid we’re starting to see cash bids that are sort of lining up with where you have the your MSR valued.
Is that sort of a function – part of your thinking when you look to value? And I’m going to get on hold and listen on.
Thank you.
Okay.
I think I heard both two separate questions in there or two separate comments in there.
Related to the New Jersey matter I can’t comment or speculate on whether New Jersey is focused on others beyond us.
We’re really focused on our matters here with the State of New Jersey so that’s all I could add the comment on that one.
Relative to what we’re seeing in the marketplace in terms of some of the M&amp;A activity.
I do think the industry is evolving towards our strength.
I really do see the importance of the transactions that they – that are been done kind of exemplify the importance of having a strong originations channel which we do have.
We see people exiting the business because they don’t the responsibility or the investments to put in place the compliance infrastructure to service their assets.
And obviously more recently we’re seeing increased activity around high quality performing GSE related servicing.
And that’s where our portfolio is focused on.
So I think it’s all positive for our business and again it demonstrates our industry continues to evolve towards the strength that we have.
Thank you.
Thank you.
We’ll take our next question from Kevin Barker with Compass Point.
Please go ahead.
Hi this is Steven Halperson from Kevin’s stand.
I had a question regarding the economic head results and the gain on sale margin.
Do you think that’s revenue is sustainable or is this something that could go back down to low single-digits? Should rates go up or be flat? Are you talking about the economic Steven this is Rob are you talking about the economic pipeline head results? Yes.
Yeah it’s as you can tell from the supplement it has and can be volatile.
There are times when we have better pull-through experience and that tends to improve that number.
So best I can tell you is it’s a number that does jump around but we’ve been benefiting recently from better pull-through.
Great.
Thank you so much.
We will take our next question from Ryan Butkus from Citigroup.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
Two questions the first could you please provide a liquidity update as of the end of the October? And the second during 2012 you’ve executed on your liquidity plan by addressing near-term maturities such as the 2013 notes extended revolvers it seems to be addressing what the rating agencies had concerns about at the end of last year and the start of this year.
Can you provide briefing about maybe ongoing discussions you’ve had with the ratings agencies more recently? Sure Ryan.
We really don’t discuss interim quarter pro forma results from a liquidity perspective that’s not been a practice of the company and so we’re focused really on what our performance was at the end of the quarter.
With regards the progress that we’ve made I feel I’m very proud of the team here and I feel very comfortable with the progress that we’ve made in our liquidity objectives in 2012.
We obviously do have ongoing discussions with the credit rating agencies.
We do expect to meet with them towards the end of this quarter and the end of the fourth quarter to September timeframe.
And obviously we’re going to be partitioning for everything that we’ve done and we’ve made strong progress here we’ve deleveraged the balance sheet we’ve prepaid our obligations we’ve got plenty of cash on hand plenty of liquidity and we’ve got a valid and executable liquidity plan for the business with a demonstrated track record.
So obviously I’m going to be putting forth the campaign at a minimum we ought to be coming off on negative outlook.
Thank you.
Thank you.
We’ll take our next question from Chris Gamaitoni from Millennium.
Please go ahead.
Thanks guys.
My questions have already been answered.
Thanks Chris.
Thank you.
We’ll move next to Ryan Stevens with Philadelphia Financials.
Please go ahead.
Hey guys.
It’s Jordan Hymowitz actually.
Oh hey Jordan.
Question can you comment on you mentioned that in the upcoming quarter the margins might be more pressured.
Is that because there is less HARP volume or is it on a constant product basis? Jordan I think we’re seeing I would call it margin compression relative to the third quarter.
Margin still remain in the relatively high level as compared to historic levels.
I’m not sure it’s limited to anyone product or product mix it’s pretty much across the board.
And is some of the margin product is obviously more loans closed in the third quarter than you would have expected because rates fell.
So some of it was on hedged and ends up closing with bigger gains again if you standardize for that is at the same pressure? I’m not sure we necessarily look at it that way.
We look at priced in margins and as you know report the economic hedge results in terms of gain or loss on a hedge separately.
So when I talk about what we’re seeing in terms of margins I’m really talking about priced in margins exclusive of any benefit of detriment from pull-through.
Got it.
And different type of real question.
Are you guys bidding on some of the servicing books that have been offered in the market and if so is it across the board or would it only be more prime servicing? I really can’t comment on the activity that we’re seeing.
I think I mentioned before on previous calls we continue to be focused in our PLS channel on looking at opportunities to pickup private label business that does include bidding on subservicing or servicing as those opportunities present themselves.
But would you also be interested in subprime or would it only be prime? Prime.
We just don’t have the operational configuration for subprime.
Got it.
Thank you.
You’re welcome.
(Operator Instructions) We’ll take a follow-up question from Paul Miller with FBR.
Yeah hey thanks.
Hey Glen so going back to the gain on sales so you’re basically saying that these gains on sales margins are at all-time record levels and we know they got to come in but are you saying you’re seeing pressure rate now on these gain on sales margin from what we saw in the third quarter? And is it mainly driven by seasonality or just capacity you think.
Paul we are what I am saying is since the close of the quarter we have seen margins tighten up a bit from the 420 basis points I’ve reported at the end of the quarter but they’re still very very high relative to historic levels.
I think the timing does have to do with little bit of seasonality so I’m at this stage of the game not necessarily alarmed or panic that there is anything any major seed changes that’s happening within the industry relative to margins.
And then what about you might have said this and I missed it but what about volumes are you seeing any decline in volumes at this point or is it not relatively steady? We are seeing some seasonal drop off so pause particularly within the real estate channel the reality channel that just really tends to fall off in the fourth quarter.
Yeah.
And in the fourth quarter you’ve got the holidays right you’ve got Thanks Giving holiday you’ve got Christmas holiday as well we’re seeing a little bit of a slowdown in closings related to Hurricane Sandy and those days that were affected the GSEs put forth requirements for homes in those areas that they do need to have a secondary inspection.
So if they were in the area they have to get a secondary inspection before they close.
So the majority of it is seasonal with a little bit of impact from Sandy.
And do you know at the top of your head what type of exposure I mean what is the percentage of the originations in the North East and the affected states of Sandy? Yeah at this state – I’m going to turn it over to Dave Tucker and who runs our mortgage platform Dave percentage of our originations relative to the North East that was affected by Sandy.
Yeah if you just go on the states it’d be in the low 20% range but you’ve got to really kind of break down different counties and think about it that way that’s looking at it from a total state perspective.
I know most mortgage banks had told me that they think it might it won’t probably have a material impact if anything that just moves some production into the next quarter.
Yeah that’s correct that’s correct.
Yeah it’s basically the county difference did you guys hold on it closely to do the secondary inspection.
That’s correct Yeah.
Okay and can you remind us again when does – when do you guys start doing the HSBC portfolio is that in January or you starting to work on that now? Well the integration has been ongoing for several months we are going to throve it boarding a portfolio of $52 billion of UPB at subservicing is no small and ever plus we got to build all the connections for financial reporting and all those things back HSBC particularly to support all of the servicing but the origination side.
But we expect to be completed with that by the end of the first quarter and Dave taking originations probably at the end of the first quarters well too.
That’s right 1<sup>st</sup> of April.
So you would start – you can start reifying that portfolio at April 1<sup>st</sup>? Yeah we would – that portfolio would become ours in the effect of March 31st April 1<sup>st</sup>.
So is HSBC actively refine that portfolio do you know or they’re just ignoring it? I can’t comment on that.
Okay.
Okay hey guys thanks a lot.
Thanks Paul.
Yeah.
Thank you.
We’ll take another follow-up from Chris Gamaitoni with Millennium.
Please go ahead.
Hi guys.
On the HSBC portfolio if you reified those loans are you going to recapture the MSR or is it like a closing and either HSBC were captured the MSR and you just kept paid for the processing? Dave do you want to address that? Yeah I would go back and then basically back into their portfolio so we do a reify financing for lot of our PLS clients.
This goes back to their process and these that we get off that and that they get off of our with that activity would continue.
So basically you’ll get the processing kind of hard work dollars and they’ll get the gain? That’s correct it’s just like our origination activity and volume today with them on a new origination.
All right so let me clear about that thank you.
Thank you.
And it appears we have no further questions at this time.
Thank you Tasha.
Thank you to our shareholders and all the people who’ve joined the call we look forward to speaking with you next quarter.
This concludes the PHH Corporations third quarter 2012 earnings conference call.
Once again ladies and gentleman the replay will be available beginning later today at the company’s website at www.phh.com/invest or by dialing 888-203-1112 or 719-457-0820 and using conference Id 6417933.
It will be archived until November 23 2012.
You may now disconnect.
Thank you.
Good morning ladies and gentlemen.
Welcome to PHH Corporation First Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
Your lines will be in a listen-only mode during the remarks by PHH management.
At the conclusion of the company’s remarks we will begin the question-and-answer session at which time I will give instructions on entering the queue to ask your questions.
This call is (Inaudible) being webcast and recorded for replay purposes.
The audio replay can be accessed either on the company’s website at <a href="http://www.phh.com" rel="nofollow"><u>www.phh.com</u></a> or by telephone at 719-457-0820 or 1888-203-1112 using conference ID 237-5535 beginning shortly after the conclusion of the call.
It will be available until May 19 2011.
This access information is also described in the company’s earning release and I’ll repeat it again at the end of our session.
At this time Jonathan McGrain Senior Vice President of Corporate Communications will proceed with the introduction.
Thank you Holly.
Good morning and welcome to the PHH Corporation first quarter 2011 earnings conference call.
On the call today are Jerry Selitto President and Chief Executive Officer; David Coles Interim Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; Luke Hayden Executive Vice President of Mortgage; and George Kilroy Executive Vice President of Fleet.
Remarks by our management team will be supplemented by a presentation that is posted on our website at <a href="http://www.phh.com" rel="nofollow"><u>www.phh.com</u></a>.
The earnings release we issued yesterday may be accessed from our website or you may request a fax or mail copy by calling our investor hotline at 856-917-7405.
Please note that statements made during this conference call may include forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 as further described in slide two of the presentation.
We will also be discussing various non-GAAP financial measures including core earnings pre-tax core earnings after-tax and core earnings per share.
Please refer to our earrings release and accompanying investor presentation for description of these non-GAAP financial measures as well as the reconciliation of such measures to their respective most directly comparable GAAP financial measures.
I will now turn the call over to Jerry Selito.
Thank you and good morning.
I will begin today’s call with a brief review of PHH Corporations first quarter results then I will ask David to discuss our financials.
Luke and George will provide commentary on the mortgage and fleet businesses before I conclude with our outlook for the remainder of 2011.
Our first quarter earnings were driven by strong performance in our fleet business and a one-time gain from the sale of 50.1% of our STARS appraisal services business to create a joint venture with CoreLogic.
This transaction which we’ve been working on since last year not only produced a gain in the quarter but more importantly over the long-term it will enable us to leverage the technology of CoreLogic offer an expanded product set and we believe drive earnings growth.
Our Mortgage business closed volumes for the quarter were quite strong at $13.8 billion resulting in a market share of 4.3%.
This closing volume reflected the significant pipeline of applications from fourth quarter 2010 that carried over into this year.
Locks were down 21% from the first quarter of 2010.
The high level of closings from the 2010 pipeline prevented us from making meaningful expense reductions early in the first quarter.
We have now taken action to address the downturn in application volume by reducing staffing and mortgage fulfillment by approximately 20% since the beginning of the year.
I’m pleased to say that because of the process improvements we undertook last year we’ve been able to enhance service levels at the same time that we’ve been reducing expenses.
Our Fleet business had a very strong quarter with earnings of $16 million up from $8 million in the same period last year.
Fleet’s results were driven by higher fee-based revenues lower operating expenses versus the prior year.
Despite the first quarter challenges in the mortgage market I remain enthusiastic about the future of PHH and the opportunities we see.
We have one of the highest quality servicing portfolios in the industry with an average FICO score at the time of application of 725 and an average original loan-to-value ratio of 63% excluding FHA/VA loans.
We continue to build our portfolio in this period of historically low interest rates and as rates rice as we expect them to our servicing earnings and the value of our MSR asset will grow.
We have a unique business model and an incredible franchise that when executed well should allow us to outperform the market.
I’ll speak to this in more detail in a moment but now I want to turn the call over to David Coles to provide additional perspective on our financial results.
David? Thank you Jerry.
I want you to take a moment to highlight a number of items before George and Luke discuss in more depth that this (inaudible).
Firstly I am now 60 days into my role as Chief Financial Officer and I am very encouraged by what I see as the potential of the PHH platform and its ability together with that as a management team to embrace and respond to evolving market conditions.
Net income attributable to PHH Corporation was $49 million or $0.87 per share aided by $68 million pre-tax gain from STARS transaction and the $25 million increase in the fair value of our mortgage servicing rights.
Core earnings after-tax were $34 million or $0.61 per share inclusive over $40 million after-tax benefit associated with the STARS transaction.
While profit in all three of our segments increased compared to the first quarter of 2010 our Mortgage Production segment benefited from that one-time gain on sale of STARS.
This was fully offset however by lower margins on loans and lower volumes if IRLCs expected to close.
In analyzing the first quarters’ result which reflects the closing out of the significant pipeline of loans it’s worth noting the following; GAAP accounting required us to recognize the majority of the income related to an IRLC at the date of lock.
The expense is related to production however a recruit has incurred with a significant portion accrued like in closing.
During Q1 many of our closed loans will lock to 90 to 120 days prior.
In Q1 our lock volume was only $5 billion compared with $13.8 billion in closings.
As a result our earnings reflect cost dipropionate to the income recognized on the current period locks.
Going forward if lock volume is more in line with closing activity this effect will not recur.
Operationally as mentioned previously we are rigorously reducing our expense base in response to anticipated volumes which now exclude that significant pipeline of unclosed loans.
And as Jerry mentioned over the first quarter and in to April we reduced staffing in our mortgage fulfillment group by nearly 600 FTEs that relining resources with current and anticipated volumes.
I wanted also to discuss liquidity which remains at strengthened levels reflecting the capacity build during the refinancing with the past two years and disciplined management of our working capital.
At the end of the quarter we held $325 million in cash and $514 million of available capacity under our revolving credit facility.
The STARS JV transaction is also worthy of further explanation.
Firstly motivation for the transaction was the partnering with CoreLogic we are able to leverage their technology and expand our product offerings to enhance the customer experience and we believe drive future earnings growth.
In forming the JV we sold a 50.1% interest in the venture to CoreLogic for $35 million in cash $20 million of that was received at closing and $15 million will be received in three equal installments at the end of years one three and five respectively.
In addition we are required to recognize the value with our residual stake in the JV.
After accounting for the net present value discount on the future cash consideration and on negligible cost basis in this business the recognized gain on sales were $68 million and is shown in other income.
Although this gain is included in core earnings it does represent recognition through the income statement as a future earning stream and hence we consider it to be non-recurring.
Going forward our new basic in the venture will be accounted for by the equity method and we will recognize our half share in the earnings of the JV through the income statement.
We anticipate that within three years our half share of the JV's earnings will be equivalent to our full share part of this transaction.
You can find further details of the STARS transaction on page nine of the 10-Q.
I also wanted to give you an overview of credit trends.
We continue to see an elevated level of repurchase request with $211 million of unresolved request at the end of the first quarter compared to $165 million at the end of 2010.
We have been historically successful defending over 60% of such repurchase request.
On slide eight of the investor presentation the foreclosure cost were approximately $15 million for the first quarter of 2011 and we expect that will remain at an elevated level for at least the balance of 2011 as the agencies continue their reviews.
Over 75% of the unresolved request relate to 2005 through 2008 origination years.
On the positive side we continue to see improvement in all categories of portfolio delinquencies with 90 plus delinquencies decreasing from 1.27% at year-end down to 1% at quarter-end benefiting from additions of higher performing servicing we’ve added to our servicing book.
On an absolute dollar basis the unpaid balance of loans and foreclosure in our servicing portfolio declined from $3.3 billion to $3.2 billion.
While we believe foreclosure cost will continue at elevated levels as the agencies work through their losses from the 2005 through 2008 vintages the improving credit quality of the portfolio may provide an indication that foreclosure losses will begin to improve as the portfolio continues its shift to a higher concentration of post-2008 originations.
In my role as CFO I am encouraged to be working closely with our Chief Risk Officer Smriti Popenoe on the key business issues and we have many parallel objectives including the appropriate allocation of capital to optimize risk-adjusted returns.
Based on requests we received after our fourth quarter call slide five of this quarter’s investor supplement provides a sensitivity example for our Mortgage Production segment.
This illustration is based on 2010 actuals and provide sensitivities on the two key business drivers gain on sale margins and the level of rate locks by channel.
With that I’d like to hand the call to George to discuss the Fleet business.
Thanks David and good morning.
I thought I’d take a few minutes this morning and give a quick overview of how the Fleet business generates earnings and how you should view cash flow from our business.
Fleet generates revenue from two basic sources assets and services.
The asset part of the business is simply the acquisition of vehicles on our clients’ behalf and the leasing of those units to our clients or in some cases the purchase and rebuild to clients that don’t lease but would like to have us acquire for them using our state-of-the-art systems and expertise.
Our leases which represent over 80% of purchased vehicles have a monthly depreciation component and interest charge and a monthly management fee.
At a high level the margin on leases is simply the monthly leased charges minus depreciation interest expense and associated variable cost.
The lease business also generates a tax advantage that minimizes actual cash tax.
The service business maintenance assistance accident management fuel and others are fee-for-service programs monthly or per incident.
Using component the pace PHH to act as a rebuilder of these client expenses.
The service business requires less capital and is usually a higher margin business than leasing.
Cash flow generated by the Fleet business is approximately the same as operating income.
Annual CapEx is usually the same as depreciation and due to the tax advantage nature of the leasing business actual cash taxes are minimal.
And with that backdrop let me give you an update on Fleet’s performance for the first quarter.
All of our fee-for-service units are up over the beginning of the year with leased units slightly down.
We continue our focus on growing as part of the business with nearly all of our new business signings either being service-only or lease with services.
We’ve seen an increase in our heavy truck leasing business which let me remind you is a fair market value lease that we syndicate for fee to other financial institutions.
As a general rule PHH does not hold these leases on our books.
So you can look at this as very similar to our fee-for-service business.
We continue to aggressively pursue increased market share in a competitive market characterized by a great deal of new business proposal activity.
Our overall vehicles under management that is the combination of leased and service vehicles have grown 7% since the first quarter of 2010.
We realized $2 million in revenue in the first quarter of 2011 from our driver safety training business we acquired in 2010 and we’ve seen overall earnings positively impacted by the expense management initiatives we put in place last year.
Finally we expect to benefit from the much improved debt markets for additional funding for our lease program.
I’ll now turn the call over to Luke for review of the mortgage business Thanks George and good morning.
I’m going to review trends and volumes and margins and update you on our mortgage banking business.
During the first quarter our share based on closings increased to 4.3%.
This was driven by applications from the fourth quarter of 2010.
While our first quarter closings declined 25% from the prior quarter to $13.8 billion this performance was better than any of the other top ten mortgage originators identified in the table on slide six of the investor presentation.
Our corresponding closing volume was 30% of total closings in the quarter down from 39% in the fourth quarter of 2010.
This is consistent with our strategy to opportunistically pursue correspondent business.
We strive to increase volumes when spreads are attractive.
Spreads have narrowed considerably in this segment and we have reduced our originations accordingly.
That said we continue to pursue high credit quality business and hope to remain the investor of choice for selected high quality partners.
In our retail business which comprises private label and real estate rate locks declined from $6.4 billion in the prior quarter to $5 billion reflecting a significant reduction in refinance demand driven by interest rate increases in late 2010 and little growth in purchase mortgage demand.
Our real estate business has not been the beneficiary of an uptick in home sales typically associated with a warmer month.
Although the first quarter of the year is seasonally slow for the mortgage industry our experience in April suggest the second quarter will also be weaker than the prior year quarter.
We have a strong pipeline of new private label solution prospects under active negotiations.
We have signed an agreement with the premier financial institution scheduled to launch by the end of the second quarter.
We are finalizing negotiations with several additional accounts in the second half that will contribute to our market share run rate.
Historically PHH Mortgage has had its greatest success signing prospects in down markets.
This year we’ll clearly reinforce that trend.
The mortgage industry’s lower application demand has resulted in lower margins.
The decline in margins that began during the fourth quarter of 2010 has continued as you can see on slide four in the investor’s supplement.
we are aggressively managing our headcount.
As David mentioned previously we reduced staffing in our mortgage fulfillment group by nearly 20% over the first four months of 2011.
Second we are developing a more flexible workforce allowing us to scale staffing levels up and down with changes in demand while maintaining at high level of customer service.
We have established vendor relationships to supplement our staffing during high volume periods and will be testing a reserved workforce concept during the second quarter to further improve our staffing flexibility.
Third we are improving efficiency through process operation improvements and upgrades to our technology platform.
These improvements include the implementation of milestone driven workflows lean manufacturing tactics communication check lists and email templates.
We are upgrading the technology infrastructure in our correspondent business to further drive down cost and improve margins.
And we will be upgrading our telephony infrastructure to improve customer service levels.
These enhancements to our process operations and investments in technology have already yielded better customer satisfaction scores in shorter cycle times and ultimately we believe lower cost per loans.
Moving on to our Servicing segment.
At the end of the first quarter the unpaid principle balance of our servicing portfolio stood at nearly $171 billion an increase of about 12% from a year ago as you can see on slide seven of the Investor presentation.
The weighted average note rate declined from 5.2% in March of 2010 to 4.8% in March of 2011.
As David mentioned we are seeing improvements in our 30 60 and 90 day delinquency ratios.
And now I’ll turn the call back to Jerry.
Thanks.
Our unique business franchise provides us with enormous opportunities.
We partner with clients on a consultative basis improving processes to drive business growth customer satisfaction at reduced cost with attractive returns to our and their shareholders.
On the mortgage side our market footprint and reach is comparable to that with nation’s largest financial institutions.
In cooperation with our client partners we intend to further leverage and penetrate that franchise to increase profitable market share.
My plan is to build an organization that performs across a variety of economic and business conditions.
To that end we are taking advantage of the run rate cost savings we achieved last year along with some of the proceeds from the STARS transaction to invest heavily in our future by improving efficiencies productivity and customer service in both Fleet and Mortgage.
We have demonstrated over the past year that we’re capable of adding profitable market share without our increasing credit risk.
As we’ve noted our pipeline of new PLS client is quite strong with a number of cross backs in various stages on the negotiation process.
Our increased focus on our real estate channel is beginning to pay off as our performance metrics have improved across the board.
Our Fleet business is continuing the momentum.
It’s fabulous last year by winning new fee-for-service business.
We are also expanding our heavy truck business and we continue to be recognized for outstanding customer service and innovation in technology.
Our Fleet operation has an active pipeline of prospects.
As you know the Mortgage industry continues to face unprecedented challenges as it atones for the sins of the past.
The media is full of stories about the future of the GSEs regulatory orders resulting in penalties against services and overall procedures.
And of course the Dodd-Frank Act and it’s sweeping implications to the industry.
Given this landscape it’s difficult it’s not impossible to predict with any clarity the future.
What we can tell you is this.
By the fourth quarter of this year it is our goal to increase mortgage origination market share to approximately 5% to 5.5% up from 3.7% in the fourth quarter of 2010.
While many see challenges in the current mortgage market we believe there is no better time than now to grow profitable share as our major competitors remain distracted by regulatory and service issues.
Our Mortgage operation is in the business of producing and investing in highly valuable assets or MSRs driving an annuity stream that generates on average 30 basis points annually on the unpaid principal balance of the loans in our capitalized portfolio.
Our servicing portfolio is one of our highest credit quality as Luke mentioned grew by 12% year-over-year.
We continue to believe that this investment in quality MSRs is an excellent use of our shareholders capital.
As part of our ongoing expense management initiative we are making an investment in technology to increase productivity which we expect to drive lower expenses future earnings and increased customer satisfaction again to lower our cost per loan this year.
On the public policy front we are actively engaging lawmakers and regulators to ensure that our voice is heard on the critical issues of the future of the GSEs and the definition of qualified residential mortgages.
While we agree in principle with skin in the game we are concerned about the potential unintended consequences of the proposed rule.
The economy in general in the housing market in particular remain extremely gradual.
And we don't believe a peace-meal approach is substitute for a comprehensive national housing policy.
Although we were not a party to the consent orders signed by the large bank services we are proactively reviewing the terms of these orders in the context of our own servicing processes.
And while we do not participate in the sub-prime market and our delinquency rates remain among the lowest in the industry we do feel the impact of the negative publicity that surrounds the industry.
Our fleet and mortgage clients see PHH as a resourceful process management partner and are looking to us to design operate and optimize solutions that integrate seamlessly with their operations provide high quality services and deliver strong bottom-line results to their shareholders and ours.
We are working very hard to build businesses that deliver low-to-mid teen returns through the cycle and that can compete effectively across a variety of economic and market conditions.
Our demonstrated proficiency and increasing penetration in our mortgage channels will help us to realize our market share goal and our continued progress in growing revenues and managing expenses.
Fleet will provide critical balance to the mortgage business.
As I lead our company’s response with the challenges of the marketplace I remain very enthusiastic about the future.
Now we’ll take your questions.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) We will take our first question from Bose George with KBW.
Bruyette &amp; Woods</strong>  Hey good morning.
Actually couple of things I just wanted to start with the mortgage banking segment.
You noted that applications are $10.9 billion while the locks were $5 billion.
In the last couple of quarters it looks like about 70% of your closings were locks rather 30% of your closings were fee-based and I’m wondering if the application numbers suggest that fee-based percentage is going to be closer to 50% and also do the revenues from fee-based closings flow in differently like do they happen more backend loaded than revenues for the locks?  Yes.
Good morning Bose.
This is Luke.
Let me respond to that question.
You are correct.
We have seen a shift away from loans originating for resale to fee-based closings.
However the interest rate lock number is a pull through adjusted number and the application number is not.
So you can’t just subtract locks from applications and conclude that that remaining amount is what is fee-based applications that will actually close? You’ve got to multiply that difference of applications minus locks by the pull through rate.
So that’s number one.
What was your second part of the question? Bruyette &amp; Woods</strong>  The second part of it’s just the revenues I’m wondering if fee-based closings have a different sort of the flow the way the fee-based revenues flow in versus the lock revenues?  It does.
Fee-based revenues are fee per service and they close basically since the revenues are really recognized at the closing.
Bruyette &amp; Woods</strong>  Okay.
So I mean that just that shift essentially pushes like if you had more locks you would have more of the revenue now and the fact that you’ve kind of shifting this pushes more of the revenues into the next quarter or whenever it closes?  That’s correct.
Bruyette &amp; Woods</strong>  Okay great.
And then just switching to just the relationship between locks versus closings I mean once things kind of stabilize apart from and volumes are a kind of little more steady is it reasonable to think there shouldn’t be a big difference between the locks and closings I mean leaving aside the fee-based closings that you do?  David why don’t you take that?  Good morning Bose.
It’s David Coles.
I think in the second quarter given the spring up-tick we would expect some increase in locks and applications over what is historically our quietest period the first quarter.
Bose let me ask you again.
What was your question? Bruyette &amp; Woods</strong>  Actually my question was I think to get more steady say if there is less volatility in mortgage originations.
In any given quarter should we see locks and fee-based closings and the two of them kind of equal your total closings for the quarter I mean if things are steady do we kind of get to that level? Yes what we actually recognized in the first quarter was really the influence of our heavy lock volumes in [seriously] fourth quarter of last year.
So there was that imbalance the $15.8 billion versus the $5 billion $15.8 billion in closings versus the $5 billion in locks.
As we move forward and we now work through that backlog there’ll be a better balance each one closings and locks.
Bruyette &amp; Woods</strong> Okay yes.
That makes sense.
Great.
Thanks.
And then just a couple of other little things.
One is I was just curious about gain on sale margin trends after the end of the quarter so that trends that are happening right now.
Well trends that are happening right now it’s a little better than the end of the first quarter but not materially better.
Bruyette &amp; Woods</strong>  Okay that’s good.
So at least things aren’t getting anywhere.
So things are stabilizing.
Yes.
That’s correct.
Bruyette &amp; Woods</strong> And then one last thing.
Just the accounts that you referred to in terms of the potential private label deal give any color on how big any of them could be?  We have one premier account.
We are working on several others that will be premier accounts.
We are in various stages of negotiation with those.
And so we expect to start rolling those accounts out beginning the third quarter.
Bruyette &amp; Woods</strong> Okay.
But too early to size them yet or don’t want to disclose that?  I don’t want to disclose it because we’re still in the final negotiations but they’re premier names in the financial services industry.
Bruyette &amp; Woods</strong> Okay great.
Thanks for that.
I’ll jump back on later with a couple of (inaudible).
Okay.
Thank you.
Next we’ll hear from Paul Miller with FBR Capital Markets.
Yes.
Thank you very much and excuse me if I didn’t pick up everything this morning because I’ve been traveling.
I was 15 minutes late on the call.
What a lot of people are looking at this company that you guys if you didn’t sell the STARS that’s I think was like $60 million for the income statement that you would have lost money this quarter on a quarter basis.
And I think that’s causing some confusion this morning.
And when I picked up the tail end of this is that you didn’t have a lot of locks this quarter and I think last year was your big quarter on locks and you made I think close to $2 on a quarter basis and I think it was $0.30 in the fourth.
And then now we get like a negative $0.10 [Audio Gap] if we take out the STARS.
Am I looking at this correctly was there that much volatility in the business model and was it mainly due again going back to all this locks you’ve locked up in the third quarter? Yes Paul.
It’s Jerry.
Good morning.
You’re exactly right.
The latter part of your point I mean what we had was very high volume of locks on the second half of 2010 as David said you may not have been on the call but as David said those locks typically close 60 to 90 days after their lock.
And so we had very high closing volume in the first quarter $13.8 billion and that’s really closings when we book the majority of the cost associated with those loans.
So that occurred in the first quarter and at the same time our lock volume for the quarter was down $5 billion.
So there was an imbalance between closings and locks which we should see smoothing out over the course of the year.
So it’s sort of the cyclicality of the business.
I want to just kind of address this real quickly.
We operate in a very cyclical business and the drivers of revenue for us there is some that we have control over and others that we don’t.
So the number of transactions is the mortgage volume is something that we really don’t have a lot of control over in the market.
We do have control over market share and that’s how we should mitigate the downturn in volume.
The other area where we don’t have a lot of control is the value of those transactions and that’s margin and so margin started down in the fourth quarter.
We saw a continuation of that in the first quarter and started now to stabilize we’ve seen a slight uptick in margins.
And then the third area where we do have some control over is servicing income.
So as we see rates rise the value of our asset MSR increases and so to is a revenue that we see are from our servicing portfolio.
What we have under our control is market share and expenses and then something that we have an ongoing our expense reduction initiative and so we’re very focused on reducing expenses and balancing our expenses to customer service level both on our current volume and looking at our projections for future volume.
Well I didn’t answer to your question but I hope it helps.
It does help.
And so if you had a low level of locks because your production was very strong I know that your fee income part of the business has increased that aided some of that production.
But should we expect a higher level of locks in the second and third quarter and what you’ll again pull in some I guess the pull in quarter earnings.
I don’t know how you really want to say it but would elevate earnings in the second and third quarter?  One of the things that we’re looking at right now is that in the early part of the quarter we’re not really seeing the pick up that we would have seen on real estate channel in the purchase market.
Our PLS market is primarily a retail market and that’s virtually gone the retail market decisions there.
Our forecast going forward are that we’re going to have a stronger second quarter and third quarter not just traditionally.
So I don’t know if I’m answering your question hopefully I’m but our forecast is that we will see a pick up in the second and third quarter.
I guess Jerry I guess the real question is you see a pick up in volume what surprises was on the upside was the market share I think you even were guiding for a little bit lower market share for the year so this I don’t know whether it surprise you or you were just this is what you’re expecting coming out and going into 2011.
But we didn’t what is confusing us is you said that locks is that earnings was down so much.
And so therefore can we expect the big issue was can we expect the positive earnings side to flow through in the second and third quarter as the numbers were somewhat depressed in the fourth and first quarter.
Does that make sense?  Yes but then I think what we have to remember is that the driver of our earnings is really a function of locks.
So we’re booking earnings and locks and you’re accurate to point out that we’re seeing a bit of a shift to more fees and service business where we’re not recording the loss on that business.
I think that when you start looking at going forward looking at probably at the end of the third quarter and going forward into the fourth quarter I mean we always project that we’re going to see the first quarter is typical – typically its down what we’re really seeing is coming off an incredibly strong second half of 2010 that difference in March was more notable in this quarter than it may have been in previous quarters.
Okay and then yes I think we could take this offline a little bit but I just think that it’s a volatility and where that volatility comes from it causes lot of confusion out there.
The market share you have 3.7% market share in the industry in the fourth quarter I believe it's over 4% this quarter.
What really did anything surprise you because you already I thought the tone was that probably it was down in 2011.
It looks like it's going up which is a nice surprise for us.
Are you just finding it easier to get going on market share right now?  I think the market share you’re seeing in the first quarter is more reflection again of the strong second half of 2010.
So closing we really got we took a long market share in the second quarter of 2010.
And that’s been evidenced by the high volume of our closures.
Again our objective this year is to grow market share on a run rate basis 5% to 5.5% this year.
And that is what we are really driving our organizations to do.
And is that mainly through the wholesale market or is that through the other channel? I think Luke you may have missed it from Luke in his presentation just mentioned that we’re opportunistic in that channel.
We are actually seeing margins compression in that channel so we’ve set back from that channel.
This really is what we've done to increase our sales force our sales focus both on the PLS side and also on the real estate side of the business.
Okay great.
Thank you.
Thank you Paul.
Thank you (Operator Instructions) our next question comes from Jim Fowler with Harvest Capital.
Hello I just want to ask a question on correspondent versus wholesale in the quarter and how that compared to the fourth quarter.
Okay I’ll let Luke to address that.
Yes the vast majority of our third-party originations is correspondent originations.
We do have a small amount of wholesale originations.
I don't have the statistics in front of me but I can get some for you.
Okay.
Then how about third-party versus retail? Third party versus retail 30% of our closings in the first quarter was third party 70% was retail and that's down from 39% to 61% the prior quarter.
Great thank you.
(Operator Instructions) And at this time there’s no further questions in the queue.
I'll turn the conference back over to our speakers for any additional closing remarks.
Thank you very much.
This is Jerry Selitto to conclude let me reiterate that while 2011 has brought new challenges we believe we’re well positioned to confront them.
We look forward to continuing to drive earnings to improve the efficiency and enhance customer service which will position us to deliver sustainable attractive returns to our shareholders throughout the business cycle.
Thank you for your confidence and your support.
Thank you very much.
This concludes the PHH Corporation first quarter 2011 earnings conference call.
Once again ladies and gentlemen the replay will be available beginning later today at the company’s website at <a href="http://www.phh.com" rel="nofollow"><u>www.phh.com</u></a> or by dialing 719-457-0820 or 188-203-1112 using the conference ID 2375535.
It will be archived until May 19 2011.
You may now disconnect.
Please stand by.
Good morning ladies and gentlemen.
Welcome to the PHH corporation second quarter 2011 earnings conference call.
Your lines will be a listen-only mode during remarks by PHH management.
At the conclusion of the company’s remarks we will begin the question and answer session at which time I will give you instructions on entering the queue to ask your questions.
Today’s call is also being webcast and recorded for replay purposes.
The audio replay can be accessed either on the company’s website at www.phh.com over telephone at 719-457-0820 or 1-888-203-1112 using conference ID 3624790 beginning shortly after the conclusion of the call.
It will be available until August 13 2011.
This access information is also described in the Company’s earnings release and will be repeated at the end of our session.
At this time Jonathan McGrain Senior Vice President of Corporate Communications will precede with the introduction.
Good morning and welcome to the PHH Corporation’s second quarter 2011 earnings conference call.
On the call today are Jerry Selioto President and Chief Executive Officer Glenn Messina Chief Operating Officer David Coles Interim Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Luke Hayden Executive Vice President of Mortgage and George Kilroy Executive Vice President of Fleet.
Remarks by our management team will be supplemented by a presentation that is posted on our website at www.phh.com.
The earnings release we issued yesterday may be accessed from our website or you may request a fax or mail copy by calling our investor hotline at 856-917-7405.
Please note that statements made during this conference call may include forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 as further described in slide two of the presentation.
We will also be discussing various non-GAAP financial measures including core earnings pre-tax core earnings after-tax and core earnings per share.
Please refer to our earnings release and accompanying investor presentation for description of these non-GAAP financial measures as well as a reconciliation of such measures to their respective most directly comparable GAAP financial measures.
With that I will now turn the call over to Jerry Selito.
Good morning and thank you for joining our second quarter earnings call.
I’ll start off with a brief discussion of our strategy and goals for the remainder of 2011 and beyond.
David will then review the highlights of our financial results for the quarter and Luke and George will provide perspective on the Mortgage and Fleet businesses.
Then we’ll take your questions.
But first I’d like to introduce Glenn Messina our new Chief Operating Officer of PHH Corporation.
Glenn joins us with more than 25 years of management experience including the past 17 at GE with his leadership roles included serving as CEO and before that CFO of their Mortgage Services businesses as well as CFO of their Equipment Services business.
Glenn’s focus will be on operational excellence building upon the progress we made last year in process improvements increasing productivity and reducing expenses while delivering excellent customer service.
This aligns with our strategy to be the most efficient provider of process management services in the Mortgage and Fleets businesses delivering the highest quality and service to our business partners.
With Glenn on our team I’ll be able to focus more of my time and energy on the company’s strategic direction.
As you know we’re navigating through uncertain times in the mortgage space.
We continue to refine our fleet strategy by strengthening our product offerings and increasing our market focus.
Our goal remains to drive consistent earnings growth through the cycle leveraging the unique combined franchise value of both businesses.
Welcome Glenn.
Thank you Jerry.
I’m very pleased to be part of the PHH team.
Both of our businesses are built on solid foundations and have tremendous opportunities for growth.
A critical focus of mine will be operationalizing the key initiatives to achieve that growth while building and maintaining a culture of operational excellence based on Six Sigma best practices.
I’m already working closely with Luke George and their teams and over the coming months I look forward to meeting and hearing from our investors.
Thanks again.
Thanks Glenn.
To state the obvious the first of 2011 has been an interesting time in the mortgage industry.
Origination volumes were down and the total market looks like it will come in between $900 billion and millions in the year.
And when demand is down margins are under pressure.
Our mortgage market share which is based on closings declined from 4.3% in the first quarter of 2011 to 3.7% in the second quarter.
We expect that this decline and despite it we remain committed to our full year market share goal of 5%.
Luke will provide additional perspective on our plan to achieve our goal in a moment.
Our focus in the mortgage has been on expense control while continuing to work with our partners to drive profitable volumes.
As expected increased regulatory oversight is driving costs up on the servicing side of the industry.
We expect our servicing cost per loan to increase presently 5% to 7% as a result.
Fleet continues to deliver strong earnings and is a key contributor to the company’s results with segment profit of $19 million up from $13 million in the second quarter of 2010.
Results were driven by strong growth in the fee-based revenue.
We expect to continue to grow the Fleet business and its contribution to earnings through new client signings and a sustained effort to increase profitable business across multiple market segments.
I’m frequently asked about the benefits of a combined Fleet and Mortgage business.
It’s during times like this when the earnings from the Mortgage business are under pressure that the steady earnings of Fleet help offset the volatility of Mortgage earnings.
Our goal is to continue to grow fleet profits and its contribution to our total earnings.
We have a unique business model and an incredible franchise in both business segments that when executed well will allow us to outperform the markets.
Our clients view us as product and process experts and look towards the design operate and optimize solutions that integrates seamlessly with their operations and from high quality service.
We’ve remained focused on building sustainable businesses that deliver low to mid-teens returns through the cycle and that can compete effectively across a variety of economic and market conditions.
We continue to grow our Mortgage Servicing portfolio the key driver of earnings in the Mortgage business while increasing earnings and the less capital-intensive Fleet business challenging markets where opportunities are bound and creative and talented people thrive.
Despite the challenges that presents I’m enthusiastic about our prospects.
Our pipeline of new PLF clients has never been stronger.
Our Servicing portfolio continues to grow and Fleet is firing on all cylinders.
With that I’ll turn the call over to David for detailed perspective around our financial results.
David? Thank you Jerry and good morning to everyone.
I’ll now take a few minutes to review the results for the quarter.
On a GAAP basis the net loss attributable to PHH Corporation for the quarter stood at $41 million or $0.73 per share.
Core earnings off the tax were $29 million or $0.50 per share.
On the mortgage production side IRLCs was $7.5 billion compared to $8.4 billion in the second quarter of last year.
On the Servicing side we continue to build our Mortgage Servicing portfolio which increased to $174 billion this quarter up from a $156 billion at the end of the prior year quarter and a $171 billion at the end of the prior quarter.
In terms of credit trends delinquency rates in our Servicing portfolio were relatively steady in the quarter with 30-day plus and 60-day plus delinquencies up and 90-day plus down from the end of the first quarter.
All of these metrics which are detailed on slide 10 of the Investor Presentation remain below the levels at the end of 2010.
Foreclosure costs were $24 million for the second quarter of 2011 versus $20 million in the prior year quarter and we expect that it will remain at an elevated level for at least the balance of 2011 driven by agency reviews.
The vast majority of these repurchase request relate to a 2005 through 2008 originations.
On an absolute dollar basis the UPB at loans in foreclosure and OREO in our servicing portfolio declined during the quarter from $3.9 billion to $3.7 billion.
Given the relatively weak demand that we see in the mortgage market we continue to aggressively manage our headcount while improving customer satisfaction.
On the first quarter call we reported year-to-date reductions in mortgage production staffing of nearly 600 FTEs.
Year-to-date through June 30 our mortgage production staffing is down 924 FTEs inclusive of 169 staffs that were eliminated as a result of the STARS joint venture transaction.
Company-wide our FTEs are down over 10% from year-end 2010 reflecting investments we have made in sales personnel to drive our organic sales initiatives investments in mortgage servicing personnel to proactively conform to anticipated heightened standards in loan servicing and foreclosure practices and growth in our Fleet support staff.
We have also added resources in certain of our corporate functions including risk management.
I wanted also to discuss our capital and liquidity positions which remains strong as the result of several transactions we completed during the quarter.
At the end of the quarter we held $212 million in cash and cash equivalents and $530 million of revolving credit facility was undrawn except the $16 million of LCs.
At this point we believe that we are appropriately capitalized given the growth plans of the businesses regulatory uncertainties facing the mortgage business and that business had inherent volatility.
And now Luke will provide some commentary on the Mortgage business.
Thank you David and good morning to everyone.
The first half of 2011 has been a tough environment for mortgage businesses.
We faced industry originations volume to decline 30% from 2010.
As Jerry mentioned we declined in our market share in the second quarter based on closings.
We believe the first quarter share reflected the closing of the disproportionately large overhang of fourth quarter 2010 applications volume relative to our competitors.
While we cannot control the overall size of the market or the margins offers there are things we can control.
First we can manage the share of the market we take.
We have launched initiatives to deepen the penetration of selected large PLS clients through a financial advisor outreach campaign we refer to as boots on the ground.
We supported this initiative with refinements in loan processing that have led to significant increases and customer satisfaction scores.
I am pleased to report three of our top four PLS clients have exhibited year-over-year growth.
Historically lower industry originations have led to an increase in Mortgage outsourcing opportunities and this year is no exception.
Our pipeline of potential PLS clients is strong.
We launched our newest PLS client Barclays late in the second quarter and other new PLS clients should come on-stream this quarter and next.
We remain disciplined in our pricing approach to the correspondent lending channel where margins have compressed significantly and we have shifted our resource allocation accordingly.
Our mix of correspondent originations declined from 39% in the fourth quarter of 2010 to 28% in the second quarter of 2011 reflecting the lower profit opportunity and our disciplined approach to pricing.
These actions have driven second quarter application volume growth of 40% versus the first quarter while the MBA index was up only 10%.
Some of our largest competitors reported quarter-over-quarter application growth of only 7% to 8%.
Based on this we expect meaningful share growth in the third quarter relative to our competitors and we remain committed to achieving our full year market share goal of 5%.
The second thing we can control is our expense base.
As David mentioned we are aggressively managing our headcount to make sure we are properly staffed to meet the opportunities presented.
The majority of our staff reductions occurred on the production side of the business.
We continue to achieve one of the best servicing replenishment rates in the industry driven by our market share growth and lower prepayments on our servicing portfolio.
Unlike most of our competitors our portfolio grew by approximately $3 billion in the second quarter and $7.6 billion in the first half of the year.
Our weighted average mortgage coupon in the servicing book has declined to slightly less than 4.8% an historic low for PHH.
Our quarterly prepayments average 10% as compared to the 12% life time prepayment assumption used in the servicing valuation model.
We have reviewed the consent orders executed by 14 of our competitors related to mortgage servicing and foreclosure processing activities.
While PHH is not a party to any of these agreements we believe specific aspect of these agreements embody the evolving servicing standards.
We have launched an initiative to conform to these new standards.
As Jerry said earlier we expect the adoption of these standards will modestly increase our servicing expenses.
That said PHH continues to have one of the highest quality servicing books in the industry.
Now I will turn it over to George.
Thanks Luke.
Good morning.
As Jerry said the Fleet business is ahead of last year and we feel we are on target to meet our 2011 goals.
Our focus continues to be on outstanding customer service for our clients and their drivers gaining market share in the US and Canada in growing our Truck business.
Our quarterly unit drivers reflect the results of our continued focus on Fleet Management Services with strong growth in service unit counts in maintenance service cards fuel cards and accident management vehicles for the three and six months ended in June.
Additionally we are starting to see some favorable indicators in new markets we are exploring such as Fleet Services for state and local government.
As you can imagine most of our corporate clients are feeling the impact of an economy that continues to struggle and as a consequence our relying on PHH to continue to execute on our cost savings and productivity enhancing programs as well as to introduce new solutions.
This has provided opportunities in areas that have not traditionally utilized outsourced fleet management solutions and we intend to continue to capitalize on this need.
Our new client sales pipeline is very robust in the US and in Canada and we expect to have decisions from a number of prospective clients in the next 60-days that will continue to grow our service unit count.
Our client retention has been the most successful since 2006.
We are confident that this will also continue.
Remember that 97% of our lease portfolio is open-end leases and we do not take residual risk.
However the vehicle that we have sold for our account in both this business and our Truck business have resulted in increased re-marketing gains due to a very strong used vehicle market.
Speaking of trucks last year we told you we were refocusing our attention on our fair market value heavy truck business which as you recall is this indication business.
As a result we are ahead of our goals in trucks for the first half of this year and expect to meet or exceed our goals for the full year.
It’s also worth mentioning that PHH bridge funding plan has been very successful and we believe is the most robust in the fleet management industry.
This year we have more than sufficient capacity not only for our current requirements but also for our plan growth.
We’ve been very pleased with the market reaction to our offerings and with the ultimate execution.
And with that I’ll turn it back over to Jerry.
Thank you George.
And with that we are ready to take your questions.
Operator? (Operator Instructions) We’ll hear first from Bose George with KBW.
Hey good morning and good to see strong operating earnings this quarter.
I had a couple of questions.
First on the headcount reduction.
You guys mentioned that headcount reduction continued through June.
So can we expect to see more benefits on the expense side in the back half of the year related to that? Yes as you start to see the full year if there is headcount reductions.
Okay great and switching to the gain on sales that was up very nicely for the quarter and it looks like the benefit there came from that net reductions to the gain on sale number and I was wondering if there are any unusual items there or is this kind of a gain on sale margin level that looks reasonable for the third quarter? No George there actually are some non-frequent individual transactions most notably the scratching dent sales that produced an $8 million gain and that’s in the 82 basis point reduction to the total margin number that’s presented in the investor presentation.
Okay so if I pull out that $8 million number then it becomes pretty normalized? Yes I think you need to put on a little more than that.
We actually had another small transaction I’d say more or like $10 million to $12 million.
Okay great and then just switching to the servicing side that you guys mentioned is 5% to 7% increase in servicing expenses.
Is that already incorporated in your MSR mark? It is.
Okay great.
Thanks very much.
I’ll come back on.
We’ll move next to Paul Miller with FBR Capital Markets.
This is Kevin Bartner filling in for Paul Miller.
He had stepped out for a moment.
I wonder if you can get a little bit of color around the market share goal of 5% by the year-end from the 3.7%.
Is there is something that you’ve seen in the pipeline that really push it and you mentioned more contracts coming on board but can you give us a little more color around that and pay outs? Sure this is Luke.
Basically we have a big focus on increasing our penetration in the financial advisor business and our PLS clients and that’s paying dividend at this point.
We also have contracts coming on stream.
I would also point to the fact that we believe the total size of the market is probably lower than what most industry analysts felt today.
Would you think that’s a market going forward to be in line with what MBA is pushing out there and you can get familiar more than on that just because refi really low like that refi burnout and how we are looking to that? We actually think that we are estimating the size of the second quarter originations to be $260 billion.
Most analysts have estimated that to be somewhere between $300 million and $325 million.
So we think the actual numbers are going to be south of the MBA expectations.
Just on agency perspectives or? No total market size.
Total market.
Okay and then also on the gain on sale margin the 159 are you seeing continued price competition there.
I notice that the pricing margin came down just a bit but not as much as what we expected heavy competition for pricing.
Do you see that coming down further or is that pretty much stabilized and your views? I would point to say we think the margins are relatively stable at this point in time lower than we’d like but stable.
One of the things that we are seeing in the market is we have mentioned early on and Luke mentioned in his comments the price compression that we are seeing in the correspondent channel that’s beginning to abate somewhat.
So we really seeing we saw a slight pickup in pricing margin and we really don’t expect to see continued significant pressure on the margins going forward.
Okay thank you very much.
(Operator Instructions) We’ll hear next from Henry Coffey with Stern Agee  Good morning everyone and thanks for sharing so much with us.
A couple of questions one is very just simple.
What was your book value and your changeable book value per share at the end of the June quarter? Jon you want to take that? You can move to your next question.
Give us a minute to calculate that.
We’ll call it out.
Secondly little more complex I’d share this is how previous to this call I would say I’m confused by the change in the fair value assessment of your MSR and maybe you could go over the inputs with this payment fees are running below estimates rates are low and obviously given the current disruption in the markets we are not exactly looking at a refi.
So we have to assume everything’s IQ higher operating costs.
You’ve been running at about what 6.5 to 6.8 basis points.
Can you give us a sense of what the cost adjustment is related I’m assuming to the C&amp;Ds issued to your larger peers.
All the other inputs have either been better or stable.
Henry this is Luke.
The predominant driver of the lower valuation is in fact rates.
So if we take a look at that a $130 million is a scribe to lower to rates.
Embedded in that $130 is a $20 million item that relates to expected increases and servicing expenses on a go forward basis.
So $130 million is really rate-driven and a slight increase in expenses the actual prepayments for the quarter had a value of $29 million and then the new additions had a positive value of roughly $77 million and that gets you to from one balance sheet point to the next balance sheet point.
Does that help.
Yes but which rates were down relative to March 31? So we can get an idea of how to track this going forward.
Sure.
We look at secondary rates and we look at primary rates.
So the secondary rates are changes in the secondary rate for mortgage transactions that was down roughly 25 basis points.
I don’t want to sign in too many notes but I don’t even know what that means.
Be a little more articulate at least everybody knows I’m kind of new to the story.
Okay the rate at which mortgage securities change hands has declined 25 basis points over the quarter to the yield on mortgage-backed securities.
Current coupon mortgage-backed securities declined 25 basis points over the quarter.
There is another that we call the primary rate which reflects the rate that we charge consumers and typically the primary rate is a rate that’s over and above the secondary rate.
When we have declines in the primary secondary spread that’s a negative element for the valuation of servicing rights and we did have such decline in this month of roughly five basis points I believe.
No no.
I’m sorry maybe I’m not being clearing off.
It’s a 25 basis point decline in secondary rates plus a five basis point decline in the primary secondary spread.
And that’s what … Okay I get it now.
That’s helpful thank you.
And then I’ll just going to keep pushing on this.
Your capitalized excess servicing from the second quarter was how much? It was $1.588 billion is my recollection.
I’m saying that from memory.
No no from the mortgage origination company.
That was a $77 million addition.
Okay.
And then a third question before we get back to the book value question.
Regardless of how tough things are you guys are running a portfolio that’s significantly better than the big four or five people in the industry.
You’ve got a sixth place seventh place in the servicing table.
You be at five are running delinquencies that are almost twice what you do.
What role do you see yourself playing either in the special servicing business or the bulk service being or the transfer of servicing voluntary or otherwise for the major five banks.
Is there a role with PHH servicing company in that as someone told me that that X side of your mortgage group is actually fairly involved with Fannie Mae’s efforts on this fronts.
I was wondering if you could see that as a – quantify that as a strategic opportunity or is that just… Henry this is Jerry.
It’s obviously an opportunity for us and it’s something that we are looking at.
I think you know the press has stated that BOA really had to downsize its servicing portfolio and that’s an opportunity that we are looking at.
We are as you noted I mean our servicing portfolios are the most salaried in the industry.
We think we do a very good job on the servicing side of the business.
So it is definitely an opportunity.
In terms of whether or not we are looking at specialty servicing opportunities that’s not one of our focuses now.
It is something we are exploring and looking into but we do see some opportunities in the sub-servicing of the business.
You could see yourself stepping in as sub-servicer not necessarily buying assets but earning the same returns you do on your existing portfolio? That’s correct.
We see ourselves as a sub-servicer and not so much in buying servicing but as a sub-servicer.
We just don’t feel a need at this point in time to buy servicing but we certainly is sub-servicer.
Can you put any numbers to that for us or? At this time it’s really kind of speculation.
I can’t put a specific number.
I can just say that we are looking at opportunities.
If those opportunities materialize we’ll make announcements.
And then you can email me the book value stuff maybe we should get on with the Q&amp;A.
Yes Jon are you ready or we may be ready with that answer.
Yes I think the question was what is the tangible book value per share and that’s $27.16.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) We’ll move to a follow-up question from Bose George.
Hey good morning.
I had a couple of follow-ups.
On credit I noticed it looks like there was no charge on Atrium this quarter.
And do you think the charges there are largely done or is it just kind of lumpiness in the year-over-year numbers are so good for that? I would attribute it to lumpiness.
I don’t think the charges there are largely done.
It’s really going to depend on the timing of defaults relative to premium income that with Atrium.
Okay and then just another credit one.
Can you comment just on incremental repurchase requests during the quarter like where they are trending? We are actually seeing heightened repurchase requests coming from the GFEs.
We think we are going to continue to see that for the remainder of the year.
And actually turns about do you think it’s the sight of their I mean are there vintages that there is still hiding or what’s driving the - I don’t think this magnitude of increase is still is it still going up whatever 25% or any color on that would be great too? My sense Bose is that the – we’ve seen an increase and I expect it to stay at this higher level for the balance of 2011 likely into 2012 as well.
The vast majority of the demands that we get today come from vintage years 2005 to 2008.
Okay and I assume on the private-label side there is still nothing really going on? Okay great thanks.
Thank you Bose.
(Operator Instructions) We’ll take another follow-up question from Paul Miller.
I have a follow-up question on the sub-servicing question you mentioned there.
So you mentioned that top thing you can get into that.
I know its speculation right now.
But do you see that’s something where you could just pack business or is it something where maybe you pick up a small servicer that has expertise doing that type of work? No it’s more the former rather than the latter.
I mean we are a servicer we are a major servicer and it’s just something that we complement our existing business.
We have a significant sub-servicing portfolio today.
Right would you go after small and more distressed servicing portfolio? No it’s more on the procurement side of the business.
Okay thank you.
Thank you.
We’ll move next to Henry Coffey of Stern Agee.
Yes I just think this is a more interesting part of the discussion.
As the market changes and the larger banks start to sort of – I know BOA specifically say they wanted to download their commitment to MSRs.
If you were in – and it sounds like the banks are more interested than selling than sub-servicing is there a mechanism by which you could fund those acquisitions? I know Aquan is working on a pretty interesting transaction on the origination side do you see any of that I don’t want to be in the mortgage business moving towards it? Yeah I think on the latte – I’ll answer the latter first the latter question first.
I mean we are seeing we have a very very strong private-label client back.
I’m sorry we have a very strong backlog and for the private-label clients today.
We are going to be rolling out at some of - over the second half of the year as well as into the first quarter.
The receptivity today I think a lot of lenders given the heightened sensitivity to mortgage servicing in the mortgage production side of the business receptivity to our outsource management proposals are really running very very high.
So we have a robust pipeline or what we believe the best that we’ve ever had for the private-label clients and we are continuing to see interest in that regard.
In terms of – with the first part of your question whether or not we are interested in buying MSR.
Yes because it made the market may head in that direction.
Yeah more and more are inclined to self-service then we are to actually purchase MSR.
I think that that’s right.
So if the right numbers are there we might be an interested purchaser.
But we are really we think better positioned at this point in time on a … That I mentioned the opportunity is big enough that to be the sub-servicer that would probably be a viable option.
That’s correct.
With no further questions in the queue I’ll turn the conference over to you Mr.
Selito for any closing or additional remarks.
Thank you very much.
To conclude 2011 has brought new challenges and opportunities.
We are demonstrating our ability to grow our and increase core earnings through this business cycle.
When the economy in the hazy marking eventually returns to a state of normalcy our earnings will benefit from the work we are doing today to build our servicing portfolio grow our Fleet business on a capital efficient basis and manage expenses.
We look forward to continuing to drive earnings through improved efficiency and enhanced customer satisfaction which will position us to deliver sustainable attractive returns to our shareholders throughout the business cycle.
Thank you for your continued interest and support.
This concludes the PHH Corporation second quarter 2011 earnings conference call.
Once again ladies and gentlemen the replay will be available beginning later today at the company’s website at www.phh.com or by dialing 719-457-0820 or 1-888-203-1112 using conference ID 3624790.
It will be archived until August 13 2011.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning ladies and gentlemen welcome to the PHH Corporation Third Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
Your lines will be in a listen-only mode during remarks by PHH management.
At the conclusion of the company’s remarks we will begin the question-and-answer session at which time I will give you instructions on entering the queue to ask your questions.
Today’s call is also being webcast and recorded for replay purposes.
The audio replay can be accessed either on the company’s website at www.phh.com or by telephone at 719-457-0820 or 888-203-1112 using conference ID 4951297 beginning shortly after the conclusion of the call.
It will be available until November 16th 2011.
This access information is also described in the company’s earnings release and I’ll repeat it again at the end of our session.
At this time Jim Ballan Vice President of Investor Relation will proceed with the introduction.
Good morning and welcome to the PHH Corporation’s third quarter 2011 earnings conference call.
Please note that statements made during this conference call include forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Form Act of 1995 as further described in slide two of our third quarter 2011 Investor Presentation.
Such forward-looking statements represent only our current beliefs regarding future events and are not guarantees of performance or results.
Actual results performance or achievements may differ materially from those expressed or implied such forward-looking statements due to a variety of factors including but not limited to the factors under the headings cautionary note regarding forward-looking statements and risk factors in our periodic reports filed with the US Securities and Exchange Commission including our most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K and Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q which are available in the Investors section of our website at www.phh.com and are also available at www.sec.gov.
Investors are cautioned not to place undue reliance on such forward-looking statements.
We will also be discussing various non-GAAP financial measures including core earnings pre-tax core earnings after-tax core earnings per share tangible book value and tangible book value per share.
Please refer to our earnings release and accompanying Investor Presentation for a description of these non-GAAP financial measures as well as a reconciliation of such measures to their respective most directly comparable GAAP financial measures.
The earnings release we issued yesterday may be accessed from our website or you may request a faxed or mailed copy by calling our investor hotline at 856-917-7405.
In addition the Investor Presentation is posted on our website at www.phh.com in the Investors section under Webcast and Presentations.
Speaking on the call today will be Jerry Selitto President and Chief Executive Officer who will provide a brief discussion of performance in the quarter.
He will be followed by David Coles Interim Chief Financial Officer who will review our financial results; and Glen Messina Chief Operating Officer who will provide perspective on the Mortgage and Fleet businesses.
Luke Hayden Executive Vice President of Mortgage and George Kilroy Executive Vice President of Fleet and other members of the management team are also with us today and will be available to take your questions.
I will now turn the call over to Jerry Selitto.
Thank you Jim good morning everyone and thank you for joining our third quarter 2011 earnings call.
Before we get started I’d like to welcome Jim Ballan to PHH as our new Vice President of Investor Relations.
Jim joins us after spending more than 20 years on Wall Street as both a sell side research analyst and an investment banker.
We’re really pleased to have Jim join us so welcome Jim.
The third quarter of 2011 was a great example of a key theme that we’ve been talking about for some time that is our ability to create long-term value even in a highly volatile interest rate environment by taking advantage of the significant runway for profitable growth provided by our business franchise.
There are four things that I want to point out about our Mortgage business this morning.
First we experienced a surge of refinancing in the third quarter and the process improvements that we put in place last year enabled us to handle the spike in volume and continue to provide excellent service to our clients.
As I’ve indicated in the past spikes in volume typically result in wider margins as lenders increase price to handle the surge.
Our ability to handle the volume and take advantage of the higher margins enabled us to significantly increase our core earnings results on a sequential basis.
At the same time we were able to leverage our franchise to grow our origination market share to an estimated 3.9%.
We have the capabilities and the resources in place to continue to make progress toward our market share goal.
Our focus is to drive profitable growth and create long-term value for our shareholders.
Second the drop in interest rates had sparked a refi surge was the key driver of our GAAP net loss in the quarter which was due to unrealized losses associated with the valuation mark on our MSR.
Our MSR replenishment rate continues to be well in excess of 100% and we believe the lower coupon assets underlying our MSR will produce increased cash flows when interest rates begin to rise.
The UPB of our total Mortgage Servicing portfolio stood at $178 billion a 12% increase over the third quarter 2010.
But what I really focus on is the UPB of our capitalized MSR because it is the primary driver of serving cash flow and reflective of the sustainability and growth of our servicing business.
The UPB of our capitalized MSR was up 9% over the third quarter 2010.
Third for the first time in a few years in the third quarter we decided to hedge a small portion of our MSR financial instruments.
We did this to ensure that in the event that interest rates continue to decline that we would maintain our target cushion relative to our leverage and net worth debt covenants while taking advantage of growth opportunities.
And fourth we are on track to achieve our 2011 closing volume target of between $50 billion and $55 billion.
While our POS channel has exceeded expectations and our corresponding channel is opportunistic based on margins.
Our real estate channel hasn’t produced as expected this year due to a slower recovery of the purchase market.
Our third quarter market share is up nearly a full percentage point on a year-over-year basis and our closing volumes continue to be up in a down market.
Our 5% to 5.5% market share goal for 2011 that I stated early in the year assumed $1 trillion in total industry originations and industry forecast are now higher than that which could cause our market share to come in under our goal.
In our Fleet segment we continue to focus on profitable growth in both our leasing business in our fee-for-service business.
Management fees increased to $42 million in the quarter compared to $38 million in the same period last year reflecting an increase in maintenance service fuel cards and accident management services.
The results for the quarter were strong core earnings despite a GAAP net loss.
Overall with regard to our strategic direction we are constantly reviewing our investment thesis and at this time we intend to invest our capital in both our Mortgage and Fleet businesses to drive long-term growth and profitability.
With that I’ll turn the call over to David to discuss our financial results.
Thank you Jerry and good morning everyone.
On a GAAP basis the net loss attributable to PHH Corporation for the third quarter was $148 million or $2.62 per share.
Core earnings after-tax for the third quarter was $64 million and core earnings per share for the third quarter was $1.14.
Core earnings after-tax represent GAAP earnings adjusted for unrealized fair value adjustments on our MSR and related hedges which I will discuss in a moment.
Interest rate lock commitments or IRLC is expected to close which are the primary driver of revenues in the Mortgage Production segment were $11.4 billion compared to $14.4 billion in the third quarter of last year but up sequentially from $7.5 billion in the second quarter.
In the Mortgage Servicing segment we continue to build our capitalized servicing portfolio which increased to $144 billion in UP this quarter up from $132 billion at the end of the prior year quarter and $142 billion at the end of the second quarter 2011.
As Jerry mentioned when interest rates decline sharply we typically experience a spike in refinancing volume and enjoy wider margins.
We also utilize more of our liquidity in managing the pipeline of our IRLCs and funding loans on our warehouse lines pending sale.
In response to the need to post collateral against our pipeline hedges our quarter end liquidity position reflects consumption of cash and a drawer of $80 million on our revolver.
This working capital need is anticipated to reverse as we convert our pipeline of IRLCs and funded loans to sold loans.
A little more color on our MSR hedge.
The use of a financial instrument to hedge is not a change to our overall hedging strategy.
We continue to believe that our production our Mortgage Production business is an affective natural hedge for the MSR but at times of intense interest rate volatility we may choose to employ financial instruments to manage our interest rate risk allowing us to access – allowing us access to the working capital necessary to fund the Mortgage Production business and acquire coupon MSR.
The financial hedge resulted in a $1 million gain during the quarter.
This gain is excluded from core earnings and is shown in a separate line item in the income statement titled net derivative gain related to Mortgage Servicing rights.
Turning to our Fleet segments this business also continues to be a key contributor to our consolidated results.
Fleet segment profit was $21 million for the quarter up 24% from the third quarter of 2010.
Fleet net revenues increased by $35 million in the third quarter 2011 compared to the third quarter 2010 primarily the result of a $31 million increase in truck lease syndication revenue increases in both Fleet management fees and gains on the sale of used vehicles offset by a modest reduction in Fleet lease income due to a decrease in the leased vehicle average unit count.
That same increase in truck lease syndication revenue resulted in an increase in the cost of goods sold which increased $30 million over the third quarter 2010.
At the end of the third quarter our liquidity included $434 million of availability under our committed revolving credit facilities plus $84 million in cash totaling $580 million.
As previously mentioned our use of cash and revolver during the quarter was expected given the refinancing activity we experienced in the quarter and we anticipate this to reverse as our pipeline of locks and funded loans converts to cash.
Under the terms of the revolver the quarter end levels of liquidity would be sufficient to extend the maturity of the revolver to February 2013 and assuming such extension the revolver could be used if necessary to retire the outstanding convertible notes due April 2012.
I’d add that our liquidity also included $1.4 billion of available capacity under committed asset backed arrangements $2.1 billion of available capacity under uncommitted asset backed debt arrangements and $777 million available under committed off balance sheet Mortgage gestation facilities as of the end of the third quarter.
As always we continue to evaluate the capital markets and other sources of funding to opportunistically extend the maturities of our liability structure.
And now Glen will provide commentary on the Mortgage and Fleet segments.
Thanks David and good morning everyone.
Starting with our Mortgage segment as Jerry said we delivered a strong third quarter on an operating basis.
We took $23 billion in loan applications and closed $13 billion in loans this quarter expanding our market share to an estimated 3.9%.
Our business mix for the third quarter was almost evenly split between purchase driven and refinancing driven closings.
At the end of the third quarter our Mortgage pipeline stood at more than $9 billion up $5 billion versus the end of the second quarter.
Most of these loans should close in the fourth quarter but please keep in mind that much of the related earnings were already recognized in the third quarter.
We are pleased with this volume growth especially because our pricing margin also expanded by more than 47 basis points as compared to the second quarter.
In addition as Jerry mentioned the capacity management plans we put in place at the beginning of the year allowed us to take on this volume surge while maintaining high call answer rates and customer satisfaction scores.
It’s this operational performance and proactive engagement that makes us a key partner for our clients and helps drive new business.
We also made significant progress in growing our nationwide sourcing footprint over the past two quarters signing five new private label accounts.
The new relationships include Barclays which we mentioned on last quarter’s call and today we’re pleased to announce that we’ve added Ameriprise and Morgan Stanley Private Bank along with two other financial institutions all as new PLS partners.
For Barclays and the two other firms these are the first Mortgage programs they are offering their customer bases so it will take 6 to 12 months to get them launched and fully ramped up.
Ameriprise was a client of ours from 2003 to 2005 and we’re proud to serve them again.
This program has launched and we assumed responsibility for taking all new loan applications in September.
Morgan Stanley has had a captive Mortgage effort for more than 20 years and going forward all of their Mortgage business will be supported by PHH.
We’ll begin taking conforming loan applications later this month and expect to begin taking jumble applications by January.
Now we mentioned in a recent press release that we were unable to come to mutually acceptable terms on a renewal of our relationship with Charles Schwab Bank a contract which was originally entered into eight years ago.
The Mortgage business has changed dramatically over that time resulting in a necessity for updated terms in the agreement.
While both parties negotiated in good faith in the end we could not reach an agreement.
The contract expires later this month but there is a six-month transition period thereafter for a part of which we will still originate new loans.
We regret that we will not able to come to mutually agreeable terms with our long time partner.
We expect the five new PLS accounts in the aggregate based on their 2011 production and taking into account ramp up time and anticipated launch schedules to produce about 7 billion in closing volume in 2012 about double what we predicted for Schwab.
And while we will continue to service the loans from Schwab in our owned servicing portfolio we expect them to transfer away to sub-servicing of approximately 9 billion of loans however the earnings contribution from these sub-service loans was insignificant.
I want to point out that on balance from our new PLS accounts we have access to 25 000 net new financial advisors in our sourcing footprint and we’ve already started to gain incremental business from these new relationships.
They will be a key vehicle for us to continue to increase our share at the Mortgage originations market.
We also believe the current environment is supportive of incremental opportunities for us to continue to add PLS clients and we are in discussions with several more PLS clients both large and small.
Our Mortgage Servicing segment posted solid operating performance this quarter while pay up volume for our MSR owned portfolio was up 37% from the second quarter.
The strength of our origination franchise enabled us to have a 167% replenishment rate.
The quality of our Mortgage Servicing portfolio also continues to be strong with total delinquency rates excluding foreclosures and real estate owned at 3.24% up just two basis points as compared to the end of the second quarter.
Foreclosure related charges were down $4 million for the quarter as compared to the second quarter while our defense rate the portion of loans put back to us that we successfully defend remained high at 67% through the end of the third quarter.
However we expect these charges and loan in purchase demands to remain at an elevated level for the foreseeable future.
Switching over to Fleet we continue to improve our returns with the fee based services to increase penetration of our existing accounts and new client signings.
Fleet management fees were up $4 million or 11% from the same period last year driven by increases in all of our fee-for-service units including maintenance service cards which is up 13% from the third quarter 2010.
In addition our new vehicle orders year-to-date are also up over 2010.
You may recall that our focus of fee-for-service strategy has been to expand our government business and to that end I am pleased to report that in the third quarter we signed a five-year contract with the State of Maryland that includes over 5000 units for maintenance and accident management services.
We also signed corporate clients representing 7 000 vehicles in the third quarter.
We’re transitioning these vehicles into our portfolio in the fourth quarter and we expect to be fully ramped up by the first quarter of 2012.
We plan to invest further in our heavy duty truck business which continues to have a successful year based on increased demand in that segment of the market.
In fact a leading industry trade publication is projecting double-digit growth for this market segment in both 2012 and 2013.
The key measurement for this business is the volume of leases funded which has more than doubled so far this year as compared to last year.
We’re also pleased with the solid margins we earned in the quarter from our vehicle re-marketing activities.
Although I’d emphasize that income from these sources can vary from quarter to quarter.
Fleet also continues to develop and introduce new technologies to the marketplace.
We recently introduced a new Fleet Manager mobile app that will help client access critical information about their vehicles and drivers as well as access our services more efficiently.
We intend to continue to invest in technology to enhance the value proposition to our Fleet clients.
Now looking forward after a strong third quarter operating performance there are some headwinds we’re facing in the fourth quarter.
With interest rates increasing since the end of the third quarter the pace of refinancing loan applications has declined and consequently total pricing margins have narrowed.
In addition our Fleet business we anticipate robust used vehicle re-marketing gains we generated in the third quarter will not recur in the fourth quarter.
Even though the fourth quarter environment may not be as favorable as the third quarter we expect 2011 to be a solid year for PHH With that I’ll turn it back over to Jerry.
Thanks Glen.
As you know PHH operates a unique business model as a leading business process manager in both the Mortgage and Fleet businesses.
These franchises are built upon long-term relationships.
Our clients view us as valued partners and look to our expertise to develop and manage end-to-end business process solutions that provide quality service to their customers.
We believe we have a significant runway for growth in both businesses and that innovative technology and best practices at each business drive synergistic benefits for the company as a whole.
The current interest rate and regulatory environment should bode well for our private label business and our relationship with Realogy should service well when the purchase market regains strength.
Our leadership in Fleet especially in the area of innovation also continues to benefit our business.
Thank you for your continued interest in PHH.
And with that we’re ready to take questions.
Operator?  Thank you.
(Operator Instructions).
We’ll go first to Bose George with KBW.
Hi guys good morning.
I had a couple of things first I just wanted to confirm you’ve guided to closings of $50 billion to $55 billion for the year.
And also you’re indicating that the rate lock commitments on gain on sale margins are slightly weaker in the fourth quarter versus the third is that right? Yes good morning Bose.
That’s correct I mean our IRLCs are about $11.4 billion in the quarter versus about $14 billion last year at the same period.
Okay.
Great and then just wanted to switch to the comments you made about Schwab I was just curious are there any other negotiations going on with existing clients that could result in either a lost relationship or declining economics is there anything we should look out there? No not at this time Bose and I think as Glen mentioned we negotiated in good faith both sides it was a contract that was entered into eight years ago so there were new terms I mean the market has changed dramatically there are new terms that were introduced and unfortunately we just weren’t able to reach mutual agreement.
Okay great.
And then actually I wanted to switch to rep and warranty just wanted to see if are there any changes you’re seeing in the way the GSE are behaving in terms of putting loans back and also just wanted to ask about the FHA whether there is any change in the behavior from the FHA? On the GSEs I think I was quoted in Bloomberg in a recent interview I mean the GSEs now where we are seeing that change is that they’re actually looking at more recent production and they’re actually looking at current pace loans.
So it’s not just delinquent loans that they’re looking at.
So I think as Glen had mentioned we believe we’re going to see elevated – that repurchase requests are going to remain at elevated levels.
On the FHA side I’ll actually ask Luke about that are we seeing anything on the FHA side.
Nothing significant at this point in time Bose.
Okay great.
Thank you.
We’ll go next to Paul Miller with FBR.
Yes thank you very much.
Can you talk about the hedging again a little bit? It was a very small hedge but is this and you said and mentioned something about purchasing – does that allow you purchase MSRs going forward.
I added on the call a little bit late so I’m just wondering did I miss something or can you address that a little bit in more detail? Yes good morning Paul.
Actually first of all it wasn’t really a change in our strategy.
We still believe that our natural hedge works very effectively especially this quarter we had a replenishment rate of about 167%.
What we do and I think I had mentioned this in a number of calls when I – I pay attention to GAAP results as it relates to our net worth covenants and our leverage covenants.
And so when we see dramatic increases – decreases in interest rate demand increases dramatically margins also increase and so we draw down on our warehouse lines to fund that capacity so warehouse needs actually increase.
So our short-term liquidity needs increase at the same time and that’s occurring at the very same time that our GAAP net worth is declining as a result of the mark in the MSR.
So we look at that we have internally have a targeted cushion over our net worth requirements and our leverage requirements.
And so what we look at is a sensitivity if interest rates continue to decline in the 50 basis points or 100 basis points are we able to maintain that cushion? And so as a result of that we decided to put on a very small hedge just to ensure that we continue to maintain our target cushion to the extent that interest rates continue to decline.
Does that answer the question? Yes it does.
So this is not something that it’s – we’re going to see it as a significant part of the business it’s just something that’s out there that you have to do from time to time to hedge other parts of the balance sheet? That’s exactly right it’s really just our prudent management of our capital.
And then talking about the MSR valuation itself.
I think it’s down to what 80 basis points right now? And most banks out there that have MSRs are down there.
I mean how much lower can you (inaudible) write this down like I mean it’s not a linear relationship but yet again it seems like on the accounting side you have to – you force it to be more of a linear than it really is.
I mean let’s say I’m not saying out if rates dropped another 50 75 basis points out there I mean would the economics of this thing really drop by half on the MSR? Would you have to write it down to like 50 or is it 70 just about as low as you can get it? Yes.
Let me first of all it’s like 83 basis points revenue the 80 that’s not significant.
Let me have John Erdmann sort of address that.
Hi Paul how are you doing? How are you doing? You’ll see when we send out our 10-Q the quantitative market risk session gives us again an instantaneous shock of how assuming a parallel shift in the yield curve of what that would do.
So what that will show is from this point down 50 we would estimate that the servicing rates will go down on another $200 million.
Okay.
But again that assumes a parallel shift so there’s not – to your point it’s not all linear so that’s kind of more hypothetical but that’s kind of the best estimate that’s out there.
Yes.
I know most analysts out there including ourselves and I think by your models you correct me if I am wrong) it’s almost a linear relationship but there is a lot of convexity in this thing right? And I’m just wondering is the convexity change versus the linear change I know I’m getting a little detail we can take this off-line they must be getting really wide here? Yes.
I mean if you look at the current shock that’s down 50 that’s minus 203 and then the up 50 it’s plus 191 so it’s almost flat so you have very little negative convexity at that point in time.
And then one last question Morgan Stanley.
That’s another big shop that you guys get.
Do you seem – do you feel excited as a Merrill Lynch relationship? Could this be as – could this be as market share basis could you have as much production as you got out of the Merrill Lynch operations for this one? Yes.
I think that our expectation is that we’re really coming very very close to where we are with Merrill Lynch with some of the new accounts that we’re adding.
Morgan Stanley Private Bank is a major client and we alluded to that in the last earnings call that we were talking to another premier name this was the premier name that we’re talking to.
Again when we look at the combination of Barclays Morgan Stanley Ameriprise we’re adding to our footprint a net 25 000 FAAs.
So we’re very excited about this.
We think this is really going to help us in our drive to profitable market share growth.
The thing I want to touch on you’re asking really good questions and I think it gets back to when we’re talking about MSR what’s the economic reality versus our GAAP marks that we have to take? And I think I keep on stressing in these calls that I am focused on core earnings and economic value rather than unrealized gains or losses affected by GAAP accounting.
But you’re onto the right questions.
And yes okay.
Thank you very much gentlemen.
Yes thank you.
We’ll go next to Henry Coffey with Sterne Agee.
Yes good morning everyone and let me add my congratulations on a really solid quarter.
Couple of questions all tied around the servicing business and maybe I can lay them out.
First if we had some sort of vintage analysis what would the coupon deck look like over the last couple of years? Obviously the stuff you’re putting on today is very low coupon going to be with you a long time some of the trailing stuff which is probably a relatively smaller part of the business is higher coupon.
Can you give us a sense of both the average coupon and if we had vintage data what it would look like? Yes I think I am going to give you – I’ll turn it to Luke for maybe more specifics but basically we started the year with a weighted average coupon in our portfolio of about 5.25.
That weighted average coupon today is down to about 490.
So we’ve seen major decline in the weighted average coupon in the portfolio.
As we’ve said in the past when you’re looking at this – and by vintage you can assume the earlier vintages in our portfolio are carrying higher coupon right and that’s how we get to that weighted average 5.25.
Right.
But you know Henry you and I have discussed this I mean as interest rates increase which we believe at some point in time and I’ve got a bet on the table with some people sitting around the table now – not when but if interest rates increase that we’re really going to extent our duration and our earnings power of the MSR portfolio.
Sort of building on that as a second issue are there mechanisms in place to tie MSR to more sort of peer or market comps.
I mean if rates start to go up and you decide to – and your interest rate models tell you to greatly increase the value of your MSR are we going to see the volatility on the other side or is there some sort of mechanism in place in terms of how you place the value on that that would keep it closer to quote “market bids” or however you’d like describe it to avoid it.
You add $5 and you take away $5 I think you’ve actually done that in one year where you wrote it both ways and can we get away from that in some fashion? Yes.
I mean the first part of your question is we’re actually using models for a fair market value and that’s how we mark the portfolio each quarter so what’s the – remind me your second part of your question? Just as rates start to rise your models are going to predict a big “increase in value” and I was wondering if there is any mechanism in place to sort of modify that so we’re not constantly living with this much volatility? I’m going to ask John to address that.
Yes I mean we do evaluate other market inputs and – that there was trading activity in the market we would calibrate the model to that trading activity.
But as you know it’s very illiquid markets there’s not a lot of activity there.
And then finally looking at the business operation you were talking about replacement rate which obviously has been very strong.
What mechanisms do you have in place with your correspondents and your private label relationships and your real estate network so that when party A goes to refi you increase the probability that you refi “through PHH” that you don’t have a net loss servicing from that transaction and what does that part of the business look like? Yes it’s really – it’s an interesting question and it’s something where we are working very closely with our partners whether it’s the Merrill Lynches of the world or the UBSs of the world in terms of how we actually manage their business and both in heavy refi markets and also how we could be more proactive in working with them in terms of looking at their business and book of business in terms of generating refi activity through their existing book.
I think I’ve said publicly I have said publicly that when we look at our major clients their penetration of their customers that have mortgages and those customers that have mortgages with them are really in the low single-digits and that’s across a majority of our PLS clients.
Our arrangement with our PLS clients as you knows is an exclusive arrangement I mean we are the only provider of Mortgage Services for them.
So a long winded answer but basically we are working with our PLS clients to ensure that that refi activity if their customers are refying they are refying through them and in turn refying through us.
So I mean when for example a credit bureau score – a credit bureau has ordered there’s a little light go off that allows you to then call Merrill Lynch and say Fred looks he is about to refi we need to give him a call or is it more subtle than that? Well the one thing we look at is what’s the weighted average coupon and we do it on a loan by loan basis not weighted average but let’s look at their portfolio interest rates if interest rates are 50 basis points below current customers’ rate that is a target for a refi call an outbound.
Again I think the evidence that we do this and very effectively and efficiently is really the fact that our replenishment rate is well in excess of 100%.
And if you look at our competition the big three their rates (inaudible) very affective job but their rates – replenishment rate is still below 100% and then it really declines when you look at some of the other competitors in the market.
And then just a more down to earth question I noticed a big jump in Fleet overhead but that’s tied to cost to goods sold on the syndicate operation may be you can give us a sense of what real operating cost was like in that unit? Yes.
I think you’re exactly right when you look at that increase in expense it really was the cost of goods sold in our truck syndication business.
That accounted for the majority of that increase.
The was also some movement in terms of shared services G&amp;A expenses but the bulk of that really was the cost of goods sold in the truck leasing business.
Thank you.
All right thank you.
(Operator Instructions).
We’ll go next to Paul Miller with FBR.
Hey thank you very much.
On the big news well I don’t know how big the news was but there was a lot of news flow out there about capacity being taken out of the business especially in the correspondent side and it’s one of these areas that you’ve been able to enter off and on for some pretty good profitable product.
With Bank of America pretty much saying they’re going to exit by year-end.
What are your thoughts there? Do you think there’s going to better opportunities or not in that space? Yes I’m going let – yes the answer to the question is yes we think there are better opportunities but once again we’re really pretty opportunistic in that channel.
So we pay close attention to margins in that channel.
As you know it’s probably the most cost competitive channel it is the most cost competitive channel that we operate in and we’ve seen some really strange behavior in that market in terms of where margins are being priced.
Some of our competitors are in the market when they are in the market they’re very aggressive in terms of their pricing and then they back off and they’re out of market and that’s why we stay really opportunistic in that market.
Luke do you want to add anything? No that’s really it.
I think as you look at our numbers over the past year you’ll see when margins are narrow we’re not much of a participant when margins are wide we’re much more aggressive.
So we hope that with the departure of BofA and the rumor is others that we’ll have more opportunities in that marketplace.
Okay.
Thanks guys.
Thank you.
We’ll go next to Bose George with KBW.
Hi thanks.
I just had a question on HARP I was wondering how much impact do you think HARP could have on your volume I mean is that the kind of stuff that you see much of through your channels? Yes I think in HARP I mean we’re paying very close attention to it we think it’s going to be a net positive for us and for the industry.
But again I hate the cliché but the devil is in the details we haven’t seen the details yet.
But overall we think it’s a net positive.
We are – we have been and we continue to sort of aggressively pursue HARP I.
We have a plan in place for HARP I and we just think with what we’re seeing and what we’re – what’s being reported we think that there’s going to be some increased benefits in HARP II loan to value is one of those major benefits streamlined underwriting is another.
So overall we think it’s going to be a net positive but we really have to see the details to determine just what effect that might have on our business going forward.
Okay great.
Thank you.
Thank you.
We’ll go next to Phil Dumas with Geode Capital.
Yes good morning guys.
Good morning.
You talked a bit about the 2012 convert on the call.
What are your – can you sort of expand on your plans for that maturities sort of a rethink and will there be a refi opportunity or will you just use the facility to pay that down? Yes I think in April 2013 is when that comes 2012 sorry.
All right.
April.
Our intentions at this point are to pay that down and I think as David alluded to in his remarks we could do that with our available liquidity today if we had to we could use the revolver to pay that down.
We continue to look at the market for other financing opportunities but if we could ever get the Greek situation settled and the Euro situation settled there might be opportunities for us to enter the bond market.
But we pay very close attention to that.
Okay.
So you mean the straight bond market not the convert market? Straight bond market yes.
But the...
Okay.
Thank you.
Thank you.
And at this time there are no further questions.
I’ll turn the call back to Jerry Selitto.
Thank you very much.
We look forward to speaking to you in the next quarter.
Just a couple of things that I want to mention we have an extremely strong business franchise.
As I’ve mentioned in the past we really – we believe that we have a strong runway for growth in both our business segments.
We are committed to both businesses and to grow both businesses and I really look forward to talking to you next quarter.
Thank you.
This concludes the PHH Corporation third quarter 2011 earnings conference call.
Once again ladies and gentlemen the replay will be available beginning later today at the company’s website at www.phh.com or by dialing 719-457-0820 or 888-203-1112 using conference ID 4951297.
It will be archived until November 16th 2011.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning ladies and gentlemen.
Welcome to the PHH corporation fourth quarter 2011 conference call.
Your line will be a listen-only mode during remarks by PHH management.
At the conclusion of the company’s remarks we will begin the question and answer session at which time I will give you instructions on entering the queue to ask your questions.
Today’s call is also being webcast and recorded for replay purposes.
The audio replay can be accessed either on the company’s website at www.phh.com/invest or by telephone at 719-457-0820 or 888-203-1112 using conference ID 4120134 beginning shortly after the conclusion of the call.
It will be available until February 21 2012.
This access information is also described in the Company’s earnings release and I will repeat it again at the end of our session.
At this time Jim Ballan Vice President of Investor Relations will precede with the introductions.
Please go ahead.
Good morning and welcome to the PHH Corporation’s fourth quarter 2011 earnings conference call.
Please note that statements made during this conference call include forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 as further described in slide three of our fourth quarter 2011 supplemental schedules.
Such forward-looking statements represents only our current beliefs regarding future events and are not guarantees or performance or results.
Actual results performance or achievements may differ materially from those expressed or implied in such forward-looking statements due to a variety of factors including but not limited to the factors under the headings Cautionary Note regarding forward-looking statements and Risk Factors in our periodic reports filed with the US Securities and Exchange Commission including our most recent annual report on Form 10-K and quarterly reports on Form 10-Q which are available in the Investors section of our website at www.phh.com and are also available at www.sec.gov.
Investors are cautioned not to place undue reliance on such forward-looking statements.
We will also be discussing various non-GAAP financial measures including core earnings pre-tax core earnings after-tax and core earnings per share tangible book value and tangible book value per share.
Please refer to our earnings release and accompanying supplemental schedules for a description of these non-GAAP financial measures as well as a reconciliation of such measures to their respective most directly comparable GAAP financial measures.
The earnings release we issued yesterday may be accessed from our website or you may request a faxed or a mail copy by calling our investor hotline at 856-917-7405.
In addition supplemental schedules are posted in the Investors section of our website under webcast and presentations.
Speaking on the call today will be Glenn Messina President and Chief Executive Officer and David Coles Interim Chief Financial Officer Luke Hayden Executive Vice President of Mortgage and George Kilroy Executive Vice President of Fleet are also with us today and will be available to take your questions.
First Glenn will discuss our strategic plans and provide a brief discussion of the company’s performance in the fourth quarter then David will review our financial results after which we will take questions.
With that I will turn the call over to Glenn Messina.
Thank you Jim.
Good morning everyone and thank you for your continued interest in PHH.
I am pleased to be speaking with you today as CEO and I look forward to working with our shareholders in my new role.
I see a significant opportunity at PHH to create value for our shareholders and in a moment I’ll lay out our key strategies to do that.
PHH has been a leader in Mortgage Outsourcing and Fleet Management Services for a decade.
We have built the client base of leading institutions that view us as a trusted partner to serve their customers and employees.
We have been able to leverage our client base and track record into significant tale that provides us a defensible and expandable market position.
The fundamentals of our business remains strong.
We continue to grow our private-label relationships in mortgage through new client additions and increasing volume of existing clients.
Our delinquencies are amongst the lowest in the industry and we generate substantial cash flows from our Mortgage Servicing business.
Our Fleet business continues to deliver double-digit annual earnings growth while providing low risk returns and highly predictable cash flows.
Going forward we are focusing on four key strategies to increase shareholder value.
First we will continue to pursue disciplined growth in our three franchise platforms consisting of mortgage private-label services our mortgage relationship with – and our Fleet Management business.
Second we will focus on driving industry-leading operational execution or operational excellence.
Third we will continue our unwavering commitment to customer service and finally in the near term we look forward tight volatile liquidity cash flow generation from both Mortgage and Fleet and deleveraging the balance sheet.
We believe it’s essential to alleviate any concerns regarding our liquidity.
The sound and stable financial foundation will allow us to execute our first three strategies and pursue opportunities to maximize value from a position of strength.
Going forward we will be more prudent and disciplined in the use of our balance sheet.
We are focused on monetizing financial assets that generate substandard return and are not necessary to support our business strategies.
These include mortgage loans not funded through our foreclosure and real estate-owned assets related to our reinsurance business and fleet leases not funded through our asset-backed securitization program.
In the past we have been opportunitistic in the corresponding channel while incremental originations and correspondence create core earnings consistent with our near-term focus on liquidity.
We are focusing on cash consumption rather than total volume in this channel.
We anticipate reducing cash consumption by at least 50% relative to 2011 with margins as wide as they’ve been recently we’ve been able to originate MSRs with minimal use of cash.
However we have established internal metrics and trigger points to ensure we do not exceed our cash usage for this channel.
In addition to these initiatives we have taken substantial and decisive actions to improve our liquidity position through our recent unsecured and convertible debt offering.
As a result we believe we are in a strong position to retire both our 2012 and 2013 debt maturities.
We will also be well positioned when we engage the lenders in our revolving credit facility later this year regarding a multi-year extension.
With respect to our financial arrangements with Fannie Mae our $1 billion committed and $2 billion uncommitted funding arrangements both remain in place.
As you’ll recall Fannie Mae had agreed not to take any action as a result of the recent S&amp;P downgrade until last Friday at the earliest.
We remain in active discussions with Fannie Mae concerning proposed amendments to our financing arrangements.
Regarding operational excellence this is a passion of mine have developed over the course of my career and it will be a company-wide focus going forward.
By operational excellence I mean improving the speed cost and quality of our critical business processes.
We have identified meaningful opportunities to reduce cost and improve margin by eliminating re-work that causes cycle time delays and consumes balance sheet capacity.
For instance loans originated with minor defects that are not eligible to warehouse financing take up balance sheet capacity and require corrected actions to remedy those flaws.
Elimination of this need for rework would reduce cash consumption reduce cost and accelerate cash realization from those originations.
Efforts like this should drive improved profitability and cash flow by making it some more efficient effective and competitive company.
These efforts also enable us to deliver improved service levels to our customers and clients.
2012 is a transition year for PHH and it will be a challenging year.
Some of the actions we are taking to reposition the business combined with lower mortgage industry origination volume will have a negative impact on our 2012 earnings.
I believe our narrowed focus our deliberate growth strategy focus on operational excellence continued focus on customer satisfaction along with our near-term focus on liquidity will result in a more profitable less volatile and better capitalized company beyond 2012.
This puts us in a position of strength to pursue opportunities to maximize shareholder value.
Moving to our fourth quarter results starting with Mortgage both volumes and pricing margins remained at elevated levels and as the third quarter refinancing surge extended into the fourth quarter.
While prepayments from our servicing portfolio were an annualized 19% for the quarter our strong origination volume allowed us to achieve for portfolio replenishment rate of approximately 161%.
This resulted in an increase in our capitalized servicing portfolio of 9% compared to year-end 2010.
The quality of our servicing portfolio continues to be strong.
Total delinquency rate excluding foreclosure and real estate-owned at 3.9% was down basis points from year-end 2010.
This is approximately half the level reported for large services by the MBA.
The percentage of loans in foreclosure and real estate-owed at year-end was 1.85% down 52 basis points from year-end 2010.
Foreclosure-related charges remained at an annual run rate of approximately $80 million and we continue to successfully defend about two of every three loans put back to us.
We expect these charges and loan repurchase demands to remain at elevated levels in 2012.
We have started to onboard the five new PLS clients we added in 2011 and we are already seeing strong activity from them.
As we said before few of these clients require six to 12 months to fully ramp but we expect these new clients collectively to contribute to the profitability of our Mortgage business in 2012.
Our Mortgage Origination market share in the fourth quarter was an estimated 3.9% and we met our production targets for the year.
Going forward we do not believe setting a market share target that’s consistent with our near-term focus on liquidity and cash flow generation.
Therefore we will no longer be providing this type of guidance nor driving the business towards this goal.
In our Fleet segment we continue to show significant momentum as 2011 was the second year in a row with double-digit segment profit growth.
Our continued emphasis on growth opportunities in non-capital intensive fee-based services continues to reap benefits and drive improvement in our ROE.
Management fees increased 10% to $45 million in the quarter as compared to $41 million in the same period last year reflecting growth in maintenance services fuel cards and accident management services.
We anticipate continuing to grow service units faster at a faster rate than leased units.
Our focus on customer service and technology innovation makes Fleet a leader in its industry and we anticipate continued growth in this segment.
And now I’ll turn the call over to David.
Thank you Glenn.
On a GAAP basis net income attributable to PHH Corporation for the fourth quarter was $13 million or $0.22 per share.
Fourth quarter core earnings after tax which adjusts for unrealized changes in fair value of our MSR and related hedges was $55 million and core earnings per share for the quarter was or $0.98.
The difference between our GAAP and core earnings in the fourth quarter was driven by the negative valuation mark on our MSR of $132 million primarily resulting from higher prepayment expectations from lower mortgage interest rates.
For the full year 2011 on a GAAP basis the net loss attributable to PHH Corporation was $127 million or $2.26 per share.
Core earnings after-tax for the full year 2011 was $182 million and core earnings per share was $3.23.
Both of these figures include a $68 million gain from the STARS transaction that occurred in the first quarter.
Interest rate lot commitments expected to close for the quarter which is the primary driver of revenues in the mortgage production segment were $9.7 billion it’s sequentially down from the $11.4 billion in the third quarter but up compared to $9.2 billion in the fourth quarter of 2010.
This reflects the surge in refinancing that started during the third quarter 2011.
In the Mortgage Servicing segment we continue to build our capitalized servicing portfolio which increased to $147 billion in UPB at year-end 2011 up from $135 billion at the end of 2010 and $144 billion at the end of the third quarter 2011.
Our Fleet Management segment remains a key contributor to our consolidated results.
Fourth quarter Fleet segment profit was $19 million down 24% from the fourth quarter of 2010 and full year 2011 Fleet segment profit was up to $75 million up 19% from 2010.
Fleet net revenues increased 4% in the fourth quarter 2011 compared to the fourth quarter 2010 primarily as a result of growth in truck lease syndication revenue and increases in Fleet management fees.
The leased vehicle average unit count increased modestly in the quarter and for the year as our Fleet segment continues to emphasize fee income on vehicles not under lease.
We anticipate the total leased vehicles will remain approximately flat in 2012.
On a consolidated basis other operating expenses in 2011 increased by approximately $94 million over the 2010 level.
This was primarily driven by an increasing cost of goods sold in our Fleet Management segment related to truck lease syndication revenue and increasing foreclosure-related costs and increased investment in the reliability and resiliency of our technology platform.
Now I’d like to provide an update on our liquidity position.
Not only that we have more than sufficient liquidity to meet our 2012 debt maturities we are confident we have the liquidity cash generation capability and balance sheet flexibility to meet our liquidity requirements through 2013.
At year-end 2011 our liquidity included $414 million in unrestricted cash plus $509 million of availability under our committed revolving credit facility totaling $923 million.
This represents an increase in liquidity of more than $400 million from September 30.
This increase in liquidity was the result of management’s focus on working capital initiatives in our Mortgage segment approximately $70 million in financing activity in both our US and Canadian vehicle Fleet Management securitizations and reflects the $100 million add-on offering of 9.25% senior notes due 2016.
I’d also point out that under the terms of our unsecured revolver our liquidity position at year-end was and currently is in excess of the liquidity required at the end of this month in order to extend the facility to February 2013.
Subsequent to year-end our liquidity position was further enhanced by $250 million in issuance of 6% convertible notes due 2017 issued in January.
Also since year-end we have acquired in open market purchases $48 million in face value of our 4% convertible notes due April 2012 at a weighted average price of just below par.
And now I’ll turn it back over to Glenn.
Thanks David.
To recap our four key strategies are disciplined growth in our franchise platforms industry-leading operational execution and unwavering commitment to customer service and in the near term an emphasis on liquidity cash flow generation and deleveraging the balance sheet.
All of these are intended to maximize shareholder value by making PHH more efficient from both an operating and financial perspective while leveraging our scale and franchise to improve our profitability.
Before we get questions I want to take a moment to thank all of our employees at PHH for their hard work and perseverance through what was a challenging and extremely busy year especially in the second half of the year.
We have an outstanding and I’m proud to be working with them.
With that we are ready to take questions.
I’ll turn it over to you Matt Operator (Operator instructions) We’ll take our first question from Bose George with KBW.
Hi guys.
Good morning.
Hey good morning Bose.
Good had a couple of questions.
First I just wanted to see if I’d get a little more detail on strategic actions you could take.
On the correspondent side if you take volumes down there sharply is there a possibility that you guys need to take any charges for that? And also just wondering if you are contemplating selling any loans servicing released as part of the strategic actions as well? In our Correspondent channel we’ve already taken the initiative to focus the business on collection of core customers that have driven very profitable very high quality production for us.
We do have multiple originations channels in our business.
So to the extent that we have to adjust our internal staffing for changes in volume levels in correspondent.
The good news for us is we continue to growing the PLS platform and we can reallocate resources over to POS.
Okay that’s great.
So it’s fair to say that nothing dramatic you wouldn’t need to take meaningful charge as you could slow down and reallocate people as necessary.
Yeah nothing material to the overall earnings of the business.
Okay great.
And then just on the question of potentially selling loan servicing release is that part of the plan in anyway? Bose right now given where market pricing levels are we can originate MSRs at very very attractive rates and with very minimal cash consumption.
We are focused on retaining them at this point in time.
Okay great.
And then just switching on the correspondent closing that you are going to produce those are all loans originated for sale so as that happens is it the fee-based closing percentage should we see that increase as a percentage of your total originations? Yeah that would be the math.
Okay great.
And then just one last thing have you guys had bidders for the MSR or even for the Fleet business I mean sort of bigger changes like that since you are discussing as well? Yeah as it relates to the MSR there has been a number of trade-down in the marketplace limited but albeit a few number of them but none of them have really been for the type of high quality production that we have in our portfolio.
We are exploring a number of different alternatives alternative financing sources to the MSR.
We think our focus on liquidity and cash generation will put us in a position where we really will need to be looking at MSR sales or alternative financing in the near-term to deal with our MSR growth.
As it relates to anything regard to Fleet or Mortgage this public forum is not the place to have any discussions about anything like that.
I’m focused on maximizing shareholder value.
We’ve laid out our four strategies and that’s what we are going to be pursuing.
Okay great.
Thanks and good work on the liquidity front.
Okay I appreciate it.
Yeah thank you very much.
And guys you want to rely in your opening remarks and I want to make sure that I caught everything and didn’t misinterpret something.
Glenn did you make a comment that the steps that you are taking might decrease profitability for 2012? Yeah over the near term we are going to be focused on managing correspondent to a cash usage target rather than targeting an absolute volume number depending where margins are that could put pressure on core earnings.
We are looking at selling some non-core financial assets or monetizing them.
Some of those assets may produce a loss on sale.
So in addition industry volume Fannie Mae is forecasting a 26% volume reduction which historically has caused margins to compress to the industry.
But look I mean this is going to be a transitional year for us and we are building more profitable less volatile better capitalized business for 2013 and beyond.
And then when you so when you are talking about lower profitability I don’t mean that you are talking really the core number the $3 number on the core basis not the GAAP number.
Yeah I’m focused on core.
Focused on core.
And then what about hedging the MSR? I mean I think that’s one of the biggest criticisms of PHH is the volatility that comes from not hedging the MSR.
Can you tell us what you are thinking on that is going forward? Yeah we regularly go through our servicing portfolio and as you know at the tail end of last year we did put some hedges in place to put ourselves for a downside rate move.
We continue to evaluate the merits of hedging the portfolio but quite frankly our near-term focus is really on addressing the 2012 and 2013 debt maturities and we’ll continue to evaluate the merits of hedging a portfolio as cost or liquidity situation permits.
Okay and then the HARP 2 write-down I would think that did you guys been writing down relatively aggressively the MSR due to rates and there is always been a discussion out there is economic or accounting.
So why would you have to take an additional write-down for HARP 2? Yeah in the fourth quarter we adjusted the prepayments fees in our model for what we think the impact of HARP 2 is going to be.
We are just at the inception of the HARP 2 program.
The GSE’s underwriting models and you have not really been updated yet.
So we are not seeing a significant amount of activity as it relates to HRP 2.
So the MSR valuation adjustment really came from changing our expected prepayments fee just as a result of HARP 2.
Okay so you have not seen – some mortgage banks went publicly about and JPMorgan being one not trying to put you on the spot saying that they are seeing a significant increase in refy activity from HARP 2 but you have really seen that yet? No not yet.
Okay and then on the expense side and especially in your segment analysis looking at your overall expenses which is your last line item in segment analysis.
That’s been picking up for the last four or five quarters.
I think it was in mid-20s a year ago it now is at $39 million.
Is that all recurring cost or non-recurring cost? Can you break that down a little bit for us? Should that we expect it to go down once we get through the high foreclosure or high default timeframe? Yes Paul as it relates to our servicing business there is a couple of different things happening to our servicing costs.
We do expect to see increased cost related to changing and acting our service platform to follow best practice standards particularly in the area of foreclosure and loss mitigation.
In the near-term we are seeing a heightened level of compensatory buying relating to foreclosure timelines or missing foreclosure timelines.
As we continue to focus on operational excellence and improving the quality of our operations we would expect to see that decline and we incur about $80 million a year in foreclosure related costs and at least for the foreseeable future for 2012 we expect that’s going to be in an elevated level.
Okay I guess another foreclosure cost of $80 million hopefully that starts to go down.
But I guess I’m more on the core operating number the core expense number of the servicing platform itself.
I mean is I guess the 39 it’s almost $40 million.
I mean the issue was that if that keeps on going up you have to sit and start questioning the servicing model itself and I’m just I’m not trying to pinpoint something here.
But should we start to see that to go down sometime in 2012 or 2013? Yes in 2012 I think your cost will continue to be elevated and it really does depend where the GSEs go and how aggressive they are with the compensatory bonds as to whether or not that number could decline in 2013.
Okay all right.
Thank you very much gentlemen.
Thanks Paul.
I appreciate it.
Yes good morning everyone and let me add my congratulations.
Very tough two months and I’m sure most of you have put in lots of long hours.
I’ll use the number and I’ll call it $400 million.
As you go through the year there is usually a sort of a seasonal consumption of cash tied to both origination activities and hedging activities et cetera.
As you go through the year are we going to see that normal seasonal decline in cash balances? Or with your new more liquidity-oriented strategies and the sale of non-core assets can we think about let’s call its $400 million of unrestricted cash as kind of a benchmark? You know Henry we are going to see a couple of different movements in cash over the course of the year.
You are going to see a build up over the next couple of months probably as we continue to execute on our liquidity plans and begin to monetize assets as we pay down our unsecured debt for 2012 and we want to address the 2013 maturities in 2012 and as well too.
You’ll see that balance ramp down and behind the scenes to your point Henry there is always a seasonal pattern of consumption and returns in a business especially during the spring buying season that we would expect it would continue in the business.
And can you give us some sense of the difference in terms of MSR cost or however you want to quantify it between what you are paying for correspondent loans and what it costs you to originate a loan? You know Henry historically we haven’t really disclosed the economics of where we stand between each one of our channels but I think if you go to the investors supplement on I think in page eight of the investors supplement we do lay out what the incremental pre-tax earnings of retail is with the incremental pre-tax earnings of correspondent is and in general the inverse of that would be are cash cost our relative cash cost.
Great I’ll go through that schedule.
That would be very helpful.
You talked in your convertible note offering about kind of a potentially very large new partner.
I was wondering if you could give us some sense of what the status of that is and then of course I have one last question.
Sure Henry we continue to be in discussions with this one large new partner.
We believe things are progressing appropriately at this stage as well.
We are looking at a number of smaller potential clients who are in discussions with.
We are going to continue to focus on growing our POS business consistent with our focus growth strategy.
And a way to understand the situation with Fannie there has been no change in the status of the line where there any specific conversations or comments from them that would either increase or decrease your comfort level? I mean you obviously have enough liquidity with or without them but I was just wondering was there any I mean they hold their cards very close to the best as we all know.
But I was wondering if there are any specific comments you could point to? Sure Henry I think you’ve got it.
The Fannie Mae alliance continues to be a development to us both the uncommitted and committed lines.
We are in active discussions with them or having a productive two-way dialogue going back and forth.
And how would you talked about extending the maturity of your bank line to a multi-year facility.
Would that be enough to sort of trigger an S&amp;P upgrade or since that was one of the primary things they’ve brought up or what is the thought process there? Henry I really can’t speculate on that.
Great.
Well thank you and congratulations on putting together a solid quarter and surviving a very tough period.
Okay thanks Henry.
Appreciated.
Hi thank you very much for taking my call or my question.
I just have a short-term and then a longer-term question.
In the short-term Mr.
Messina you mentioned the focus on your core customers and correspondent lending and I was just wondering if you could provide a little more detail around that what you expect to happen to your base of sellers in 2012? And then longer-term do you see correspondent lending as integral to your business in 2012 2013 and beyond albeit even if it’s at a smaller level? We continue to participate in the correspondent channel as I had mentioned we are focusing originating high quality profitable production to our correspondent channel consistent within the constraints of cash usage targets that we’ve set up for the correspondent channel.
Okay thank you and congratulations on getting through these difficult times.
And I appreciate it.
Thank you Scott.
Hey good morning guys.
Can you hear me? Yes good morning.
And how are you? Good.
Quick question can you explain the delta between your last liquidity update which is provided on December 27 I believe for a cash number of 322 unrestricted for December 21 versus what you have on the balance sheet at year-end? And I’m going to turn that over to Dave David do you want to get the walk on that? Yes as I mentioned in my script we did generate some proceeds from financing.
We have the – I think after the 21 we continued also to pull on that as we could on working capital management in the Mortgage business in terms of raising proceeds from the sale of mortgage loans held for sale and other operating activities.
I believe that the financing actions sorry the financing action that I mentioned in the script actually occurred before we gave you the update on December 21.
So that wasn’t incremental after that and we continue to have a lot of success in really cleaning up the balance sheet.
Got you.
So when you mentioned that over the next couple months your cash position should be boosted or should we assume that similar actions will be taken over the next couple of months? but I’m not sure that they’ll have the same dollar value effect.
Hey look we are focused more intensely on providing a more disciplined and focused use of our balance sheet.
We are taking the necessary operational actions to reduce loan defects.
So they don’t end up on our balance sheet or defective loans don’t end up on our balance sheet and we can continue to fund through our warehouse lines.
And as I said we are going to be focused on continuing to monetize non-core assets in our business non-core financial assets in our business.
Great the $13 million charge on credit related losses I mean I assume that that’s driven by your assumptions on delinquencies.
So did that change or do your assumptions change in the fourth quarter or have you become more conservative in taking those write-offs because the year-over-year delinquency numbers improved from… I’m going to actually turn it over to John Erdmann to take you through that.
You have to be careful in looking at the raw percentages because as you add loans you can’t improve the underlying delinquency percentages.
So your underlying loans and foreclosure or delinquencies that were delinquent before and delinquent now actually did tick up a bit.
But you are seeing improvement numbers overall in the portfolio as you are adding more current loans into it.
Got it.
Okay great thank you guys.
Thanks Ninad.
Hi good morning and thanks for taking the question.
Jumping between a couple calls.
Could you repeat Glenn the comment that you made whatever might have been on the put-back requests and the volume that you’ve been seeing of late? Thank you.
Yeah Jim I think throughout the course of 2011 we saw elevated levels of repurchase requests.
We still are successful in defending two out of every three one of those repurchase demands.
But net net foreclosure continues to run about $80 million during the course of 2011.
We expect a heightened level of repurchase request as well as our foreclosure costs continue into 2012.
Was Fannie Mae being an importance but not only lender to you.
Is there any sort of tension or was sort of the interplay between the discussions on future repurchase request in financing from them or are those two sorts of mutually exclusive discussions between yourselves and Fannie? We continue to value our partnership with Fannie Mae.
We cooperate on a number of different fronts.
We’ve historically had a good relationship with Fannie Mae.
We are having a productive back and forth dialogue as regards to the renewal of our $1 billion committed credit facility.
But I think the relationships continue to be appropriate.
Great thank you very much.
Good luck.
Thanks Jim.
Great.
Hey I want to thank everybody for joining the call and for your continued interest in PHH and we look forward to speaking with you next quarter.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you! Good morning ladies and gentlemen.
Welcome to the PHH Corporation first quarter 2012 earnings conference call.
(Operator instructions) Today’s call is also being webcast and recorded for replay purposes.
The audio replay can be accessed either on the company’s Web site at www.phh.com/invest or by telephone at 719-457-0820 or 888-203-1112 using conference ID 4407247 beginning shortly after the conclusion of the call.
It will be available until May 16 2012.
This access information is also described in the company’s earnings release and I will repeat it again at the end of our session.
At this time Jim Ballan Vice President of Investor Relations will proceed with the introductions.
Good morning and welcome to the PHH Corporation’s first quarter 2012 earnings conference call.
Please note that statements made during this conference call include forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 as further described in slide three of our first quarter 2012 investor presentation of supplemental schedules.
Such forward-looking statements represent only our current beliefs regarding future events and are not guarantees of performance or results.
Actual results performance or achievements may differ materially from those expressed or implied in such forward-looking statements due to a variety of factors including but not limited to the factors under the headings Cautionary Note regarding forward-looking statements and Risk Factors in our periodic reports filed with the US Securities and Exchange Commission including our most recent annual report on Form 10-K and quarterly reports on Form 10-Q which are available in the Investor section of our Web site at www.phh.com and are also available at www.sec.gov.
Investors are cautioned not to place undue reliance on such forward-looking statements.
We will also be discussing various non-GAAP financial measures including core earnings pre-tax core earnings after-tax core earnings per share adjusted cash flow tangible book value and tangible book value per share.
Please refer to our earnings release and accompanying investor presentation of supplemental schedules for a description of these non-GAAP financial measures as well as a reconciliation of such measures to their respective most directly comparable GAAP financial measures.
The earnings release we issued yesterday may be accessed from our Web site or you may request a faxed or a mailed copy by calling our investor hotline at 856-917-7405.
In addition the investor presentation of supplemental schedules is posted in the Investors section of our Web site under Webcasts and Presentations.
Speaking on the call today will be Glenn Messina President and Chief Executive Officer David Coles Interim Chief Financial Officer and Rob Crowell Executive Vice President.
George Kilroy President of Fleet and Smriti Popenoe Chief Risk Officer and Interim President of Mortgage are also are also with us today and will be available to take your questions.
First Glenn will discuss the company’s performance in the first quarter and strategic objectives.
Then David will review our financial results and provide an update on our liquidity position after which we will take questions.
With that I will turn the call over to Glenn Messina.
Thank you Jim.
Good morning everyone and thank you for your interest in PHH.
Before I get into the quarter I’d like to introduce Rob Crowl who will be assuming the duties of Chief Financial Officer of PHH Corporation.
As we announced on April 20<sup>th</sup> Rob joins us with more than 25 years of management and senior level mortgage and banking experience and will be responsible for leading PHH’s financial and reporting functions.
Welcome Rob.
Thanks Glenn.
I’m very pleased to join PHH.
I look forward to working with Glenn the board our finance team and our shareholders.
Thanks Rob.
Rob will succeed David Coles who’s been serving as our Interim CFO.
We are grateful that David has agreed to stay on for a brief transition and we thank him for the great job that he has done for our company.
Overall in the quarter we had solid operating performance in both our Mortgage and Fleet businesses and we made good progress on executing the four key strategies I laid out for our company earlier this year.
First we demonstrated solid growth in our three franchise platforms.
Retail mortgage applications were up 87% and Fleet delivered 50% growth in segment profit both as compared to the first quarter of 2011.
Second on operational excellence we are making progress around quantifying defects.
On Slide 19 of our supplemental schedules we have disclosed our mortgage quality related costs.
This schedule reveals that our potential earnings and returns are far greater than what we achieved this quarter.
Reducing defect costs for operational excellence is where I believe we have a meaningful opportunity to drive value creation for our shareholders.
Third we are committed to customer service.
We have increased our level of engagement with our clients and customers and we’ve identified a number of opportunities to enhance the service experience we deliver.
We are focusing our teams on the key operating and relationship elements to serve our clients and customers better and capture market opportunities.
And fourth our prioritization of liquidity and cash with generation has produced meaningful results.
We closed the first quarter with an unrestricted cash balance of $875 million up $461 million from the fourth quarter of 2011.
Subsequent to the end of the first quarter we retired our 2012 debt maturities and we reached agreement with Fannie Mae to maintain our $1 billion committed early funding facility along with our $2 billion uncommitted facility.
After retiring our 2012 debt maturities we currently have sufficient cash to pay down our 2013 debt maturities.
Turning to Mortgage the combined segment profit for production and servicing was up 38% over the same quarter last year.
Retail application volume in the first quarter benefitted from continued refinancing activity due to low mortgage rates and the ramping up of our PLS clients.
Thanks to wide margins in the first quarter we were able to originate MSRs with minimal use of cash while continuing to grow our capitalized servicing portfolio which was up 6% compared to the end of the first quarter 2011.
The credit quality of our servicing portfolio continues to be strong as our delinquency rates remain less than half the level reported for large residential mortgage servicers.
Our total delinquency rate excluding foreclosure and real estate-owned was down 41 basis points from the first quarter 2011.
Also the percentage of loans in foreclosure and real estate-owned was down 40 basis points from the first quarter of 2011.
During the first quarter mortgage repurchase demands more than doubled as compared to the fourth quarter of 2011.
The increase in repurchase requests was primarily due to a high number of loan file reviews by the GSEs.
We believe they focus more resources on clearing their backlog of previously requested loan files and are being more stringent in applying their criteria for accepting our defense of their claims.
As a result we recorded a $65 million provision during the first quarter of 2012 compared to $15 million in the same quarter last year.
With the addition of the first quarter provision our total foreclosure-related reserves were $165 million at quarter end which represents the losses we believe are probable.
Based on our ongoing discussions with the GSEs we believe that by the end of 2012 they may be substantially complete with their review of our seriously delinquent and defaulted related to origination years 2005 and prior and by the end of 2013 they may be substantially complete with their review of our seriously delinquent and defaulted loans related to origination years 2008 and prior.
Almost 78% of our standing repurchase requests at quarter end are related to the 2005 through 2008 origination years.
Given the results of the first quarter our ongoing discussions with the GSEs we believe it’s reasonably possible that future losses related to repurchase and indemnification requests may be in excess of our recorded foreclosure-related reserves.
Assuming that the elevated level of repurchase demands that we have recently experienced continues through the end of 2013 and the company’s success rate in defending against such requests declines and that loss severities on repurchases remain at current levels the estimated amount of possible losses in excess of our foreclosure-related reserves is $140 million.
If these losses materialize we believe the maturity would be realized over the next 24 months.
Because this is an estimate of reasonably possible losses not probable losses the amount is not included in our reserves.
We believe that our cash on hand and the execution of our liquidity plan will provide sufficient liquidity to operate our business meet our 2013 debt service obligations and fund potential increases in repurchase and indemnification requests.
Moving to Fleet segment profit was up 50% in the first quarter as compared to the same period last year.
Fleet management fee revenue increased 12% compared to the same period last year primarily reflecting growth in maintenance and other real asset-related services and driver safety training.
Segment operating expenses were effectively unchanged.
Although leased vehicle average unit count decreased 3% in the quarter our net investment of Fleet leases grew 3% from year-end 2011.
This is due to a shift in mix of our lease units to more service-type vehicles that have a higher value per unit.
These types of vehicles tend to be leased over longer time periods and typically use more services than passenger cars.
Our Fleet business provides a mission critical component of many of our clients’ operations takes on minimal lease residual risk and credit risk and has high barriers to entry.
We are continuously innovating and introducing time-saving productivity tools for our clients such as mobile connections and applications.
We believe these innovations make our offerings more competitive and facilitate customer retention.
Our focus on customer service and technology innovation makes our Fleet business a leader in its industry.
During the first quarter we won the Fraser Group’s Outstanding Customer Support Performance Award for the third year in a row.
Also in the quarter we signed 14 new clients representing more than 8 500 potential additional new vehicles.
We anticipate continuing to grow service units at a faster rate than leased units which should continue to drive ROE improvement as evidenced in our first quarter results.
And now I’ll turn it over to David.
Thank you Glenn.
Before going into the results for the quarter I wanted to say that it has been a pleasure to work with you and the entire PHH management team and I want to add my word of welcome to Rob.
On a GAAP basis net income attributable to PHH Corporation for the first quarter 2012 was $75 million or $1.32 per share.
Core earnings after tax for the first quarter was $53 million and core earnings per share for the quarter was $0.93.
The difference between our pretax GAAP and core earnings in the first quarter is due to a $43 million positive mark on the MSR offset by a $5 million loss on the related derivative position.
Interest rate lock commitment or IRLC is expected to close which are the primary driver of revenues in our mortgage production segment was $6.9 billion for the quarter.
This is down sequentially from $9.7 billion in the fourth quarter 2011.
This decline was primarily due to our intended reduction in originations in our correspondent channel.
In the Mortgage Servicing segment we continue to build our capitalized servicing portfolio which increased to $150 billion in UPB at the end of the first quarter up from $141 billion at the end of the first quarter 2011 and $147 billion at the end of 2011.
Our replenishment rate in the first quarter declined to 144% from 162% in the fourth quarter 2011.
Because of the expected decline in origination volume related to our correspondent business our replenishment rate could continue to decline although we anticipate that we will be likely to replenish most if not all of our prepayments in the foreseeable future.
A greater than 100% replenishment rate generally should coincide with growth in our capitalized servicing portfolio.
Our Fleet management segment remains a key contributor to our consolidated results.
First quarter profit in the segment was $24 million up from $16 million in the first quarter of 2011 primarily due to high units and usage of fee-based and asset-based management services and lower funding costs.
On a consolidated basis other operating expenses in the first quarter 2011 increased by approximately $80 million over the first quarter 2011.
This was primarily driven by the increase in our provision for rep and warranty expense up $50 million to the $65 discussed by Glenn higher production-related direct expenses from higher volumes and higher servicing costs from compensatory fees and costs related to servicing foreclosed loans.
Now I’d like to provide an update on our liquidity position.
At the end of the first quarter our liquidity included $875 million in unrestricted cash plus an additional $509 million of availability under our revolving credit facility totaling approximately $1.38 billion.
This represents a $461 million increase from year-end 2011 and includes net proceeds from January’s issuance of convertible notes of $243 million less $51 million paid down against the 2012 convertible notes.
The balance of $269 million comprises the recovery of $73 million of collateral postings $50 million of proceeds from the sale of nonstrategic assets primarily scratch and dent loans and Fleet leases and the remaining balance of $146 million is fairly evenly split between working capital initiatives and operating cash performance in the businesses.
In addition in the first quarter as expected we extended the maturity of our $525 million unsecured revolving credit facility through to February 2013.
Subsequent to the end of the quarter we retired the remaining balance of our convertible debt due 2012.
Our unrestricted cash balance as of March 31 pro forma for that debt repayment would be $676 million more than sufficient to prefund our 2013 debt maturities of $421 million.
In order to provide investors greater clarity regarding our cash flow generation capabilities we have introduced a new non-GAAP financial metric called adjusted cash flow the calculation of which is outlined in Slide 6 of our investor presentation of supplemental schedules.
Although this figure can be somewhat volatile quarter to quarter it is intended to illustrate the cash generated from business activities that is available for our unsecured debt and equity holders.
Adjusted cash flow is a key metric by which management performance will be measured internally in 2012.
Our execution against our cash generation initiatives has been strong through the first quarter and we continue to manage the business to be cash flow positive for the full year 2012.
And now I will turn it back over to Glenn.
Thanks David.
We had a good quarter and we are making progress.
Fleet continues to execute well on a number of fronts and is delivering strong growth in segment profit.
The mortgage origination environment remains favorable cash costs of originations is low and we delivered solid core earnings performance despite the increased provision for foreclosure-related reserves.
Realizing the underlying strength of our business will require focused execution of our four key strategies.
We are delivering growth in our franchise platforms and we are continuing to execute on our liquidity objectives.
I believe outstanding customer service and operational excellence are prerequisites to thrive in our business today and in the future.
I believe that our Fleet and Mortgage businesses have the potential to produce auto lease in the mid-teens and there is significant opportunity before us to create value for our shareholders.
We are working hard across the company to continually improve our performance.
I want to recognize and thank my colleagues at PHH for their hard work and commitment.
And with that we’re ready to take questions.
Lindy? (Operator instructions) We’ll take our first question from Paul Miller with FBR.
Please go ahead.
Your line is open.
Thank you very much gentlemen.
Can we real quick go back to the reps and warrants? In the past and you said this in the press release you were guiding to roughly $20 million per quarter of expenses related to that.
Reading between the lines I’m going to guess that number’s going up but by how much is the question.
I know there’s a lot of inputs into that but is there any more -- can you really add some more color to what you think the impact to the income statement would be on a quarterly basis at least throughout the end of -- the rest of this year?  Hi Paul.
It’s Glenn.
How are you doing?  How are you doing Glenn?  Good good.
Paul we’ve quantified based on a number of assumptions.
The probable future losses rep and warranty losses in excess of the existing reserves and we’ve quantified that to be $140 million.
We do expect if those losses materialize we believe they’d materialize within the coming 24 months but from a timing perspective Paul it is going to be lumpy and we really can’t predict or forecast what’s going to come in each month.
But we’ve laid out there that we think it’s reasonably possible that we have an additional $140 million of loss again based on a couple of assumptions and we would expect to see those if they materialize within the next 24 months.
So you have the $165 million in reserves and you think above that over the next two years you’re probably going to have to have losses close to $140 million give or take what the economic conditions give us? Based on our assumptions it’s reasonably possible that we could see an additional $140 million in losses.
And then the other question is I kind of missed it.
You said at the end of 2012 Fannie and Freddy will complete their review and then you said at the end of 2013 you talk about another completion.
Can you tell the difference between the two completions? Sure Paul.
We believe that by the end of 2012 the GSEs will be complete with their review of seriously delinquent and defaulted loans related to origination years 2005 and prior and then we believe by the end of 2013 they’ll be complete with their review of seriously delinquent and defaulted loans related to origination years 2008 and prior.
Okay.
What about -- because we saw some uptick in some other banks of the ’09 ’10 ’11 vintages.
Have you seen any of that? Yes the majority Paul continues to be ’05 through ’08 books of business 78% of our backlog in purchase demands is sitting in that bucket.
Okay so really it’s really going to be 2013 is the -- which is the end of next year is when you think everything is done and up until that point you think that given that knowledge that you have it would be at $140 million losses over the next seven quarters above the $165 reserves.
We believe the 140 is reasonably possible.
Okay and then going back to cash I missed the -- I think you gave the three sources of cash and one was $70 million.
I missed exactly where did that come from? David could you repeat that for Paul please? Absolutely.
So Paul I was attempting to attribute the $269 million which caused the adjusted cash flow number that you’ll see in the investor supplement and that comprised recovery of $73 million previously posted collateral.
That is essentially the collateral we post against our pipeline.
So as your pipeline goes up and down this number will go up and down also.
Is that -- am I correct? It’s related to scale but it’s also related to interest rates.
Yes Paul so as interest rates to up or down the amount of collateral we would post against the hedges against that portfolio that pipeline would change.
Now when the loans ultimately get sold into a security the hedges unwind the cash comes back or the loans sell for a higher value and you get the cash back that way.
So it’s -- that cash will cycle back through the business.
Okay so because -- So is it mainly because rates rose throughout the quarter that’s why this cash is freed up? And now that it’s coming back down did this cash get used up? Well it didn’t get used up.
Well it doesn’t get used up.
I don’t mean it that way but -- -- balance sheet but that’s right.
The rising environment gave us bad collateral back and we have that in our cash balance today less anything else we’ve had to post if rates have dropped.
Okay and then the sale scratch and dent is that also a lumpy number? That’s going to go up and down? Or you talked about being more efficient with that.
Have you become more efficient or it’s still going to take time? We have become more efficient.
That was one of the initiatives that we earmarked on the full year call back in January/February and we would expect they are to maintain more like that level of scratch and dent on our balance sheet going forward.
Okay.
There was one time in so far as it was balance sheet cleanup but we should be able to hold on to that over performance.
Okay and then the $146 million can you break that out relative to what you -- what the operating cash earnings was this quarter versus the working capital free up? I guess that’s the difference.
What we’re prepared to disclose Paul is that that’s fairly evenly split between operating cash performance and in scoping operating cash performance.
We have included the fact that the rep and warranty reserve has not been realized in cash yet so after making that adjustment it’s fairly evenly split between other working capital initiatives and operating cash performance.
You made a comment that the operating reps and warranty reserve is not out of cash so should we back out that $65 million out of 676? Well I think in the investor supplement you can see that we’ve realized -- our realized losses are something like $33 million in the quarter so we’ve really built up the reserve and we haven’t yet seen that go out in cash.
So is that considered unrestricted? Are you considering that reserve unrestricted cash? Absolutely.
Okay.
Thanks a lot gentlemen.
You’re welcome.
Thank you Paul.
And we’ll take our next question from Bose George with KBW.
Please go ahead.
Your line is open.
Good morning.
I actually had one follow up on the rep and warranty issue.
Your agreement with Fannie Mae notes that you can’t have any outstanding unsatisfied repurchase obligations that are more than 270 days.
I’m just curious how contested loans will be resolved as they approach that date.
Hi Bose.
It’s Glenn.
How are you?  I’m good.
How are you doing? Good good.
Bose we are -- well number one just given the increase in repurchase demands that we have seen we are staffing up our repurchased demand unit to make sure that we’ve got adequate staffing to deal with this in the appropriate cycle time.
There is a prescribed process we go through with Fannie Mae where we have <i>x</i> number of days to either pay the claim or assert a defense against the claim.
Fannie Mae will then evaluate our response to the claim.
They come back to us and then based upon their determination we either have to buy it back or we reassert another claim.
The bottom line is we’ve got to get through that process within 270 days because we can’t have any loans outstanding over 270 days.
For the most part historically we’ve been able to do that get them all resolved within 270 days.
We do have a small quantity of loans right now that sits over 270 days.
It’s about 50 loans right now – I’m sorry 54 loans – at the end of the quarter and quite frankly that’s just because I don’t think we did our best job in executing against that pile.
So with increased management rigor and increased staffing against it Bose I feel comfortable that we could manage that timeframe -- manage within those timeframes.
Okay great.
Thanks and then switching to the origination side you’re -- you have correspondent volume was 32% of closing this quarter and as you deemphasize that channel do you have a target for a correspondent as a percent of the total? Yes Bose right now we think by year end we’ll probably ramp it down to about 20% of the total but yes I do want to caution everyone.
Last quarter I talked about managing the correspondent operations to a cash budget and given where margins are today cash cost origination tends to be very low.
So within the right quality parameters and we’ve established defined quality parameters around who sells loans to us and the quality of their originations we may flex up or down depending upon what the cash cost originations is.
Okay that makes sense.
And just switching to HARP just curious what the HARP percentage of your loans were this quarter and also are you refinancing HARP loans from others or is it just your own portfolio? Right now Bose we’re focused on our own portfolio.
About 15% of our total portfolio qualifies to be HARP eligible and IMF reported as of the fourth quarter or was it first quarter that we were ranked number -- tenth in the nation for HARP originations.
That was the first quarter Bose.
Okay great.
Thanks a lot.
Nice quarter.
Thank you.
And we will take our next question from Henry Coffey with Sterne Agee.
Please go ahead.
Your line is open.
Good morning everyone and congrats on a great quarter.
Just to focus in on this cash issue when we look at your unrestricted cash we obviously have the reserve balance that we can take out.
You’re still well over $420 million when we do that.
Is the expectation that that balance kind of grows quarter to quarter as you get closer to refinancing the 2013s or how should we kind of benchmark you on that number? Hi Henry.
It’s Glenn.
How are you? Good.
Good.
Henry we really are not going to give forecasts of what we expect our cash balance to be.
I do want to reemphasize what I said before and that is we do believe that with our cash on hand and the execution of our liquidity plan we have -- we believe we have ample liquidity to deal with the repurchases our 2013 debt maturities and to fund our existing operations.
And then getting back to the mortgage business for a minute I guess I’ll state the obvious.
Those are pretty big margins.
Can you give us some sense of where they’re likely to go over the next three or four quarters? I know it’s hard to get your arm around it but something we could hold our hat to because obviously if we just assume that you kept growth gain on sale at over 3% on IRLCs we’d probably have some pretty outsized numbers here.
Sure.
Henry we really can’t forecast where margins are going to go.
We can tell you that we did see -- in the first quarter we did see a typical amount of margin volatility so we did see in the course of a week margins drop by 40 basis points and then spring back up by 40 basis points and that level of volatility is fairly consistent with historical practice.
The refinancing there’s been a lot of capacity that’s been taken out of the industry.
Refinancing activity continues to remain high as interest rates are low.
You’ve got the HARP programs HARP 1 HARP 2.
It’s all contributing to add stress to the system from a capacity perspective which I believe is helping to keep margins elevated to the point where they are today.
I would like to believe that those people who remain in the business are recognizing the fact that being in mortgage origination and servicing is going to be more costly on prospective basis and they’re pricing those costs in.
But Henry I’ve got to tell you this industry has been very volatile at the margin side.
You know it.
You’ve tracked it for years.
We can’t really predict with any degree of certainty where margins are going to be two three quarters out.
In terms of looking at your future volumes is it fair to assume that the private client channels produce the same amount of volumes every quarter or even grow slightly and that most of the shrink is in correspondent or how should we start to judge those numbers? As we talked about before we are going to run correspondent to a cash budget.
Our expectation would be correspondent is about 20% of our total volume mix at the end of the year.
We do believe that we can -- we’re seeing good strength in the PLS accounts.
The new PLS clients that we’ve added are beginning to grow and add new volume that’s offsetting Schwab running off out of the portfolio so we do feel optimistic about what we see out of the PLS channel.
And then as volumes go down -- You obviously have a lot of staff resources and a lot of staff needs but as volumes go down will you be able to re-staff for a lower number without much disruption or how should we gauge cost numbers? Henry we do have the capacity or do have the ability to take capacity out of our business.
We did that in the first half or first half of 2010 2011 where we took almost 500 600 people out of the business but as our practice is to continue to adjust our staffing as business needs demand.
We do have a flexible and variable staffing framework that we use in the business so within reason we can flex up and flex down with changes in market environment.
Well Glenn you’re off to a great start so thank you very much.
Thank you Henry.
Appreciate the kind words.
We’ll take our next question from Richard Eckert with B.
Riley &amp; Co.
Please go ahead.
Your line is open.
Actually these are probably directed at David.
Can you -- I missed it and I know you’ve already repeated this once or twice but can you go over those changes in cash flows again? Absolutely.
Good morning Richard.
Yes so at the end of the first quarter our liquidity included $875 million in unrestricted cash.
That represented a $461 million increase from the year end 2011.
A part of that increase was because we issued convertible notes in January.
That was 250 gross less 7 or so of costs for net proceeds of 243.
We also during that quarter prefunded some of the 2012 convertible notes that we fully paid off in April so there was $51 million paid against that issuance during the quarter.
So when you take 243 less the 51 you’re left with a residual balance of 269.
Of that 269 I said that about 73 of it was related to the return to us of collateral that had been previously posted.
It was about $50 million of proceeds from the sale of nonstrategic assets and that was primarily scratch and dent loans and Fleet leases and the residual balance of $146 million was fairly evenly split between working capital initiatives and the operating cash performance of the businesses.
Okay good and then the second question is that your effective tax rate was about 10 percentage points below my expectation.
Is there anything unusual like a recovery from the valuation reserve on the deferred tax asset or something like that? I’m going to ask John Erdmann to address that one.
John is our corporate controller.
How are you doing? There was a favorable event in the effective tax rate related to state taxes about $5 million which you’ll see when the 10-Q comes out in the income tax footnote but nothing related to the valuation allowance.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
You’re welcome.
Thanks Richard.
We’ll take our next question from Jim Fowler with Harvest Capital.
Your line is open.
Hello gentlemen.
One detail question and one general one.
The detail do you have any balance of loans where you have indemnified their performance rather than repurchased them? Hi Jim.
It’s Glenn.
The answer to that question is yes we do.
We do have a mixture of indemnifications and repurchases.
What’s the balance of outstanding loans where you’ve indemnified? We believe it’s approximately $220 million.
David or John can you help me with that one? It is disclosed in our Q which we expect to be filing at the end of the quarter -- or at the end of today I’m sorry.
Is it disclosed by vintage or is it just a balance that’s disclosed? Yes John go ahead.
Can you -- There’s a couple pieces of information.
In the investor summary you can see the pipeline of outstanding requests and we disclose that both by in total by agency and by private and by vintage.
You can see that in the investor supplement.
The -- I’m trying to -- Let me ask does that include indemnification? I’m looking -- I’m just thinking specifically of outstanding indemnification balances and then does your current reserves incorporate any losses you might expect from those indemnified loans versus repurchased loans the prospects for repurchases? Yes it includes both.
We consider them together so yes it includes both indemnifications and repurchases.
Okay great.
Okay so then whatever you’ve reserved and your guidance for the perspective the potential for the 140 I think you said includes indemnifications that you have already in place? That’s correct.
Yes.
Okay excellent.
Thank you.
Looking on page 17 of the investor package prior conversations with lenders leads me to believe that the EOCs [ph] kind of go through these reviews chronologically.
Given if that’s true and I’m interested to know if that is true actually and then looking at your February and March upticks have they gone into a new vintage or new period.
I mean it was just such a big increase.
I’m just wondering if -- what could explain that if it’s not chronological.
Jim they have not gone into -- this is Glenn by the way.
They have not gone into a new vintage year.
Again roughly 78% of our total outstanding repurchase requests are related to 2005 to 2008 vintage years.
The spike we believe is as a result of two things.
One they -- we believe they’ve allocated more resources to deal with their backlog of previously requested loan files from us so they’ve allocated more resources to go through our defense claims and the second is we believe they’re being more stringent in applying their criteria against our defense of their claims.
So I think it’s just one of they’re getting through the backlog.
And you mentioned additional staffing on your part.
Is that going to be noticeable in your expense line or do you think it won’t be? Oh no.
No we’ve got roughly 5 500 employees here at PHH and we’re talking maybe 12.
Oh okay.
Fantastic.
Great Glenn.
Thank you very much for your time.
Thanks Jim.
We’ll take our next question from Joe Galzerano with Muzinich.
Please go ahead.
Your line is open.
Yes thank you.
I’m sorry to do this but I want to go back to Paul’s first question about the 140.
I know it’s getting to the point where we’re beating a dead horse but when you originally discussed it during your comments I thought you said that we went and we made all these assumptions and you went really fast so I didn’t write them all down but you went through all these assumptions.
So one if you could just go through those assumptions again and two I took it as these were the kind of -- our assumptions of a worst case scenario which got to the 140.
So maybe you could just give us some color on that whether those were assumptions based on what you’re seeing of the industry or those were your “Let’s just really go and say this is the worst case scenario and this is what we have ” so I’m just trying to figure out what that -- I know you said it’s reasonably possible.
I get that but I’m just -- I just want to go through the assumptions and give us color how conservative they are.
Okay.
So there’s a number of assumptions.
There’s three main assumptions that I talked to earlier and the first was assuming that the elevated level of repurchased demands that we’ve recently experienced continues through the end of 2013.
Second is the company’s success rate in defending against those requests to climb and third the loss severities remain at the current levels.
Now those are at a very high level.
Underneath that I just want to make sure you understand that there’s a number of other factors that go into this modeling.
It is an estimate of what we believe is reasonably possible and the factors of what we consider are home prices the levels of home equity criteria used by investors in selecting loans borrowed delinquency patterns general economic conditions so there are a number of inputs into this so it is just an estimate of what we believe is reasonably possible.
Okay.
Thank you.
That was helpful.
You’re welcome.
And we’ll take our next question from Jordan Hymowitz with Philadelphia Financial.
Please go ahead.
Your line is open.
Thank you.
I have two questions and two topics.
The first topic is on the extra $165 million in a worst case environment.
That’s only $1.50 a share.
I mean that still leaves your stock substantially below book value even if your worst case scenario happens so I just want to hear you guys say that this is what I think the worst case scenario is not that it could be four or five times worse than this.
So Jordan let me clarify.
The $165 million is what we have on the books which is our estimate of probable loss.
In addition we’ve estimated it’s reasonably possible for us to incur an additional $140 million in losses that’s not in the $165 million reserve.
I’m sorry.
It’s my meticulous -- Is the 140 additional the worst case scenario plus the 165? It’s not going to be five times the 140 or something? Jordan it’s our estimate of what is reasonably possible.
Is that a worst case reasonably possible or just reasonably possible? It’s our estimate of what is reasonably possible.
Okay different topic then.
The gains around share [ph] you guys are seeing are phenomenal at this point and no one seems to be focused on that side of the business which is your core business and you imply that it’s likely to stay that way in the near future? Jordan I didn’t -- my statement with respect to margins is they’ve been unusually wide in the first quarter.
We really can’t predict where they’re going to go in the future.
Historically margins have been volatile in the origination side of the business.
But from what you’re seeing this quarter to date have they been stable at that level? Margins have been so far this quarter have been consistent with what we’ve seen in the first quarter.
Thank you.
Hi.
Good morning and thank you for taking my question.
Just wanted to talk about the foreclosure-related reserve.
The increase this quarter was there -- was this more influenced by an increase in the pace of repurchase requests or severities or just an extension of duration in resolving these requests? Michael it was influenced by pay -- by pace.
I’m sorry.
By pace? Okay.
By pace yes.
Okay.
And I guess of the repurchase requests so far I guess at least the trend that we’ve seen pick up in February and March what percent of those are actually previously refuted or things that you’ve kicked back but they’re coming back to you again? Michael unfortunately we don’t -- we have not disclosed that historically and I’m looking at John or Smriti.
We believe it’s a reasonably small piece.
We typically get through these things in the course of a series of discussions on it.
I see and just given we’re in May right now how are the volume trends for repurchase requests into April? Was this pretty consistent in terms of vintage and composition relative to what we saw at the end of the first quarter? Yes they continue to be focused on ’05 through ’08 vintage years.
That continues to be at least three-quarters of what we see.
I see okay.
And one I guess you just put in some new slides on the unencumbered asset coverage just really appreciate that slide.
I was just wondering do you have expectations or goals for this coverage ratio over the course of this year? I know we don’t have historicals in terms of the quarterly coverage ratios and not sure how much fluctuation we may see.
Michael my goal -- again we don’t have any covenants around this unencumbered ratio unencumbered assets to unsecured debt ratio.
My goal is to try to get the business to at least 3 to 1.
3 to 1? And is that a goal -- over what duration of time? I’d like to get there by year end and that can actually -- that gives consideration to effectively retiring the 2013 debt maturities so I just want to make that clear.
Okay great and my last question is there any update to provide on the CFPB investigation timing of resolution or perhaps the topics they’re focused on right now? Michael right now we have no material updates to report with respect to any regulatory matters.
Okay great.
Thank you.
Nice quarter.
Appreciate it.
And next we have a follow up from Paul Miller with FBR.
Please go ahead.
Your line is open.
Hi Glenn.
Can you talk about -- I think a lot of investors are waiting for that revolver to get it out to a multiyear revolver rather than just a 12-month revolver and is there any possibility of if this cash continues to build up at this pace to prefund the debt due in 2013 and then try to get that revolver negotiated out to a multiyear? Hi Paul.
Part of our liquidity plan is to -- we want to get there -- negotiate a multiyear extension of our revolver within the 2012 calendar year so that is something we’ve -- we’ve closed the quarter and we’re beginning to have some discussions internally with our lenders around the path to get that done.
But is there a possibility that you could prefund that April ’13 debt this year or would you -- or you just wouldn’t do that? We’re evaluating what the options are to quote “apply the cash ” so a number of different things we could do.
We could set it aside we could -- you could try to buy it in the open market you can try to do a tender and exchange offer.
There’s a number of different mechanisms out there where we can do that but Paul we haven’t committed to any one mechanism just yet.
Okay thank you very much guys.
Thank you.
(Operator instructions) And it appears we have no further questions at this time.
Okay.
Thank you everyone again for joining the call and I look forward to speaking to you again next quarter.
This concludes the PHH Corporation first quarter 2012 earnings conference call.
Once again ladies and gentlemen the replay will be available beginning later today at the company’s Web site <a href="http://www.phh.com/invest" rel="nofollow"><u>www.phh.com/invest</u></a> or by dialing 719-457-0820 or 888-203-1112 using conference ID 4407247.
It will be archived until May 16<sup>th</sup> 2012.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the PHH Corporation’s Second Quarter 2012 earnings conference call.
Your lines will be in a listen-only mode during today’s remarks by PHH management.
At the conclusion of the company’s remarks we will begin the question-and-answer session at which time I will give you the instructions on entering the queue and asking your questions.
Today’s call is also being webcast and recorded for replay purposes.
The audio replay can be accessed either on the company’s website at www.phh.com/invest or by telephone at 719-457-0820 or 888-20-311-12 and using conference id 4280688 beginning shortly after the conclusion of the call.
It will be available until August 22 2012.
This access information is also described in the company’s earnings release and I will repeat it again at the end of our session.
At this time Jim Ballan Vice President of Investor Relations will proceed with the introductions.
Thank you Catherine.
Good morning and welcome to PHH Corporation’s Second Quarter 2012 earnings conference call.
Please note that statements made during this conference call includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 as further described in slide three of our second quarter 2012 investor presentation of supplemental schedules.
Such forward-looking statements represent only our current beliefs regarding future events and are not guarantees of performance of results.
Actual results performance or achievements may differ materially from those expressed or implied in such forward looking statements due to a variety of factors including but not limited to the factors under the headings cautionary note regarding forward looking statements and risk factors in our periodic reports filed with the U.S Securities and Exchange Commission including our most recent annual report on Form 10-K and quarterly reports on Form 10-Q which are available in the investor’s section of our website at www.phh.com.
Investors are cautioned not to place undue reliance on such forward looking statements.
We may also discuss various non-GAAP financial measures.
Please refer to our earnings release and accompanying investor presentation of supplemental schedules for description of these non-GAAP financial measures as well as a reconciliation of such measures to their respective most-directly comparable GAAP financial measures.
The earnings release we issued yesterday may be accessed from our website or you may request a faxed or mailed copy by calling our investor hotline.
In addition the investor presentation of supplemental schedules is posted in the investor’s section of our website under webcast and presentations.
Speaking on the call today will be Glen Messina President and Chief Executive Officer and Rob Crowl Chief Financial Officer George Kilroy President of Fleet and Dave Tucker President of Mortgage along with other members of the senior management team are also with us and will be available to take your questions.
First Glen will discuss the company’s performance in the second quarter and our strategic objectives.
Then Rob will review our financial results and provide an update on our liquidity position after which we will take questions.
With that I will turn the call over to Glen Messina.
Thank you Jim.
Good morning everyone and thank you for your interest in PHH.
Before I get into the quarter I would like to introduce Dave Tucker who has taken over the role of president of our mortgage business.
Dave joined us in May with more than 25 years experience in various management positions at General Electric.
He brings tremendous experience in service businesses including private label business and has a successful track record of growing and strengthening organizations through focus on customer relationships.
His background in lean Six Sigma frameworks to improve operating performance as well as business development should also contribute to our success at PHH.
Welcome Dave.
Thanks Glen.
I'm very pleased to join PHH and to work directly with you again.
I'm also excited to be joining at a time of unprecedented change in the mortgage industry and I look forward to working with the team as we shape and grow the business.
Thanks Dave.
Dave succeeds Smriti Popenoe who has been serving as interim president of our mortgage business.
Smriti has now returned to her role as Chief Risk Officer for PHH and we are grateful to her for the great job she did during that transition period.
We remain laser focused on our four key strategies which I outlined earlier this year.
Disciplined growth in our three franchise platforms operational excellence and unwavering commitment to customer service and in the near term a priority of generating liquidity and cash flow.
The company continues to make solid progress in executing against these strategies which we believe will maximize value for our shareholders.
We are pleased to have delivered solid positive co-earnings in the second quarter.
Our retail loan origination platforms demonstrated strong double digit growth offsetting our planned decrease in corresponding loan originations.
Meanwhile fleet continues to execute well on a number of fronts and is delivering strong year-over-year growth in segment profit.
We continue to experience elevated repurchase related costs namely $39 million foreclosure related charges and $11 million average mark-to-market adjustment on loans we purchased from the GSEs.
Our estimate of recently possible losses in excess of our foreclosure related reserves has declined to $105 million.
We closed the second quarter with $700 million in unrestricted cash and have achieved a significant number of our liquidity objectives which Rob and I will talk more about later.
The mortgage originations environment remained favorable and margins remain very wide by historical standards in the second quarter enabling us to originate MSRs with minimal use of cash.
Retail loan application volume was up 52% over last year and up 11% sequentially benefitting from continued refinancing activity growth from our existing clients and the ramping up of our new PLF clients.
Correspondent loan application volume was down 42% over last year and down 22% sequentially consistent with our strategy to narrow our focus in our correspondent platform to business partners we believe will consistently deliver high quality loans.
Our correspondent channel represented 14% of our total closings from the quarter and we expect it to represent approximately 15% to 20% of our closings for the year.
Our total loan servicing portfolio at $193 billion was up 11% over last year driven primarily by our subservicing UPB which increased by almost 50% over the past year.
We expect to more than double our subservicing UPB from the current level with the assumption of approximately $52 billion in subservicing and/or private label agreement with HSBC in the first quarter of next year.
Subservicing is less capital intensive and has limited rep and warranty risk.
The combination of reduced volume in our correspondent channel and low interest rates driving prepayments reduced our replenishment rates in the quarter to just under 100% which causes a slight sequential quarter decline in our capitalized portfolio.
The replenishment rate in our retail channels was greater than 100% and going forward we anticipate that the overall replenishment rate should exceed 100% for the full year based on our current expectation for prepayments.
A greater than 100% replenishment rate generally should coincide with growth in our capitalized servicing portfolio.
The credit quality of our servicing portfolio continues to be strong.
As our delinquency rate remains less than half the level reported for large residential mortgage servicers.
Our total delinquency rate excluding foreclosure and real estate owned was down 45 basis points from the second quarter 2011 to 2.77%.
Also the percentage of loans in foreclosure and real estate owned was down 26 basis points from the second quarter of 2011 to 1.87%.
These exceptionally low delinquency rates help us keep our prolonged servicing costs low and reduce the potential for a future cost related to delinquent mortgage loan put backs.
As a result of our progress in reducing defects in new loan originations Fannie Mae has informed us that they expect to significantly reduce the loan review sample size for our performing loans going forward.
We believe this will help reduce the potential for repurchases of performing loans in a related rework cost to correct defects and potential losses related discretions and loan sales.
Mortgage repurchases and repurchase demands remained at an elevated level on the second quarter although they were at a lower level than in the first quarter.
We recorded $39 million in foreclosure related charges during the second quarter of 2012 down from $65 million in the first quarter of this year but still high relative to the $24 million in the second quarter of 2011.
Our total foreclosure related reserve at the end of the quarter was $175 million which represents unrealized losses which we believe are probable.
We have also updated our estimate for reasonably possible future losses related to repurchase and indemnification requests to $105 million which would be above and beyond our recorded foreclosure related reserves.
This is down $35 million from our estimate of $140 million at the end of the first quarter.
The reasonably possible estimate assumes elevated repurchase demands and lower success rate than those we have historical experience in defending against claims through the end of 2013.
Our assumptions related to estimated loses that remain reasonably possible through the end of 2013 are substantially unchanged.
As a reminder the estimate of reasonably possible losses is not included in our reserves because the level of certainty for those losses does not rise to the level of being probable.
Only probable losses are included in the reserves.
While we witness positive trends in the second quarter related to repurchase activity we have also realized we are in an environment of uncertainty concerning GSE focus and activity.
Based upon our ongoing discussions with the GSEs we continue to believe that by the end of this year they may be substantially complete with the review of our seriously delinquent and defaulted loans related to origination years 2005 and prior and by the end of 2013 they may be substantially complete with the review of our seriously delinquent and defaulted loans related to origination years 2008 and prior.
Approximately 80% of our outstanding repurchase requests at quarter end were related to the 2005 through 2008 origination years.
We have continued to see a heightened level of focus from governmental bodies in reviewing mortgage originations and servicing practices and in establishing the requirements for mortgage originators and services.
We continue to provide comments and respond to inquiries and request for information in connection with these activities and we continue to invest in our compliance and servicing functions.
We believe that our $700 million in unrestricted cash on hand at the end of the quarter and the execution of our liquidity plan will provide sufficient liquidity to meet our 2013 debt service obligations and fund estimated repurchase and indemnification request and required collateral postings.
Moving to our fleet business segment profit was up 16% in the second quarter compared to the same period last year and our net investment and fleet leases grew by 5% from the second quarter of 2011.
New units ordered was up 4% over the prior year and fuel maintenance and accident management units were all up over the prior year.
Our fleet business continues to experience a shift in mix of our leased units to more truck and service type vehicles that have a higher value per unit and now constitute more than 70% of our net investment and fleet leases.
We believe this is beneficial to our fleet business as these types of vehicles tend to be leased over longer time periods and typically utilize a higher number of services.
We anticipate continuing to balance our service units with leased units which should continue to drive segment profit growth for the fleet.
Our fleet business provides a mission critical component and many our clients operations takes on minimal credit and least residual risk that has high barriers to entry.
Our focus on customer service and technology innovation makes PHH a leader in the fleet management industry and we are continually innovating and introducing time saving productivity tools for our clients such as mobile connections and applications.
We believe these innovations make our offerings more competitive and facilitate customer retention.
These efforts were recognized by our peers in the second quarter when we won the 2012 customer experience innovation award from the customer experience professionals association.
We continue to execute on our liquidity objectives.
We reported another quarter with strong cash flow generation including positive adjusted cash flow despite elevated repurchases and a significant increase in collateral postings related to our mortgage origination pipeline.
We monetized a portion of our mortgage reinsurance assets and made significant progress on the financing front.
This includes increasing the financing capacity of our Canadian fleet lease securitization structure extending the maturity of certain mortgage warehouse facilities and with respect to our Fannie Mae  arrangements extending the maturity of our servicing advanced facility and amending our $1 billion committed to early funding letter agreement.
We also repaid the balance of our convertible debt that came due in April.
Further on August 2<sup>nd</sup> we closed a $300 million multi-year unsecured U.S.
revolving credit facility and we have obtained commitments for $125 million multi-year secured Canadian credit facility.
These credit facilities are intended to replace our former $525 million revolving credit facility that was set to mature next February.
Now I will turn the call over to Rob.
Thanks Glen.
On a GAAP basis net loss attributable to PHH Corporation for the second quarter 2012 was $57 million or $1 per share.
During the quarter we experienced $143 million negative mark to market adjustment on our MSR asset net of derivative gains driven mainly by a 36 basis point drop in the primary mortgage rate.
Core earnings which excludes the net MSR mark equaled $27 million on an after tax basis for $0.49 per share.
On a pre-tax basis core earnings totaled $48 million versus $76 million last quarter a decline of $28 million.
As I will explain more – in more detail in a moment this quarter’s results were impacted by lower pipeline head results the planned reduction in correspondent channel originations and $16 million pre tax laws related to the termination of our mortgage reinsurance agreement with Genworth Financial.
This transaction generated $24 million in unrestricted cash.
Core earnings for the combined mortgage production and servicing segments was $25 million in the second quarter down $28 million from the first quarter of this year due to $39 million decline in the production segment partially offset by $11 million increase in the servicing segment.
With regards to our production segment profit in our retail channel grew due to 10% increase in interest rate lock commitments and wider priced-in margins.
However this was mostly offset by reduced profits in correspondent due to planned reductions and originations.
In addition the benefit of wire margins was offset by lower economic pipeline head results of $29 million and higher changes in the fair value of scratch and dent loans totaling $11 million.
The mortgage servicing segment had a GAAP segment loss of $196 million.
The core loss of $53 million was $11 million better than the first quarter due to $26 million improvement in foreclosure related expenses partially offset by the $16 million loss on the reinsurance termination.
Our capitalized servicing portfolio of $148 billion in UPB at the end of the second quarter was up 4% from the end of the second quarter 2011 but down slightly from the $150 billion at the end of the first quarter 2012.
Our total loan servicing portfolio however was up 4% from the end of the first quarter to a $193 billion reflecting the transfer to the company of $8.4 billion of sub-servicing UPB in the second quarter.
At June 30th we valued our MSR at 78 basis points of our capitalized loan servicing portfolio representing a 2.6 times capitalized servicing multiple.
These valuations are down from 87 basis points and 2.9 times respectively at the end of the first quarter.
The valuation decline was primarily driven by a decrease in mortgage rates.
While we believe our production franchise remains our single best source of prepayment risk mitigation we continue to experience high levels of economic and interest rate uncertainty related to recent credit events in Europe persistent economic recovery slowness in the U.S and the Federal Reserve’s willingness to take extreme measures to support economic growth.
As a result in August we executed a series of interest rate hedges in order to provide supplemental protection against very low rates.
Assuming a 50 basis point parallel shock down in rates these hedges would provide an 18% reduction to the negative mark in the MSR asset.
The hedges are primarily option-based which minimizes cash consumption in a rising rate scenario.
Our fleet management segment remains a key contributor to our consolidated results.
Second quarter profit in the segment was $22 million down $2 million on a sequential quarter basis but up $3 million from the second quarter of 2011.
Compared to the first quarter fleet revenues were flat as higher leasing revenues were offset by slightly lower fee and syndication income.
Depreciation expense on operating leases was $2 million higher due to growth in net investment and leases.
Now I would like to provide an update on our liquidity position.
At the end of the second quarter our liquidity included $700 million in unrestricted cash.
Our quarter-end cash balance represents $175 million decrease from the end of the first quarter mostly driven by the repayment of the $199 million April 2012 convertible notes partially offset by $24 million in cash from the reinsurance termination.
As Glenn mentioned on August 2<sup>nd</sup> we closed a new $300 million unsecured U.S revolving credit facility consisting of $250 million tranche that matures in 3 years and a $50 million tranche that matures in approximately 2 years.
We also have commitments for $125 million three-year secured Canadian revolving credit facility that is expected to close by the end of the third quarter.
Adjusted cash flow in the second quarter was $26 million compared to $269 million in the first quarter.
Adjusted cash flow is intended to illustrate the cash generated from business activities that is available for unsecured debt and equity holders.
And as you can see that this figure can be somewhat volatile quarter-to-quarter.
The variance of the first quarter is attributable to higher pipeline collateral postings and timing differences between mortgage closings and sales and growth in net investment and leases.
Most of these variances reverse themselves in due course.
We continue to manage both the fleet and mortgage businesses to be cash positive through efficient financing arrangements and superior operating disciplines.
Now I will turn it back over to Glen.
Thanks Rob.
In the second quarter we continued to demonstrate solid execution against our four key strategies.
With regard to growth in our franchised platforms retail mortgage production volumes are up double digit over the last year fleet segment profit is up double digit over last year and our plan B emphasis of correspondent originations is on track.
With regard to operational excellence as a result of our progress in reducing defects to new loan originations Fannie Mae has informed us that they expect to significantly reduced loan review sample size of our performing loans going forward.
With regard to customer service fleet won the 2012 customer experience innovation award from the customer experience professionals association.
And finally with regard to liquidity we closed the quarter with $700 million in unrestricted cash and has completed many of our liquidity objectives.
I want to thank and recognize many of my colleagues at PHH for their hard work and enduring commitment.
With that we are ready to take questions.
Catherine? Thank you gentlemen.
[Operator Instructions] We will take our first question from Bose George with KBW.
Hey guys good morning.
I have got a couple of questions.
First just on the hedges that Jim put on this quarter you said that it provides an 80% reduction if rates fall 50 basis points.
Just curios what the other side of it is the impact if rates go up.
Yeah good morning Bose it’s Glen.
How are you? Good thanks.
I think that’s a little bit of a misquote.
I think Rob had said – 80.
An 18% reduction in losses rather than 80.
Yes sorry.
And yes again still curious like what the impact’s symmetric on the other side? No it’s asymmetric.
So it provides more downside protection than the cost upside.
And that was why we used an option-based strategy.
It minimizes the consumption of cash if freights go up.
Okay great.
And then just switching to that reinsurance chart you guys took are you exploring selling the remainder of your reinsurance exposure as well? At this stage of the game we continue to focus on the execution of the bulk of our liquidity plan which includes a number of items which potentially if we believe the economics are appropriate would be exiting the reinsurance business completely but I would have to comment that it is a specialized asset and if that opportunity presents itself if the economics are right we would take advantage of it.
Okay great.
Thanks a lot.
Thank you very much and we will take our next question from Paul Miller with FBR.
Yeah thank you very much.
Talking about the credit facilities you made a comment that the new credit facilities of which is 250 I guess another one coming from Canada 125 is intended to replace the one that’s on the books right now which is 525.
Do you need to replace the 525 completely? Are you talking to other banks or do you think that roughly with a 215 125 to 325 plus the 50 that’s two-year Is that adequate to run the business? Paul we are thrilled with the progress we made in closing the revolver.
It accomplished a number of key objectives that we had in replacing or updating or amending the revolver and that was namely a multi-year facility unsecured as well as broad bank (Inaudible) participation.
We believe the total of $425 million is adequate to fund the liquidity needs of the business going forward.
So you don’t feel the need to get it any higher than that or talk to other banks? I believe the $425 million is sufficient to fund liquidity needs of the business.
Okay.
And then the debt that’s due next April I guess with – I know some clients have told me that they felt you will prepay that debt.
I'm not sure if you made those comments or they are just comments out in the market? Can you prepay the debt will you prepay the debt or you will just wait till it matures next April the $400 million? Paul one of the objectives of our liquidity plan was to look to restructure the liability ladder so to speak of our remaining debt maturities.
We continue to look at opportunities in the market and options to do that.
We do believe that our cash on hand plus our liquidity plan would give us sufficient liquidity to address all of our debt maturity needs through the end of 2013.
In 2013 and then have you been in talks with the rating agencies in any sense with all of this to us or to me you have really strengthened a lot of the liquidity issues that S&amp;P brought up in the downgrade I believe nine months ago.
Are you in talks with them for an attempt to get an upgrade on your debt stuff? Paul we could make it a habit of continually being in contact with the credit rating agencies and reviewing the performance of our business both from an operating and a financial perspective.
And you know we continue to update them on the progress we are making in executing our liquidity plan.
Those discussions have continued to progress appropriately.
And overall I think we have had good positive discussions with the rating agencies.
Okay.
Thank you very much gentlemen.
Great quarter.
Thank you Paul.
Thank you.
We will continue on to Henry Coffey with Sterne Agee.
Yeah.
Good morning everyone.
Let me add my congratulations as well.
I find it a big accomplishment.
Two items one is real easy.
The footage in mortgage revenue just from looking at the press release was most of that due to the inclusion of that $16 million insurance adjusted write-off or whatever you would call it? Henry there was a number of things that you should consider.
So clearly the $16 million in insurance related loss this was a big piece of it.
You know there was as Rob mentioned $29 million of hedge pull-through gains in the first quarter that did not repeat in the second quarter and then there was a slight increase in unfavorable mark to market adjustment in loans repurchase in the GSEs.
That’s not – so far I'm just looking at the servicing item not the adjusted.
So all of that impacted the servicing side of the business.
No.
I'm sorry.
The mortgage -- servicing only would be the Atrium $16 million to Atrium.
Right.
Yeah that’s what we thought.
And sort of a broader question in terms of trying to really understand the business application volumes were up on a sequential basis but locks were down.
Do the application volumes are they only tied to the retail business and how do we – can we look at the application number and assume a stronger September quarter? So retail applications clearly were as we said previously in the call.
Retail locks as well too were up correspondingly both 34% year-over-year as well as 10% sequentially.
You know locks do drive current period revenues but as I mentioned Henry we are seeing a kind of a mixed shift.
Our retail is growing is growing as we are executing our planned de-emphasis of correspondence.
So right now the growth and retail is being offset by the shrinkage in correspondence.
Yes.
So the decline in locks is tied to correspondent business the application volume is all retail and that’s up.
In terms of sort of looking forward how much rate compression do you think it would take to seriously alter your current MSR evaluation? Henry I don’t know that I could speculate on what rate compression may exist going forward.
You know what I can say is I feel great about the progress for making on our four key strategies.
We are demonstrating growth in our franchise platforms.
We have recognized defect reduction by Fannie Mae we continue to execute positively on customer service and fleet and we are working to improve our position in mortgage and we are executing on liquidity objectives.
I believe we will be entering 2013 significantly stronger from both an operating and financial perspective that we entered 2012.
Sounds good.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
And Richard Eckert with B.
Riley and Company has our next question.
Yeah.
I had a question about the origination mix.
It seems this year even though picking on sale margins eroded a little quarter-over-quarter you know they are still well above levels observed last year and it would strike me that you would be a little more aggressive in the wholesale correspondent channel with margins this wide maybe not as aggressive as you had been in the past but more aggressive than you are in the second quarter.
Was that a conscious decision to further deemphasize the production in that channel or where the margins just not there in that particular channel? Margins are wide in the correspondent channel relative to where they are historically.
But the primary focus for us in correspondent is ensuring we maintain high quality originations.
So when we talked about operational excellence making sure that we partner with those correspondents who can consistently deliver high quality loans is one of the most important things for us in correspondent and we are you know executing against the strategy of maintaining relationships with high quality originators limiting our loan originations correspondent to those originators who have the highest quality loan delivery.
Okay.
You know second question is even after you take the $16 million charge into account in the servicing business the servicing income line was lower than I would have expected.
Once again even after taking into account $60 million I believe it declined quarter-over-quarter and I was just wondering if that was you know due to a shift and mix between you know your own capitalized mortgage servicing rights and subservice loans.
During the second quarter in addition to the $16 million adverse charge to the servicing segment as a result of termination of our reinsurance contract we did continue to experience elevated foreclosure related costs to include reserves for repurchase loans as well as the ordinary operating cost for loans going through foreclosure.
So we do think there was additional cost pressures in the portfolio not as severe as what we experience during the first quarter but still elevated relative to prior periods.
Yeah.
I was more focused on the income line than the expenses.
Expenses are actually less than I had expected which seems that there was a you know small erosion in margin there and I was wondering if it you know is it had something to do with you know a shift in the mix or you know between the loans that you originated and you know loans that you are subservicing for others.
It would have seem that you are making substantial move forward in growing that subservicing business.
The mix is different year-over-year.
In subservicing versus PHH invested servicing that is correct.
And as well you know as we continue to grow subservicing more aggressively than servicing there is other revenue elements that don’t come along with subservicing such as late fees and [inaudible] which would appear as a result of the mix shift of subservicing.
Okay.
Fair enough.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
We will take our next question from Steven Iceman with Emry’s partners.
Hi this is Steve Iceman.
Thank you for taking my question.
I have more of a strategic question to ask.
You said earlier in the call there is some big changes going on in the mortgage business.
You have a very unique franchise both from the origination and servicing side but because of your capital constraints.
You are only really able to participate on the subservicing growth in the mortgage servicing business.
You are only really able to participate on the subservicing growth in the mortgage servicing business and not in terms of buying servicing assets which I think we have a world that acknowledge as huge opportunity.
So I just want to know how you think about strategic opportunity whether it makes sense perhaps either to sell the company to someone who does has capital to take up that opportunity or to join or partner with someone who can provide that capital? Thank you.
Steve as I said earlier this year and continue to emphasize on our you know sense taking over as CEO we are focused on our four key strategies.
So discipline growth in our franchise platforms which includes PLS our Private Label Services mortgage origination and servicing platform our realty platform and fleet.
We continue to be focus on improving operational excellence and reducing defects across the company.
Would continue to maintain on the wavering commitment to customer service and we are focused in near term on improving a liquidity position of the business.
I feel great about the progress we are making in those four key strategies and I believe the business will be entering 2013 significantly stronger monopoly in financial perspective when we enter 2012.
Why don’t exactly answer my question.
I mean you are not participating in a massive opportunity in terms of buying servicing and I'm trying to understand that you are looking through some way to do that.
As I said before our growth focus is going to be discipline growth in our franchise channels of PLS and realty on the mortgage side.
That doesn’t answer my question but thank you.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions].
Jim Thaller [ph] with Harvest Capital will go to you next.
Good morning Glen.
Thank you for taking the question.
I wanted to take a look at page 14 of the slide and just ask you a couple of questions about the trends from the first quarter to the second quarter.
If I look up a change in the open to review of $157 in the first quarter versus $94.
That’s a significant decline.
I don’t see a commensurate increase in the claims pending.
So I mean which is obviously very good news.
I'm wondering historically you’ve been the number suggests about a 70% appeal rate and about a 90% success rate on appeals on GSE file reviews.
I mean I know you have given some guidance that you think that those numbers may change a bit.
But could you give some context around how much of a change those metrics you were thinking as you are discussing what may occur because the numbers seem to continue to be very favorable relative to you know you reveal and appeal and approved appeal process.
Jim you are correct.
As we mentioned before we did see a lower level of repurchase activity repurchase request in the second quarter as compared to the first quarter.
And in fact our backlog of loans – loan repurchase request actually quarter-over-quarter is down about 6%.
You know we have seen that come down.
With regard to our defense rate we’ve averaged about like I said about 70% of our you know loan repurchase request we do go back and argue on and was about 90% successful with that.
Over our longer term average that has been relatively consistent but as we talk about during the first quarter I do think the GSEs have gotten smarter in terms of their focus on what loans they put back to us based upon our success rate in defending against those loans.
As well as they are becoming more stringent in applying their criteria in our defense of their claims.
So you know we have seen over the course of the second quarter perhaps a slight deterioration in that combined cost 60ish percent rate defense rate but nothing material.
Okay.
And then I wanted to just ask a quick question on – bear with me there is like a couple of pages here.
On your priced-in margin.
I'm looking at page seven on the slide deck.
The priced-in margin expanded in the first quarter to the second quarter.
As far as I can tell primary to secondary markets schedule relatively stable during the same period.
So it looks like you are able to achieve an improved priced-in margin with I'm guessing that a lot of that is due to capacity constraints and the like.
But I'm wondering as you look forward from here given the significant increase from the fourth quarter to the second quarter what would you think the period over which my normal lies would be and I know a lot of that has to do with where mortgage rates are going to go and refi volumes and the like.
Then do you have in your in your strategic plan or your thinking what you think that these rates becomes when it has reached its trough.
I mean is it back in the fourth quarter second quarter you know $160 – $175 range or is it $200 – $225? Thanks.
Yeah.
You know I really can't speculate as to what the future directionality of interest rates are and our mortgage spreads and we have talked about before this and the number of times things that impact mortgage spreads.
Not only the you know current what I would call imbalance of demand for mortgage refinancing versus capacity or supply of mortgage capacity in the industry.
But there has been fundamental cost structure changes in the industry which also impact margins.
And you know there is things that impact interest rates by what happens in Europe and you know the government’s policy and economic stimulus and what they want to do with interest rates that’s too difficult to predict or to [inaudible] get that.
You know we continue to stay focused on our four strategies.
We believe those strategies position accompany best from both an operating and financial perspective to [inaudible] shareholder value creation through multiple cycles within the industry and interest rates.
Thank you for that.
Let me ask it may be a little different way.
As you position the company today and are thinking about it from a staffing point of view from a liquidity point of view what margin would still meet with satisfactory returns given how you are thinking about the expense inside the business and the liquidity that you have? Yes.
As I said before Jim I do believe you know liquidity position for the business were in great shape.
You have adequate liquidity considering our cash needs are available.
And the execution of our liquidity plans to satisfy our debt requirements through the end of 2013.
And yeah as I talk about historically right now we are investing in the infrastructure will support the growth in the originations environment and are key strategies of operational excellence and customer service.
But we do maintain flexible staffing plans so that if necessary in volume where to rapidly shrink within the industry we can reduce our capacity commensurate with the level of activity that’s in the industry.
Okay.
Thanks a lot.
Thank you.
We will take a follow-up from Bose George.
Yes.
Just a quick question on your share cap.
I assume this quarter there was no dilution because you lost money on a GAAP basis.
But I was wondering do you have a number – what your share cap would have been had you made money? Off the top of my – I don’t have that stat off the top of my finger tips here.
So might do.
Yeah.
It’s about 59.4 million shares.
59.4 million shares? Right.
Thank you.
And we will take another question from Sean George.
Please go ahead.
Hi.
Could you tell me on the reinsurance termination what was the change in the ultimate loss exposure and is there any change in the restricted cash on that? Yes.
As a matter of fact yeah Mike can you help the team with that.
Sure.
There is change in restricted cash.
So we remitted about $63 million in restrictive cash and we got 24 of that.
And the ultimate loss exposure our research came down by about $21 million as a result of termination.
Okay.
And then can you walk me through your thoughts on the [inaudible] I guess on the high end of probable losses went from 140 to 105.
Can you just walk me through the rational for I guess the $35 million change? Our methodology for forecasting reasonably parts of the losses was based upon three critical assumptions.
Those assumptions were that the elevated delivery purchases that we saw in the first quarter of 2012 continued through the end of 2013.
Second that our defense rate against repurchase demands would decline and third that the severity mortgage loan severity loss severity for loan repurchases or repurchase demands made would be consistent with the levels that we have seen historically.
Those three elements have remained unchanged that is still consistent with our view and nationally with the passage of time.
What we seeing happen is we have recorded provision for foreclosures or foreclosure related reserves that reflect the activity that has taken place during the second quarter and since our assumption that the elevated level of repurchases would not extend beyond the end of 2013 stays the same.
You know our estimate for reasonably possible office would in fact come down.
So it’s really a quarter went by and you didn’t see any of the kind of the higher end losses.
Is that safe to assume? That is correct.
Okay.
All right.
Thank you.
Thank you.
And we will now go back to Paul Miller with FBR.
Yeah.
Thank you very much.
On the write downs on the MSR you had two different write downs.
One is due to the economic change and the other is due to your natural amortization.
And that doubled like from roughly 30 and changed to 60 and changed.
Can you add some color to that because that’s the number that’s usually relatively stable that really jump this quarter.
Sure.
Mike can you give additional information [inaudible].
Prepays are up over a little over 100% in year-over-year or quarter-over-quarter.
And that was partially offset by the decline in the value of the service rents.
So it’s driven by prepayments.
That number jumped around that much before because I think around models.
We don’t have it jumping around that high and you know the refi is all over the place over the last couple of years.
Paul I mean what we see in national amortization well logically follow what happens with respect to actual prepayments.
So you should see that number moving consistent with actual prepayment activity within the portfolio.
Okay.
Thanks a lot gentlemen.
Thank you.
We have no additional questions in the queue.
I would like to return the floor back over to our speakers for any additional or closing remarks.
Great Catherine.
Look everyone thank you again for your interest in PHH and for joining us on the call.
And we look forward to speaking with you next quarter.
Thank you.
This does conclude the PHH Corporations second quarter 2012 earnings conference call.
Once again ladies and gentleman the replay will be available beginning later today at the company’s website at <u>www.phh.com/invest</u> or by dialing 719-457-0820 or 888-203-1112 and news conference Id of 4280688.
It will be archived until August 22<sup>nd</sup> 2012.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning ladies and gentlemen.
Welcome to the PHH Corporation’s Fourth Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
Your lines will be in a listen-only mode during remarks by PHH management.
At the conclusion of the Company’s remarks we will begin the question-and-answer session at which time I will give you instructions on entering the queue to ask your questions.
Today’s call is also being webcast and recorded for replay purposes.
The audio replay can be accessed either on the company’s website at www.phh.com/invest or by telephone at 888-203-1112 or 719-457-0820 and using Conference Id 9254161 beginning shortly after the conclusion of the call.
It will be available until February 22 2013.
This access information is also described in the Company’s earnings release and I will repeat it again at the end of our session.
At this time Jim Ballan Vice President of Investor Relations will proceed with the introduction.
Thanks Dana.
Good morning and welcome to PHH Corporation’s Fourth Quarter 2012 earnings conference call.
Please note that statements made during this conference call include forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 as further described in slide three of our fourth quarter 2012 investor presentation of supplemental schedules.
Such forward-looking statements represent only our current beliefs regarding future events and are not guarantees of performance or results.
Actual results performance or achievements may differ materially from those expressed or implied in such forward looking statements due to a variety of factors including but not limited to the factors under the headings cautionary note regarding forward looking statements and risk factors in our periodic reports filed with the U.S Securities and Exchange Commission including our most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K and quarterly reports on Form 10-Q which are available in the investor’s section at our website at www.phh.com.
Investors are cautioned not to place undue reliance on such forward looking statements.
The earnings release we issued yesterday may be accessed from our website or you may request a faxed or mailed copy by calling our investor hotline.
In addition an investor presentation of supplemental schedules is posted in the Investor’s section of our website under webcast and presentations.
During this call we may discuss various non-GAAP financial measures including core earnings pretax core earnings after-tax and core earnings per share.
Please refer to our earnings release and accompanying investor presentation of supplemental schedules for description of these and other non-GAAP financial measures as well as a reconciliation of such measures to their respective most directly comparable GAAP financial measures.
Speaking on the call today will be Glen Messina President and Chief Executive Officer and Rob Crowl Chief Financial Officer.
George Kilroy President of Fleet and Dave Tucker President of Mortgage along with other members of the senior management team are also with us and will be available to take your questions.
Glen will discuss the company’s performance in the fourth quarter and our strategic objectives and Rob will review our financial results after that we will take questions.
I will turn the call over to Glen Messina.
Thank you Jim.
Good morning everyone and thank you for your interest in PHH.
Overall I'm pleased with the results for the fourth quarter and the full year 2012.
For the fourth quarter we reported GAAP earnings of $1.01 per basic share and core earnings per share of $0.81.
Retail mortgage application volume grew 28% over the prior year of fourth quarter and total loan margin in the fourth quarter was 406 basis points down only 14 basis points in the third quarter and 120 points basis above the fourth quarter 2011 margin.
For the full year 2012 we reported GAAP earnings of $0.60 per basic share and core earnings for share of $2.96.
Fleet delivered 16% growth in segment profit and the high demand for mortgages throughout 2012 and enabled us to achieve approximately 56 billion in total mortgage closings.
We achieved these results despite $251 million in mortgage quality related cost a significant portion of which were repurchased in foreclosure related charged and $29 million in time charges that Rob will describe shortly.
As I look back on 2012 we spent the year focusing on the execution of our four strategic priorities and I’m proud of the progress we’ve made.
In 2012 we delivered disciplined growth in our franchised platforms.
Retail applications were up 36% and retail closings were up 28%.
We were awarded the HSBC private label program which includes approximately $50 billion in subservicing UPB.
Fleet delivered 3% growth in leased net investment as well as growth in average service units and we successfully negotiated price changes in certain key client relationships to offset increased cost so we can continue to invest in these relationships for the long term.
In some cases we took the tough actions necessary to separate client relationships with lower profitability.
We delivered on operational excellence.
We made defect reduction our priority in mortgage and Fleet.
In particular in 2012 we reduced our Fannie Mae new originations defect rate by approximately 80% and reduced our defect rate for critical processes in Fleet by more than 30%.
We delivered our commitment to customer service.
Customer satisfaction scores increased by as much as 10 points for certain key clients in mortgage and as much as 13 points in Fleet and Fleet also won seven awards recognizing our leadership and innovation and customer service.
And we delivered on generating liquidity and cash flow and deleveraging.
We entered 2013 with $829 million in cash up $415 million from year-end 2011 and with a $183 million left of unsecure debt.
We improved our unencumbered asset ratio from 2.3 times at the beginning of the year to 2.8 times at year end approaching our goal of three times or better.
And we demonstrated access to multiple debt capital markets.
We put in place multiyear revolving credit facilities renewed or extended more than $6 billion of mortgage related funding arrangements issued $1.2 billion in fleet term ABS debt and renewed $2.3 billion in fleet lease conduit financing facilities.
We paid off our 2012 and 2013 unsecured debt maturities in 2012 and our next unsecured debt maturity is not until September of 2014 when we have $250 million in aggregate principle amount of convertible debt maturating.
Our solid operating performance reflects our commitment to our four key strategies and we believe the continued implementation of these strategies while maximize value for shareholders by positioning us for growth and making us more competitive more profitable and more capital efficient company.
Now I would like to turn the call over to Rob to discuss our results after which I'll discuss our outlook for 2013.
Thanks Glen.
On a GAAP basis net income attributable to PHH Corporation for the fourth quarter 2012 was $58 million or $1 per basic share which included a $29 million positive mark-to-market adjustment on MSR asset partially offset by $10 million in MSR hedge losses.
Core earnings which excludes the net MSR mark were $46 million on an after tax basis or $0.81 per share.
For the full year 2012 on a GAAP basis net income attributable to PHH Corporation was $34 million or $0.60 per basic share which included a $223 million negative mark-to-market adjustment on our MSR assets primarily from elevated pre-payment rates as interest rates declined throughout the year and $5 million on MSR hedge losses.
Core earnings were $168 million on an after tax basis or $2.96 per share.
Core earnings per share would have grown 30% in 2012 as compared to 2011 if you adjust for $0.31 per share in losses in 2012 related to debt prepayment and mortgage reinsurance termination costs as well as a $0.72 per share gain in 2011 related to the sale of our interest and our appraisal services business.
Core earning pretax for the combined mortgage production and servicing segments was $45 million in the fourth quarter down from $59 million in the previous quarter.
Production segment was down $23 million due primarily to lower gain on mortgage loans and increased investments in compliance and quality related initiatives.
The servicing segment was $9 million better than last quarter due primarily to lower quality related costs.
Retail applications in the fourth quarter were $14.8 billion down 5% relative to last quarter reflecting seasonal trends but up 28% compared to the fourth quarter last year driven by the expansion of our retail platforms.
Fourth quarter retail locks expected to close were $4.6 billion versus $4.8 billion last quarter also unseasonal fluctuation.
Fourth quarter correspondent closings were down 65% from last year consistent with our strategy to focus on business partners we believe will consistently deliver high quality results.
Our correspondent channel represented 13% of total closings in the fourth quarter and 18% for the full year in line with our 15%$ to 20% expectation.
For 2013 we expect the correspondent channel to represent approximately 10% to 15% of total originations.
Competition for volume in this channel has increased and margins in the fourth quarter tightened significantly more than what we experienced in our retail channel.
Our capitalized loan servicing portfolio of $140 billion in UPB at year end is down 5% from the end of 2011 as our replenishment rate continued to be below a 100% in the fourth quarter primarily from the scaling back of our correspondent channel and higher prepayment rates.
We anticipate returning to a replenishment rate in excess of a 100% in 2013 with the addition of HSBC.
A greater than 100% replenishment rate generally should coincide with growth in our capitalized loan servicing portfolio.
Our total loan servicing portfolio of a $184 billion at the yearend 2012 edged up during the year reflecting growth in our subservicing UPB.
We also expect to more than double our subservicing UPB from the yearend level with the assumption of approximately $50 billion in subservicing from HSBC.
We view this growth in subservicing as positive because it is less capital intensive than owned servicing and has more limited rep than warranty risk.
The credit quality of our servicing portfolio continues to be strong as our delinquency rate remains less than half the level reported for large residential mortgage servicers.
Our total delinquency rate at yearend excluding foreclosure and real estate owned was 3.15% up from 3.04% at the third quarter of 2012 but down from 3.29 at the beginning of the year.
We continue to make progress in clearing the backlog of GSE repurchases which have declined 44% since the first quarter of 2012 and 27% from last quarter.
We recorded $37 million in repurchase and foreclosure related charges during that quarter a slight decrease from the $41 million in the third quarter.
Our repurchase and foreclosure related reserves at quarter end was a $191 million; up from a $176 million at end of last quarter.
We have also updated our estimate for reasonably possible future losses related to repurchase and indemnification requests to $40 million which is down $30 million from our $70 million estimate at the end of the third quarter.
The reasonably possible loss estimate continues to assume that repurchase demands remain at elevated levels through the end of 2013 and that our success rate in defending against these claims is lower than what we have historically experienced.
I want to remind you that the estimate for reasonably possible losses above and beyond are recorded repurchase and foreclosure related reserve.
At year end we valued our MSR at 73 basis points of our capitalized loan servicing portfolio representing a 2.4 times capitalized servicing multiple.
These valuations are up from 69 basis points and 2.3 times respectively at the end of the third quarter but down from 82 basis points and 2.7 times at year end 2011.
The valuation increase during the quarter was primarily driven by slight increase in mortgage rates as the yield curve steepened.
Our fleet business continued to provide consistent segment profit and operating cash flow in the quarter.
Fourth quarter segment profit for Fleet was $20 million down $1 million from the third quarter of 2012 but up $1 million in the fourth quarter of 2011.
Customers displayed hesitation in the fourth quarter for new vehicle orders and syndication volume was lower than anticipated highlighting some lingering economic uncertainty in the sector.
For the full year Fleet earns $87 million 16% better than 2011 with growth in net investment and leases and average service units.
As Glen said we are also pleased with the significant progress we made on our liquidity objectives last year.
We closed out the year with $829 million in unrestricted cash and cash equivalents.
The $152 million increase from $677 million at the end of the third quarter includes $79 million received from counterparties related to cash collateral postings as well as cash flow from operations.
And now I will turn it back over to Glen.
Thanks Rob.
Our fourth quarter performance was a solid ending to year in which we made significant progress from both an operating and financing standpoints.
We believe 2013 will be another year change for the mortgage industry.
While interest rates remain at historically low levels and residential mortgages remain a cornerstone consumer financial product for U.S.
banks both the MBA and the GSE forecast for 2013 project re-financing volume to decline while purchase financing demand is expected to increase.
Our reduction at industry volume levels could cause prices to margins to narrow and so far in 2013 total loan margin has continued a downward trend.
In January total loan margin remained at historically wide levels but averaged approximately 40 basis points below the fourth quarter 2012 average similar to our average for the first quarter of 2012 and well above our margins for 2011.
2013 could also be a year of increased clarity for the mortgage industry.
The CFPB has already promulgated seven new regulations that should take some uncertainty out of the industry but likely will change the way in which mortgage originators and services operate and increase the cost of loan origination and servicing.
We also have the FHFA’s three year strategic plan for the GSEs that suggest GSE support for the U.S.
mortgage market will likely continue for the next several years.
For Fleet a number of economic forecasts suggests only a slight growth in 2013 in corporate investments and equipment including trucks.
Additionally the number of new vehicle acquisition and vehicles coming off lease could decline as customers postpone new vehicle acquisition due to concerns about the U.S.
economy and how the U.S.
budget challenges our resolve.
So what should you expect from PHH in 2013? First and foremost you should expect us to stick to the four strategic priorities we implemented in 2012.
We believe these strategies enhance the ability of our business model to adapt to this rapidly changing environment and should enable us to focus on creating long term value for our borrowers clients and shareholders.
We intend to focus on discipline growth in our franchise platforms which are our private label services and real estate channels in mortgage along with our fleet business.
We believe our best growth opportunity in mortgage in 2013 is the penetration of our existing clients.
Our mortgage clients are promoting greater volumes from the employees and we are working with them to educate their financial advisors.
We have access to more than 45 000 financial advisors through our PLS channel and we believe we have significant opportunity to increase the number of financial advisors through whom we actively source mortgage loan originations.
We also have a significant pipeline of prospective private label client and our PLS sales force is focused on demonstrating to them the unique value proposition we offer.
We believe increased regulation and increasing complexity in the mortgage business will continue to drive these institutions to outsource the mortgage operations to PHH.
In 2013 we will assume approximately $50 billion of UPB of subservicing from HSBC and will begin operating as HSBC’s outsourced mortgage services provider for U.S.
operations.
HSBC is expected to come online at the beginning of the second quarter and once fully ramped HSBC as expected to be among our top PLS clients.
Our Realogy joint venture positions us to see an estimated one out of every four home sales transactions in the U.S.
and gives us the benefit of a front row seat in the recovery of the housing market.
We are focused on driving increased capture rate in this segment as well as increasing and signing new clients.
With the transition of our mortgage business to a great emphasis on retail and as the overall mortgage market transitions to a purchase driven market we would expect organization volume going forward to more closely follow the seasonality of the purchase market.
Typically purchase market volume is highest in the second and third quarters of each year.
Although mortgage total loan margins tend to be highly volatile we believe there are four key factors that should cause our margins to remain at higher levels than in past cycles.
First the cost of organization for residential mortgages has increased substantially since the credit crisis due to increased documentation and underwriting requirements more stringing regulation and increased GFE guarantee fees.
As a result originators may attempt to recoup these increased operating costs for pricing.
Second the recently released Qualified Mortgage Rule standardizing mortgage origination procedures should limit lenders ability to subsidize margins on prime mortgage loans with high margins from subprime mortgages.
Third we have increased the mix of retail organizations which provide higher total gain on loans and correspondent loan production from 69% of total organization volume in 2011 to an expected 85% to 90% of total organization volume in 2013.
And finally we believe our reduced level of origination defects should result in fewer repurchase requests and could lessen the negative impact of scratch and dent mark-to-market adjustments on our margins.
I would also point out that a decline in refinancing related prepayments and rising interest rates would likely cause earnings in cash flow for our mortgage serving segment to improve and the book value of our MSR asset to increase.
This should help offset the impact to earnings and cash flow from lower margins and volumes in our mortgage production segment.
In Fleet we are staffed to very active in marketing our unique value proposition in the Private Truck Fleet market.
This includes detailed maintenance and usage analysis vehicle specifications a number of restructures and optimal replacement scheduling.
Also during the first and second quarters of 2013 we will be on boarding new services and lease clients won in late 2012.
These efforts should contribute to our growth.
Regarding operational excellence and customer service you should expect us to continue to invest in our business to reduce origination defects and simplify our processes and to anticipate and address fundamental changes in the industry.
We are investing in people systems and processes to create a long term viable platform that will perform as the mortgage industry continues to evolve.
This investment includes operating and capital expenses related to the expansion of our retail presence enhancement to our compliance structure to meet new regulatory standards continued modernization of our information systems and the achievement of requisite quality and customer service objectives.
We believe our investment in operational excellent and our commitment to continually raise the bar on the quality of customer service should lower future operating cost and improve the quality of our product and service offerings.
Ultimately we believe it’s essential for the success of our business model to be the industry leader in compliance quality and customer service.
While we remain committed to investing in our business the increasing cost of origination and servicing over the past few years has pressured the profitability of some of our outsourcing relationships.
We are committed to operate our business profitability and we will continue to work in partnership with our clients to address the fundamental changes in the industry to ensure our programs on meeting our mutual objectives.
Where we cannot adequately recover the cost and risk of service delivery we will make the difficult choices of which contracts we can remain in and which we cannot.
With respect to the New Jersey Attorney General and Multistate Mortgage Community Regulatory matters that we have previously disclosed we have no material updates to report at this time.
PHH is the largest residential mortgage outsourcer in the U.S.
serving many of country's wealth management firms and regional community banks along with our direct real estate channel which is principally Realogy relationship.
We are also the third largest vehicle management services provider in the U.S.
and Canada combined.
We believe our scale specialized expertise and customized service offering gives us a strong competitive position in our franchise platform.
We take limited credit risk; have a high quality asset base from our focus on prime mortgage originations and from our well diversified fleet lease portfolio and high credit quality lessees.
As I said in the past we believe our mortgage and fleet businesses should be able to achieve low to mid teen core returns on equity.
We are working hard to achieve our target ROEs as prudently and as expeditiously as possible and we believe we are well positioned for continued success in 2013.
I want to recognize and thank my colleagues of PHH for the hard work and enduring commitment over the last year as we look forward to 2013 and I also want to thank our customers for their business and confidence in us as a service provider.
And with that we're ready to take questions.
Dana.
(Operator Instructions).
And we'll go first to Paul Miller with FBR.
Expenses the $29 million that's one time in nature.
So we weren't looking modeling this out and I guess that's flowed through the other expense line items.
Should we take it out of there going forward? Paul I think you're referring to the line other operating expenses for 2012 the fourth quarter from fourth quarter 2011? Yes.
Yes the increase roughly $30 million and here's the way it’s at if you look at that breakdown here's how it is.
$27 million of the $30 million is related to repurchase foreclosure and OREO related expenses.
The drivers of that certainly are the economy and as we work through the legacy books of business we believe that those expenses would decline.
$3 million of increase in production direct expenses that's a variable with volume and relates to the build out of our retail channel.
We incurred about $8 million in quality and compliance related costs focusing on defect reduction and preparing for the changes proposed by the seven new regs from the CFPB.
About half of that is one time in nature the other half is probably going to be run rate and we experienced a $5 million decline in cost of goods sold at Fleet which is timing of syndication transactions fourth quarter year over year.
So you talked about in here don't you talk about $29 million of onetime and nature related to compliance costs.
Am I missing something? Paul I think you're referring to the debt retirement.
And the loss on the commutation of the Atrium reinsurance.
Okay I must have got confused.
And then I wanted to touch base real quick on the comments you make about your reps and warrants.
You made a comment that you reserved roughly $37 million.
Then the guidance of $70 million of future reserves comes down to $40 million but then you make in your Press Release you talk about you expect reps and warrant costs to remain elevated.
So can you just clarify this a little bit is $40 million the rest of the reserves that you think you're going to have to allocate to this give or take some noise and then at that point you're going to be adequately reserved for there is reps and warrant cost? So Paul I'll get back to you here.
We have been talking about this pretty consistently throughout the past year.
The $40 million are estimated for reasonably possible additional losses over and above the reserve that we have on our boat of $191 million.
That reasonably possible loss estimate assumes that our repurchase demands remain elevated throughout the and to 2013 that our success rate in defending claims declines and that the loss severities on those repurchased claims remains at elevated levels as well.
Okay so if I don’t want to put words in your mouth but if you go out and you reserve another $40 million what you have been reserving relatively consistent since a year ago when you started making this commentary about this does that mean that your reps and warrants cost would drastically go down in the third quarter?   The $40 million is again that I would assume that the rep and warrant claims remain elevated for the balance of this year.
Now the timing of how that gets recognized for quarter is really dependent upon the timing and flow of the repurchase demands coming from the GSEs.
And we will go next to Henry Coffey with Sterne Agee.
I know it is difficult to quantify this item but focusing back on Paul’s question there is obviously a turning point as that unreserved expected loss figure goes lower and lower and the reserve balance goes higher and higher where suddenly you don’t need to keep adding to that it’s a legacy cost.
Is there any way you can help us quantify when that turning point is coming? Obviously it’s moving in the right direction?  So Henry I think the way you are thinking about it is correct.
So assuming repurchase demands trail off at the end of 2013 as our reasonably possible loss estimate would expect or projects then you come to a point where your on balance sheet reserve does reflect an appropriate reserve level to cover normalized repurchases out of the portfolio and then we would continue to book a repurchase reserve upfront as we sell new production to the GSEs and that reserve should be sufficient to cover future repurchase demands over the life of that business.
So turning point it sounds like a flatter into sort of call it late 13 or maybe early 14?   Again Henry as I said to Paul the timing of repurchase demands we can really predict that from the GSE.
We think it’s going to be elevated through the end of 2013; it may be lumpy by quarter.
2013 will have to play out to see how the timing plays out by quarter.
I appreciate the complexity there.
Just two more questions debt levels you’ve get about $1 billion as a corporate debt some of that is converts.
What is the sort of GAAP effective cost on that debt and what would be the dynamic or refinancing all of it.
I noticed one of your single B rated competitors just did a very large issue with 6%.
Yes the GAAP effective cost on the debt is about 13%.
Obviously we would expect to be able to go-to-market today given the amount of capital markets or the fact that we may establish access to the capital market in 2012 and get substantially lower rate than that but I think you should know Henry there cost benefit that needs to be done associated with that.
So if we want to tender and take out some debt we are going have to pay there is a true cash cost economic cost of paying tender premiums.
You might not get all the debt tendered.
So clearly as we have said before continuing to de-lever the business and looking to restructure the maturity ladder of our unsecured debt is a critical priority for the company and will continue to be and we are evaluating those alternatives year on quarterly basis and working with our banks and investment bankers to determine what the optimal structure is but whatever we do it ultimately has to create value for our shareholders and we don’t want to give up economics that could reap to the shareholders just for GAAP benefits.
That $829 million as cash how much of that is kind of cash that you need in the business and how much of that is sort of excess cash that you could use to pay down that debt? So Henry we have talked about before.
We keep cash on hand to cover a number of different things.
Certainly there is operating cash needs to manage the timing of loans sales and loan purchase.
We are trying to reserve cash for the 2014 convertible maturities.
We have got reasonably possibly losses that we want to reserve for and our objective continues to be the same which is we want to continue to de-lever the business.
So consistent with those objectives we are going to continue to evaluate opportunities to de-lever the business and we want to make sure we have got sufficient cash and liquidity to be in a position of strength to capitalize on any opportunities that may avail themselves in the market while we continue to pursue our objective of de-levering the business.
And on a completely unrelated question I have noticed mortgage rates have obviously started to move a little higher.
They seemed to be sort of holding pace with at least what we see when we look at the cash market in terms of the spreads you’re going to be allowed whether that’s Fannie rates or the securitization yields.
When you look at that dynamic and you look the mortgage banker index which seems to actually be holding up fairly well how should we think about your own gain on sale margins and your own are we likely to see a high degree of stability or how can we use that sort of public market data to interpret where PHH is going? Yes Henry I’ve said before it’s tough for anybody to predict and forecast where exactly margins are going to be but the difference between the primary and secondary mortgage rates I think is a good indication of where generally cash spreads are or cash price and margin is for loan production.
As I said before on average in the fourth quarter we saw about a 14 basis points decrease in average margin but there was some pretty good movement during the fourth quarter of margins.
If you look the beginning of the fourth quarter where actually margins continue to be at record levels and they subsequently backed off towards the end of the December but throughout the month of January even though compared to the average priced in margins would be down about 40 basis points if you look at endpoint to endpoint endpoint of December to endpoint of January pricing margins have held relatively flat.
And we’ll go next to Bose George with KBW.
First just the question on the MSR hedge.
You guys had $29 million mark and looks like $10 million offset I was curious if your hedge ratio has increased and in terms of like you see more meaningful moves up can we extrapolate from this or would it be different? Bob you want to handle it? Yes.
Now I think our coverage has remained roughly the same.
We have not made any material movements in hedge since the end of the third quarter.
We continue to have a position in both mortgages and swaps I'm sorry the swaption the swaption position going to decay a little bit overtime and to the extent that we don’t or decide not to replenish that our coverage would decline all else equal but we continue to maintain roughly the same coverage.
And also if the rates move up more meaningfully can we just extrapolate from this where about a third of it gets offset by hedges is it going to be somewhat asymmetric?   I wish it was that easy.
I would say that’s probably a good starting point.
Again some of the time decay on the swaptions probably would lessen that all else equal and then what’s really going to also drive it is the mortgage swap basis which did not necessarily move in our favor during the fourth quarter but that could be something that then negates to the extent that it tightens some of effectiveness of the hedge or the opposite to the extent that it widens..
Okay.
And then actually switching to the dilution on the convert when you guys calculate that do you pull out the effective interest expense from the earnings number so there is an offset that’s going through as well?  We do not deduct the effective interest expense.
Okay I guess presumably that’s not required under GAAP to do that.
No it does not.
Okay.
Great.
And finally just the repurchase demands number went up a little bit in November I am just curious of those concern in any way or just kind of a blip? Yeah so I think you are referring to the private investor portfolio because GSE related demands continue to decline throughout the fourth quarter.
In the private investor portfolio it’s actually related to one of our private label clients who has been a customer of ours for several years.
They had not performed a loan quality review since the inception of the program.
They did a live-to-date program review and asked us or they made a repurchase for about 40 or so loans that are performing loans but they believed didn’t meet our credit quality standards and their underwriting guidelines.
So we are in a process of negotiating with them now.
I don’t think it anything that’s systemic.
It really was just a onetime event from one client.
Now we will take our next question from Kevin Barker with Compass Point.
Hi this Steve Halperson from Kevin’s team.
Most of my questions have been answered but I had a question regarding the HSBC contract.
Could you provide some color on incremental servicing fee revenue origination volumes and expenses that are related to this contract? Steve I think as I said before on some prior calls we do have confidentiality provisions baked into our private label services agreements where we are bound to not share pricing terms conditions and things like that.
What I would say though is that the HSBC relationship was priced using a structure that’s consistent generally with our other private level services arrangements to include both our owned portion of production as well as our subservice and fee for service arrangements.
We look next to Ryan Zacharia with JAM Investment Management I just wanted to delve a little bit into the indirect expenses within mortgage production and the expenses line item.
This might have been addressed but there was a pretty material rise kind of a 57% sequential increase but originations didn't move that much and I just want to understand what drove that and what we can expect in the future? So for indirect expenses if you look year-over-year you want to focus on the quarter or year over year Ryan? The quarter.
So for the quarter the other expense line was the big mover there and I think as I mentioned before in my discussion with Paul the other expenses really was a function of our investments in quality and compliance.
Part of our plan is to invest in operational excellence to reduce defects and be ready for the regulatory changes that have come through with the CFPB.
So we have increased our compliance and quality related expenses.
About half of that is one time in nature and the other half is probably going to be run rate.
Half of the increase or half of what I think you said was $8 million.
Half of the increase.
So $6 million should come out on a go forward basis.
Roughly.
We'll take our next question from Ron Mass with Almitas Capital I had a question relating to recapture rate on the loans that prepay and also if you could talk a little bit about the prepayment rate on the loans in your servicing book that you saw in the last quarter and how that would compare to your future projections? Yes so as it relates to recapture rate we have not historically disclosed our recapture rate and just if you look at our business model versus the industry in general because we originate through our private label services clients we don't necessarily use the same framework for recapture having a dedicated recapture unit that makes loan calls to solicit the portfolio those type of things.
Loans are actually recaptured through the financial advisors that through we originate loans.
As Rob said overall replenishment rate had averaged below a 100%.
So it did see higher level of prepayments or early payments of mortgage loans throughout the course of 2012 and the fourth quarter remained elevated.
And our recapture rate ended up being below a 100% primarily because we have narrowed our focus in correspondent to high quality partners and are of course as a result our correspondent volume declined fairly substantially.
Now we would expect as we go forward into 2013 that as we bring on HSBC and we continue to rebuild or build out our retail production and as the market shifts more towards a purchase market we will continue to improve our recapture rate and drive back over a 100%.
We’ll go next to Jordan Hymowitz with Philadelphia Financial.
Of the 40 basis points gain on sale compression in the first quarter how much would you say is related to the Fannie Mae or GSEP’s (ph) going up? Jordan none of it.
When you think about the GSEP increases the reality is if GPs go up generally for the industry typically you may have some loans caught in your pipeline that you’re price assuming one GP and yes they are going to be sold into a security that has the higher GP into it and you are going to end up at a temporary margin compression as a result of that but generally the industry has been pretty disciplined at pushing GP increases back to the consumer.
We didn't have any margin compression related to guarantee GP increases.
Okay second thing is did you disclose what percent was HARP? Historically we have we didn’t talk about it in this call.
Just given the high credit quality nature of our portfolio we don’t have as much HARP production as others had during in the industry.
If you look at it our pipeline our closings HARP loans account about 6% of our pipeline and are closing throughout 2012.
(Operator Instructions) .We will go next to Chris Gamaitoni with Millennium.
I just wanted to dig in the economic hedge results on the gain on sale.
It’s been elevated for a few quarters and could you just walk me through the kind of the give and takes and why that’s elevated is that going to be sustained in the future and what could cause it to go down or up? Obviously we do we hedge our pipeline as most mortgage originators do.
One of the key variables there is what we call fill through performance.
So as loans are being locked into our pipeline we make an assumption as to how many of those loans are actually are going to pull through to a closed loan and to the extent that more loans close or pull through to closing than we have assumed in our calculation of how we hedge the portfolio that generally tends to be a positive effect and we do get some positive impact as a result of pull through.
That ends up being one of the bigger movements.
As well here we do tend to see that number does tends to be volatile it does change back and forth on quarters.
It is pretty lumpy.
That does depend upon market movement quarter-per-quarter and where your rates actually end up relative to your mortgage portfolio at quarter end vis-à-vis the average coupon in your pipeline.
And then just a question on the rep and warrant.
We have seen some other similar originators who sold into larger Wall Street conduits during the 2005 - 2007 period get indemnification requests.
Have you started to see any of those? The answer is no.
We report our repurchase requests or repurchase indemnification requests as part of our investor supplement or supplemental package under the section of private investors.
There has been a lot of talk in the industry that that’s been elevated for some originators and sellers.
A lot of that activity has to do with loans that were considered “subprime” but we’ve never been a subprime originator.
So we are fortunate we don’t have that challenge.
And we have no further questions in the queue at this time.
Thank you operator and for shareholders thank you very much for continued interest in investment in PHH and look forward to talking to you at the end of the first quarter.
This concludes the PHH Corporation fourth quarter 2012 earnings conference call.
Once again ladies and gentleman the replay will be available beginning later today at the Company’s website at www.phh.com/invest or by dialing 888-203-1112 or 719-457-0820 and using conference Id 9254161.
It will be archived until February 22 2013.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning ladies and gentlemen.
Welcome to the PHH Corporation’s First Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
Your lines will be in a listen-only mode during remarks by PHH management.
At the conclusion of the Company’s remarks we will begin a question-and-answer session at which time I will give you instructions on entering the queue to ask your questions.
Today’s call is also being webcast and recorded for replay purposes.
The audio replay may be accessed either on the company’s website at www.phh.com/invest or by telephone at 888-203-1112 or 719-457-0820 and using Conference Id 1282635 beginning shortly after the conclusion of the call.
It will be available until May 17 2013.
This access information is also described in the Company’s earnings release and I will repeat it again at the end of our session.
At this time Jim Ballan Vice President of Investor Relations will proceed with the introduction.
Thanks Anthony.
Good morning and welcome to PHH Corporation’s first quarter 2013 earnings conference call.
Please note that statements made during this conference call include forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 as further described in slide three of our first quarter 2013 investor presentation of supplemental schedules which is posted in the investor section of our website at <a href="http://www.phh.com" rel="nofollow"><u>www.phh.com</u></a> under webcasts and presentations.
Such forward-looking statements represent only our current beliefs regarding future events and are not guarantees of performance or results.
Actual results performance or achievements may differ materially from those expressed or implied in such forward looking statements due to a variety of factors including but not limited to the factors under the headings cautionary note regarding forward looking statements and risk factors in our periodic reports filed with the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission including our most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K and quarterly reports on Form 10-Q which are also available in the investors’ section of our website.
Investors are cautioned not to place undue reliance on such forward looking statements.
The earnings release we issued yesterday also may be accessed from the investor section of our website or you may request a faxed or mailed copy by calling our investor hotline.
During this call we may discuss various non-GAAP financial measures including core earnings pretax core earnings after-tax and core earnings per share.
Please refer to our earnings release and accompanying investor presentation of supplemental schedules for a description of these and other non-GAAP financial measures as well as a reconciliation of such measures to their respective most directly comparable GAAP financial measures.
Speaking on the call today will be Glen Messina President and Chief Executive Officer and Rob Crowl Chief Financial Officer.
Other members of PHH’s senior management team are also with us and will be available to take your questions.
Glen will discuss the company’s performance in the first quarter and our strategic objectives and Rob will review our financial results after that we will take questions.
I now will turn the call over to Glen Messina.
Thank you Jim.
Good morning everyone and thank you for your continued interest in PHH.
Our financial performance in the first quarter was consistent with our expectation for the business relative interest rate movement and with the framework we discussed on the fourth quarter call.
That framework call for interest rates moving higher origination margins trending lower origination volume following the seasonality of the home purchase market lower mortgage quality related cost and over the long-term slower repayment fees for our home servicing.
Additionally we stated we will continue to emphasize our core strategic priorities which are disciplined growth in our franchise platforms operational excellence and unwavering commitment to customer service and prioritization of liquidity cash flow and deleveraging.
Our fleet business continue to demonstrate steady profit and cash flow.
Our mortgage production segment continue to operate profitably but experience a decline in margins and volumes as mortgage rates edge up.
Mortgage total loan margin at 372 basis points were similar to our margins in the first half of 2012 and still at a historically wide level.
We are pleased with total loan margin performance and we continue to see pricing discipline in the retail markets.
However as expected price competition in the corresponding market continue to adversely effect total loan margin and contributed to lower production from that channel.
Mortgage origination volumes were in line with our strategy seasonal expectations and a rising interest rate environment of the first quarter.
Interest rate lock commitments were below first quarter of 2012 primarily due to 51% reduction loss volumes from our corresponding channel.
Additionally we saw a reduction in non- HARP related refi lock volume and a mixed shift to more clients invested locks.
In our mortgage servicing segment we saw an improvement in core earnings in the first quarter of 2012 and in the sequential quarter primarily due to a reduction in mortgage quality related costs offset impart by lower servicing fees and higher MSR amortization.
Segment core earnings continue to be in loss position due to record high in MSR amortization levels high payoff foreclosure OREO and mortgage quality related costs.
We continue to make progress in executing our four strategic priorities.
Regarding disciplined growth of our franchise platforms retail applications remain robust and we are seeing strong growth in purchase applications from both our PLS and real estate channels.
In 2012 we made significant investments in our real estate channel in preparation for renewed growth in the home purchase market and we are seeing the benefits through this sequential home purchase application growth in our real estate channel.
We are also seeing growth in HARP related applications as continued solicitation of our portfolio has driven greater volume.
HARP originations constituted 10% of first quarter volume up 5% in the previous quarter contributing approximately 23 basis points through our price and margin.
I am pleased to announce that we have executed the renewal of our KeyBanc relationship through 2016 and we launched our private label arrangement with HSBC this week.
We have assumed approximately $47 billion of sub-servicing UPB from HSBC and we have commenced loan origination activity.
Once fully ramp HSBC is expected to be among our top private label client.
Our fleet business had another solid quarter delivering $21 million segment profit.
On our last earnings call we mentioned that some of our fleet customers had expressed hesitation in making new vehicle orders due to lingering economic concerns and this continues to be the case for some degree.
Nonetheless we are able to grow our net investment and leases and maintain services and accident management average units over the fourth-quarter level.
Regarding operational excellence we continue to focus on driving down cost by improving process processes and elimination rework and we continue to see reduction in our origination defect rates.
We are on track to close out GSE repurchase requests relating to the backlog of delinquent and defaulted loans for 2008 and prior books of business by the end of this year.
Repurchase request continue to trend out as have our mortgage quality related costs.
We also intend to scale our mortgage production cost to be consistent with volumes if we foresee a sustained decline in demand.
Maintaining workforce scalability is part of managing our business cyclicality and we are prepared to make the necessary changes to drive lower production cost and improve productivity.
However we will consider both short and long-term cyclicality as we manage production cost.
For example during the first quarter we carried excess origination capacity in preparation for the spring home buying season and the launch of our PLS arrangement with HSBC.
During the first quarter we executed strategic outsourcing range with IBM for IT Infrastructure management and application development services.
This arrangement should accelerate technology advancement improve governance and control and reduce IT Infrastructure cost and technology related risk.
Regarding liquidity cash flow and deleveraging our unrestricted cash balance at the end of the quarter was $927 million compared to $829 million at the end of 2012.
We are maintaining this cash position not only to fund our general working capital needs but also for contingencies to restructure the mature line of our unsecured debt deleverage and lower our cost to capital.
Additionally I am pleased to report that Standard &amp; Poor’s and Moody’s have taken us off the negative outlook and Standard &amp; Poor’s confirmed our above average mortgage originator rating.
With respect to the New Jersey Attorney General and Multistate Mortgage Committee regulatory matters that we previously disclosed we have no material updates to report at this time.
Now I’d like to turn the call over to Rob.
Thanks Glen.
On a GAAP basis net income attributable to PHH Corporation for the first quarter 2013 was $52 million or $0.90 per basic share which included $0.82 million pre-tax positive mark-to-market adjustment on our MSR asset primarily driven by a 31 basis point increase in mortgage rates partially offset by $16 million in pre-tax MSR hedge losses.
After-tax core earnings which excludes the net MSR mark was $12 million or $0.21 per share in the first quarter.
Pre-tax core earnings for the combined mortgage production and servicing segments was a loss of $3 million for the first quarter down from $45 million in pre-tax core earnings in the fourth quarter of last year.
Mortgage servicing pre-tax core earnings equaled a loss of $48 million an improvement of $6 million versus the prior quarter due to continued declines in quality related costs.
Mortgage production pre-tax core earnings totaled $45 million a decline of $54 million from the fourth quarter primarily due to a 34 basis point drop in mortgage loan margins and a $1.2 billion decrease in interest rate lock commitments expected to close.
The margin decline was consistent with the trends we discussed on our fourth quarter call and interest rate locks were lower due to both seasonal factors and a greater portion of our first quarter production done on a fee-for-service basis.
Fee-for-service loans represent production that is retained by our clients for their own balance sheet therefore no gain on sale as recognized and our fee-based revenues are recognized at the time of closing.
Our total loan servicing portfolio of a $182 billion was down 2% from the first quarter of 2012.
The capitalized portion of our loan servicing portfolio which totaled a $137 billion in UPB at the end of the first quarter was down 90% in the first quarter 2012 primarily due to replenishment rate below a 100%.
Our replenishment rate was influenced by the scaling back of our correspondent channel higher pre-payment rates and a larger percentage of fee-for-service production.
We anticipate returning to a replenishment rate in excess of 100% in 2013 with the addition of HSBC a greater than 100% replenishment rate should coincide with growth and our capitalized loan servicing portfolio.
Our subservicing portfolio totaled $43 billion up 31% from the first quarter of 2012 and since the end of the first quarter has more than doubled with the assumption of approximately $47 billion in the UPB from HSBC.
Subservicing is a higher ROE less capital intensive business.
The credit quality of our capitalized servicing portfolio remains strong as our delinquency rate at the end of the first quarter excluding foreclosure and real estate owned was 2.81% down from 3.15% at year-end 2012.
A high credit quality portfolio helps to keep servicing cost down and service quality level high.
We continue to make progress in clearing the backlog of GSE repurchases requests.
We recorded $15 million in repurchase and foreclosure related charges during the first quarter our lowest level since the first quarter of 2011.
Our repurchase and foreclosure related reserve at quarter-end was $194 million up slightly from $191 million at the end of last quarter.
We also have updated our estimate for reasonably possible future losses related to repurchase and indemnification request.
This estimate increased slightly to $45 million our estimate of reasonably possible losses continues to assume that repurchased demands remain at elevated levels through the end of the 2013 that our success rate in defending against claims is lower than what we have historically experienced and that the company will incur increased foreclosure related cost that are not expected to be reimbursed pursuant to government mortgage insurance programs.
I want to remind you that the estimate for reasonably possible losses is above and beyond our recorded repurchase and foreclosure related reserve.
At the end of the first quarter we valued our MSR at 80 basis points of capitalized loan servicing portfolio representing a 2.7 times capitalized servicing multiple.
These valuations are up some 73 basis points and 2.4 times respectively at the end of the fourth quarter but down some 87 basis points and 2.9 times at the end of the first quarter of 2012.
The sequential quarter valuation increase was primarily driven by an increase in mortgage rates.
Our Fleet business continued to provide consistent segment profit and operating cash flow in the quarter.
First quarter segment profit for fleet was $21 million up $1 million from the fourth quarter of 2012.
Fleet benefited some higher fee income and an improved cost of funds partially offset by lower syndication volume and remarketing gains.
While sales pipeline activity is improving lingering economic uncertainty has lengthened client and prospect decision making cycles.
We continue to add to our liquidity position in the first quarter as our unrestricted cash and cash equivalents increased by $98 million so total of $927 million at quarter end.
The increase in unrestricted cash was primarily result of cash flow from operations and the receipt of cash collateral under derivative edging contracts in our mortgage business.
As of March 31<sup>st</sup> we had no outstanding balances on our revolving credit facilities.
As Glen mentioned earlier we are pleased with our progress in strengthening the balance sheet and our current position allows us flexibility to fund operations plan for contingences and deleverage.
And now I will turn it back over to Glen.
Thanks Rob.
In the second quarter and second half of 2013 you should expect us to stick to the four strategic priorities we implemented last year.
We are seeing the benefit of positioning our mortgage business in the higher margin retail origination channels.
In April retail margins remained consistent with first quarter levels and we’re seeing retail application volume and home purchase volume outpace the second quarter of last year.
Our mix of client invested volume is running consistent with the first quarter and our half application volume continues to be strong.
To our relationship with HSBC we expect to generate incremental PHH and client invested origination volume.
Servicing revenues should increase new assumed HSBC subservicing as well as from newly created owned and subserviced assets.
Over the next 12 months mortgage quality related costs should continue to decline as we progress through the backlog of delinquent and defaulted loans related to production from the 2008 and prior origination years.
Foreclosure and REO costs are likely to remain high for the rest of the year.
And MSR amortization and payoff related expenses should significantly diminish as interest rates rise.
We will continue to invest in our business to expand our retail presence to enhance our compliance capabilities to meet new regulatory standards to continue to modernize our information systems and to achieve our requisite quality productivity and customer service standard.
We believe these investments can offset the impact of declining margin by eliminating the cost of rework and the effects as well as improve the quality of our product and service offers.
Our focus on liquidity cash flow generation and de-leveraging will continue to be a priority for us.
Our primary liquidity objectives are to achieve our target ratio of unencumbered assets unsecured debt and to lower our average effective interest rate to levels consistent with our current marginal borrowing costs.
This would allow us to reduce unsecured debt interest expense which we have historically allocated to our mortgage producing and servicing segment.
We believe we have positioned PHH well to succeed in a rising rate environment.
Being in both origination and servicing gives us a natural hedge on mortgage business that should play out overtime as interest rates rise.
Rising rates can cause mortgage production margins and volumes to decline but can also have a positive effect on the profitability of our mortgage servicing business.
In such a scenario we would expect an immediate increase in the valuation of our MSR with corresponding improvements in core earning and cash flow to take effect overtime resulting from slower prepayment lower MSR amortization lower pay off related expenses and increased interest income on approximately $3.8 billion of escrow balances.
I want to recognize and thank my colleagues at PHH for their hard work and enduring commitment.
I also want to thank our customers for their business and confidence in us as a service provider.
And with that we’re ready to take questions.
Operator?   Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) And we’ll take our first question from Paul Miller with FBR.
Please go ahead Hi guys.
This is Jessica Ribner for Paul this morning.
Good morning Jessica.
How are you? Good.
Given you’re close to $1 billion of liquidity do you anticipate or when do you anticipate using it to refinance some of your higher cost debt or prepay your converts? So Jessica as I mentioned just earlier obviously our cash position has to satisfy a number of needs for the business.
One is our working capital needs second is contingencies and then obviously the balance to address deleveraging the business consistent with our strategy.
Obviously we are very sensitive to the high cost of debt as that’s the business has.
Our two converts have an effective accounting interest rate of about 13%.
However as you probably are aware the current trading phase of those securities is well in excess of par and quite frankly right now the two converts are trading at a dollar value premium of close to $240 million over par.
That is pure economic leakage out of the business to extend debts paid in cash today and obviously we’re very sensitive to making sure we have optimum timing and structure and retiring those debt instruments to make sure we’re spending that cash wisely for the benefit of our shareholders.
We said before we’re continuing to work on it and evaluate options but at this point in time we’re not ready to make any predication about when we would in fact make a move to retire any of our debt securities.
Okay thank you.
And we’ll go next to Henry Coffey at Sterne Agee.
Mr.
Coffey please go ahead.
Your line is open.
Would you check the mute button? Agee &amp; Leach</strong> Sorry about that.
Good morning everyone.
Can you hear me now?  Good morning Henry.
Agee &amp; Leach</strong> When we looked at your application volume and your locks last year 37% of your applications quote ratio of locks to applications which may not be the perfect way of looking at it was 37%.
And this year it was $31%.
Is it fair to look at that correlation and then wonder why locks weren't higher? Maybe you can give us some insight into that one line item why were lock down? Why was there sort of – or maybe this is the wrong way to think about it?  So Henry looking at yeah obviously looking at locks which is – you have a record gain on sales.
So one of the right way is to look at the business.
So first off let’s talk about loss volume and why lock volume itself was down.
The biggest single driver to lock volume being down was correspondent lending which correspondent locks were down 51% from the prior-year and 27% from the prior-quarter.
Now we talked last year about narrowing our focus in correspondent to focus on quality production and we also wanted to make sure we are maximizing opportunity that we have in our retail channel.
Consistent with what we had expected retail margins held correspondent margins declined substantially and quite frankly to match the market leader pricing in the correspondent channel right now would produce the correspondent business that’s breakeven at that and we would be investing $1 on the dollar cash relative to the fair value of the MSR.
That gives us zero margin for error if the interest rates don’t materialize relative to the forward curve.
And we quite frankly don’t think that’s a good trade for our shareholders.
So number one correspondent lock is down.
Number two looking at after locks we really are focusing in on the mix shift that we’re seeing in our PLS channel.
The way we tend to look out at it focusing on PLS specific and looking at PLS locks to apps.
And PLS lock to app was 29% in the fourth quarter down to 23% in the first quarter.
Quite frankly there is a number of things that drive the mix of client invested versus PHH invested loans which is what’s driving that mixed shift.
One is do our clients have balance sheet capacity.
Two do they have do they want to allocate that capacity to mortgages and three which is the ultimate determinant is what is the product selection or product demand from the PLS borrower base or PLS customer base.
Now one of the things that we saw in the first quarter which again is consistent with the interest rate environment that we saw in the first quarter were interest rates backed up and mortgage rate backed up as we did see a significant decline quite frankly a double digit decline in non-HARP related refi applications coming through the PLS channel.
And again we believe that’s consistent with rates backing up.
However consistent with the emphasis that we’ve been putting in with our PLS clients and overall throughout the business we did see very healthy increases and a mix of purchase business and growth of purchase related applications in PLS which again is as result of our positioning the business for a recovery of the purchase market.
So Henry to kind of sum it up yes locks were down biggest driver correspondent there was a mix shift in PLS clients and again that mix shift right now appears to be a reduction in non-HARP related refi activity through the PLS channel.
Agee &amp; Leach</strong>  This is a second question going back to the cash balance issue.
In your own estimate of that $900 million plus in cash how much of it is really just sitting there as excess cash and how much of it is really cash you want on the sidelines either to run the business or for expected contingencies? So Henry we do manage through a framework whereas we said we’ve got earmarks for the cash in terms of working capital needs.
Obviously amounts we keep in reserve for contingencies for example our reserve balance foreclosure related losses being one of the biggest items in there and obviously a piece that we’re earmarking for that retirement cost.
Henry because those numbers changes throughout the year in the cycle yeah I don’t want to lock the business into a framework here as x dollars for this and y dollars for that it is fairly fluid but consistent with our overall strategy we are built in cash to address the long-term desire to improve and deleverage our business and improve our ratio of unencumbered assets and unsecured debt and to low our borrowing cost to more close to near our current marginal cost of debt.
Agee &amp; Leach</strong> Great thank you very much (Operator Instructions) We will go next to Bose George at KBW.
Bruyette &amp; Woods</strong> Hey guys.
Good morning.
Can you just go back to what you said about correspondent again on sale margins in the first quarter? Did you say it was effectively zero and has that improved in the second quarter? So corresponding gain on sales margins for us was not zero it was favorable but those what I said was again because we’ve seen some significant tightening of margins in correspondent we are choosing not to follow one for one pricing changes in the correspondent market.
So we are not matching the market leader and as a result we are seeing a decline in loss volume.
If we did in fact match market leader that would result in a breakeven correspondent business and a cash investment ratio relative to the fair value of MSR of 100% and again that leads to zero margin for error.
Bruyette &amp; Woods</strong> Okay great.
That makes sense.
Then switching to HARP I was just curious what drove the increase? Is it all still from your own portfolio and also does the HSBC subservicing create any HARP opportunity for you? Bose the HARP opportunity is from our portfolio and quite frankly we have been soliciting for HARP now for the better part of 12 months both PHH and our clients because some of the HARP volumes does come through our clients In the case of our PLS channel we are getting better at it and we are seeing our marketing strategies are more effective so we are seeing higher response rates in our HARP solicitation as well as we are improving operating capability in building out our capacity of HARP specialist to deal with that application via as it comes in.
Again relative to mix is still a small percentage of our mix it’s only 10% of our total origination volume and as we said before just given the quality of our portfolio we don’t have a significant portion of HARP loans in our portfolio and that said we are going to continue to solicit it and now as the HARP programs have been extended to the end of 2015 we are just going to agree to push it through all of our channels all of the channels we originate the loans from PLS and Realogy.
Bruyette &amp; Woods</strong> Okay but does HSBC provide sort of an incremental opportunity is that something you can work on too? It is there is incremental opportunity.
Obviously we are very sensitive to the compliance aspects of it in terms of in which states follows that opt in for solicitation versus have to opt out for solicitation and we’re working through those details with HSBC as we speak but one of the opportunities that we did see in that relationship was the ability to solicit portfolio for HARP related origination Bruyette &amp; Woods</strong> Okay great.
And then just switching to expenses.
This quarter I am wondering just going to next quarter if there is some improvement opportunity in expenses.
I mean were you hurt to some degree just by closings being so much higher than rate locks this quarter? Yeah obviously to your point Bose you have got to manage both application volume and closing volume right here supporting the loan as it goes for the process but yeah during the first quarter we did carry excess capacity and we did it intentionally because we’re launching HSBC and because of the spring home buying season.
In April we are seeing robust application growth and repurchase line growth in excess of what we saw in the second quarter of last year so we think the operation was right sized.
When looking forward consideration of one the closing buying that we had but looking at the app volumes coming down the pipe with the spring buying season in the launch of HSBC we thought the size of the operation was right obviously relative to app volume in the quarter since rates backed up a bit it looked like we were slightly overcapacity but not relative to the trends we are seeing here in the second quarter.
Bruyette &amp; Woods</strong> Okay.
Good news.
One last question.
You guys changed the capital allocation between the segments and I was just curious what drove that if that signaled anything?  Quiet frankly I would call it – as we go through an annual cycle showing up the capital we allocate between each of the segments and we did that during the first quarter so it was just our annual capital drop.
Bruyette &amp; Woods</strong>  Okay great.
Thank you.
Anthony?  Now we'll go next to Kevin Barker at Compass Point.
Please go ahead.
Good morning everyone.
Good morning Kevin.
The res and warrants provisions they came down pretty significantly down to $15 million and you did have some reserve release.
Could you just give us a little additional color on why your reasonable losses came up this quarter where they have been trending down over the last several quarters? Do expect the GSE to be finished with their review of the loan file sometime this year or is that something you probably see bleed into next year? A little more color on that.
Yeah Kevin I am sorry I am sorry I cut you off.
No Just a little more color on that.
Yeah.
Kevin our reasonably loss estimate really covers our entire portfolio.
So it’s Fannie Freddie Ginnie private.
The GSE related loans we continue based on our discussions with the GSE believe that we will be through the backlog of seriously I think to repurchase relate to seriously relate to delinquent defaulted loans for vintage years 2008 and prior.
So trends there have been consistent and similarly on private nothing mere that would give us cause for concern.
Trends there are fairly consistent as well.
What we did see was an uptick related to Ginnie Mae box of business.
The reasonably possible loss provision there is calculated on a macro basis similar to what we do for the GSE related production but with the slight nuance differences for the Ginnie Mae loans.
We actually look at our claims filings success rate and there is obviously a frequency still how many new claims that we expect to be coming down the pipe relating to seriously delinquent defaulted loans and what is the severity related to those loans more of the cost per claim service be and then what is our success rate in terms of claims eligible to be filed.
So as we queue to cleanup the portfolio and work through the backlog of seriously delinquent and defaulted loans in the Ginnie Mae book again related to that 2004 through 2006 vintage; we did see a slight reduction in our claims eligibility rate and that was really the driver I think claims eligible to be filed that was really the slight uptick.
Okay.
Could you talk about the Ginnie Maes a little bit more? Because the bulk of the volume is going to happen between 2009 and 2011.
Were the repurchase claims primarily coming through that or was it going back to the indemnification of the insurance claim? Could you just describe that process and some of the vintage years around the claimants coming from Ginnie Mae? Yeah so yet it’s the claims we found not claims coming from them.
So the claims we file relative to Ginnie Mae obviously there is number of standards that need to met the final claim and as we’ve – and I just say that our success rate on claims filing is in excess of 90%.
So what we’re talking about here is a couple of percentage points changed.
So cabinets more as we look through our claims to be filed making sure that we pick all the appropriate triggers through the originations process or the management process that would result in making a claim or a portion of the claim not eligible to be filed.
And again as we’re cleaning through this the backlog of foreclosed loans relating to the Ginnie Mae books of business ’04 to ’06 we’re seeing a slight uptick not expecting any material deviation or further deterioration from that base of we’re getting through this backlog or we just saw a slight deterioration in clients eligible to filed.
Okay so have you seen a behavioral change from Ginnie Mae? Oh no not at all not at all.
Not at all.
Okay and then could you talk about – on your HARP eligible portfolio how has that changed from what it was a couple of quarters ago? Are you refinancing loans on your current servicing portfolio through HARP or are you also refinancing loans on other servicer’s books? It is primarily our owned servicing book and quite frankly Kevin as I said earlier we are – our proficiency and solicitation and the response rates we’re seeing has consistently trended up throughout last year and we’re seeing very strong response rates now probably consistent with where other people in the industry are at.
And quite frankly we’ve improved our operating processes and capacity as well too.
HARP loans do require specialized expertise and capability.
We are building that throughout the course of 2012 and certainly latter of half 2011.
And quite frankly Kevin we’re just getting better at it.
Okay.
And then could you just talk about the potential for HARP refis going forward within your own servicing book and how far you think you are through? Or how many of the HARP eligible loans do you think you’ve refi-ed already? Could you help us quantify that and see how much more HARP volume you could see on a go-forward basis?  You know right Kevin we’ve estimated before round number about 20% of our portfolio was HARP eligible.
And right now when we look at our we look at the volume that we have to date it constitutes about 10% of our total pipeline.
In terms of how far through we are again from it really is going to depend upon borrower response rates.
But we would expect our HARP volume level at least for the balance for this year to be consistent with what we saw during first quarter.
Okay.
Thank you for taking my questions.
You’re welcome.
(Operator Instructions) Over next to Ron Mass at Almitas Capital.
Yes I was wondering if you could talk a little bit more about the private label repurchase request? I noticed that those private label repurchase request have been trending up while the GSE repurchased requests have been trending down.
Yes Ron so yeah if you look where we were we had $60 million I guess in in terms of dollars and millions at the end of the fourth quarter we had about $64 million in private requests and $68 million at the end of the first quarter.
As we talked about in our fourth quarter call we did see an uptick related at the KeyBanc who is getting through quite frankly a backlog they had never before done a review of their portfolio for potential repurchase claims related to the client invested portion of their book and it really just commenced that process in the fourth quarter.
So the review of those loans continued into the first quarter.
So in terms of the elevated level from Key that trend continued over into the first quarter and in March we saw a slight uptick related to our Merrill Lynch program as well.
We are not alarmed by the trends that we are seeing we think it’s consistent with our contractual provision and quite frankly the biggest the largest percentage of our portfolio continues to be Fannie Freddie invested products and we are very pleased with the level of reduction that we are seeing from there.
Relative to some other industry players who could have private repurchase activity a lot of that is related to subprime or a private label issued mortgage backed securities that was not and is not a big portion.
We didn’t do any subprime number one and private label MBS relative to Jumbo production was just not a big portion of our business and was not a big portion of our remaining servicing portfolio.
Okay.
And one follow-up question.
Given that Fannie Mae mortgage prices have returned back to year-end level would you expect the increase in the capitalization of Mortgage Servicing to be – the increase in the first quarter to be reversed out if mortgage rates stay where they are currently? Clarifying question Ron is increase in mortgage capitalization you are talking about the write up in MSR or actual? Yes the write up in MSR.
So yeah I mean to the extend to that mortgage rate do change you will see the evaluation of the MSR change relative to the change in mortgage interest rate so rates went up in the first quarter.
We saw right up of the asset if rates continue be at lower level in the second quarter you would see the MSR evaluation you will see negative adjustment in the valuation.
Okay.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) And at this time it appears we have no further questions left in the phone queue.
I would like to turn the conference back to management for any additional or closing remarks.
Thank you operator and thank you for everyone for your continued interest in PHH we will talk to you at the end of the second quarter call.
And this concludes the PHH Corporation first quarter 2013 earnings conference call.
Once again ladies and gentleman the replay will be available beginning later today at the Company’s website at www.phh.com/invest or by dialing 888-203-1112 or 719-457-0820 and using conference Id 1282635.
It will be archived until May 17 2013.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning ladies and gentlemen.
Welcome to the PHH Corporation’s Second Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
Your lines will be in a listen-only mode during remarks by PHH management.
At the conclusion of the company’s remarks we will begin a question-and-answer session at which time I will give you instructions on entering the queue to ask your questions.
Today’s call is also being webcast and recorded for replay purposes.
The audio replay can be accessed either on the company’s website at www.phh.com/invest or by telephone at 888-203-1112 or 719-457-0820 and using conference id 7283605 beginning shortly after the conclusion of the call.
It will be available until August 15 2013.
This access information is also described in the company’s earnings release and I will repeat it again at the end of our session.
At this time Jim Ballan Vice President of Investor Relations will proceed with the introduction.
Thanks Zack.
Good morning.
And welcome to PHH Corporation’s second quarter 2013 earnings conference call.
Please note that statements made during this conference call include forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 as further described in slide three of our second quarter 2013 investor presentation of Supplemental Schedules which is posted in the Investor section of our website at www.phh.com under Webcasts and Presentations.
Such forward-looking statements represent only our current beliefs regarding future events and are not guarantees of performance or results.
Actual results performance or achievements may differ materially from those expressed or implied in such forward looking statements due to a variety of factors including but not limited to the factors under the headings Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements and Risk Factors in our periodic reports filed with the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission including our most recent annual report on Form 10-K and quarterly reports on Form 10-Q which are also available in the Investor section of our website.
Investors are cautioned not to place undue reliance on such forward-looking statements.
The earnings release we issued yesterday also may be accessed from the Investor section of our website or you may request a faxed or mailed copy by calling our investor hotline.
During this call we may discuss various non-GAAP financial measures including core earnings or loss pre-tax core earnings or loss after-tax core earnings or loss per share and tangible book value per share.
Please refer to our earnings release and accompanying investor presentation of Supplemental Schedules for a description of these and other non-GAAP financial measures as well as a reconciliation of such measures to their respective most directly comparable GAAP financial measures.
Speaking on the call today will be Glen Messina President and Chief Executive Officer; and Rob Crowl Chief Financial Officer.
Other members of PHH’s senior management team are also with us and will be available to take your questions.
Glen will discuss the company’s performance in the second quarter and our strategic objectives and Rob will review our financial results after that we will take questions.
I will now turn the call over to Glen Messina.
Thank you Jim.
Good morning everyone.
And thank you for your continued interest in PHH.
Over the past year and a half through the execution of our strategic priorities PHH has made significant progress in placing the company in a position of strength to deal with the cyclical and dynamic nature of the mortgage industry.
In the second quarter our financial performance reflected the impact of a rising interest rate environment which drove an increased value of our mortgage servicing rights and negatively impacted our mortgage origination volume.
I’m pleased with the progress the company is making in managing through this transition period to a rising interest rate environment.
We reported our highest level of GAPP earnings in the last 10 quarters and our tangible book value per share increased to over $28 at the end of the second quarter.
Our consolidated core loss in the quarter was primarily due to our mortgage servicing segment where we recorded a charge related to the commutation of the remaining reinsurance contract at Atrium.
Additionally payoffs in our capitalized mortgage servicing portfolio remained high in the second quarter.
Core earnings from mortgage production segment was consistent with first quarter levels while we experienced a 24 basis point reduction in total loan origination margin and a negative impact to our origination volumes as interest rates increased during the quarter we nevertheless experienced higher sequential quarter origination volume levels.
In the second quarter we delivered continued strong progress on our four strategic priorities.
First is disciplined growth in our franchise channels.
Our retail mortgage loan origination channels delivered strong performance during the second quarter with 47% sequential quarter growth in retail purchase applications and 10% sequential quarter growth in retail refinance applications.
Our application volume growth highlights the strength of our real estate channel the benefits of our investment to help our private label clients’ transition to a purchase market and the successful integration and startup of our relationship with HSBC.
We continue to develop our pipeline of potential private label clients.
We believe increased regulation and increasing complexity in the mortgage business will continue to drive financial institutions to evaluate outsourcing as a solution for the mortgage operations.
We are in active discussions with several regional and community banks and wealth management firms who recognize the value of our end-to-end product offering.
We are also seeing incremental subservicing opportunities that could provide additional loan servicing income while requiring a minimal amount of invested capital.
Our fleet business continues to provide us with steady and consistent earnings.
We experience sequential quarter growth of 2% lease and in investment 3% maintenance unit and 5% in accident management unit.
We are encouraged by the sequential quarter growth in lease and investment and service units and continued to see opportunities to drive future growth.
Our second and third strategic priorities are operational excellence and customer service.
We continued to see mortgage loan defects improve and we believe the GSEs remain on track to be substantially complete with their repurchase request for pre-2009 originations by the end of this year.
In addition customer satisfaction scores continue to improve in the second quarter for several of our PLS real estate and fleet clients.
While we make good progress in this area I believe there is continued room for improvement.
Our fourth priority regards liquidity cash flow and deleveraging.
We ended the second quarter with more than $1 billion in unrestricted cash and cash equivalents and our ratio of encumbered assets to unsecured debt improved to nearly three times close to our goal.
We’ve remained cautious with regards to our liquidity in recognition of the cyclical nature of our mortgage business and the volatile nature of the high-yield debt markets.
We are maintaining prudent cash reserves to address our operating needs upcoming debt maturities contingencies related to interest-rate movements fluctuations and the timing of loan repurchase and make whole demands and the potential for future regulatory changes.
Our strong liquidity position also gives us the flexibility to consider a wide range of options to improve our capital structure and diversify our funding sources.
Our key liquidity objectives remain to reduce leverage from unsecured debt extend the maturity latter of our unsecured debt reduce our costs of debt capital and minimize further dilution from our 2017 convertible debt.
In this regard we have successfully negotiated an amendment to the restrictions in our revolving credit agreement that increases our flexibility to repay or refinance our 2016 and 2017 unsecured notes prior to the maturity of our revolver which is in 2015.
We remain committed to execute in our capital structure objectives as market conditions and our liquidity position permit.
With respect to the New Jersey Attorney Journal and multi-state mortgage committee regulatory matters that we have previously disclosed we have no material updates reported at this time.
Recent industry forecast are projecting meaningfully lower mortgage industry volumes due to an expected decline in refinancing activity.
Consistent with this outlook we have seen a decline in refinancing volumes in July.
While total loan margin has improved since quarter end average margins in July were below the average margin for the second quarter.
In light of this we are taking decisive actions to position our mortgage business for the current industry outlook through three key initiatives managing our mortgage origination capacity reengineering our cost structure and attempting to diversify our funding sources for MSRs.
Regarding managing origination capacity we are taking the appropriate actions to lower mortgage production costs to match an expected lower volume environment going forward.
This process includes client level analysis of capacity relative to expected demand and required client service levels.
Assuming mortgage interest rate and our mortgage origination volume remain at current levels we expect our capacity reduction actions will provide at least $35 million annual life cost savings starting in the fourth quarter.
We will continue to adjust our capacity levels to match projected demand as client volumes and service requirements change.
I want to stress that our unwavering commitment to customer service will remain a key strategic priority.
As for reengineering our cost structure we are focused on our operational excellence initiatives.
We believe our defect reduction efforts will ultimately result in a lower level of mortgage quality related cost.
Year-to-date we've incurred $65 million in mortgage quality related costs that we believe will be substantially reduced after we complete processing the backlog of previously delinquent and defaulted loan repurchase requests relating to our pre-2009 originations.
Our operational excellence initiatives are also focused on driving long-term productivity and efficiency improvements through our Lean Six Sigma efforts aggressive vendor management actions discretionary costs action and outsourcing.
Last quarter we announced our outsourcing arrangement for IT infrastructure and development activities with IBM.
The operational and cost benefits to this program are expected to be meaningful and the results to date are consistent with our expectations.
Given our early success with this program we've engaged with other leading outsourcing firms to explore potential opportunities for outsourcing select elements of our business support activities.
In total we expect the annual run rate savings from the successful execution of our productivity and efficiency improvements could be approximately $20 million beginning in the fourth quarter.
Regarding diversify our funding sources for MSRs we continue to explore funding alternatives to reduce our overall cost of funds and our dependence on the high-yield debt markets.
We've identified several potential MSR funding partners with whom we are working to finalize terms for the sale of certain newly created MSRs while PHH remains as subservicer.
Our objectives are to reduce to cash consumption associated with loan origination activities increase the portion of our mortgage servicing earnings that are attributable to fee-based activities and transfer prepayment related risk and responsibility for funding servicer advances to our funding partner.
If successful these efforts could help to enable more capital efficient funding model for PHH.
Any arrangement remains subject to a definitive agreement as well as GSE and board approval.
Lastly as a result of recent rule clarifications issued by the CFPB we are seeking to amend certain private-label contracts and we have already started this process with several of our clients.
We believe this is an opportunity to work in partnership with our clients to address the fundamental changes in the industry and ensure our programs for meeting our mutual regulatory operational and economic objectives.
Now I’d like to turn the call over to Rob.
Thanks Glen.
On a GAAP basis net income attributable to PHH Corporation for the second quarter of 2013 was $90 million or $1.58 per basic share which included $155 million pre-tax favorable mark-to-market adjustment on our MSR asset primarily driven by the increase in mortgage rates during the quarter.
Core earnings which excludes the net MSR mark equal the loss of $2 million on an after-tax basis or $0.03 per share in the second quarter.
The GAAP and core results include a $14 million or $0.24 per share -- basic share after-tax loss related to the termination of our inactive mortgage reinsurance agreement with UGI.
Excluding the loss on the termination of this mortgage reinsurance agreement core earnings per share after tax would have been flat with the first quarter of 2013.
Pre-tax core earnings for the combined mortgage production and servicing segments was a loss of $29 million in the second quarter which includes the $21 million loss on the insurance commutation.
Mortgage production pre-tax core earnings totaled $44 million essentially flat with the $45 million of earnings in the first quarter.
Total loan margins now are 24 basis points to 348 basis points in the second quarter an interest rate lock commitments expected to close rose 9% to $5.4 billion.
The margin decline was primarily driven by rising interest rates while interest rate locks reflected strength in purchase transactions.
Free based closings rose to 47% of total closing from 41% last quarter.
Fee based loans represent production that is retained by our clients for their own balance sheet.
So we do not recognize the gain on sale.
Our fee base revenues are recognized at closing.
Mortgage servicing pre-tax core earnings equal to loss of $73 million compared to our loss of $48 million last quarter.
The $25 million incremental sequential quarter loss was primarily a result of the charge related to the reinsurance commutation and the higher value of payoffs.
Our total loan servicing portfolio of $229 billion was up 19% from the second quarter of 2012 principally due to the assumption of subservicing from HSBC during the second quarter of 2013.
The capitalized portion of our loan servicing portfolio which totaled $133 billion in UPB at the end of the second quarter was down 3% from the first quarter and 10% from the end of the second quarter 2012.
The decline in the capitalized servicing portfolio was driven primarily by our narrowed focus in our correspondent channel higher prepayment rates and a greater portion of mortgage production on a fee-for-service basis.
At the end of the second quarter we valued our MSR at 94 basis points of our capitalized loan servicing portfolio representing a 3.2 times capitalized servicing multiple.
These valuations are up from 80 basis points and 2.7 times respectively at the end of the first quarter and from 78 basis points and 2.6 times at the end of the second quarter 2012.
The sequential quarter valuation increase was primarily driven by the increase in mortgage rates and represents the present value of higher expected servicing cash flows in the future.
The delinquency performance of capitalized servicing portfolio remains among the best in the industry and our delinquency rate at the end of the second quarter excluding foreclosure and real estate owned was 3.58% up from 3.15% at the year end 2012.
Excluding the subservicing portfolio assumed during the second quarter the delinquency rate at the end of the second quarter would have been 2.97%.
We continue to make progress in clearing the backlog of GSE repurchase requests and we believe that GSEs remain on track to be substantially complete with the repurchase request for pre-2009 originations by the end of this year.
Repurchase request continue to trend down as have our mortgage quality related costs.
We recorded $11 million in repurchase and foreclosure related charges during the second quarter down from $15 million in the first quarter and our lowest level since the third quarter of 2010.
Our repurchase and foreclosure related reserve at quarter end was $191 million down slightly from $194 million at the end of last quarter.
As of the second quarter our estimate for reasonably possible future losses related to repurchase and indemnification request remain unchanged at $45 million.
Our estimate of reasonably possible losses assumes that repurchase demands remain at elevated levels through the end of 2013 that our success rate in defending against claims is lower than what we have historically experienced and that the company will incur increased foreclosure related cost that are not expected to be reimbursed pursuant to government mortgage insurance programs.
As a reminder the estimate for reasonably possible losses is above and beyond our recorded repurchase and foreclosure related reserve.
Our Fleet business had another solid quarter continuing to provide consistent segment profit in the quarter.
Second quarter segment profit for Fleet was $21 million unchanged from the first quarter of 2013.
Fleet benefited from growth in average service units in maintenance service fuel cards and accident management.
While sales pipeline activity for Fleet continues to improve client and prospect decision making cycles have extended reflecting caution with regards to the economy and capital investment.
We continue to add to our liquidity position in the second quarter as our unrestricted cash balance increased by $117 million to a total of $1.44 billion at the end of the second quarter compared to $927 million at the end of the first quarter.
The insurance commutation in the second quarter resulted in the release of $69 million in previously restricted cash $30 million of which was added to unrestricted cash in the second quarter and the balance settling in the third quarter.
Our Atrium Reinsurance subsidiary which had been in runoff since 2009 no longer has any reinsurance agreements in place and accordingly our future results will not be impacted by charges directly related to such reinsurance agreements.
As of June 30th we had no outstanding balances on our revolving credit facilities.
And now I’ll turn it back over to Glen.
Thanks Rob.
We believe we are positioning PHH to succeed in rising rate environment and we continue to believe that each of our fleet and mortgage businesses on average three cycles has the potential to achieve low-to-mid teen after-tax ROIs.
Our Fleet business has achieved this target.
We still have work to do to hit that target in our mortgage business.
We believe there are multiple opportunities that could help us achieve mortgages earnings potential including reengineering our cost structure through capacity management productivity and defect reduction actions amendments to certain of our PLS agreements decreases in our cost of unsecured debt allocated to mortgage reduced levels of capital investment from alternative MSR funding strategies a decline in MSR amortization and other prepayment related expenses from slower prepay speed as interest rates rise decreases in mortgage servicing cost as delinquency rates increase and increases in escrow balance interest income.
While some of these opportunities maybe accomplishable in the coming quarters others may take longer to develop and maybe depended upon factors outside of our control such as changes in interest rate.
I want to recognize and thank my colleagues at PHH for the hard work and enduring commitment.
I also want to thank our customers for their business and confidence in us as their service provider.
And with that we’re ready to take questions.
Operator? Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) And we’ll take our first question from Paul Miller with FBR.
Please go ahead.
Yeah.
Thank you very much.
Hey Glen.
Can you elaborate a little bit on your MSR partners where you’ll give them flow and take the subservicing like what type of fees would you collect from that? And also you’re talking to established partners or like I know some guys have started to own REIT like entities to do this? Good morning Paul.
Regarding pricing as with any of our PLS contracts and pricing matters generally we typically will not disclose our pricing parameters and especially since we’re in discussions right now regarding finalization of terms so I won’t be addressing that here.
With regards to the types of investors we've spoken with these investors tend to be people who do have REITs or funds regarding or investing in the mortgage business and mortgage industry asset so they are established players.
Is just mainly private equity or some other I mean some other type of players? Joining our private equity.
And then the other question is and you tell me if I’m missing something but your loan servicing revenue was down pretty much in the quarter and you also booked a big chunk of HSBC.
So we would have thought that would have went up not down.
Can you just add some color why that was down so much was there some one-time items that we don’t know about or we missed in the release? Yeah.
Paul the loss on the Atrium commutation went through the servicing revenues line.
The loss on a… Atrium commutation $20 million loss...
Okay.
… [$20.1 million] Okay.
So that’s where it flows through the system.
That’s correct.
Okay.
And should we with HSBC subservicing and now that’s did that come on at the end of the quarter should we start seeing benefits where would that flow through the income statement the earnings coming from the subservicing contracts? It would appear in servicing revenues and it did come on Board mid-second quarter so third quarter would be the first full quarter of revenues for that relationship.
Is there any and can you add any color what we should expect in the model I mean how the model that? Again Paul we don’t talk about the pricing parameters of our client relationships.
Yeah.
Okay.
It’s just it’s hard.
Okay.
And the -- and then can you elaborate little bit on the -- on restructuring your debt I guess or you -- is that something that now can take place like we talk in quarters months I mean where are we in that deleveraging process? So as we’ve talked about previously one of the things that we needed to do to clear the runway to execute on our capital structure priorities was to negotiate an amendment with our banks on revolver group.
We have done that.
So do we have the way paved.
And as I said in the script it remains a priority for us executing our capital structural charges and we will execute it on it as market conditions and our liquidity position permits.
So no timing expectations? Not at this time.
Okay.
Thank you very much Glen.
You are welcome.
And we will go next to Bose George with KBW.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
First just on your mortgage business the percentage of your retail percentage went up pretty meaningfully.
I was wondering if there was kind of a conscious choice to reduce the correspondent what was kind of driving that? Good morning Bose.
If you go back to our -- just go back to 18 months ago we had a stated objective of four strategic priorities for the business the first one being disciplined growth on our franchise channels.
At that time we identified retail as an important channel for us to grow in for a variety of reasons not the least of which was a higher margins lower margin volatility and we did.
Now our focus in correspondent lending to those partners that delivered us the highest quality production.
So what you are seeing today is the result of the execution on that strategic priority.
Okay.
That's great.
And then switching to the MSRs will the new funding arrangements -- I mean could they end up funding the bulk of your new MSR I mean can we think about kind of a scale of what you can do over there? We really are thinking about it in a context of newly originated MSRs and it would be a portion not all because we do have a production segment and because that segment has cyclicality involved.
So we are associated with it.
It's important for us to keep on balance sheet MSRs as part of the natural hedge.
Thanks Glen.
And then actually on the 2017 converts what's the premium on that right now and if you -- in terms of refinancing it do you have to -- I mean can you call it without -- is there a penalty there or do you have to tender for the converts themselves? Our first priority is really dealing with the 2016 debt maturity that is the next one out in the maturity ladder and extending our maturities as something as critical to the business.
On the converts we would have to -- if we want to take those out we would have to tender for them.
Obviously they are trading today at a premium to parity and we will have to offer price above that premium to parity to incentivize bondholders to surrender them in a tender.
Okay Glen.
Let me just throw in a fleet question to shake things up.
It looks like the lease vehicles have been down for a few quarters and it’s stabilized this quarter.
I am just curious what -- a what drove that damages and just the trends over there? So with -- our fleet business is performing very well so to your point Bose unit counts were flat for our lease portfolio net investment continued to be up.
We are balancing our growth in that business between service base units and fleet base units.
And as we’ve previously had moved our shift to more service type vehicles the number of vehicles going into the portfolio was lower than the number of vehicles going out of the portfolio.
So I think we have reached an equilibrium here for the business and expect to seek good prospects for continued growth in lease and investment.
Okay.
Great.
Thanks.
We will go next to Henry Coffey with Sterne Agee.
Please go ahead.
Agee</strong> Good morning everyone and thanks for taking the time.
The obvious question is timing on the bond issue.
Can you -- are there any specific issues now that you’ve resolved with the bank that a sort of gaiting factors or is it really just a matter of going to the mechanics of -- deciding which notes to call which notes to tender for et cetera? Yeah.
Henry as I said before this yeah obviously the first [dominant default] was the negotiation of our revolver.
It remains a priority for us.
We’re committed to execute on our capital structure objectives and our intention is to address this market conditions when liquidity permits.
Agee</strong> No obviously everyone has run the numbers and paint down this debt.
It has a nice cost saving benefits to it.
If we look longer into the future is it probable that when you quote restructure your existing corporate debt that you’d be in a position to pay a dividend or buyback stock? Once we accomplish our capital structure objectives and obviously evaluate all the opportunities for us to invest the capital of the business to maximize returns for our shareholders.
Agee</strong> No just kind of shifting to the cost issues the service -- I know you have -- the $5 million is -- the $20 million that you talked about is potential cost savings of $5 million just from the IBM initiative or is there other? Yeah.
Henry if the collection of things that we’ve talked about Lean Six vendor management effort the IBM outsourcing indirect cost controls that entire basked we believe has the potential to generate $20 million in annualized cost savings beginning in the fourth quarter.
Agee</strong> Now in prior days your servicing cost used to be more like 758.5 basis points -- 7.5 points to 8.5 points.
And now we seem to be running in the 10s.
Is that -- is there -- can we get back to the old numbers or has the world changed to the point where that’s not likely? Yeah.
Henry I think the world has changed.
I mean there has been a substantial change in the regulatory environment for the mortgage business and a substantial change in the investments that all mortgage companies have to make in compliance in -- Singapore and contact foreclosure the CFPBS issued new servicing rules as well -- that the entire industries had to comply with.
And also Henry part of the value proposition for us in our outsourcing model is being able to offer differentiated services for each buy-in where we can customize our servicing activities specific to the needs of each client.
Agee</strong> No when we look at the two businesses the mortgage origination business and the mortgage servicing business.
Are they both likely to get more efficient or is there one of those two that’s pretty much running the way it should? Yeah.
We are applying our Lean Six Sigma and process initiatives to both our mortgage production and our servicing platform.
Both Dave Tucker and myself have previous experience as you know with GE.
We believe in continuous progress and performance and re-engineering from both a variable cost and a fixed cost perspective.
So we are on both platforms.
Agee</strong> Great.
I’ll get off and let someone else ask questions.
Thank you for your time.
Thank you.
And we will move next to Kevin Barker with Compass Point.
Please go ahead.
Good morning gentlemen.
Could you talk about the priority of the 2016 debt maturity and how that relates to the 2014 convert? Do you need to wait until the 2014 convert matures and pay that off or could you possibly tender for that before hand? Are there any restrictions about paying after 2014 and then interest into 2016 could you just address how that should play out and how you look at the debt maturities going forward? Good morning Kevin.
We -- the amendment that we negotiated with our revolving credit lenders does give us the flexibility to address the 2016 and 2017 debt maturities without necessarily having to tender for the 2014.
So the amendment works such that if we want to take out the 2016 and ‘17s with cash we will then just have to place $150 million of cash in a restricted account sort of on reserve to address the 2014 debt maturities.
But if we’re going to refinance the debt and a debt for debt type structure we don’t have to place cash and restricted cash account.
Okay.
That’s helpful.
Thank you.
And in concerning your expense based on your other expenses it’s going up roughly $27 million from last quarter.
And I get to about $12 million with a variable expense from production of $5 million fixed in the total of $19 million from rise from last quarter due to the mortgage servicing and production operations.
Could you explain some of the other details around why other operating expenses are rising? There is a number of factors that are being reflected in our other operating expenses.
Certainly on a year-over-year basis there has been -- as we’ve about an increase in compliance related cost and increase in our cost structure to lower origination defects which we have done.
We are seeing a benefit of that in the reduction of our mortgage quality related cost.
Particularly in the period we did incurs some one-time cost with respect to our quality improvement initiatives that we don’t expect to incur going forward.
I mean overall if I look quarter -- sequential quarter first quarter versus second quarter at our mortgage production expenses -- mortgage production expenses as a percent of application volume has remain flat quarter-over-quarter.
And then if we look at the HSBC transaction you probably had roughly about 50% of subservicing fees that you would have expected throughout the quarter.
And then would you expect the full amount of expenses associated with servicing that portfolio to be on the books or is that -- how should we look at the timing of the fee revenue versus the expenses from the HSBC deal? Yeah.
So from integration perspective we did have integration on boarding expenses that we did incur certainly through the first quarter and into the second quarter.
There are -- there is still some trailing work to do those will taper off in the third quarter and obviously be finished within the fourth quarter.
From an operating expense perspective the headcount that we took on with respect to HSBC we actually started hiring people to bring the portfolio on late first quarter early second quarter.
The bulk of the resources did hit in the second quarter but -- and again if I would have been a partial quarter for the bulk of the operating resources and a partial quarter for the revenues.
So on the third quarter full impact of the revenues full impacted of the operating cost structure but a trail off of the integration expenses associated with it.
How much expenses would fallout outside of some of the other expense initiative that you talked about earlier? Is it related to HSBC? Of the integration expenses from HSBC how much of that would you expect the fallout in the fourth quarter absence some of the other expenses did you talked about earlier? There roughly be a couple of million dollars.
Okay.
Thank you.
And we will go next to Brad Ball with Evercore.
Please go ahead.
Hi thanks.
Regarding your $1 billion of unrestricted cash could you give us an idea as to what the calls on that cash are? How much is needed to -- for day-to-day operations how much is need it relative to the rep and warranty reserve and then how much is available to pay down the debt that you described? Brad as we mentioned on the call there is a number of baskets that we look at in terms of earmarks for cash and liquidity.
Operating needs is the first one.
Second is our upcoming debt maturities.
We have the 2014 convertible.
There is $250 million associated with that.
Contingencies for interest rate movements cash posting on our hedges related to our mortgage pipeline are back in swing plus or minus $120 million.
So if you look end to end it’s an absolute value change of about $240 million and need to be prepared for.
A timing repurchase demands obviously we don’t have control over when the GSEs present demands to us.
We have on book reserves of $191 million plus another reason be possible of around 48-ish million dollars $45 million.
So I believe it’s prudent for us to make sure that we’ve got reserves on hand in case the GSEs you were to present a bulk -- a bulk demand obviously reserves therefore but we have come up with cash.
And then you obviously we want to make sure we’ve got adequate reserve to deal with any potential regulatory changes.
And finally and most importantly we are committed as I said earlier to execute on our capital structure objectives which include de-leveraging the business.
So we do want to make sure that we have cash on reserve to give us the flexibility to execute on that as market conditions permit.
Great.
Very helpful.
And how much do you need for operating needs is that $200 million $250 million or so? I would say it’s between $250 million and $300 million 250 to 300.
Okay.
And then how much cash is allocated to the fleet business? We look at the cash needs on a liquidity basis at the corporate level and as opposed to allocating specifically between Fleet and Mortgage? So I mean again based on that list of cash drawer that you just described an estimate for the ‘17 would probably cost about $300 million to repay at this point.
Do you feel like you have that cash on hand to deal with the ‘17 at this time? We believe our liquidity position is adequate and appropriate for the business.
Given the structure objectives and the operating needs that we see in the foreseeable future.
Okay.
Thank you.
And just separately could you talk a little bit about the gain on sale dynamics that you described.
I think you said that July gain on sale average -- gain on sale was lower versus the second quarter is that right? And what is some of the components of gain on sale and how much HARP did you do during the quarter and what was the impact on HARP gain on sale? So overall pricing and margins I mentioned on the call had actually improved since quarter end through the month of July but still on average for July they were below the average for the second quarter.
In terms of the impact of HARP consistent with this -- with what we saw in the first quarter our production added about 25 basis points on average to total margin.
And again we are continuing to improve our execution on HARP.
HARP continues to be part of our origination channels focus and objectives and the program has extended through 2015.
So we’re going to maximize the opportunity available to that program until the program ceases.
So what was the share originations over HARP? It’s been roughly 10%.
Around 10%.
Okay.
That’s it.
Thank you.
And we will move next to Dan Furtado with Jefferies.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
Thank you for the opportunity.
Just I think two questions here one is this $35 million and $20 million in annual cost savings that will commence in the fourth quarter.
Should we think about this as relatively spread out over the following four quarters or will there be some type of slope to those expense saves? The $35 million is actually coming from capacity reductions or by frankly staffing reductions in our business.
So once those reductions complete those will come through on our pretty much a levelized basis beginning in the fourth quarter.
Got you.
And then on the $20 million side? The $20 million we would see that coming through beginning in the fourth quarter it will probably a little bit later in the fourth quarter and then be at what I’ll call a level quarterly run rate beginning in the first quarter of next year.
Great.
And how about guidance around tax rate for the rest of the year have you provided anything on that front? I turn it over to Rob.
Yeah.
We’ve been running somewhere if you exclude the non-controlling interest around 38%.
So somewhere between 35% and 40% somewhere call it 37% or 38%.
Great.
And then my final question would simply be in today’s market where do you feel HARP gain on sale margins execute in a broad sense I mean we don’t need a GPS coordinator carpet bombing strategy would work? I’m sorry.
Can you repeat the question please? HARP gain on sale in today’s -- today? Yeah.
Again we don’t talk about gain on sale on a product-specific basis.
But again as I said earlier on average it’s adding about 25 basis points to our total loan margin.
Understood.
Thank you for the opportunity.
You’re welcome.
And we’ll take our next question from Ryan Zacharia with JAM.
Please go ahead.
Thanks for taking the question.
I just want to clarify something on a non-controlling interest.
So because its tax does a partnership is the $12 million the same pre-tax and after-tax that’s allocated to Realogy? I’m sorry sir.
Could you repeat? Can you repeat again? Yeah.
So because the JV is taxed as a partnership is the $12 million of non-controlling interest allocable to Realogy is that the same on a pre-tax and after-tax basis? Yes.
Okay.
And then just kind of a more macro question that as gain on sale margins come under pressure some other firms have contended that Correspondent is going to gain market share just because more small originators are going to have to sell the servicing for cash monetize the servicing and how do you think that you guys are positioned for that given the systematic kind of wind down of that business? Well I wouldn’t say we’ve systematically wound down the Correspondent business.
We’re so active in that channel today and you can see from our earning supplement that we are seeing several billion dollars of volume through that channel.
So we strategically have kept a position in that marketplace.
But we think it is one of the tools in the toolkit to tune the business from a originations perspective and we’re focused on those sellers who can deliver us high quality loan originations.
So we still have a position in the market and we plan to utilize that as necessary.
Okay.
Thanks.
(Operator Instructions) We’ll go next to Jim Fowler with Harvest Capital.
Please go ahead.
Hey.
Glen.
Thanks for taking my question.
I understand the commentary on expense line but I wanted to talk about it for just a second on a per unit basis.
I think as I calculate the composite between the Fannie and Freddie and MBA you had a really nice increase in purchase market shares this quarter.
I calculated about 50 basis points up from the first quarter which is probably one of the bigger jumps you’ve had in a while.
I’m wondering if you might comment on that.
And also when I calculate your cost originated actually improved about 5 basis points from the first quarter.
As you talked about which is excellent on a unit level basis.
So when I -- when you’re thinking about where expenses would be especially looking forward to what the industry volumes are estimated to be? Where do you are you targeting a cost to originate level that we can put into our model as you’re thinking about the expense base? And again do you can think your initiatives on the purchase market will continue to garner share as nicely it was in the second quarter? Thanks a lot.
Sure Jim.
I think our relationship with Realogy is a huge benefit to PHH.
I mean it gives us access to 25% of the transactions that are happening in a purchase market today.
So clearly we are seeing the strength to that relationship come through in the results.
We’ve also spent for the last six months a fair amount of time with our PLS clients and helping them build products programs and train their financial advisors to sell into a purchase market.
So we’re seeing good growth as a result of that.
So I’m optimistic and hopeful about our progress in growth in purchase applications.
Now Jim on the cost structure just given that each of our programs each of our PLS arrangements are customized to the needs of each client.
There is not a universal cost target that applies across all PLS contacts.
It’s obviously different based on the level of service you put in.
But Dave Tucker runs our mortgage business is overall looking to drive a 7% year-over-year productivity in its originations channel.
But that start to add different points relatively to the requirements of each client need.
Great.
Thanks.
And we’ll go back to Kevin Barker with Compass Point.
Please go ahead.
Hi.
Just quick follow up on the fee-based originations.
It’s becoming an increasing piece of your total origination volume and I notice that the fee revenue associated with originations has been coming down.
Could you just talk about how we should look at the fee-based originations and how that the percent of fee revenue associated with that and how it’s going to trend going forward? So the mix of our fee-based originations really come from what I’ll call client investment loans and as I mentioned on the second quarter we don’t control client invested loans I mean ultimately there’s a several factors that impact that.
One is our clients desire to put loans on their balance sheet the second their overall capacity or capability to do so.
But ultimately it's a decision that's made at the consumer level the borrowers one who ultimately determines what product they want to position themselves in.
So in terms of actual fees there is a difference between how to recognize income on the fee-based originations.
Our fees recognized at time of closing versus at time of lock so there is a lag that we would see on that.
And I’m not aware of anything in particular in the PLS contracts that would actually drive lower fees as we shift to a fee-for -- to this fee for service production.
The fees tend to be fixed and quite frankly depending upon the mix of a specific clients business the fee-for-fee-based originations actually goes up in terms of the fee-per-loan.
So yeah we would expect that this shift continues the amount of fees relative to our fee-for-service business would actually increase as that business makes shift.
Okay.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) And it appears we have no further questions at this time.
Thank you Zack.
And thank you all for joining the call.
I look forward to talking to you next quarter.
This concludes the PHH Corporation’s Second Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
Once again ladies and gentleman the replay will be available beginning later today at the company’s website at www.phh.com/invest or by dialing 888-203-1112 or 719-457-0820 and using conference Id 7283605.
It will be archived until August 15 2013.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning ladies and gentlemen.
Welcome to the PHH Corporation third quarter 2013 earnings conference call.
(Operator Instructions) At this time Jim Ballan Vice President of Investor Relations will proceed with the introduction.
Thanks Jessica.
Good morning and welcome to PHH Corporation's third quarter 2013 earnings conference call.
Please note that statements made during this conference call include forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 as further described in Slide 3 of our third quarter 2013 investor presentation of supplemental schedules which is posted in the Investor Section of our website at www.phh.com under Webcasts and Presentations.
Such forward-looking statements represent only our current beliefs regarding future events and are not guarantees of performance or results.
Actual results performance or achievements may differ materially from those expressed or implied in such forward looking statements due to a variety of factors including but not limited to the factors under the headings Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements and Risk Factors in our periodic reports filed with the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission including our most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K and quarterly reports on Form 10-Q which are also available in the Investor Section of our website.
Investors are cautioned not to place undue reliance on such forward-looking statements.
The earnings release we issued yesterday also may be accessed from the Investor Section of our website or you may request a faxed or mailed copy by calling our investor hotline.
During this call we may discuss various non-GAAP financial measures including core earnings or loss pre-tax core earnings or loss after-tax core earnings or loss per share adjusted cash flow and tangible book value per share.
Please refer to our earnings release and accompanying investor presentation of supplemental schedules for a description of these and other non-GAAP financial measures as well as a reconciliation of such measures to their respective most directly comparable GAAP financial measures.
Speaking on the call today will be Glen Messina President and Chief Executive Officer; and Rob Crowl Chief Financial Officer.
Other members of PHH's senior management team are also with us and will be available to take your questions.
I now turn the call over to Glen Messina.
Thanks you Jim.
Good morning everyone and thank you for your continued interest in PHH.
This morning I want to quickly review the highlights from our third quarter.
Then I'll devote most of time to what we're doing at PHH to continue to create value for you.
In the third quarter segment profit for our fleet business was up over last quarter.
However our mortgage business generated a loss due to lower total loan margins continued declines in lock volume and severance cost related to our recent capacity reduction actions.
Our consolidated results also reflect the cost of repurchasing a portion of our senior notes due in 2016.
Rob will discuss our results in detail later on the call.
The mortgage industry environment is rapidly changing and the impact of rising interest rates on industry application volume has been significant.
The MBA application index for the third quarter of 2013 is down 41% from last quarter and 46% from third quarter of last year.
The successful execution of our strategy has delivered meaningful improvements in our business.
Compared to the third quarter of last year our home purchase related applications are up 21% segment profit in fleet is up 14% our customer satisfaction scores are up mortgage quality related cost are down 86% and we have extended the maturities and lowered the cost of our unsecured debt improved our ratio of unencumbered assets to unsecured debt and significantly increased unrestricted cash levels.
We believe the improvements in our liquidity position capital structure and operating execution gives us greater flexibility to position the business for what we believe will be a home purchase driven mortgage industry environment.
Over the last six months management and the board have been engaged in a regular annual strategic review process.
Through this process with the support of external consultants and advisors when appropriate we are evaluating multiple opportunities to improve our business and drive value creation for our shareholders.
I would like to share with you the conclusions we have reached to date and the actions we are taking.
First we are reengineering PHH mortgage to be a more capitalized fee-based business with less volatile cash flow and earnings that is better positioned for the home purchase market cycle.
We are taking decisive action to accomplish this including developing alternative MSR funding sources renegotiating our private label agreements resizing our originations capacity and lowering our fixed cost levels.
Second given the high fixed cost structure in our mortgage business we are accessing all options to increase the scale of both mortgage production and servicing to drive acceptable returns in our home purchase driven market.
These options include new products new channels organic and in organic growth.
And finally our use of excess capital above our key cash requirements which may include return of capital to shareholders and strategic business investments is dependent upon achieving the following milestones which we believe in the aggregate can be accomplished in the first half of 2014.
Those milestones are sustained execution of our alternative MSR funding strategy amending the majority of our PLS contracts and resolving our repurchase backlog with the GSEs for our 2008 and prior originations.
With the successful execution of these actions we would expect to have a less volatile stream of earnings and what is still an inherently cyclical business.
I am pleased to announce that we have made meaningful progress in implementing several of the actions I just outlined.
As we have recently announced we have entered into an agreement with Matrix Financial Services an affiliate Two Harbors Investment Corporation to the sale of newly created MSRs.
We believe this funding relationship will contribute positively to our adjusted cash flow and allow us to maintain scale for our servicing operations.
Under this two year agreement we can sell to Matrix 50% or more as eligible newly originated MSRs.
We have also entered into a subservicing agreement with Matrix under which we will act as subservicer of the mortgage loans underlying the MSRs sold to Matrix.
Subject to mutually acceptable pricing we expect that first settlement of an MSR sale to occur in the first quarter of 2014.
And we believe MSR sales under this agreement could include roughly up to 40% to 50% of our newly created MSRs assuming the sale of 100% of eligible MSRs.
We are also pursuing our own separate MSR financing vehicle to further diversify our funding sources.
We believe the best potential structure for such a vehicle maybe either a REIT or an MSR excess drip securitization.
In this regard we are focused on several factors including the commercial viability of such a vehicle; the effective cost of financing; structural requirements including a recapture agreement; and the effect on PHH's earnings cash flow and return on equity.
A separate financing vehicle would require us to obtain amendments to certain PLS contracts and obtained GSE approvals.
If we intend to exceed the $350 million limit in our secured financing arrangement pertaining to MSR financing we would also likely need to renegotiate our revolving credit agreement and obtain amendment through our bond indentures or restructure our unsecured debt.
We will consider these factors as we evaluate our alternatives.
We are in active discussions to amend our contracts with private label clients that represents the majority of our volume through this channel.
The rule clarification issued by the CFPB earlier this year were the catalyst for these conversations.
However the combination of significantly lower industry volume and margin levels a higher mix of client invested volume and increase cost of fulfillment could cause certain PLS contracts to be unprofitable going forward.
As a result we are taking this opportunity to broaden our client discussions in an effort to ensure our programs meet our mutual operational and financial objectives.
We have reduced our mortgage origination capacity levels to match lower expected client and industry volume levels.
As a result we anticipate at least $60 million in annualized expense savings by the fourth quarter of 2013 relative to the second quarter of 2013 levels absent in increase in volume.
We will continue to monitor application activity and adjust our origination capacity levels to match market demand going forward.
We are lowering our fixed cost structure through outsourcing facilities consolidation and simplifying and de-levering support and overhead functions.
We continue to expect the annual run rate savings from the successful execution of our productivity and efficiency improvements could be approximately $20 million.
This amount when combined with the results of our capacity reduction actions could deliver in excess of $80 million in run rate expense savings.
We have project teams currently evaluating all opportunities to lower fixed costs and we expect to quantify additional cost savings opportunities if there any by the end of the fourth quarter.
Reengineering our fixed cost structure of loan will not be sufficient to achieve our desired return objectives in a home purchase driven markets.
However we believe we have several attractive opportunities to increase our scale in mortgage production and servicing.
For example in our PLS channel given the high cost of fulfillment to originate residential mortgages in the phase of declining industry origination volume levels we continue to believe that PHH's deep domain expertise and flexibility to meet changing regulation will make outsourcing to us attractive to banks and wealth management firms.
In our real estate channel we are focusing on sales force effectiveness fulfillment performance and expanding regional coverage in products to improve our capture rate in the real estate offices we currently serve and to selectively expand our presence in offices we are not currently serving.
In mortgage servicing with both the increased cost and regulatory pressure on banks could be a catalyst for increased sales of prime MSRs and subservicing.
We believe our focus our operational excellent has allowed us to build a leading servicing platform as capable as meeting today's stringent standards.
Our access to alternative MSR funding sources gives us the flexibility to pursue multiple options to increase the scale of our mortgage servicing platform.
In our fleet business we believe there are opportunities to grow through expansion into new markets such as small fleets and new products such as material handling equipment.
Expansion of fleet into new markets and products could accelerate fleet's profitability improvement and cash flow generation capability.
The credit enhancement that fleet has provided us over the past two years has been essential to our overall credit rating and has been a key factor in the improvement in our liquidity position.
Additionally in the near-term the credit enhancement fleet provides to mortgage at its current leverage will be critical as we reposition mortgage for a smaller home purchased driven market.
As part of our regular annual strategic review process we have also carefully evaluated the possibility of separating our mortgage and fleet businesses and the financial impact of such an action.
Based on our analysis conducted with the assistance of external consultants and advisors we have concluded that the separation of fleet and mortgage at this time could consume up to $920 million in cash.
Let me elaborate.
First in such a transaction regardless of structure we believe all of our unsecured bond debt would likely need to be restructured.
This would require roughly $200 million in tender and make whole payments to bondholders at current interest levels as well as the issuance of approximately $11 million incremental shares in connection with our convertible debt.
Second in order to maintain our BB minus or higher standalone credit rating for the mortgage business we believe we would need to reduce our unsecured debt levels to approximately $750 million to $1 billion.
This would require approximately $295 million at the $1 billion debt level to $545 million at this $750 million debt level for principal reduction.
Third any transaction at book value or higher would incur at least $175 million in tax costs after applications of our net operating loss carry forward.
Finally even in a transaction structured to avoid triggering our current tax payment the deferred taxes would remain a liability for the fleet business or a potential buyer.
We believe the high level of estimated cash required for debt restructuring and payment of taxes could consume the gross proceed realized from such a separation or a substantial portion of our unrestricted cash balances.
Management and the board will continue to evaluate and consider all opportunities to maximize value for our shareholders.
Regarding our liability management actions our recent unsecured debt issuance and tender offer met a number of our key capital structure objectives including reducing our cost of debt and reducing the refinancing risk related to our 2016 debt maturities.
We will periodically evaluate the potential benefits of prepaying or refinancing our unsecured debt including our 2017 convertible notes and would only take action to the extent it's consistent with our capital structure objectives and is value accretive to our shareholders.
Our vision for PHH is a more capitalized business with greater scale less volatile cash flows and greater operational and capital efficiency and we are pleased with the progress we have made towards that end.
Now I will turn it over Rob to discuss our financial results for the third quarter.
Thanks Glen.
On a GAAP basis we reported a net loss attributable to PHH Corporation for the third quarter of 2013 of $52 million or $0.90 per basic share which include an $11 million pre-tax unfavorable mark-to-market adjustment on our MSR asset as mortgage interest rates decline slightly from the end of second quarter.
Core earnings after tax and core earnings per share both of which exclude the net MSR mark equal the loss of $45 million and $0.78 per share respectively in the third quarter.
The GAAP and core earnings results include a $54 million pre-tax charge related to the early repayment of senior notes due 2016 and $9 million pre-tax charge for severance costs related to capacity reductions for the current mortgage origination environment.
Excluding those items core earnings per share would have been an $0.11 loss.
Core earnings pre-tax for the combined mortgage segments was a loss of $39 million during the third quarter as compared to a loss of $29 million during the second quarter.
Included in the third quarter results was $9 million some pre-tax severance related charges while the second quarter results included a $21 million pre-tax loss related to the termination of a reinsurance agreement.
As I'll explain in more detail the decline in mortgage production profitability was partially offset by a significant improvement in mortgage servicing results.
Mortgage production core earnings pre-tax equal the loss of $22 million as compared to the second quarter of 2013 mortgage production earnings were down $66 million primarily due to a decline in both interest rates locks and margins along with the aforementioned severance charges.
Interest rate lock commitments are expected to close decline 46% to $2.9 billion in the third quarter and total loan margin narrowed by 33 basis points to 315 basis points.
The margin decline was primarily driven by a sustained higher interest rates while interest rates locks reflected declines in refinancings and a continued mix shift to our fee for service originations.
Fee based closings rose to 58% of total closing from 47% last quarter.
Fee based loans represent production that is retained by our clients for their own balance sheet so we do not recognize the gain on sale.
Also our fee base revenues are recognized in mortgage fees at closing.
Applications for the third quarter totaled $12.6 billion down 36% from the second quarter as compared to a 41% decline in the MBA application index for the same periods.
Mortgage servicing core earnings pre-tax equal to loss of $17 million compared to a loss of $73 million last quarter.
The $56 million change in sequential quarter core earning was driven by a $17 million improvement in MSR run-off due to slower prepayments; $16 million in lower repurchase foreclosure and delinquent serving expenses; and a $21 million loss related to the termination of reinsurance agreement that occurred in the second quarter.
We continue to see opportunities for improvement in the core earnings result of our mortgage servicing segment as the impact of any declines and prepayments rates becomes fully reflected in our results and if quality related cost continue to trend down.
Our total loan servicing portfolio of $228 billion was up 24% from the beginning of the year principally due to the assumptions of subservicing during the second quarter.
The capitalized portion of our loan servicing portfolio which totaled $131 billion in UPB at the end of the third quarter was down slightly from the second quarter and down 7% from the beginning of the year.
The decline in the capitalized servicing portfolio during 2013 has been driven primarily by high prepayment rates a grater portion of our mortgage production on a fee-per-service basis and our narrowed focus on our correspondent channels.
We did experience a significant slowdown in prepayments during the month of September FCPR has fell to an annualized rate of approximately 13% as compared to 24% on average for the second quarter.
At the end of the third quarter we valued our MSR at 94 basis points of our capitalized loan servicing portfolio representing a 3.2x capitalized servicing multiple.
These valuations are unchanged from the end of the second quarter and up from 69 basis points and 2.3x at the end of the third quarter 2012.
The year-over-year valuation increase was primarily driven by the increase in mortgage rates and represents the present value of higher expected servicing cash flows in the future.
We continue to make progress with the GSEs with regards to repurchase request and we believe that GSEs remain on track to be substantially complete with their repurchase request for pre-2009 originations by the end of this year.
The total dollar amount of outstanding repurchase requests fell to $150 million at the end of the third quarter as compared to $154 million at the end of the second quarter primarily due to the resolution of private investor request.
The total number of new repurchase requests in the third quarter rose to 735 from 603 last year as the agencies push to meet their yearend deadlines.
During the third quarter our repurchase and foreclosure reserves fell to $180 million from $191 million as we experienced $15 million in realized losses while providing $4 million in reserves for new loan sales.
Our estimate for reasonably possible future losses related to repurchase and indemnification request declined to $35 million at the end of the third quarter from $45 million at the end of the second quarter.
As a reminder the estimate for reasonably possible losses is above and beyond our recorded repurchase and foreclosure related reserve.
A largest component of our remaining reasonably possible estimate is now related to FHA claims and represents the potential for a reduction and the number of claims we may file in the future as compared to the historical experience.
Our fleet business had another solid quarter continuing to provide consistent segment profit.
Third quarter segment profit for fleet was $24 million up from $21 million in the second quarter of 2013 primarily reflecting a decline in operating expenses.
Service unit accounts and net investment and leases were virtually unchanged from the second quarter.
During the third quarter we saw increased activity in both new business request as well as awarded business that we expect to activate in the fourth quarter.
In addition we experienced continued success in retaining a very high percentage of our current clients.
With regards to liquidity we closed the quarter with $1 155 million in unrestricted cash an increase of a $111 million compared to $1 044 million at the end of the second quarter.
Drivers of this increase included a release of $57 million of previously restricted cash from over collateralization on feet securitizations $39 million of cash received in connection with the second quarter's reinsurance contract terminations and the remainder cash flow from operations.
I'd like to reiterate that approximately $825 million to $900 million cash is earmarked for specific purposes that are outlined in our investor supplement as a key cash requirements.
To include $250 million to $300 million in cash required for working capital to operate the business; $250 million to address the maturity of our 2014 convertible notes that come due in less than 10 months; $225 million for rep and warrant counterparties legal regulatory and other risks; and $100 million to $125 million for collateral purposes to support our interest rate risk management activities.
In addition the cash balance at the end of the third quarter includes $113 million of cash held for our Canadian fleet business which we do not intend to use in the U.S.
And now I'll turn it back over to Glen.
Thanks Rob.
At the beginning of 2012 we're facing a crisis of confidence in our liquidity.
Since that time through the execution of our strategic priorities we have significantly improved our liquidity position capital structure and operating execution.
As a result of these efforts and our ongoing actions to reengineer our mortgage business for the home purchased market cycle we believe PHH will be in a much better position to deal with the cyclical and dynamic nature of the mortgage industry.
We have executed on our alternative MSR funding structure that we believe will contribute possibly to our adjusted cash flow and allow us to maintain scale for our servicing operations.
We have reduced originations capacity and fixed cost that could deliver an excess of $80 million in run rate expense savings.
We are renegotiating our PLS contracts to ensure they continue to meet our operational and financial objectives.
We have extended the maturities and lowered the cost of our unsecured debt.
And finally we have defined the milestones that we believe we need to achieve to consider returning capital to our shareholders.
We're proud of the track record of creating shareholder value in the past two years.
And we're executing the actions required to deliver additional value to our shareholders.
I want to recognize and thanks my colleagues at PHH for their hard work and enduring commitment to our success.
And with that we're ready to take questions.
Jessica? (Operator Instructions) We will go first to Paul Miller with FBR.
Glen can you talk a little bit about your flow agreement with I think it was announced with Two Harbors? And then also are you thinking about selling some of your other non-flow MSRs? Paul we're really pleased with the flow agreement we entered into with Two Harbors.
We wanted to work with an investor who is not really a national competitor to PHH in originations and servicing business.
And as we continue to work with Two Harbors we continue to gain a high level of confidence that Two had the requisite industry knowledge and appetite to be a long-term partner.
And as I said before we'll be selling newly created MSRs to Two Harbors enable to subservice them over time.
We do believe the economics for this transaction are superior to a lot of other alternatives that we have looked that.
The time to get pull together was less than trying to pull together a REIT the cost of doing it was less.
And we think the cash proceeds we get up front plus the present value of our subservicing agreement will be at least equal to the value which we capitalized the servicing on our books.
In terms of whether we'd consider selling existing MSRs our first priority was really to make sure we had the diversification of funding sources to allow our mortgage business to run on a cash flow positive basis going forward and we think our arrangement with Two Harbors would help us to do that.
We would consider or may consider selling existing MSRs but as you know Paul being that we have a large exposure to the originations channel we are going to have to keep on balancing MSR to naturally hedge our mortgage production business.
And then you might have mentioned this on the call but I missed it if you did.
We've seen a lot of settlements with Fannie and Freddie as they're trying to wrap-up a lot of this stuff but I think they're incentivized to wrap-up management as all these reps and warrant claims that happened before '07 or '08.
Can you add any color are you in talks to do this are you on that same road path?? As Rob indicated in his remarks the GSEs have continued to represent us that they believe they'll be complete with the review of our 2008 and prior repurchase backlog by the end of this year.
So we're focused on closing out that backlog principally in the fourth quarter.
And then last.
I'm glad you went through the detail by the way Glen the pros and cons of selling the Fleet business but you mentioned something about $200 million of tender bonds is that the $200 million that that's from the convert? And aren't you kind of considering to do that anyway even if you sell the fleet or not? Paul the $200 million in tendering make hold costs would be on our unsecured debt net basically go to our bond indentures and you can calculate what the make whole costs are as the present value of interest plus at a substantially discounted interest rate to maturity.
And then whatever tender premium we'd have to pay on top of that.
And then we talked about the incremental issuance of about 11 million shares associated with 2017 and the 2014 converts so both the incremental shares as well as $200 million is basically all of our unsecured long-term debt.
I mean sitting with $1.2 billion of cash of liquidity and you guys have talked about continued deleveraging so what are some of the things that you can do to get rid of some of that cash and get rid of some of that debt then? So as Rob talked about in his remarks we are marking $250 million of our cash to take care of the 2014s at the time of their natural maturity.
However we continuously evaluate and explore alternatives to restructure or retire our debt early but we'd only do it to the extent that it's consistent with our capital structure objectives as well as consistent with returning or I should say creating value for our shareholders.
And thing that we've already taken the 2016 out and derisk that portion of our maturity profile right now as we have look at the options to take on and retire our debt it appears that it would be pretty substantial transfer of wealth from our shareholders to our bondholders but we'll continue to evaluate it going forward.
We'll go next to Kevin Barker with Compass Point.
Just a follow-up on Paul's question concerning the MSR transactions.
Could you help us understand the 40% to 50% of the MSRs that are generated? Now we will look at that as basically all loans close to be sold in a 40% or 50% of that is that the right way to look at it? Yes loans closed to be sold would be those loans which would have an MSR associated with them.
And then assuming we sell a 100% of eligible loans to Two Harbors or Matrix then we'd be in that 40% or 50% range.
So it would be 40% to 50% of your total originations? 40% to 50% of loans closed to be sold.
The MSR associated with loans closed to be sold.
And then regarding the repurchase request you have $132 million worth of liability remaining for indemnification request.
Then you also have $35 million of potential reasonable possible losses and that's primarily related to FHA insurance claims.
Could you just give us a little more color around the $132 million is that primarily related to Fannie or Freddie? And when or timing of that possible settlement could you just give us some color? The $132 million is primarily related to the agencies and within them primarily related to Fannie.
Based on our ongoing discussions with them and borrower requests that we're receiving we believe we're adequately reserved for the pre-2009 vintages as booked today.
And they continue to work through their backlog and send us request and it's been consistent with the total amount that we expect to receive.
It may come in lumpy months-to-months but right now we think we're all on the same page.
And then regarding the renegotiation of your contracts with PLS would you be willing to walk away from some of those in order to make sure those contracts are profitable or even cash flow positive? Look I'm not going to speculate as to what could or would happen if in fact we were unable to reach agreement with our private label clients.
These discussions are commercial negotiations proceeding in spirit of the long-term relationship that we've had with these customers.
We remain cautiously optimistic that we'll be able to get through these discussions within the timeframe that we've laid out with our PLS clients.
We'll go next to Henry Coffey with Sterne Agee.
Agee</strong> A couple of questions first on the discussion about fleet.
Some of the conversations we've had and some of the investor comment I've looked at the idea of someone buying fleet but in essence not doing it in a manner that they absorb the deferred tax liability.
Am I to assume from some of your comments that that's just not a workable solution? The taxes have to be dealt within one way shape or form.
So either you have a current tax payment upon a separation or the tax liability travels with the business as a potential buyer.
The taxes can't disappear.
Agee</strong> And then just kind of an unrelated topic back to this idea of your renegotiating your primary relationships.
Is the issue with your clients price or are they looking at alternative technology platforms? Schwab worked its way over to Quicken.
Are your clients saying we need a more robust platform or do they still sort of value the white glove service and are willing to pay for it? Henry it's important to note that we are the ones who opened up these conversations not our private label clients.
And again these conversations were originally triggered as a result of the need to modify these contracts to ensure that they were compliant with the CFPB rule clarifications that were issued in May or June of this year.
And given the level of while glove service that our clients demand and just given the increased cost relating to underwriting quality assurance compliance audits a number of different things.
The nature of manufacturing a mortgage loan or the cost associated with fulfilling or manufacturing mortgage loan has gone up substantially from when a lot of these contracts were originally negotiated.
So that plus changing industry needs to want to be able to pursue a more capital-light structure for our business and to more effectively manage our capacity up or down.
We believe gave the need for us to approach our clients to think about changing certain provisions in these agreements to make sure they going forward these agreements continue to meet our mutual operating and financial objectives… Agee</strong> With every origination there is a capital commitment either implied in the MSR or just in funding and managing a loan process.
If you lost a major client would you then be in a position to either through paying down debt or buying back stock take that capital and essentially take it out of your equation? Henry as I said before I'm not going to speculate about what could or would happen with respect to these client negotiations.
And I think and I outlined earlier in my call the milestones that the company needs to achieve which again we believe we can achieve in the first half of 2014 to consider return of capital to our shareholders and strategic investments in the business.
And we'll go back to Kevin Barker with Compass Point You outlined $80 million of expense savings is there other areas where you can find expense savings going forward? Kevin as I had mention on the call we do have project teams that are deployed in the business looking at all opportunities to continue to reduce fixed cost in our business.
And categories that we're looking at our continued process simplification de-levering slight consolidation.
So if you look at this part of industry cycle it's been coming upon management to leave no stone unturned and to consider all options for taking cost out of the business.
And we've got teams of people deployed in the business to do that.
We feel confident and good about the fact that we've already gotten at least $80 million of cost savings that we could access in the business on a run rate basis.
But just because we got back doesn't mean we should put pencils down and stop looking.
And there are no further questions.
Thanks Jessica and thanks to all of you who have joined our call.
We look forward to seeing you next quarter.
This concludes the PHH Corporation third quarter 2013 earnings conference call.
Once again ladies and gentlemen the replay will be available beginning later today at the company's website at www.phh.com/invest or by dialing 1-888-203-1112 or 719-457-0820 and using conference Id 7913121.
It will be archived until November 22 2013.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning ladies and gentlemen.
Welcome to the PHH Corporation First Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
Your lines will be in a listen-only during remarks by PHH management.
At the conclusion of the Company’s remarks we will begin the question-and-answer session.
At which time I will give you instructions on entering the queue to ask your questions.
Today’s call is also being webcast and recorded for replay purposes.
The audio replay can be accessed either on the Company’s Web site at www.phh.com/invest or by telephone at (888) 203-1112 or (719) 457-0820 and using conference ID 2161517 beginning shortly after the conclusion of the call.
It will be available until May 23 2014.
This access information is also described in the Company’s earnings release and I’ll repeat it again at the end of our session.
At this time Jim Ballan Vice President of Investor Relations will proceed with the introduction.
Thanks Angela.
Good morning and welcome to PHH Corporation's first quarter 2014 earnings conference call.
Please note that statements made during this conference call include forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 as further described in slide three of our first quarter 2014 Investor Presentation of Supplemental Schedules which is posted in the Investors section of our Web site at www.phh.com under Webcasts &amp; Presentations.
Such forward-looking statements represent only our current beliefs regarding future events and are not guarantees of performance or results.
Actual results performance or achievements may differ materially from those expressed or implied in such forward looking statements due to a variety of factors including but not limited to the factors under the headings Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements and Risk Factors in our periodic reports filed with the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission including our most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K and Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q which are also available in the Investors section of our Web site.
Investors are cautioned not to place undue reliance on such forward-looking statements.
The earnings release we issued yesterday also may be accessed from the Investors section of our Web site or you may request a faxed or mailed copy by calling our investor hotline.
During this call we may discuss various non-GAAP financial measures including core earnings or loss pre-tax core earnings or loss after-tax core earnings or loss per share adjusted cash flow and tangible book value per share.
Please refer to our earnings release and accompanying Investor Presentation of Supplemental Schedules for a description of these and other non-GAAP financial measures as well as a reconciliation of such measures to their respective most directly comparable GAAP financial measures.
Speaking on the call today will be Glen Messina President and Chief Executive Officer; and Rob Crowl Chief Financial Officer.
Other members of PHH's senior management team are also with us and will be available to take your questions.
I now will turn the call over to Glen Messina.
Thanks Jim.
Good morning everyone and thank you for your interest in PHH.
This morning I want to provide an update on our evaluation of strategic alternatives briefly review our financial highlights for the first quarter and discuss our outlook for the rest of this year.
Then Rob will discuss our results for this quarter.
In February we announced the Board and management’s decision to explore ways to maximize shareholder value through the separation or sale of our fleet business our mortgage business or both.
Since our last earnings call we have been actively engaged in detailed discussions with several interested parties.
The Board management and our advisors are following thorough and disciplined process focused on optimizing both near-term and long-term value for our shareholders.
We expect to reach conclusions in this process by the end of this quarter.
In the first quarter our fleet business again delivered strong earnings while results in our Mortgage business were consistent with the mortgage industry environment and our expectations.
Our Mortgage Servicing segment reported positive core earnings pre-tax for the second consecutive quarter and mortgage quality related costs were down 69% versus the first quarter of last year.
Total application volume was down 36% versus the first quarter of last year.
However retail home purchase application volume is up 15% both comparing favorably to comparable first quarter results to the overall industry as reported by the MBA.
In addition total mortgage production expenses were down 26% versus the first quarter of last year.
Nevertheless our mortgage production segment reported a loss primarily driven by the high mix of fee-based business in our PLS channel.
We will talk more about our efforts to improve the economics of our PLS contracts in a few minutes.
We continue to anticipate a highly challenging mortgage industry environment this year.
First quarter industry reported volume levels are tracking below the average of previous estimates published by the MBA and the GSEs at the end of 2013.
We believe this may result in total mortgage industry volume for 2014 below the $1.2 trillion average previously estimated by the MBA and the GSE.
If current market conditions and the straight levels persist our mortgage production segment will likely be unprofitable on cash consumption this year based on how the industry environment has developed over the first four months of 2014.
We continue to expect to report negative core earnings and adjusted cash flow on a consolidated basis for the full year 2014.
In response to these challenging market conditions we remain focused on executing our forward strategic priorities to ensure our mortgage business and create long-term value for our shareholders.
Our actions aligned to disciplined growth are focused on reengineering our PLS business model and pursuing options to increase scale in mortgage production and servicing.
Our actions aligned to operational excellence are focused on reducing production and overhead costs improving cycle time and enhancing customer experience and our actions aligned to liquidity are focused on diversifying our MSR funding alternatives.
Regarding reengineering our PLS business model we’re taking a deliberate and methodical approach with our largest clients to improve these arrangements to meet our mutual operating and economic objectives.
Through this process we have confirmed we have a unique and highly valued mortgage outsourcing model the importance of a turnkey end-to-end private-label service offering the importance of key tenants of our operational excellence efforts namely speed quality compliance and customer experience and that our clients recognize that a change to our contractual arrangements are necessary and they want to work with us to achieve our mutual objective.
As we have said our largest PLS contracts did not come up for renewal until between December 2015 and 2018.
Due to the size and complexities of these relationships the need of our clients and our desire to maintain a differentiated model with improved flexibility for the future negotiations with our largest PLS counterparties are continuing.
Nonetheless we are cautiously optimistic that these contracts can be restructured or renewed on mutually beneficial terms.
We believe the changes we are making in our PLS arrangement will result in a stronger business model with better economics and improved value proposition to our PLS clients.
Regarding increase in the scale of our production and servicing segments as we have said before we believe our mortgage business remain subscale at projected industry volume levels for this year due to the higher fixed cost from a complex regulatory environment and more stringent loan origination and servicing quality requirements.
We believe we have a number of opportunities to adjust our scale challenges through new products new channels organic and inorganic growth.
First after completing the restructuring of our PLS relationships we believe we can achieve profitable PLS growth through increasing our focus on the mass affluent customer segment in addition to the high network segment of our PLS clients.
We believe the mass affluent customer segment represents a significant mortgage loan origination opportunity for us.
Second we believe shrinking industry volume and ever-increasing regulatory standards are making the value proposition for our unique outsourcing model increasingly attractive to many retail community banks.
We believe there is an approximately $300 billion mortgage outsourcing market opportunity in this market segment.
We are investing the time upfront and engaging in prospective client interviews and discussions to align our service offering to this market segment.
This will increase our probability of success in capturing future opportunities.
Third we believe our real estate channel has opportunities for enhanced profitability and growth in certain real estate offices we currently serve and to expand the regional coverage to real estate offices we do not cover today.
In addition we are focused on simplifying and standardizing the loan origination process in our real estate channel to deliver a consistent high-quality experience to the borrowers we serve.
In particular our recently launched express craft process has reduced our average approval time by 66% and allows some credit approvals to be completed in as little as 24 hours.
This program helps to ensure borrowers can meet their desired close date while allowing PHH to meet investor and regulatory requirements.
This is an essential operational capability for real estate agents to recommend PHH to their home purchase clients.
Finally we will evaluate inorganic growth opportunities to expand participation and position in the overall home purchase market to the extent these opportunities will create long-term value for our shareholders.
Our focus is on expanding both our local retail footprint in select markets and direct to consumer reach.
Regarding opportunities in our mortgage servicing segments consistent with our capitalized strategy we continue to pursue sub-servicing opportunities with other residential mortgage originators and servicers.
Since the beginning of this year we have signed contracts with four new sub-servicing clients representing an expected initial transfer of approximately 8 000 loans or $1.7 billion in unpaid principal balance.
We anticipate forwarding these loans during the second and third quarter.
We also expect these contracts to provide a significant flow of sub-servicing loan growth going forward.
We continue to build the pipeline of sub-servicing contracts opportunities and we are excited about this efforts potential contribution for the profitability of mortgage servicing segment.
We believe a rising interest rate environment can result in significant earnings upside opportunities for our mortgage servicing segment should interest rates increase this year we would expect that the value of our MSR to increase MSR fair value adjustments for prepayments to decrease MSR cash flows to extend and curtailment interest expense to decline.
Rising short-term rates should enable greater returns on the approximately $3.1 billion in escrow balances we manage and an improving economy should enable improvement in our already very low delinquency rate which should lower our average servicing cost per loan.
With regards to reducing production and overhead costs we have made measurable progress toward achieving our goal of $110 million in annualized cost savings by the fourth quarter of 2014 compared to the second quarter of 2013.
In the first quarter we achieved about three quarters of our expense reduction target in the mortgage production segment.
We'll continue to carefully monitor application volume levels and adjust our origination capacity accordingly.
Regarding diversifying our MSR funding alternatives during the first quarter we completed initial sales of newly created mortgage servicing rights related to approximately $120 million in underlying principal balance.
We are sub-servicing these loans and we expect the combined value of the sales price of these MSRs and the net present value of the sub-servicing of the underlying loans to at least equal the value we would have ascribed to the MSR if it was retained by PHH.
At the end of the first quarter we had commitments to sell servicing rights related to $1.1 billion of unpaid principal balance.
We continue to pursue a separate MSR secured funding arrangement to further diversify funding sources.
The implementation of a separate MSR secured funding arrangement remains a high priority for us although we are unlikely to make significant progress until we complete the evaluation of our strategic alternatives.
Moving to fleet we have an extremely valuable franchise and our fleet business is focused on building its industry leadership position.
We are pursuing opportunities to accelerate fleet’s growth rate through investments to enhance processes information management and strategic consulting capabilities as well as investments in new products and expansion into new markets.
We are expanding our remarketing capability and we have recently opened the Commercial Truck Vehicle Remarketing Centre in Virginia Beach that was already outperforming our initial expectation.
We also continue to enhance the breadth and quality of our service offering such as telematics which allows our clients to improve the efficiency of their drivers and fleet assets lowering their operating costs.
Further we are actively pursuing material handling equipment industry which leverages our fleet management capability.
We have expanded our sales force to support all of these initiatives.
Regarding capital liquidity the previously discussed mortgage industry environment may cause inherent uncertainty regarding the future levels of our excess capital above the key cash requirement.
We believe it’s critical that we maintain an adequate liquidity position that is commensurate with the cash flow dynamics of the current mortgage industry cycle.
Our cash position in excess of free cash requirements has declined due to the negative cash flow in our mortgage production business.
This negative cash flow is primarily driven by declining origination margins and volume levels as well as our PLS contract pricing levels.
As I said earlier we are making every effort to restructure those arrangements.
Our priorities for deployment of excess capital remain de-risking our capital structure strategic investments and the return of capital to shareholders.
Once we complete our evaluation of strategic alternatives we will re-evaluate our capital position and any uses of excess capital.
Now I’ll turn it over to Rob to discuss our financial results.
Thanks Glen.
For the first quarter of 2014 we reported a net loss attributable to PHH Corporation of $42 million or $0.73 per basic share as compared to a net income of $45 million or $0.78 per basic share in the fourth quarter of 2013.
The MSR mark-to-market adjustment net of hedge gains was an unfavorable $39 million pre-tax in the first quarter of 2014 as opposed to a favorable pre-tax mark-to-market adjustment net of hedge losses of $48 million in the fourth quarter of 2013.
We also reported a first-quarter core loss after-tax and core loss per share both of which exclude the net MSR mark of $18 million and $0.32 per share respectively as compared to core earnings after-tax of $16 million and core earnings per share of $0.28 in the fourth quarter of 2013.
As I'll explain in more detail the majority of the sequential quarter decline in core earnings stems from lower mortgage production segment earnings in the first quarter coupled with the $19 million rep and warrant reserve release experienced in the fourth quarter 2013 in the servicing segment.
In mortgage production we had a segment loss of $60 million in the first quarter compared to a $45 million segment loss inclusive of $12 million in severance charges in the fourth quarter of 2013.
The sequential quarter decline in mortgage production segment results was primarily due to a 22% decrease in total loan closings and 18% decrease in interest rate lock commitments expected to close and a 22 basis point narrowing of our total loan margin to 291 basis points.
In April total loan margin narrowed an additional 17 basis points to 274 basis points.
Partially offsetting these declines were reductions in indirect variable expenses related to capacity reduction actions to align capacity with expected origination volumes.
Fee-based closings as a portion of total closings increased to 65% in the first quarter from 61% of total closings in the fourth quarter of 2013 and 41% in the first quarter of 2013.
As a reminder fee-based closings represent production that’s retained by our client for their own balance sheet.
We did not recognize a gain on sale and fee-based revenues are recognized at closing.
The continued shift in the percentage of fee-based closings underscores the importance of our efforts to reengineer our PLS contracts.
Our Mortgage Servicing segment recorded a segment loss of $29 million in the first quarter compared to a segment profit of $86 million in the fourth quarter of 2013 including MSR mark-to-market adjustments net of hedging gains and losses of negative 39 million and positive 48 million respectively.
Excluding the net MSR mark-to-market of negative $39 million the first quarter mortgage servicing core earnings pre-tax equaled $10 million as prepayments continue to slow in the first quarter to an annualized average CPR of approximately 8.9% as compared to 11.5% for the fourth quarter of 2013.
Slowing prepayment speeds and improvement in quality related costs continue to have a positive effect on the profitability of our mortgage servicing segment.
We see opportunities for further improvement in our mortgage servicing segment if prepayments fees remain low and we work through our delinquent FHA NVA insured loans which should enable us to further decrease our delinquent loan servicing foreclosure and REO expenses which were $14 million in the first quarter.
Our total loan servicing portfolio of $225.7 billion in UPB at the end of the first quarter was up 24% from the first quarter of last year principally due to the assumption of $47 billion in subservicing during the second quarter of last year.
The capitalized portion of our loan servicing portfolio which totaled 127.2 billion in UPB at the end of the first quarter was down 2% from the beginning of the year and 7% from the end of the first quarter of 2013.
The decline in the capitalized servicing portfolio over last year was driven primarily by payoffs declines in loan production an increasing portion of our loan production on fee for service basis and our narrowed focus in our correspondent channels.
At the end of the first quarter we valued our MSR at 96 basis points of our capitalized loan servicing portfolio or $1.224 billion representing a 3.3 times capitalized servicing multiple.
This valuation is down from 99 basis points or $1.279 billion and a 3.4 times capitalized servicing multiple at the end of 2013.
The 4.3% sequential quarter decrease in valuation was primarily driven by the decline in mortgage rates during the first quarter.
During the first quarter our repurchase and foreclosure reserve declined to $120 million from $142 million at the end of 2013 and the total dollar amount of unresolved loan repurchase requests at the end of the first quarter declined to $116 million from $191 million at year end 2013 driven by a significant decline in the pipeline of agency repurchase request.
The only repurchase and foreclosure related provisions in the first quarter were reserves taken at the time of sale related to new loan production.
We do not expect loan repurchase obligations for pre-2009 loan vintages that have a material impact on our future results of operations.
Our estimate for reasonably possible future losses related to loan repurchase and indemnification requests declined 25 million at the end of the first quarter from 30 million at year-end 2013.
This estimate is entirely related to FHA claims and represents the potential for reduction in the number of claims we may file in the future as compared to historical experience.
Our fleet business segment profit was $21 million in the first quarter average service unit count grew on a sequential quarter and same quarter last year basis due to our success in cross-selling to existing client and the on-boarding of new clients.
Average leased unit count and net investment and leases were down 1% sequentially and 2% versus the same quarter last year.
While our sales pipeline remains healthy the time to close an on-boarding client has lengthened.
Our truck syndication group also had a strong first quarter.
Our fleet business continues to attract solid investor demand for our asset backed securities.
In the first quarter we executed an $800 million asset backed securitization.
We also chose to downsize our U.S.
fleet lease conduit financing capacity by $200 million to $1.1 billion and to reduce the size of our Canadian revolver from CAD125 million to CAD25 million due to our strong cash position in Canada.
With regards to liquidity we closed the first quarter with approximately 1.155 billion in unrestricted cash a $90 million decrease from year-end 2013.
Adjusted cash flow for the first quarter totaled negative $92 million and which primarily a function of results of our mortgage segments and higher working capital requirement in our fleet business.
Approximately 700 million to 775 million of our unrestricted cash at the end of the first quarter was earmarked for specific purposes down by $50 million from the prior quarter range due to a reduction in mortgage related interest rate risk management earmark.
Included in our cash requirements is $250 million for the pay down of convertible debt that matures in September of ’14.
The retirement of this convertible debt will result in an annualized interest expense reduction of $33 million on a GAAP basis.
Our cash balance at the end of the first quarter included $107 million of cash held for our Canadian fleet business which we do not intend to use in the U.S.
and $94 million of cash held in consolidated variable interest entity.
There are no material updates to report with respect to the pending CFPB matter.
There has been an increased level of activity with respect to industry litigation and settlement involving lender placed hazard insurance.
The Company is currently subject to pending litigation alleging that its servicing practices around lender placed hazard insurance were not in compliance with applicable laws.
We do have certain outsourcing arrangements for the purchase of lender placed hazard insurance but did not have a captive reinsurance affiliate or lender placed hazard insurance similar to other large lenders.
We believe we have mature defenses to these allegations however there can be no insurance that we will not incur losses in connection with these matters and we cannot presently estimate the amount of loss or range of possible losses if any associated with these matters.
And now I’ll turn it back over to Glen.
Thanks Rob.
We’ve made solid progress to strengthen PHH’s position to meet the challenges and opportunities that lie ahead in a home purchase driven market.
The Company is better on a number of dimensions.
Over the last 12 months through our disciplined growth actions we have delivered 15% year-over-year growth in retail home purchase related loan application volume.
We've re-priced PLS client relationships comprising 22% of our 2013 volume.
We’re in active negotiations with our largest clients to realize our mutual operating and financial objectives and we have closed $1.7 billion in new sub-servicing relationships.
Through our operational excellence actions we reduced quality related cost by 69% we have reduced credit approval cycle time by 66% we've achieved about three quarters of our $110 million annualized cost reduction target all while responding to a dynamic operating and regulatory environment.
Through our customer service improvement actions mortgage customer satisfaction is at its highest level and through our actions to improve liquidity.
We have increased our cash balances by 228 million we've lowered our cost and extended the maturity profile of our unsecured debt and we've diversified funding sources for MSR.
And finally while executing these actions we are continuing to evaluate our strategic alternatives and we remain committed to maximizing shareholder value in this process.
I want to thank and recognize my colleagues at PHH for their continued hard work and enduring commitment to our success.
And with that we are ready to take questions.
Angela? Actually the first question just wanted to see how far along you are into the discussions with your private-label partners I think last quarter you guys gave kind of percentages to contracts that had been renegotiated just curious where that stands now?  Well the percentage stands the same.
We’re right about 22% last quarter we saw at the same place.
We are still working with our large PLS clients.
The discussions are continuing in the spirit of a long-term partnership of those relationships.
As I said in the script you know the clients have confirmed the value of our service offering to them.
But these are large complex complicated arrangements and the teams are actively working together to pursue both our mutual economic and operating objectives in those contracts.
Okay so I guess it’s fair to say that part of the slowdown is really the complexity of these relationships? Yes I think that’s fair.
Well okay.
And then just in terms of gain on sales margin trends since the end of the quarter just curious where that’s trending? Rob do you want to talk to that.
Yes as we stated through April we have seen another 17 basis points of tightening narrowing in the margin so that would put us about 274 in April versus the 291 that we reported for the first quarter.
Okay great.
And then just one last one on the non-controlling interest just I was curious given the reasonable a large mortgage banking loss just kind of surprises the non-controlling interest number is that small.
The gains historically seem to have corresponded with bigger sort of numbers for the non-controlling interest so I was just curious what drives that? Rob or Mike do you want to talk to that? Sure.
It's really the relative profitability of the PHH loans joint venture to the overall production segment is really what’s driving that.
So it’s that really sort of -- because that's more purchase focused is that the purchase piece is doing better than sort of the overall one which is more -- kind of tracing that? That’s correct Bose.
Okay great.
Thanks.
Hi.
Thank you very much.
And Glen one of the things that we have seen that’s in the first quarter as the purchase market has failed to materialize and refi has done probably what people have expected.
And I know I used to be out there pounding the table saying the normalized market is doing 1 trillion and 1.5 trillion but what happens if the normalized markets below a trillion.
I mean are you at the cost structure currently be able to generate a profit if we are at some parts showing in the purchase market it hovers around 600 billion I don’t want to think about that.
But it is sure looks like that’s where we are right now? Let's look at what we've been able to accomplish in the first quarter and given the strength of our foothold in the purchase market both of our PLS clients as well as with realty we’ve been able to grow purchase buying purchase application buying 15% year-over-year.
That’s a lot better than what we have seen in the MBA.
And as I said on the call we’re on track with achieving our cost reduction target for the overall business.
We keep a keen eye on costs and our volume levels and obviously we have got the fiduciary responsibility to respond to changes in market conditions if we see them and if the market is going to be a smaller market we’ve got to respond accordingly and adjust our cost accordingly.
My guess what that would mean more I mean a lot of people are talking about 6 to 9 months for the industry as a whole to adjust to the new reality.
Do you think you are in that same boat or can you get there quicker? I think we have been we have acted pretty quickly and getting cost down.
And we are on-track even if you look at year-over-year with that production expenses overall down 26%.
Based upon where our volume is trending for the first quarter we believe our operation decides the level needs to be.
And again if the market forecasts or projections change will change and respond accordingly.
And then relative to the fleet business I think it was a little bit light than it’s been the past is all the talk about you guys being for sale is that hurt fleet business growing or was that just some noise that flowed through the system this quarter? As you know Paul the fleet business has a number of elements of its business that are very they’re not smooth throughout the quarter they can time differently quarter-to-quarter so syndication volume in particular is very heavy in the fourth quarter and if you look sequentially there was a downtick there was a profit from the first quarter were lower than they were in the fourth quarter principally all related to syndication volume because it is fourth quarter driven price sensitive product from our clients perspective our customers perspective.
Just generally we talked last year about the pace of decision slowing down in the fleet industry amongst our customers that has remained unchanged but I got to tell you I feel really good about what now the teams are driving the fleet business they’ve got a lot of new exciting things on the table.
Good morning everyone and thanks for taking my follow up.
I know continuing the false line of question is the issues in mortgage right now that’s profit included that’s the issue we need to renegotiate the existing contracts and make some more workable for advise [indiscernible]? I’m going Henry I’m sorry you really broke up there on the question so if I could ask you to get a little closer to the foundry ask your question.
Yeah hang on a second.
Is the issue with the mortgage business the nature of the private label contract which need to be renegotiated so you have a more profitable business or is it the size of your volume right now in other words if you at the current volume level can this business be profitable? And what’s the cost of getting there? Henry great question the issue is the high mix of fee based business on our private label contracts.
And as we talked about before just the increased investment we’ve had to make from a regulatory perspective given the changes there and from an investment compliance perspective given the changes there these contracts are they’re older contracts more mature the pricing interest does not reflect the current issue environment from a price perspective.
On the other aspects I feel great about all other aspects of our originations franchise strong growth in the purchase market we’ve done what we need to do to take out cost we’re seeing profitability improvement in the servicing segment it really does come down for PLS story and in particular the fee-based business.
So it’s the processing fee on the POS business is not big enough to cover the existing cost? No that’s correct.
And is it possible just to stop generating that business and the contracts that we set or do you have a certain obligation to process volumes? Yeah contractually Henry we are obligated to continue to process volume and I will say that from that time of renewal for contracts that have come up we’ve been successful at achieving our desired operating and financial objectives.
And as I said before clients are continuing to work with us this is our economic need but the contracts are big complex with a lot of filter sales in both places.
I am sorry go ahead.
No I am sorry I am listening.
So I mean again we feel cautiously optimistic that we’ll have productive discussion and have been having productive discussions.
And we’ll have to carry it out for its conclusion.
Thank you.
I know you can’t give a lot of details on strategic transactions but if you were to estimate how far along you are in your and you’re reviewing your strategic alternatives I mean what inning would you say you are in? Kevin that’s an interesting question obviously I am not going to speculate or talk about that on the public call I think that would be reckless of me as it relates to all constituents involved here as I said on the call look we’ve been actively engaged in details discussions with several interested parties we’re following a disciplined process both on optimizing value both near term and long term for our shareholders and we expect to reach conclusion this parts of study into the quarter.
Do you have confidence or do you feel that you’re not confident on where it’s going to end up right now or do you feel like it’s a very fluid process that right now? Yeah again Kevin I think I’ve said what I need to say about this process so far.
Okay I appreciate it.
And then the $14 million foreclosure expenses and I know you spoke about FHA losses earlier but is this primarily coming from the FHA do you expect it to continue to pop up or do you feel like you have negotiations with the FHA to pull out of these claims a bit? Hey Kevin I’d probably state that it’s primarily related to VA related VA no-bid losses where the insurance from the VA only covers a portion a limit of the loss.
So it has been bouncing around if you look at the segment supplement by couple of million bucks a quarter up and down over the last three-four quarters this is something though however that if you look at further in time was a much slower number and so we do anticipate to the extent we’re able to continue to work our delinquencies down that this $14 million represents an earnings opportunity improvement opportunity for us.
Okay.
And then you feel that the VA is going loan by loan or is something where they are going through large pools of loans and they’re almost on the process? I think they I think it’s basically on a might be correct me if I’m wrong I think it’s on it’s a loan level review that they go through on as we work with them on it so it’s a loan level review.
Okay.
And then you marked down the CPR because of lower interest rates I mean you marked down your MSR because of lower interest rate this quarter however you saw meaningful decline in your prepayment rate.
If you were to adjust your prepayment rate for what you actually experienced this quarter how much of a mark up in MSR would you actually have? I am not sure if I can do the middle math for you or if I understand the question can you state is…  You lowered your CPR correct me if I am wrong 11.5% to 8.9% It is yes.
Right.
And so that’s a pretty big decline.
Now you changed your valuation assumptions for interest rate this quarter once you call the decline in the fair value MSR but in reality your experience on the servicing fees are going to incur in the amortization that come through your income statement it’s going to be a lot different than what the fair value marks may reflect.
So in the press release as an example the amortization related to the MSR drop to $34 million it was $43 million last quarter so we did see a slowdown in the amortization of the MSR and then I guess the other thing I’d just point out is the assumptions that we use for valuing the MSR are lifetime sort of prepayment rates as well.
So look we saw a decline in this quarter for the quarter on an annualized basis it was 8.9% we think if rates hold there and the CPR holds there we’re going to see we would see meaningful improvements in servicing segment profitability it’s just takes a while and matriculate through the accounting statements.
If your CPR how what’s your CPR assumption right now on the MSR roughly 11.5% is that correct? I’d have to look that up for you Kevin.
Okay thank you very much.
Good morning.
Thank you for taking the question I just had one and that’s what specifically has changed that makes the PLS unprofitable today whereas they were profitable in the past? Yeah Daniel really what’s changed over the last call it 12 to 14 months is the increased investments or the number of regulatory changes that have happened affecting the industry from the regulations promulgated by the CFPB as well as changes in investor guidelines requiring additional investments in the business to meet the regulatory demand as well as to meet the stringent loan quality standards that we need to achieve primarily related to GSE and client invested productions.
So it’s really driven by change in regulation and industry environment.
Got you and this I mean to me it seems like something that while the first generation of originations would be unprofitable and that’s into fixed that can be spread over the production as it continues to ramp going forward I guess that just incorrect way to think about these costs? Yeah they’re not capitalized in deferred like we have for initial direct cost and certain leasing and lending businesses this is it’s a static operating cost and you incur it on a as it shows up in the P&amp;L as a non-incurred basis.
Good morning guys.
Can you provide us any type of target that ultimately you’re looking to kind of recent abundant servicing portfolio or whether it’d be ROE or basis points to whatever kind of what the long-term goal you want to reach it?  So on a blended basis between our servicing and sub servicing portfolios again we talk about our long-term profitability target for our mortgage business overall through the cycles is low to mid teen ROE.
Now given the unique accounting that we have around the servicing asset you know that’s going to vary from period to period as markets close through the P&amp;L up or down or as actual performance may or may not differ from the model performance.
Just based on the model being a long-term average versus what happens in the stock market.
So for example today because our MSR is tallied on a forward basis the model is assuming a certain level of escrow earning on our escrow balances that’s right now $ 3.1 billion.
But because the short end of the curve today is still low you don’t see that come through the P&amp;L.
Over time it will so then it’s straight drive.
But today the profitability of that portfolio is going to look different than what’s being modeled assumed based on the forward curve.
Would you be able to -- can you give us a sense of the difference and profitability.
You may recommend that you’re happy with the rest of the origination business except for this explained issue of the near negative operating earnings in the PLS business.
Do you know dollar number? Or like if you would do it on the PLS business what the rest of this year loans close to be sold in reality relationship because it would be producing? Yes we have not publicly disclosed channel level profitability within origination segment and at this stage of the game I don't think we're prepared to have that discussion around that.
And then just a housekeeping item.
Within your components again on sale the net adjustments again on sale turn negative this quarter and after two quarters of being positive.
There was a relatively large heat from the change in scratch and dent.
I mean like I was just wondering what happened there in this quarter and whether we should take another going forward or transitioning back to where it had been.
Mike you want to answer for that?  Sure so the first quarter is reflective of a lower lock number and the net adjustment begin until we would expect that to return to that normalized trend as the rare reductions in the locked pipeline have sort of stabilized throughout the third quarter and first quarters.
So it’s more of a denominator issue rather than the numerator going into calculator.
And now we will go to Christopher Testa with Sidoti &amp; Company.
In terms of in organic growth initiative what specific types of businesses would you be looking at to complement mortgage Chris I don’t want to -- I think again this is an area where we kind of reckless to speculate on any imminent activity.
You know as we have said earlier in the script our focus here in driving growth in the businesses around sub-servicing and it’s around expanding our presence in the reader purchased market sector.
So organic and inorganic efforts are going to be focused to that end.
And if origination continues to slow as it has you know across the industry broadly is this kind of change your use of capital from M&amp;A in return of capital to investors as to maybe buying bulk MSR more to make sure the portfolio doesn’t run-off.
I’ll tell you the primary objective that we have in our use of excess capital is maximizing value for shareholders.
So our both continue to evaluate opportunities for return of capital whether it’s reinvesting in the business to afford our capital structure objectives for returning capital to shareholders.
Okay and then we’re looking at in terms of the MSR funding sources that you’re looking at if you were to do some type of funding on prime MSR should we expect something maybe like in oasis type deal where you guys are able actually tell prepayment risk.
So oasis what we are looking at from a secured MSR funding perspective would look like the oasis transaction.
But it would not be identical just given the different nature of the MSRs that we have now portfolio versus some of the stuff that we have been the oasis to transaction but that’s directionally correct.
And I guess again going back to origination if the volume drop-off continues to be significant how much more can you guys scale back the overhead there to make sure that it doesn’t even fit the overall profitability as much.
We’ve approached overhead before unless we have all options on the table obviously we are going to not doing things irresponsible that would jeopardize our ability to maintain compliance with regulatory investor standards.
We will we are and we will take the actions necessary to probably size and scale the business to the mortgage origination environment.
And we will take Jordan Hymowitz with Philadelphia Financial Thanks for taking my question.
I was just off another mortgage company’s conference call and they actually wrote up the MSR looks like I mean using a base servicing fee of a little over 4 and you guys are obviously essentially lower than that.
And they also seem to have with the product the superior rate that’s going down or in other words prepayment fees are going down.
I was just wondering the thought process on reducing the MSR for you guys while another companies right in the here is there some kind of standard that make one right up or right down so to speak? Jordon its Rob.
Well we did have a decline in the mortgage rate from period end to period end that is what drove our MSR adjustment down.
There is a relatively expensive process that all companies go through with that I mean the MSR since it’s generally considered a level three assets there is not obviously an observable robust trading market for it.
So those companies will get third party opinions value range of value that they use to help guide their own marks once the models are run.
So I am not sure what the other company did sometimes there is adjustments to other types of inputs you could lower your servicing cost or assume higher ancillary fee income those other types of inputs that could go adjust your prepayment model that could go into a rise but ours was clearly driven by the drop in mortgage rates from the end of the ’13 to the end of the first quarter.
And what you think that two companies talk about one is writing up the MSR and the other is writing it down on much high multiples.
The other question is that you back out the market related 45 million in the servicing segment and again it’s all on you to find or not to find it but is this a market related moving into argue that that’s all non-core or non-adjusted or whatever you may want to just for standardization purposes you may want to think about backing that up because all these companies seem to be doing that as well because especially because it’s a number that moves with the rates so to speak.
I appreciate that Jordon certainly we’ll take that input so we do try to emulate that in our disclosure of core earnings for the servicing segment which state that market adjustment out.
Thanks for taking my question just a quick one here on the previous call you mentioned some tender and potential make whole payments and then other I guess frictional cost and then on a later call you said you made some progress on reducing those frictional costs.
Is there any color you can give us on I mean was it more on the tax fronts that you have reduction the frictional cost or did you also find I guess way around some of the bond holder cost? Yeah as I said on previous call I think our last earnings call which is the fourth quarter earnings call these are detailed complicated issues we’ve extended our team of advisers to dive into all areas of fictional cost whether it’d be tax or debt.
And obviously depending on transaction structure which high affects what basket of frictional cost you have to work on that’s where we’d be putting our effort to putting our solutions.
So we really are higher dependent on transaction structure and I really don’t want to speculate on structure and implication on this call.
Hi.
Thanks for taking the follow up early in the call you made a comment that you thought the MPB or the future servicing contract and the sale price of your MSR in the related fair party sales was at least as now the value of the MSR I am just trying to make sure I understand kind of the bottom line economical impact.
Is it just you will receive the small subservicing fee and it will be thin margin but the ultimate results kind of being the same with more uploaded front cash because of the sale? Chris directionally correct so yes we are from accounting perspective it does recorded as a sale of the MSR but from an accounting perspective again we have recognized the cash proceeds as the proceeds on sale we have to write off the MSR and now the current U.S.
GAAP standards we’re not allowed to report the present value of the subservicing contract.
So we are selling the majority of the cash flow associated with MSR but we are entering into a profitable and an appropriate economic subservicing arrangement.
Right.
Do you have any type of guidance on types of return you’re targeting from that structure? Not specifically we don’t want to get too detailed on our pricing assumptions here from a competitive perspective but I can tell you that we certainly look to cover our fully loaded cost and the structure of subservicing arrangements typically is down on a fee per loan basis based upon the delinquency stage of these loans.
So you don’t get caught in a pinch of delinquency rates by reduced your reimbursement flexes with your cost structure so you take less cost rift as a result of portfolio quality.
.
Great Angela.
Thank you very much and thanks everybody for joining the call.
We look forward to speaking with you next quarter.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you! Good morning ladies and gentlemen.
Welcome to the PHH Corporation Second Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
Your lines will be in a listen-only mode during remarks by PHH management.
At the conclusion of the company’s remarks we will begin a question-and-answer session.
At which time I will give you instructions on entering the queue to ask your questions.
Today’s call is also being webcast and recorded for replay purposes.
The audio replay can be accessed either on the company’s website at www.phh.com/invest or by telephone at 888-203-1112 or 719-457-0820 and using conference ID 9283101 beginning shortly after the conclusion of the call.
It will be available through August 20 2014.
This access information is also described in the company’s press release and I will repeat it again at the end of our session.
At this time Jim Ballan Vice President of Investor Relations will proceed with the introduction.
Thanks Cassandra.
Good morning and welcome to PHH Corporation's Second Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
Please note that statements made during this conference call include forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 as further described in slide four of our Second Quarter 2014 Investor Presentation of Supplemental Schedules which is posted in the Investors section of our website at www.phh.com under Webcasts &amp; Presentations.
Such forward-looking statements represent only our current beliefs regarding future events and are not guarantees of performance or results.
Actual results performance or achievements may differ materially from those expressed or implied in such forward looking statements due to a variety of factors including but not limited to the factors under the headings Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements and Risk Factors in our periodic reports filed with the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission including our most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K and Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q which are also available in the Investors section of our website.
Investors are cautioned not to place undue reliance on such forward-looking statements.
The earnings release we issued yesterday also may be accessed from the Investors section of our website or you may request a faxed or mailed copy by calling our investor hotline.
During this call we may discuss various non-GAAP financial measures including core earnings or loss pre-tax core earnings or loss after-tax core earnings or loss per share adjusted cash flow and tangible book value per share.
Please refer to our earnings release and accompanying Investor Presentation of Supplemental Schedules for a description of these and other non-GAAP financial measures as well as a reconciliation of such measures to their respective most directly comparable GAAP financial measures.
Speaking on the call today will be Glen Messina President and Chief Executive Officer; and Rob Crowl Chief Financial Officer.
Other members of PHH's senior management team are also with us and will be available to take your questions.
I now will turn the call over to Glen Messina.
Thank you Jim.
Good morning everyone and thank you for your interest in PHH.
This morning I want to briefly discuss our financial highlights for the second quarter and our outlook for the business.
Then I'll provide some detail on the operating and capital initiatives we announced July 7 the execution of which we believe will position the company for success in the mortgage business going forward.
Then Rob will discuss our results for the quarter.
While our second quarter results continue to reflect a highly challenging industry environment we have reduced expenses and gained share in the retail home purchase mortgage market demonstrating our commitment to managing expense levels and the strength of our market access through our private label and real estate relationships.
Our Mortgage Servicing segment reported positive core earnings pre-tax for the third consecutive quarter and mortgage quality related costs were down 90% in the second quarter of 2014 versus same period last year.
Our mortgage production segment reported a loss reflecting the continued high mix of fee-based business in our PLS channel.
Total loan application volume is down 35% versus the second quarter of last year.
However retail home purchase application volume was up 9% both comparing favorably to comparable second quarter results for the overall industry as reported by the MBA.
Over the past four quarters that have been reported by inside mortgage finance we have achieved retail mortgage origination market share gains of approximately 1.7 percentage points and we believe the growth initiatives we are implementing if achieved should enable us to continue to gain retail market share.
In addition total Mortgage Production expenses were down 27% versus the second quarter of last year.
The industry experienced an unusual set of circumstances in the first-half of 2014 where interest rates volumes and margins all declined at the same time.
Total mortgage industry volume estimates for 2014 are now below the $1.2 trillion average previously estimated by the MBA and the GSEs driven by reductions and the estimates for purchase and refinancing volumes.
Assuming current market conditions and interest rate levels persist we expect to report negative core earnings on a consolidated basis through the first-half of 2015.
However with the expected implementation of our reengineering initiatives over the next six to 12 months we would anticipate reporting positive core earnings for the second-half of 2015.
We remain focused on executing the operating and capital strategies that we laid out last month when we announced the closing of our sale of our Fleet Management business.
These include returning capital to shareholders reducing our unsecured debt to within our target range reengineering our mortgage operations to accelerate expense reduction productivity and efficiency improvements and enhancing profitability and scale through selective organic and inorganic growth.
We believe execution of these strategies will help us achieve our vision of being the leading most trusted provider of end-to-end mortgage service enabling our customer success.
Further we believe the successful execution of these strategies will allow us to achieve double-digit to mid-teen ROE levels on average across purchase and refinancing cycles.
As you know on July 7 we closed the sale of our Fleet business for $1.4 billion subject to certain post-closing adjustments.
We are providing certain transition services to Element Financial for up to 12 months after closing related to information technology human resources and finance services among others.
As a result of the Fleet sale utilizing our pro forma unrestricted cash and excluding cash held by our variable interest entities we estimate that we have more than $1 billion in cash above our key cash requirements.
We believe the completion of this transaction is an important step forward for PHH enabling us to return significant capital to shareholders strengthen our balance sheet and cease opportunities in the market.
We believe our financial flexibility is a competitive advantage especially in the current market and that we have significant opportunities to create value for our stakeholders.
We intend to initiate $200 million accelerated stock repurchase program or ASR shortly following the beginning of our open-market period which we expect to commence on August 7.
Over the 12 months following the completion of the ASR we intend to repurchase up to an incremental $250 million in stock subject to market conditions and the other requirements of the repurchase program.
This total of up to $450 million in share repurchase represents roughly one-third of our current market capitalization.
On August 7 we expect to complete the redemption of our outstanding 9.25% senior unsecured notes due 2016 at Mako [ph] and we have the cash ear-marked to repay our 4% senior convertible notes due 2014 after September maturity date.
These two actions reduced our unsecured debt balance by $420 million putting us well within a range we believe is required to maintain our target debt ratings.
This debt reduction will lower our annualized GAAP interest expense by approximately $48 million and our next unsecured debt maturity will not occur until almost three years from now.
In the second quarter we substantially completed our goal of generating $110 million in annualized production and overhead costs savings ahead of schedule.
As I noted a moment ago we reduced total mortgage production expenses in the second quarter by 27% compared to the same period last year and we will continue to focus on optimizing our direct operating expense levels to match projected industry and client specific volume levels and program requirements.
These efforts will include managing staffing levels utilizing outsourcing relationships for certain operating activities as well as investing in process and technology enhancements to drive continuous improvement in the speed cost and quality of our operating activities.
As we stated over the next six to 12 months we intend to invest up to $200 million in reengineering to further reduce expenses simplify business processes and restructure our PLS business model.
We believe we can realize up to $225 million in annual operating benefits from these investments the level of which would be expected to be commensurate with the amount of investments.
The benefits should phase in during the first-half of 2015 and to be fully realized on an annualized basis by mid to late 2015.
Our efforts in this regard will be focused in areas we believe can provide high returns in the short timeframe with relatively low execution risk.
We are consolidating our support infrastructure to eliminate redundant activities processes and organizational layers that exists between the PHH Corporation Holding Company and our mortgage operating subsidiary.
We have already taken the first step in this process by making changes in our leadership structure and each member of our newly aligned leadership team has been inside cost savings and productivity targets.
As a standalone mortgage company we have consolidated key leadership roles and I now serve as President and CEO of both PHH Mortgage and PHH Corporation.
Rich Bradfield a more than 20-year veteran of PHH Mortgage now runs our Financial Institutions Group which includes our private label and corresponding origination channels and our Treasury and Capital Markets functions now reported to finance under Rob Crowl.
We've also consolidated our compliance and risk management functions which are now run by Leith Kaplan.
Dave Tucker who has been leading our private label contract renegotiations will remain as Executive Vice President of PHH Mortgage through the end of January.
Dave will focus exclusively on the contract renegotiations to ensure we maintain continuity and momentum on this key priority in our reengineering process.
Both we and our private label clients have an interest in updating these contracts prior to their renewal date to ensure these programs support our respective business objectives.
We remain cautiously optimistic that these contracts can be restructured or renewed on mutually beneficial terms.
The timing to complete this process however remains uncertain due to the complexity of these contracts and our desire to build a differentiated model that has the flexibility to adopt to future market changes.
Our goal for these negotiations is better economics and improve value proposition for our PLS clients.
As we've discussed before we believe we have a number of focused organic and inorganic growth opportunities in our Mortgage Production and our Mortgage Servicing Segments where we can leverage our existing infrastructure and capabilities.
Our goal is to diversify our revenue and earning streams and to enhance profitability and scale.
As a result we intend to invest up to $150 million in selective growth opportunities and we believe these growth opportunities could potentially generate up to $175 million in annualized operating benefits.
We expect to fund these investments over the next 12 to 24 months.
We believe we have multiple opportunities to achieve profitable origination growth with our existing private label clients and to expand our target market.
One growth opportunity is targeted [ph] to be our clients' mass affluent customer base which we believe represents greater than $1 million just within our existing clients.
In addition we believe the development of a range of more standardized service models should enable us to expand our private label client base especially to regional community banks that are facing shrinking industry volumes at ever increasing regulatory standards.
We believe retail and community banks that either view residential mortgage as an accommodation product or as a core relationship product which we estimate represents $180 billion annual mortgage origination market opportunity of buying the value proposition of our unique outsourcing model increasingly attractive.
In our real estate channel we are focused on continuous improvement in our people processes products and platforms to outperform our competition in terms of relationship management operational execution and customer experience for both the borrower and the realtor.
We are already seeing the benefits of simplifying and standardizing the loan origination process in this channel to deliver a consistent high quality experience and ensure borrowers can meet their desired closed dates while generating loans that meet mortgage investor and regulatory requirements.
We believe these are essential differentiating capabilities that we must excel at for real estate agents to recommend PHH to their home purchase clients.
We intend to selectively invest in expanding coverage in the top 25 home purchase markets in 2015 and 2016 and in the third quarter of 2014 we are also opening new offices in both the Houston and Dallas markets.
We also are targeting expansion into lower density home purchase markets by leveraging our call center fulfillment capability focused directly on the real estate agent.
We will seek to expand our participation and position in the overall home purchase market through selective inorganic growth opportunities that can leverage our existing support infrastructure to expand our local retail footprint in select markets and/or our direct-to-consumer reach.
We continue to focus on improving profitability and scale in our Mortgage Servicing segment through growth in mortgage servicing rights and subservicing created from our own production as well as (inaudible) flow subservicing acquisitions.
Since the beginning of this year we have signed contracts with five new subservicing clients representing expected initial transfers of approximately $3.2 billion in unpaid principal balance.
We also expect these contracts to provide a flow of subservicing loan growth going forward.
We continue to build a pipeline of subservicing contract opportunities and we are excited about this efforts' potential contribution to the profitability of our Mortgage Servicing segment.
We may acquire or assume own servicing or subservicing through acquisitions of mortgage production businesses which often include a servicing asset.
In the case of a servicing acquisition consistent with our current funding strategy for MSR we may look to partner with financial intermediary to finance and own the servicing right that we would service.
Such an arrangement would enable us to leverage our servicing capabilities while remaining in sync with our capital life strategy.
We believe executing the capital and operating strategies I just outlined have the potential to generate an incremental $448 million in annualized operating benefits and will be key to achieving double-digit to mid-teen ROE levels on average across purchase and refinancing industry cycles.
I will now turn it over to Rob to discuss our financial results.
Thanks Glen.
For the second quarter of 2014 we recorded a net loss attributable to PHH Corporation of $59 million or $1.02 per basic share.
The net loss from continuing operations attributable to PHH Corporation was $13 million or $0.23 per basic share as compared to a net loss of $58 million or $1.01 per basic share on the first quarter of 2014.
The pre-tax market related MSR mark-to-market adjustment net of hedge gains was a favorable $8 million in the second quarter of 2014 as opposed to an unfavorable adjustment of $39 million in the first quarter.
The reported net loss from continuing operations attributable to PHH Corporation in the second quarter of 2014 does not include our discontinued operations which totaled a net loss after taxes of $46 million.
Included in this number are the results of the Fleet business and certain transaction related costs net of tax.
In addition income tax expense related to discontinued operations for the second quarter also includes provisions for taxes related to the previously un-repatriated cumulative earnings of our Canadian Fleet subsidiaries.
We reported a second quarter core loss after tax and core loss per share both of which exclude the net MSR mark and the results of discontinued operations of $18 million or $0.31 per share respectively.
This compares to our core loss after tax of $34 million and a core loss per share of $0.60 in the first quarter of 2014.
Overall the sequential quarter improvement in core loss in the second quarter stems from an improvement in our Mortgage Production segment partially offset by lower Mortgage Servicing segment profit and $8 million in overhead expenses not allocated to our operating segments primarily related to severance charges.
In the second quarter Mortgage Production had a segment loss of $27 million compared to a $60 million segment loss in the first quarter.
The sequential quarter improvement in mortgage production segment results was primarily due to a 26% increase in total closings and an 18% increase in IRLCs expected to close partially offset by an 18 basis point narrowing of our total loan margin to 273 basis points.
In July total loan margins were similar to the second quarter levels.
Fee-based closings as a portion of total closing equaled 65% in the second quarter consistent with the first quarter but above the second quarter of 2013 level of 47%.
As a reminder fee-based closings represent production that is retained by our clients for their own balance sheet.
We do not recognize a gain on sale and fee-based revenues are recognized at closing.
The continued elevated percentage of fee-based closings underscores the importance of our efforts to re-engineer our PLS contracts.
Our Mortgage Servicing segment recorded a segment profit of $10 million in the second quarter of 2014 compared to our segment loss of $29 million in the first quarter of 2014.
These results include market related MSR mark-to-market adjustments net of hedging gains and losses of a positive $8 million and a negative $39 million respectively excluding the net market related MSR mark-to-market adjustment second quarter 2014 Mortgage Servicing core earnings pre-tax was $2 million as compared to $10 million in the first quarter.
The majority of the decline was due to an increase in prepayment speed during the quarter.
Our total loan servicing portfolio of $225.9 billion in UPB at the end of the second quarter 2014 was up slightly from the first quarter of 2014 as increases in subservicing UPB were mostly offset by decreases in the capitalized portfolio.
The decline in the capitalized serving portfolio is driven primarily by pay-offs a continued high portion of our loan production on fee-for-service basis and our narrowed focus in our correspondent channel.
At the end of the second quarter we valued our MSR at 96 basis points of our capitalized loan servicing portfolio or $1.187 billion representing a 3.3 times capitalized servicing multiple.
The MSR valuation on our capitalized loan servicing portfolio and the capitalized servicing multiple are unchanged from the end of the first quarter.
Prepayment speeds increased in the second quarter to an annualized average CPR of approximately 11% as compared to 9% for the first quarter of 2014 mostly due to a 29 basis point decrease in primary mortgage rates.
While CPRs rose this quarter the increase in prepayment speeds was considerably slower than modeled expectations resulting in a smaller market related fair value adjustment.
During the second quarter our repurchase and foreclosure reserve declined to $110 million from $120 million at the end of the first quarter and $142 million at the end of 2013.
The total dollar amount of unresolved loan repurchase request at the end of the second quarter declined to $86 million from a $116 million at the end of the first quarter driven by a continued significant decline in the pipeline of agency repurchase request.
2009 through 2012.
As a result we recorded a $1 million repurchase and foreclosure related reserve release in the second quarter.
There was no change to our estimate of reasonably possible losses which totaled $25 million at the end of the second quarter.
With regards to liquidity we closed the second quarter with approximately $964 million in unrestricted cash which excludes $274 million in unrestricted cash in assets held for sale related to the Fleet transaction.
Taking into account $821 million in estimated net proceeds from the Fleet sale transaction the unrestricted cash in assets held for sale $73 million of cash held in consolidated variable interest entities and approximately $525 million to $625 million in cash that's ear-marked for specific purposes.
We have more than $1 billion in excess cash available for operations on a pro-forma basis.
In addition to the impact from our results of operations you should expect our unrestricted cash balance at the end of the third quarter to also reflect the redemption of our senior notes to 2016 which we anticipate will require approximately $200 million in cash the repayment of our $250 million in senior convertible notes due September 2014 and our $200 million payment related to the accelerated share repurchase program.
Adjusted cash flow for the second quarter total of negative $68 million versus negative $96 million last quarter this improvement was primarily a function of increased profitability in our Mortgage Production segment.
Our book value per share at the end of the second quarter was $26.49 taking into account the Fleet transaction our pro-forma book value per basic share at quarter end is $31.34.
Regarding diversifying our MSR funding alternatives during the second quarter we completed approximately $6 million in sales of newly created mortgage servicing rights we are subservicing these loans and we expect the combined value of the sale price of these MSRs and the net present value of the subservicing of the underlying loan to at least equal the value we would have ascribed to the MSR if it was retained by PHH.
In addition we continue to pursue a separate MSR secured funding arrangement to further diversify our funding sources.
And now I'll turn it back over to Glen.
Thanks Rob.
We believe the execution of our capital and operating strategies will help us achieve our vision of being the leading and most trusted provider of end-to-end mortgage services in enabling our customer's success.
These actions should enhance our operating efficiency and productivity property count capitalize our balance sheet enable us to gain scale and market share and ultimately if achieved enable us to attain double-digit to mid-teen ROEs on average across purchase and refinancing market cycles.
We believe there are continued growth opportunities in the current mortgage environment for companies with access to the purchase market operational focus and financial flexibility.
We believe our status relationships with banks wealth management firms and real estate brokers provide outstanding access to borrowers.
We believe our focus on operational excellence and our upcoming investments in reengineering will enhance our already superior operating capabilities.
We believe increased regulatory complexity makes our proven and unique end-to-end residential mortgage outsourcing service offering a competitive advantage.
And we believe our focus on liquidity and the net proceeds of the Fleet transaction provide us with the financial flexibility to return capital to shareholders reduce debt invest in organic and inorganic growth and take actions to gain market share in a competitive environment.
We intend to update the market on our progress on all our capital and operating initiatives on our third quarter earnings call.
I want to recognize and thank the PHH Board of Directors and my colleagues and PHH for their continued hard work and enduring commitment to creating value for our shareholders and customers.
And with that we're ready to take questions.
Operator? (Operator Instructions) And we'll take our first question from Bose George of KBW.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</strong> Hey guys good morning.
Actually the first question was just on the – what volume expectations are embedded in your – the expectation that you guys would be profitable in the back-half of 2015? Hey Bose this is Glen.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</strong> Hi Glen.
So Bose we – as you know we've talked historically that we typically referenced the average of the MBA and GSE volume estimates.
And as we look forward we would have no other basis for market forecast than the MBA and GSE estimate.
So our forecasted we are expecting a market to be the same size as what the MBA – average MBA and GSE forecast would be.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</strong> Okay great thanks.
And then the – can you repeat what you said on the return on the $200 million of spending did you say annualized return of $225 million can you just go over that again? That’s correct Bose.
So in our reengineering initiative we expect to invest approximately $200 million and again we are focused thereon continued work to make sure our organization infrastructure is sized appropriately for the mortgage market delayering and simplifying the holding company and operating company restructure and reengineering our PLS contracts and we expect the accurate of those to generate $225 million in annualized operating benefits.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</strong> Okay great.
And then just are there any updates on your negotiations with the private label counterparties? Discussions continue in this period of the partnership – the long-term partnership that we had with our clients.
As I mentioned on the call they – our partners are equally engaged and focused on making sure that these contracts reflect both our needs as well as their needs looking at very different mortgage market than what existed in years past when these contracts were negotiated.
So I'm cautiously optimistic we've got engaged clients who are sitting at the table with us negotiating in good faith in the spirit of long-term partnership who are interested in having a mortgage product and a mortgage program that meets their needs.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</strong> Okay great.
Actually let me just make in one more the – you guys showed a profit in the non-controlling interest so is that mean that the Realogy part of your mortgage business is profitable? That is correct.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</strong> Okay great.
Thanks.
And we'll take our next question from Paul Miller of FBR.
Yes thank you very much.
Glen on the buyback right I know you talked about that the – you have an ASR that starts on August 7 how are you approaching the – and there is another $250 million behind that when would that be started? So Paul this is Glen.
Our accelerated share repurchase program will start shortly following the opening of our open market window.
And if I go back to our July 7 call we expect the ASR could take up to seven months to nine months and then in the 12 months following that we would be engaging in open market purchases subject to the terms of that plan.
Okay.
So it’s ASR seven months to nine months and then after that to 12 months would be the other $250 million? That is correct.
And then can you update Two Harbors I know that a while back I can't – it was two quarters ago you signed an agreement for Flow business to Two Harbors.
I think as of the last update correct me if I'm wrong Glen the last update that there wasn’t a material amount of product – MSR is going to Two Harbors did that change in the second quarter or is that still working up period? Rob? Hey Paul this is Rob.
We had as I stated in my script we had $6 million of MSR that was sold in the second quarter.
So it is continuing to ramp up again that’s the MSR amount not the UPB.
We're continuing to starting to – I would say sort of hit a more normalized – getting closer to a more normalized stride here.
And can you give me because I know correct me if I'm wrong the Flow agreement to 50% plus right but it’s all subject to pricing.
So of the $6 million what was that as a percentage of your creation of MSRs? I think we created yes probably about 25%.
Okay so it’s moving very long.
And then can you add some more color in this MSR funding? You talked about is that a securitization similar what Ocwen did about a year ago? Yes Rob do you want to add some color to that? Yes it’s exactly what we've been talking about over the last couple of quarters.
It would be a secured type of transaction so it would not be in MSR sale like the Two Harbors structure it would be a secured financing.
It would be somewhat similar I would think from the OASIS deal that you are referencing that Ocwen did yes.
And then my last question is we're seeing MS issuance in July really spiked up from June.
Can you talk a little bit about your pipeline are you seeing because we're not seeing anything in the – like the MBA application indexes and a big spike but we definitely saw MBS issuance almost top $90 billion in July.
Are you guys seeing an increase in your pipeline around the same degree and can you add some color behind that if you are? Paul as we discussed in the call we've – I think we've done – our access to the purchase market is strong as we access through the financial advisors wealth mangers and realtors.
We reported strong 9% growth in applications for purchase mortgage originations.
And we believe based on the MBA statistics that were released on we've outpaced the application performance during the second quarter across the industry both in terms of total apps as well as some purchase related – home purchase related apps.
Okay.
Thanks a lot guys.
And we'll take our next question from Chris Gamaitoni of Autonomous.
Yes thanks for taking my call.
Good morning Chris.
Could you walk me through the – on the $250 million or $200 million of target investment to me the – can you give us some kind of guidance for the split between servicing risk [ph] origination where that will fall from where there really the cost improvements by business unit will be? Yes Chris a lot of our reengineering initiatives here are really focused on what I would call optimizing and consolidating our support infrastructure.
So delayering the holding company and operating company structured to operators the standalone mortgage business eliminating redundant activities simplifying processes and certainly IT investments to support productivity.
At this stage of the game we've not provided specific guidance on attribution between origination and servicing as you may suspect with a lot of our reengineering activities here focused on our support infrastructure those will transcend both the origination and production.
Okay that makes sense.
And then on the kind of what on the IT invest side are you focused on to do that improvement? I'm trying to get a sense of like how much of this investment is capitalized really what type of technology solution that will drive these results and try to get a sense of the feasibility with those types of investments? Yes it's continued investments Chris in what I'll call operations automation.
So more efficiency through improving workflows document flows transition of data between modules within our originations and servicing systems to eliminate double entry of information it's nuts and bolts productivity drivers.
Okay.
On the mass affluent opportunities (inaudible) can you define what you mean by mass affluent? Yes so most of our wealth management clients will look at their customers what they refer to as their clients in various segments and as we've talked previously that the marketing of our mortgage program has been focused on what they refer to historically as their high net worth segments.
Each of our clients defines that differently in terms of minimum liquid net worth but in addition to that high net worth segment most of our clients also have a body of customers which they refer to as the mass affluent segment which are those customers who do have balances under management assets under management but not up to the level that the high net worth segment would be.
Historically that's not been a major focus for some of our clients in terms of marketing the mortgage program.
But with obviously overall mortgage industry volumes coming down and refinancing volumes coming down as our clients are looking to continue to grow their mortgage programs they are expanding the marketing coverage of their programs within their portfolio to include both high net worth and mass affluent.
And do they bear the cost of that increased marketing initiative or do you? It really depends upon the program and some cases it's for the client and some cases we share the development expenses from materials.
Okay.
And then can you give us any sense of looking at the growth and originations into your guidance of $40 billion to $60 billion.
I mean there's a couple of questions it's you made two comments of – you expect to reach that by the end of 2016 but then you also said it's a normalized market.
And I think the general consensus is at normalized market it will be $1.3 trillion to $1.5 trillion which is about the expectation of 2016.
So that's kind of – trying to figure out what you really mean by that commentary and make sure that we set expectations right relative to in a real market opportunity.
Yes Chris as we are looking forward our expectation is consistent with the MBA and the GSE future forecasts.
So I don't know that specifically there is a normalized – that much of a difference in a normalized market from our perspective versus what we see in the MBA and average GSE forecast.
We expect our growth in originations to come from both new opportunities and new penetration so organic and inorganic growth is – and with that would as well help us to capture market share.
And then how much of that improvement is from skill versus cost initiatives versus assuming either contract restructuring or shifting back to again on sale.
I mean this $40 billion to $60 billion makes all the sense in the (inaudible) gain on sale but given the high mix of fee-based it's more difficult if you assume the consistent high mix.
Yes so Chris I think there's – there are couple of things that have to happen in our origination channel to get to that $40 billion to $60 billion.
Clearly make no mistake about it re-pricing and renegotiating our PLS contracts is one of them.
We have to make money on that fee-for-service business.
And I think there's – a balance of contribution between our re-engineering activities to reduce our overhead and direct operating expense levels as well as incremental growth to improve the profitability of the channel.
But reengineering our PLS contracts is clearly part of how we get to the $40 billion to $60 billion.
Okay that makes sense.
Thank you so much.
We'll take our next question from Cheryl Pate of Morgan Stanley.
Hi good morning.
First is a question on the expansion into further top 25 markets.
Just wondering if you could sort of give us a sense of following the Dallas and Houston roll-out in third quarter.
What's sort of the next best set of opportunities within the top 25? And is the expansion into that market is that primarily new relationships with regional community banks or how do you get there? Good morning Cheryl it's Glen.
So Cheryl we outlined the top 25 markets and where obviously those asserted by size of home purchase related activity that's happening in those markets.
For competitive reasons that I really don't think it's appropriate for me to be outlining the next five or ten markets that I'm going into.
I'm happy to announce but we're getting into the Houston and Dallas markets because that's actually happening during the third quarter as we speak right so our presence is already there.
In terms of our focus and as I talk about it with respect to the real estate channel it is with real estate agents as opposed to regional community banks so it is both inside and outside of the joint venture that we have with Realogy.
Okay.
And then just in terms of the opportunity on the top 25 markets versus the lower density markets maybe more of a call-center type approach how do you weigh the relative attractiveness? Look I think we've got a – in this type of a market you can leave no stone unturned we do have the call-center for fulfillment capability so there is no incremental or a limited incremental investment to go and market to those realtors either via outbound tele-sales or direct marketing materials to them internet advertising and the likes.
So as we look at it the incremental investment for potential volume to our call-centers is worth the trade-off for us.
But as you might suspect as with any outbound call-center related activity your pull-through rates do tend to be lower so while it is a lower investment relative to putting a mortgage loan officer in the field the pull-through of a mortgage loan officer in the field tends to be much higher.
We think it's a fair trade-off and certainly in this market environment we've got to do both.
Okay.
Got it.
Maybe just one last one if I may.
When I sort of looked at the cash available for operations versus requirements and some of the changes we've seen in the prices of bonds in the high yield market recently any thoughts to you whether any of the other bonds outstanding become more attractive at these levels? Right now Cheryl I think we've outlined our capital strategy for the next really for the next 12 months we are going to be focused on taking out the – paying down the 2014s that maturity where we've tendered for the 2016s and we're going to return $450 million in capital to shareholders.
As time – and certainly in the near term I do want to say that our primary focus really will be reengineering and restructuring our PLS contracts and we believe that those the combination of those initiatives will provide the maximum benefit and value creation opportunity for our shareholders.
Once we're through with that I think we'll consider alternatives to further adjust our capital structure as opportunities permit and as we believe it can create value for our shareholders.
Okay.
Just one clarification question if I may the five new subservicing contracts you highlighted has that UPB already transferred or when do you expect that to move over? It will be – it will occur throughout the third and fourth quarters.
Okay.
Thanks very much.
(Operator Instructions) and we'll take our next question from Kevin Barker of Compass Point.
Thank you for taking my questions.
I know this quarter you had an outsized derivative gain on the MSR of $20 million.
Was there a shift in the hedging strategy that you put in place regarding MSR this quarter? Rob would you like to address that? Yes hey Kevin it's Rob.
No there was not.
Was that – that was just the economic hedge and the results of that due to lower interest rates? It was just – it was the result of yes lower interest rates and the hedge position that we had on – it probably looks more outsized relative to the mark-to-market adjustment that was taken on the MSR.
But now there was no change in our hedging strategy or any significant change in that hedge portfolio.
Thanks.
And then on the MSR I know the fair value mark was lower in proportion to the decline in interest rates this quarter given what we've seen in past quarters.
Was there a significant change in your prepay assumptions this quarter given prepay speeds have been slow outside of the movement of interest rates? Yeah I mean what we witnessed this quarter and what I referenced in my prepared remarks is – well we did see a tick-up in CPRs but it was much more muted than what the model would have predicted based on the interest rate movement of close to 29 basis point.
So we just did not experienced the level of prepayments that the model would have predicted and that resulted in a much lower mark-to-market change in the MSR.
Okay rest of my questions have been answered.
Thank you.
And we'll take our next question from Christopher Testa of Sidoti &amp; Company.
Hi thanks for taking my questions.
Just more on the secured MSR funding could you just give us some color around maybe the timing in which you're attempting to do this and possibly give us a dollar amount of what leverage you are comfortable using?  As it relates to the secured MSR funding we are – there is a number of different steps that need to be completed.
So in terms of recall generic documentation and transaction structure we've – we believe we've gotten that substantially completed.
Quite frankly with the long-haul and (inaudible) any transaction structure like this is generally getting approval from the GSEs and we are essentially working through that process now.
Both while Fannie Freddie and to the extent you put Ginnie in there it would be Ginnie Mae have slightly differing requirements preferences approaches to a structure.
So just because you may get one level of approval it doesn’t mean others are automatically guaranteed and because quite frankly the GSE approval processes outside of our control.
Timing right now we are not forecasting or predicting what we expect the ultimate launch date of a transaction could be until we actually get through the GSE approval process.
Okay.
And with regards to the PLS contracts and you're trying to get new clients with a smaller community banks what do you think the addressable market is for the smaller community and regionals over the next say four quarters? Yes we work with our consultants and advisors and believe that those regional community banks who view mortgage as either an accommodation product or a critical product but don’t necessarily have their volume to achieve the right scale within their operations constitute approximately $180 billion mortgage origination market segment.
Okay.
And do you think that’s over approximately the next year or so? That’s an annualized production volume estimate.
Oh I got it.
Yes.
Okay.
And with regards to standardizing the PLS contracts further I was wondering if you could provide some more color on that and what's being done with that? We are looking at accomplishing four objectives in our PLS contract renegotiation.
So first is updating a modernizing economics based on the cost structures and the compliance and investor requirements that exist in the market today vis-à-vis when those contracts are negotiated.
Second would be altering the capacity management provisions within those contracts so that there is a greater sharing of responsibility as we adjust capacity up and down for accurate forecast and things of that nature.
Third would be the ability to finance MSR is created underneath these PLS programs through something like an MSR secured funding are Two Harbors structure so getting more flexibility around MSR funding.
And then finally would be more flexibility or increased responsibility on a part of the private label client to endorse permit recapture activities for MSR is previously originated under the program.
Great.
And what's the current progress with standardizing those and accomplishing those? Yes I think as we mentioned on the call that we – these contracts are highly complex and there are a fair amount of detail to work through on each one of these four provisions because they do address multiple areas or impact multiple areas of our contracts.
Notwithstanding we have got engaged clients.
They're – I think they're showing a good spirit of – or negotiating a good faith in the spirit of the partnership.
They are at the table discussions are live and ongoing.
And we remain cautiously optimistic that we will be able to restructure these contracts and relationships at or before their contract renewal date.
Great.
And just the last question with regards to the Texas offices you are opening what's your current retail market share there and what you expect to gain in terms of market share by opening these offices? Yes that’s the information right now the competitive information that we've not disclosed and probably (inaudible) those until we get lost.
Okay.
Thank you.
I appreciate taking my questions.
Thank you.
And we'll take our next question from Ninad Sanghvi of Hudson Bay Capital.
Hi good morning guys.
Thank you for taking my questions.
I had a few quick questions what is the overall size of the ASR? The ASR the accelerated share repurchase program is expected to be $200 million.
And is there an expiration date on it?  There typically is well let's put it this way we have not stated an expiration date but we do expect the accelerated share repurchase program to be completed within… I believe was seven and nine months.
Seven to nine months after program launch.
Got it.
And then the $250 million following that is that going to have to come through additional approvals? The Board has approved the additional $250 million open market purchase program.
And obviously you would be subject to market conditions that are existing at the time.
Got it.
And then the final question the $31.34 in book value pro forma for the Fleet sale does that account for dilution from the 2017 converts? No that was basic charges.
And any do you know what that number would be accounting for the dilution? I don’t have the exact figure in front of me but you can – you roughly take $250 million let’s just say of equity it’s around $28 but I don’t… Got it.
I don’t have the exact number in front of me.
Okay fair enough.
Those are all my questions.
Thank you guys.
It appears there are no further questions at this time.
Mr.
Messina I would like to turn the conference back to you for any additional or closing remarks.
Great.
Thank you so much and thank you all attending this call.
We look forward to speaking with you next quarter.
This concludes the PHH Corporation second quarter 2014 earnings conference call.
Once again ladies and gentlemen the replay will be available beginning later today at the company's website at www.phh.com/invest or by dialing 888-203-1112 or 719-457-0820 and using the conference ID 9283101.
It will be archived until August 20 2014.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning ladies and gentlemen.
Welcome to the PHH Corporation Third Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
Your lines will be in a listen-only mode during remarks by PHH management.
At the conclusion of the company’s remarks we will begin the question-and-answer session at which time I will give you instructions on entering the queue to ask your questions.
Today’s call is also being webcast and recorded for replay purposes.
The audio replay can be accessed either on the company’s website at www.phh.com/invest or by telephone at 888-203-1112 or 719-457-0820 and using conference ID 1625773 beginning shortly after the conclusion of the call.
It will be available until November 20 2014.
This access information is also described in the company’s press release and I will repeat it again at the end of our session.
At this time Jim Ballan Vice President of Investor Relations will proceed with the introduction.
Thank you Christie.
Good morning and welcome to PHH Corporation's Third Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
There is an investor presentation to accompany this conference call including an appendix of supplemental schedules that is posted in the Investors section of our website at www.phh.com under Webcasts &amp; Presentations.
Please note that statements made during this conference call include forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 as further described in slide 2 of our Third Quarter 2014 Investor Presentation.
Such forward-looking statements represent our current beliefs regarding future events and are not guarantees of performance or results.
Actual results performance or achievements may differ materially from those expressed or implied in such forward looking statements due to a variety of factors including but not limited to the factors under the headings Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements and Risk Factors in our periodic reports filed with the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission including our most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K and Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q which are also available in the Investors section of our website.
Investors are cautioned not to place undue reliance on such forward-looking statements.
The earnings release we issued yesterday also may be accessed from the Investors section of our website or you may request a faxed or mailed copy by calling our investor hotline.
During this call we may discuss various non-GAAP financial measures including core earnings or loss pre-tax core earnings or loss after-tax core earnings or loss per share adjusted cash flow and tangible book value per share.
Please refer to our earnings release and accompanying Investor Presentation for a description of these and other non-GAAP financial measures as well as a reconciliation of such measures to their respective most directly comparable GAAP financial measures.
Speaking on the call today will be Glen Messina President and Chief Executive Officer; and Rob Crowl Chief Financial Officer.
Other members of PHH's senior management team are also with us and will be available to take your questions.
I’ll now turn the call over to Glen Messina.
Thank you Jim.
Good morning everyone and thank you for your interest in PHH.
This morning I will briefly discuss our financial highlights for the third quarter and provide an update on the execution of the capital and operating initiatives we discussed last quarter.
Then Rob will discuss our results for the quarter in more detail.
I’ll start on slide 4.
In the third quarter we reported $215 million in net income attributable to PHH Corporation.
We also reported a net loss from continuing operations attributable to PHH Corporation of $88 million which excludes a $303 million gain on the sale of our Fleet Management business net of tax.
There were a couple of other items of note in the quarter.
Our results also reflect a $40 million unfavorable market related MSR fair value adjustment $54 million in pretax charges related to early debt retirement severance and legal and regulatory reserves and $10 million in unfavorable tax adjustment resulting from the Fleet sale.
In addition we are pleased to have executed an agreement with Fannie Mae to resolve substantially all outstanding and certain future repurchase and Mae co-requests related to the sale of mortgage loans originated and delivered prior to July 1 2012 for a net payment of $13 million.
Finally we deployed approximately $650 million in cash to execute our share repurchase and debt reduction initiatives.
Our production segment reported a loss primarily related to the continued high mix of fee-based business in our PLS channel.
The mix of fee-based business appears to have stabilized at approximately two thirds of total production.
Total loan application volume is down 9% versus the third quarter of last year as industry origination volumes remain meaningfully below recent year levels.
Our retail home purchase mortgage application volume was up 4% which compares favorably to the third quarter results for the overall industry which was down 12% as reported by the MBA.
Over the past four quarters that have been reported by Inside Mortgage Finance we have increased our retail mortgage origination market share by approximately 1.2 percentage points to 5%.
In the third quarter total loan margins improved by five basis points compared to the second quarter.
We believe total loan margins continue to reflect pricing discipline in the retail loan originations market.
In addition total mortgage production expenses were down 21% versus the third quarter of last year.
Our servicing segment reported a core loss pretax for the third quarter.
While year-to-date mortgage quality related charges and servicing are down 83% from the comparable period last year reported core loss was primarily related to three items; an increase in MSR actual prepayments a charge related to the Fannie Mae settlement and legal and regulatory reserves taken in the quarter.
We believe there are multiple profit opportunities improvement opportunities for the servicing segment including reducing the delinquency of our total servicing portfolio reducing foreclosure related and REO charges related to VA [no-bid] loans increases in interest income on Escrows and the benefits of our reengineering initiatives.
As we said last quarter assuming current market conditions and interest levels persist we continue to expect to report negative core earnings on a consolidated basis through the first-half of 2015.
With the implementation of our reengineering growth initiatives we anticipate reporting positive core earnings for the second-half of 2015.
Now please turn to slide five.
We have made significant progress in the execution of our capital structure initiatives.
In August we funded a $200 million accelerated stock repurchase program or ASR initially retiring approximately 7 million common shares.
We expect to complete the ASR in the first quarter of next year.
We have board approval for up to an additional $250 million in open market share repurchases which we expect to commence following the completion of the ASR subject to market conditions and the other requirements of the repurchase program.
We utilized approximately $450 million in cash during the third quarter to repay $420 million in face value of unsecured debt honor prior to maturity.
As a result we ended the third quarter with a total unsecured debt balance of $870 million which is within our target range.
These actions will reduce our annualized GAAP interest expense by approximately $48 million.
Our next unsecured debt maturity is not until June 2017.
Turning to slide 6 we remain focused on our reengineering efforts which we expect to deliver up to $225 million in annualized operating benefits with one time investments of up to $200 million.
There are two components driving our expected reengineering benefits.
First is execution of our expense reduction actions.
Second is the achievement of our private label contract renegotiation objectives.
Regarding expense reduction we are where we expected to be at this point in time.
We are executing a number of specific actions that are expected to generate approximately $175 million of the annualized operating benefits.
These actions are focused on three major areas.
First we expect organization structure redesign and facilities management to deliver 40% to 45% of these annualized operating benefits over the next six to 12 months.
Second process improvement in both origination and servicing operations are expected to deliver 30% to 35% of these annualized operating benefits with approximate half realized in the next six to nine months and the balance over nine to 24 months.
Third [better] management and consolidation is expected to deliver the remaining 20% to 25% of these annualized operating benefits over the next six to nine months.
The vast majority of these operating benefits are expected to come from fixed and indirect variable cost.
Approximate 80% will benefit the production segment and the balance will benefit the servicing segment.
In total our expense reduction actions are expected to require a one-time investment of approximately $160 million.
Of this amount approximately 45% is expected to be charged to current period earnings over the next six to nine months and approximately 55% is expected to be capitalized investments over the next 24 months.
As a result of our expense reduction plans we recorded an $8 million severance charge in the third quarter which was the only expense in the third quarter related to our reengineering and growth initiatives.
Now please turn to slide seven.
Moving to our private label contract renegotiations we continue to make progress and our clients remain highly engaged.
Joint project team and executive level discussions continue to address contract economics risk sharing and more balanced terms.
Due to the needs of both parties our discussions have evolved to include customer management strategies application quality pipeline management practices profits and technology capabilities customer satisfaction drivers capacity management and evolving compliance and vendor management requirements.
As a result our PLS model for some of our largest clients will likely change in order to address the needs of all parties.
Certain activities could transfer to our clients and certain process [inaudible] activities could be eliminated.
For instance as some of our clients strive to meet increased regulatory vendor management requirements we are finding ways to modify contract terms to allow supplier transitions post contract expirations should the need arise while at the same time protection the proprietary nature of our relationship.
As another example in order to reduce loan origination cycle times with one particular client we may provide this client with more direct control over the application process.
As a result the client would have greater accountability to drive application quality and increase responsibility for bar communications and specifying underwriting conditions for client invested loans.
We have more work to do in PLS and as a result cannot provide more specific details at this time.
We are working diligently with our clients to attempt to conclude these negotiations by yearend.
We remain cautiously optimistic about the process.
However we can make no assurances that our clients will ultimately agree to renew or amend their contracts prior to renewal.
To wrap up on reengineering I want to reiterate that we remain focused on delivering up to an expected $225 million in annualized operating benefits with an expected one time investment of up to $200 million through expense reduction actions and renegotiation of our private label contracts.
More than 75% of our total expected reengineering benefits is driven by our expense reduction actions.
We believe this gives us significant control over the achievement of our reengineering goals.
Now please turn to slide 8.
We intend to invest up to $150 million for selective growth opportunities over the next 24 months.
We believe these opportunities could generate up to $175 million in annualized operating benefits.
Our goal is to diversify our earning streams and enhance profitability by leveraging our existing infrastructure and capabilities to improve operating efficiency.
In private label services we and our clients desire to expand the target market for our mortgage program to include our clients mass affluent customer base.
Timing of implementing this growth strategy will be influenced by the outcomes of our private label contract negotiations.
We are developing more standardized service models to expand our client base especially to reach all community banks.
We are encouraged by the initial response from prospective clients in the sector and we are pleased with how the pipeline is developing.
In our joint venture with Realogy our year over year home purchase related closings outpaced the industry.
We remain focused on continuous improvement in relationship management operational execution and customer experience to improved capture rate.
We are also expanding our preferred mortgage program by marketing our mortgage services to all the employees of our relocation clients as opposed to just relocating employees.
We now have a total of 16 clients participating in the program and are in various stages of conversations with several additional potential partners.
Also in our real estate channel we have opened new origination offices in the Houston and Dallas markets.
We intend to continue to opportunistically expand our coverage in the top 25 home purchase markets in 2015 and 2016.
We are also leveraging our call center fulfilment capability to target lower density home purchase markets.
In our mortgage servicing segment we remain focused on improving profitability and scale through growth in both homes servicing and sub servicing.
Finally we also continue to consider inorganic growth opportunities as purchase market cycles have driven industry consolidation.
We believed the combination of current market conditions and our strong capital and liquidity position could create opportunities for us to enhance our scale and profitability.
We are targeting purchase market focused retail platforms with a strong culture of compliance and growth that can leverage our existing support infrastructure.
While we have a number of growth opportunities our near term priories remain reengineering our operation and re negotiating our private label contracts.
We intend to provide further detail on our growth initiatives as they develop.
Now I'll turn it over to Rob to discuss our fanatical results.
Thanks Glen.
Our consolidated results are shown on slide 9 and notable items are shown on slide 10.
For the third quarter of 2014 we reported net income attributable to PHH Corporation of $215 million or $4 per basic share which includes a $303 million gain net of tax on the sale of our fleet management business.
The net loss from continuing operation attributable to PHH Corporation was $88 million or $1.64 per basic share as compared to a net loss of $13 million or $0.23 per basic share in the second quarter of 2014.
Third quarter results reflect several items as a results of the execution of our capital and operating strategy including $8 million in severance charges related to our cost re-engineering plans and $24 million in early debt retirement costs.
In addition the third quarter included $22 million in legal and regulatory reserves and $40 million in unfavorable market related MSR mark-to-market adjustment.
Core loss after tax and core loss per share in the third quarter which excludes a net MSR mark and the result of discontinued operations was $64 million and $1.19 per share respectively.
This compares to a core loss after tax of $18 million and a core loss per share of $0.31 in the second quarter of 2014.
The sequential quarter increase in our core loss in the third quarter is primarily related to the early debt retirement cost the increase in legal and regulatory reserves and a loss in our mortgage servicing segment.
In addition as a result of the sale of our fleet segment we recorded an unfavorable tax valuation allowance and a contingent reserve for state taxes totaling $10 million.
Moving to slide 11 in the third quarter mortgage production had a segment loss of $28 million compared to a $27 million segment loss in the second quarter as a lower gain on mortgage loans from a 10% sequential quarter decline in interest rate lock commitments expected to close was partially offset by growth in mortgage fees due to a 6% sequential quarter increase in total closings and lower allocated interest expense.
Total loan margin in the third quarter equaled278 basis points as compared to 273 points in the previous quarter.
Total loan margin in the month of October was in the 280 to 285 basis point range slightly improved over third quarter levels.
Fee based closings as a portion of total closings equaled 65% in the third quarter consistent with the first two quarters of 2014 but above the third quarter of 2013 level of 58%.
As a reminder fee based closings represent production that is retained by our clients for their own balance sheet.
We don’t recognize a gain on sale and fee based revenues are recognized at closing.
The continued elevated percentage of fee based closings underscores the importance of our efforts to re-engineer our PLS contracts.
In addition the production segment results include $4 million of additional corporate overhead allocations as compared to the second quarter primarily due to the reallocation of corporate overhead cost post the sale of our fleet segment.
These costs are expected to be addressed through our re-engineering plans.
Now please turn to slide 12.
Our mortgage servicing segment recorded a segment loss of $71 million in the third quarter of 2014 compared to a segment profit of $10 million in the second quarter of 2014.
These results include market related MSR mark-to-market adjustments of negative $40 million in the third quarter and positive $8 million net of hedging gains in the previous quarter.
The unfavorable mark-to-market adjustment in the third quarter was primarily driven by a 21 basis point flattening of the U curve that’s measured between the two year and the 10 year swap rates which resulted in increased projected prepayment fees.
The value of our MRS hedge portfolio was unchanged during the quarter as the composition of the hedge was not sensitive to the same changes in yield curve shape.
For parallel rates shifts our hedge coverage ratio at the end of the third quarter equaled 42% of the change in the MSR.
Third quarter 2014 mortgage servicing core loss pretax was $31 million as compared to $2 million in core earnings pretax in the second quarter.
The major of the sequential quarter decline was due to $20 million reserve taken for legal and regulatory matters $4 million as a result of an increase in actual MSR prepayments fees $4 million from an increase in repurchase and foreclosure related charges related to the Fannie Mae settlements and $3 million primarily from an increase in corporate overhead allocations as a result of the sale of our fleet business.
Our total loan servicing portfolio of $226 billion in UPB at the end of the third quarter 2014 was up slightly from the second quarter of 2014 as increases in sub servicing UPB were mostly offset by decreases in the capitalized portfolio.
The decline in the capitalized servicing portfolio was driven primarily by higher payoffs and continued high portion of our loan production on a fee for service basis and an increase in the sale of newly created MSRs.
At the end of the third quarter we valued our MSR at 93 basis points of our capitalized loan servicing portfolio or $1.1 billion representing a 3.2 times capitalized servicing multiple.
The MSR valuation on our capitalized loan servicing portfolio and the capitalized servicing multiple declined from 3.3 times at the end of the second quarter.
Our initial capitalization rate of newly created MSRs was 109 basis points for the nine months ended of September 30 2014.
Prepayments fees increased slightly in the third quarter to an annualized average CPR for approximately 12% as compared to 11% for the second quarter of 2014.
While primary mortgage rates were virtually unchanged on the quarter ends June and September mortgage rate fluctuations during the quarter of as much as 20 basis points drove the increase in prepayment activity.
During the third quarter we completed approximately $19 million in sales of newly created mortgage servicing rates as compared to $6 million in the second quarter.
Along with two harbors we now have an arrangement with Pingora Loan Servicing to sell newly created MSRs and both parties acquired MSRs in the third quarter.
We are sub servicing the underlying loans and we expect the combined value of the sale price of these MSR and the net present value of the sub servicing of the underlying loans to at least equal the value we would have ascribed to the MSRs if they had been retained by PHH.
We continued to make steady progress during the third quarter with regards to MSR secured funding.
We currently believe that from a structuring standpoint the effective advance rate of such a transaction would be approximately 55% of the servicing fee slightly lower than our initial expectations.
In addition potential GSC restrictions on the use of proceeds may narrow the deployment of funds to more growth and reinvestment oriented strategies and less towards capital management strategies.
We still believe MSR secured funding could represented a valuable funding alternative for PHH and as such we will continue to work towards this objective in the months ahead.
Turning to slides 13 and 14 during the third quarter our repurchase and foreclosure related reserve decreased to $103 million from $110 million at the end of the second quarter and $142 million at the end of 2013.
The total dollar amount of unresolved loan repurchase requests at the end of the third quarter declined to $64 million from $86 million at the end of the second quarter driven by a continued decline in the pipeline of both agency and private repurchase requests.
In October 2014 the company entered into a resolution agreement with Fannie Mae for a net payment of $13 million to resolve substantially all outstanding and certain future repurchase and makeover quests related to the sale of mortgage loans that were originated and delivered prior to July 1 of 2012.
The resolution payment was fully reserved for as of September 30 2014.
As of the end of the third quarter our estimate for reasonably possible losses declined to $20 million from $25 million at the end of the second quarter.
Now moving to slide 15 with regard to liquidity we closed the third quarter with approximately $1.7 billion in unrestricted cash and investment securities.
Key changes in our cash balance during the quarter included $1.4 billion in cash proceeds from the sale of our fleet management business a $200 million payment related to the accelerated share repurchase program and approximately $450 million for the repayment of our senior convertible notes due September 2014 and the early redemption of our senior notes due 2016.
As you can see we have earmarked $500 million for tax payments expected to be made in the fourth quarter of this year mostly related to taxes on our gain on the fleet transaction.
Our other liquidity based key cash requirements are unchanged from the last quarter.
Turning to slide 16 our book value per basic share at the end of the third quarter was $31.06.
The significant sequential quarter increase in book value per basic share from $26.49 at the end of the second quarter was primarily driven by the gain on sale from the fleet transaction and the approximately 7 million shares that were retired as a result of the accelerated share repurchase program.
There were 50.8 million common shares issued and outstanding at the end of the third quarter and 53.8 million weighted average basic common shares outstanding in the third quarter as the share retirement occurred in the month of August.
Through October 31 the average repurchase price under the ASR program was $22.84.
If the volume weighted average price of our common stock remains the same through the end of the term of the repurchasing agreement we would retire approximately 1.8 million additional shares.
Turning to slide 17 we continue to provide certain transition services to Element Financial related to the fleet transaction for information technology human resources and finance services.
In the third quarter we incurred $6 million in operating expenses and $6 million in offsetting revenue from reimbursements related to the transition services agreement both of which were recognized in our other segment.
The TSA had no meaningful net impact on our third quarter earnings.
With regards to regulatory matters in October 2014 the company met with members of the Multi–State Mortgage Committee along with representatives of certain state attorneys general and the CFPB to formal review the MMC’s examination findings and our response.
In order to resolve the findings and the exchange for a release of possible enforcement actions the MMC has proposed that the company enter into a settlement agreement and consent order that includes adoption of national servicing standards payments to certain borrowers nationwide whose loans went into foreclosure during a stated period of time other consumer relief and administrative penalties.
While we continue to believe we have meritorious defenses to the findings we have indicated our willingness to adopt the servicing standards set out in the MMC’s proposal with certain caveats and continued discussions on other aspects of the proposal.
We have not yet been informed of the amount of payment sought for relief or penalties under the agreement and there can be no assurance that a settlement will be reached.
Now I will turn it over back to Glen.
Thanks Rob.
Now please turn to slide 18.
Last quarter we laid out our plan to deploy our excess cash from the closing of the fleet transaction.
Since then we’ve executed on a number of fronts.
We funded the first $200 million of our plan to return a total of up to $450 million to shareholders.
We’ve repaid $420 million in face value of unsecured debt reducing our total unsecured balance to within our target range.
We are executing on our reengineering plans with expense reduction actions that are expected to deliver 75% of our total targeted annual operating benefits.
We are working diligently with our private label clients to attempt to conclude our discussions by yearend.
And we’ve increased our retail market share to 5%.
We are building our regional community bank pipeline.
We’ve opened our Houston &amp; Dallas offices and we are expanding business opportunities with our relocation clients.
Successful realization of our capital structure reengineering and growth initiatives should allow us to attain double digit to mid-teen ROEs on average across purchase and refinancing market cycles.
I want to recognize and thanks PHH’s board of directors and my colleagues at PHH for their continued hard work and enduring commitment to creating value for our shareholders and customers.
With that we are ready to take questions.
Christie? Thank you (Operator Instructions).
We will take our first question from Bose George with KBW Investment Bank.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</strong> Hi guys good morning.
Actually first can you just go back to the comment about the percentage of that $160 million of upfront cost that will be expensed versus capitalized and just what the timeframe for that is? Sure Bose.
So as we mentioned we’ve got $160 million of investment which is tied to our expense reduction initiatives.
We expect 45% of it to be expensed over the next nine months and our remaining 55% to be capitalized investments over the 24 months.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</strong> Okay great.
And then should you have an update on when you think you could be breakeven? As we mentioned in the earnings release we said that we expect to be -- to generate in a loss making position through the first half of 2015 and then return to profitability in the second half.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</strong> Okay great.
And then just one last one.
In terms of the mortgage banking costs the cost to originate a fee based loan versus a funded loan how much does that vary? It varies based on client specific origination requirements as well as the underlined borrow profile and the product profile.
Quite frankly Bose there could be a fairly wide variation depending upon the specific contractual service requirements by each client.
We’ll go next with Paul Miller with FBR Capital Markets.
Thank you very much.
Can you just go back a little bit to this Multi-State Mortgage Committee update? You mentioned that you set some money aside but in the discussion so far there has been no monetary figures thrown out there yet.
Did I hear that correct? So Paul Rob commented that we have had an update with the Multi-State Mortgage Committee.
While they haven’t specified any specific amount of fines or penalties as a matter of course as we go through and update our legal and regulatory reserves we do have to take into consideration any and all updates and conversations on any of the legal and regulatory matters that we have and the MMC was included in that review.
Okay and then the losses that get overturned in California the $16 million you didn’t reserve for that did you? I know there was a lot of discussion that was never going to make it really through the next court system but that doesn’t free up any reserves.
Am I correct? As a matter of course Paul we don’t disclosure publically any reserves that we take on specific legal cases.
Okay and the other question I had is you’re saying that -- and this was on slide – when you were talking about on Slide 12.
You talked about selling some product to two harbors in I guess Pingora.
I don’t know.
I’m not familiar with that company.
Is that a REIT? Rob go ahead.
Pingora is -- Paul I do believe is a REIT and is in the same business as two was in and are looking to acquire flow servicing.
We’ve seen some deals go to pretty high multiples.
They weren’t flow servicing deals.
I don’t know really – I haven’t got any flow servicing pricing but I know we’ve seen some deals go 130 135 out there and you are saying you’re selling them at effectively where you’re booking them at 109? I’m not sure if I connect both those dots.
I think what I said is that we’re selling it at least equal to where we would have booked it had we retained it along with the value of the sub-servicing.
So I think – but I’m more comfortable saying at least equal to.
At least equal to? Then Glen one last question on the fact that I know it’s quite clear it’s been out there that you probably won’t make any money until the second half of next year.
Is most of the contracts -- because correct me if I’m wrong the reason why you’re struggling is because you have to re-negotiate the fee contracts because the expenses on -- the expenses in both servicing and originations is greater than those contracts am I correct? As in most of the loss is going to flow through in the mortgage bank or the servicing side? Is it the mortgage bank that’s going to absorb these losses? As we’ve said Paul the majority of the loss in our production segment is due to the high mix of fee based business.
So we are seeing most of the pressure related to our private label contracts in production.
Then should we see this start to go away? Give us a road map if you can.
Is it -- should it be pretty much cleared to out of there by the second half and that mortgage production side depending on where mortgage rates are should be on the positive side by the third quarter? Paul as we said in the script assuming current market levels of interest rates and volumes persist that we do expect to return to profitability in the second half of next year.
We’ll go next to Cheryl Pate with Morgan Stanley.
Good morning and thanks for the update on the strategic initiatives.
Just to follow on the PLS contract re- negotiations is that embedded in the outlook for profitability in second half 2015 or could resolution by year end potentially affect how quickly you are able to re-price? And could there be a scenario where profitability is achieved a little bit quicker than current forecast? Cheryl our statement of returning to profitability in the second half of 2015 assumes we fully realize the benefits of our re-engineering initiatives of $225 million in annualized operating benefits.
And as I mentioned on the call that includes both our expense actions as well as the benefits of re-negotiating our contracts.
Okay and then just on the other gross initiatives as you’re a few months into considering the alternatives at this point is there anything that stands out as a near term opportunity than others? Is there a different way? Is there something that you’re expect that is easily executable near term and longer term on maybe some of the other initiatives? I know you called out specifically the mass affluent opportunity.
Just wondering particularly in terms of the top 25 purchase markets where you’ve obviously expanded into a couple of markets this quarter relative to maybe the other real estate opportunities? Cheryl I do view your organic growth opportunities to be the most immediately actionable.
And within that segment I think I mentioned that capturing our clients mass affluent customer segment is dependent upon the PLS contract re-negotiations.
So I think we need to get that done first.
I really I’m excited about our relationship with Realogy.
We get terrific support from the executive leadership team at Realogy and quite frankly the Realogy operations across the country.
We continue to demonstrate retail loan mortgage loan closings in the Realogy joint ventures that outpaced the industry.
We’ve put in some new programs on the relocation side to expand the potential benefit of that segment of our relationship with Realogy.
And we continue to invest in opening our office in the top 25 home purchase markets.
I think as I look at the business I really do get excited about the relationship that I have with Realogy and the potential that that relationship has.
Okay great.
Just one last one for me.
On the MSR funding opportunity could you just give us a little bit more color? There was a comment on potential GSC restrictions.
I was just wondering if you could flesh that out a little bit more.
Rob do you want to take that one? Sure Cheryl.
Yeah we do believe based on our continuing discussions with the agencies that their -- the use of funds from any transaction may be limited by what’s in the agency guides right now absent any exceptions that are granted.
And they’re more focused towards re-investment and growth of new production new MSR just what’s outlined in the guidelines.
There could be some limitations on the deployment of those funds.
We’ll go next to Brad Ball with Evercore.
Thanks.
Do you expect the proportion of production the two thirds fee-based business to remain at that level even after completing the contract renegotiations? Brad right now I don’t see anything that would lead us to believe that the mix of fee-based production would change materially in the foreseeable future.
Okay and just to gauge your confidence in closing or completing the contract renegotiations by year end can you give us a sense as to how far along you are? I think it was a couple of quarters ago you told us you had completed about 20%.
Any sense you can give us as to where you are or should we expect that this could hit yearend target or bleed into next year? I don’t know that I can provide any more detail than I already did on the call.
Our clients our largest clients remain highly engaged.
As we’ve said before these contracts are covered under confidentiality agreements and that the dialogue that we’re having with them is confidential in nature.
We continue these discussions and our goal is to work with our clients to get completed through these discussions by year end.
When you say -- you said in your prepared remarks that the model with our largest clients could change what did you mean by that? Does that mean that you may not be changing the PLS model with your non-large clients? My comments are really focused on the nature of the conversation to provide -- with our largest clients to provide some color in terms of it is a broad based discussion.
We have -- we are covering a number of aspects of our relationship because of all the changes in the mortgage and banking industries which affects both us and our clients.
As such we are making sure that any of the renegotiations and amendments to our contracts do contemplate all of our needs.
Okay and then just to clarify if you complete the contract renegotiation by year end but you’re saying you’re not going to be profitable until the second half of next year so what is the main driver of the losses that you expect for the first half of next year? As we laid out in the discussion of our reengineering plans execution of our expense reduction actions will take up to nine months to complete.
So we expect that to phase in over a nine month period.
You’re pretty confident and so much of the 225 is in expense reductions that regardless of the market environment you’ll be able to get most of that over the next nine to 12 months? We remain committed to deliver $175 million.
That was based on assuming current market levels of interest rates and volumes persist.
So it doesn’t assume that there’s a drop in volume or anything to achieve that number.
I should point out that to the extent volume is up materially year over year that obviously direct variable expenses in production would go up in accordance with volume and certain indirect expenses for processing underwriting closing may go up as well which may alter that number.
But again assuming no change in volume in the interest rate environment we would expect to realize $175 million of annualized operating benefits.
Got you.
But presumably an improving environment would be good for the revenue line.
So even if you don’t get the 175 that would be a positive still? Okay that’s helpful.
Thank you.
We’ll go next to Henry Coffey with Sterne Agee.
Good morning everyone and thank you for taking my call I just wanted to pick up where Brad left off and maybe I’ll do it in my own way.
175 million is about43 a quarter.
And your expenses for this quarter were 281.
So as a starting point to the 281 in addition to the severance costs and the (inaudible) of reserving what are the costs you would subtract from that number to get a sense of what the running total overhead number is as of the September quarter? I think that Rob laid through No I’m just looking at the $281 million of overhead you reported.
What should we subtract from that to get in – should we take out – is the $8 million in there? Is the $20 million in there? What other figures are in the $281 million of overhead that we should subtract out as a starting point.
Rob can you provide a roadmap for Henry what was reported? I think it’s the debt retirement I think may be the only one you missed.
So the debt retirement the severance and the legal and regulatory reserves.
And that would all be in the 281? Yes.
And then is it as simple as saying say a year from now all things being equal in other words it’s a $10 billion mortgage market you’re originating at about the same pace that you are servicing and origination cost would be $40 million lower when this process is finished.
On a constant volume basis? Yeah.
You’re just assuming a $10 billion $12 billion recorder run rate which is about where you are now.
Here is what I would suggest because there are fluctuations from quarter to quarter.
Henry if you want try and relate the savings that Glen outlined to a base line I’d use the first nine months of the year annualized less these items that we’ve detailed.
And I think that probably gives you a more reasonable base from which to then apply any savings.
And then in terms of looking at origination activity very very small wholesale number.
Are we to assume that’s all (inaudible) and that that’s the starting point for rebuilding that business banks and credit unions and comparable.
Henry I’m not sure I understand the question.
I was just looking at the correspondent wholesale origination number very small as it has been for some time.
And should we assume this is the starting point for any rebuilding of that business? Henry our outlook on the correspondence business hasn’t changed.
We continue to participate in the correspondence business with we believe to be high quality long term relationships sellers.
And obviously we run the correspondent channel to a profit and a cash consumption target and originate business that fits that profile.
We’ll go next to Chris Gamaitoni with Autonomous.
Good morning guys.
Just quickly with the expenses for the cost program are those coming or will those be coming in core earnings or not? Yes.
And then on the capitalized amount is that direct fixed investment that will be reflected on the tangible investment or will it become some type of intangible asset creation? Those will be tangible assets.
Tangible assets.
On the $150 million of investments you drive potential of $175 million annual benefit.
Can you just walk us through? I’m trying to get my head around over 100% annual return on your investment in that.
What exactly will drive that and how are the returns so high? Rob do you want to cover that? Sure.
I think as we detailed the growth strategy there’s two pieces to it.
One would be organic related and that is going to have a relatively high return from an investment standpoint.
The extent that we open markets or increase capture rates some of the things that Glen talked about that in and of itself is going to have very high multiple return.
And the rest of it is going to be to the extent that we find inorganic opportunities and based on some of the hurdle rates that Glen has laid out that will generate the balance of say the benefits.
Okay that makes sense.
On the MMC CFTD conversations how do you think about capital and liquidity for a potential unknown settlement amount or whatever as you defended you have your core legal costs and for loss.
What should we think about on cash being held back for that? We do include in our key cash requirements – I’ll call it a general basket for a number of matters to include legal and regulatory.
Okay and then just you mentioned that you are willing to accept the national mortgage servicing standards or some caveats.
At least every servicer we’ve seen that I’ve seen has let to increase in costs.
Is that included in your future guidance or would that be a potential headwind moving forward? As we’ve reviewed those standards they’re substantially similar to what we’re already doing for the state of New Jersey.
So while there may be some incremental cost we don’t believe it would be material.
(Operators instructions) we’ll go next to Point Kevin Barker with Compass Point.
In regards to the MSR sale to Pingora do you have a contractual amount of MSRs or UPB that you need to deliver on any given year similar to the contract that you have with Two Harbors currently? Kevin it’s Rob.
We do not and actually I want to clarify one thing I stated earlier Pingora is actually an management company and is not constituted as a REIT.
But back to your question we are not contractually obligated to certain amounts.
So would it be market based pricing between Two Harbors and Pingora or is Pingora just a bidder on those assets and you decide to sell to them or not on any given quarter or month at the time? Look I think our objective for the program was to create as much liquidity as we could by hopefully attracting a core stable of partners.
We are pleased that we’ve got two great firms now and it’s really -- it a competitive basis.
Okay and then in regards to the $40 million mark down in the MSR this quarter you mentioned that it was primarily due to a flattening of the yield curve.
But was there any other market assumptions or any other assumptions that you change within the fair value MSR that may have accentuated the markdown this quarter? There were some model adjustments but the primary driver was the flattening of the yield curve and it’s just going to create lower forward rates and that’s just going to drive higher prepayments in our prepayment model.
It’s primarily related to the shape of the yield curve.
And then in regards to the legal settlement the legal and regulatory reserve that you put up this quarter was that in regards to several issues or one particular issue? In establishing our reserves we look at all of our legal and regulatory matters in the aggregate.
From a GAAP perspective obviously you have to evaluate each case individually on its merits.
But the amount reflects an update to a number of items of which obviously MMC was one of them.
Out of the several things that you disclosed in your 10-Q would one of those issues potentially go away with this $22 million reserve that you put up? I don’t necessarily know they can draw a direct connection between booking additional reserves and the aggregate for a number of matters in any individual case going away.
There will be updated disclosure in our Q on each one of the material matters both the MMC the CFPB and others.
There are no further questions in the queue at this time.
Christine thank you very much.
Thank you everyone for joining the call this morning.
We look forward to talking to you on our next earnings update after the first of the year.
This concludes the PHH Corporation third quarter 2014 earnings conference call.
Once again ladies and gentlemen the replay will be available beginning later today at the company's website at www.phh.com/invest or by dialing 888-203-1112 or 719-457-0820 and using the conference ID 1625773.
It will be archived until November 20 2014.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning ladies and gentlemen.
Welcome to the PHH Corporation Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
Your lines will be in a listen-only mode during remarks by PHH management.
At the conclusion of the company’s remarks we will begin the question-and-answer session at which time I will give you instructions on entering the queue to ask your questions.
Today’s call is also being webcast and recorded for replay purposes.
The audio replay can be accessed either on the company’s website at www.phh.com/invest or by telephone at 888-203-1112 or 719-457-0820 and using conference ID 9626580 beginning shortly after the conclusion of the call.
It will be available until March 5 2015.
This access information is also described in the company’s press release and I will repeat it again at the end of our session.
At this time Jim Ballan Vice President of Investor Relations will proceed with the introduction.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Catherine.
Good morning and welcome to PHH Corporation's fourth quarter 2014 earnings conference call.
There is an investor presentation to accompany this conference call including an appendix of supplemental schedules that is posted in the Investors section of our website at www.phh.com under Webcasts &amp; Presentations.
Please note that statements made during this conference call include forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 as further described in slide 2 of our fourth 2014 investor presentation.
Such forward-looking statements represent our current beliefs regarding future events and are not guarantees of performance or results.
Actual results performance or achievements may differ materially from those expressed or implied in such forward looking statements due to a variety of factors including but not limited to the factors under the headings Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements and Risk Factors in our periodic reports filed with the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission including our most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K and Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q which are also available in the Investors section of our website.
Investors are cautioned not to place undue reliance on such forward-looking statements.
The earnings release we issued yesterday also may be accessed from the Investors section of our website or you may request a faxed or mailed copy by calling our investor hotline.
During this call we may discuss various non-GAAP financial measures including core earnings or loss pretax core earnings or loss after-tax core earnings or loss per share adjusted cash flow and tangible book value per share.
Please refer to our earnings release and accompanying Investor Presentation for a description of these and other non-GAAP financial measures as well as a reconciliation of such measures to their respective most directly comparable GAAP financial measures.
Speaking on the call today will be Glen Messina President and Chief Executive Officer; and Rob Crowl Chief Financial Officer.
Other members of PHH's senior management team are also with us and will be available to take your questions.
I’ll now turn the call over to Glen Messina.
Thank you Jim.
Good morning everyone.
And thank you for interest in PHH.
This morning I will briefly discuss our financial results for the fourth quarter then my remarks will focus primarily on our reengineering actions including our PLS contract renegotiations our growth initiatives and some thoughts on the current environment.
Then Rob will discuss our results for the quarter.
Please turn to Slide 4.
In 2014 we took an important step forward with the sale of fleet business which provided us with the financial flexibility we've not previously had.
With this flexibility we are returning significant capital to our shareholders reducing our unsecured debt level to our target range executing on our reengineering plans working diligently with our private label clients and executing our growth plans.
I am excited about 2015 and beyond for PHH.
We intend to operate more efficiently maintain our focus on quality compliance in customer service as well as diversify and expand our revenue opportunities.
We believe we are in a very strong position that continued to deliver shareholder value.
As we previously mentioned until we've completed our reengineering plans we expect PHH to generate core losses.
Consistent with those expectations in the fourth quarter we reported a $32 million net loss from continuing operations attributable to PHH Corporation and our core loss after-tax for the quarter was $24 million.
There were a few items of note in the quarter.
Our results reflect a $12 million unfavorable market related MSR value fair value adjustment net of related derivative gains.
And $6 million in pretax charges related to legal and regulatory reserves.
In addition we are pleased to have execute an agreement for the sale of approximately $3 billion in UPB of highly delinquency Ginnie Mae servicing.
Our mortgage production segment recorded a loss primarily related to the continued high mix of fee-based business in PLS channel.
The majority of our contracts operate at a loss on a fully allocated basis throughout the year.
The mix of fee-based business appears to have stabilized around two thirds of total production.
Total loan application volume was up 6% versus the fourth quarter of last year.
Our retail home purchase mortgage application volume was also up 6% which compares favorably to the fourth quarter results for the overall industry which is down 8% as reported by the MBA.
We increased our retail market share by approximately 1.7 percentage points in the third quarter of 2014 and the third quarter of 2013 as reported by IMF.
In the fourth quarter total loan margins grew by 13 basis points compared to the third quarter.
We believe total loan margins continue to reflect pricing discipline in the retail loan origination market.
In addition total mortgage production expenses were down 13% versus the fourth quarter of last year.
In our Mortgage Servicing Segment we reported a $1 million core loss pretax.
Mortgage quality related charges and servicing were down 67% in 2014 compared to the previous year.
The lower core loss relative to the third quarter was primarily related to an improvement non market related MSR fair value adjustments and improvement in representation and warranty charges and lower legal and regulatory reserves taken in the quarter.
As we said last quarter we continue to expect to report negative core earnings on a consolidated basis through the first half of 2015.
Assuming market conditions and interest rate levels experienced in the second half of 2014 persist with the implementation of reengineering and growth initiatives we anticipate reporting positive core earnings for the second half of 2015 excluding one time items.
Please turn to Slide 5.
We remained focused on our reengineering initiatives and on track to deliver up to $225 million in annualized operating benefits in these initiatives with one time investments of up to $200 million.
This include up to $175 million in annualized operating benefits related to expense reduction actions which will require one time investment of up to $160 million.
As we previously discussed our focus for reengineering is in three key areas.
Organization redesign and facilities process improvements and vendor management and consolidation.
I am pleased with the progress we are making on reengineering.
As of February 13 we've completed the necessary actions to capture at least 35% of our targeted annualized operating benefits.
The realization of benefits associated with these actions is expected to occur within the timeframe we specified last quarter.
Now please turn to Slide 6.
Since our last earnings call we've made significant progress on our private label contract renegotiations.
With clients representing approximately 50% of 2014 total PLS closing volume we are at or near the end of contract negotiations and we have achieved our target objective.
For our remaining PLS clients we have mutually agreed to extend our negotiations to address their unique program requirements and potentially expand the scope of services to be provided.
Of these remaining PLS clients the clients representing approximately 30% of our 2014 total PLS closing volume we believe we've made significant progress and we anticipate completing these negotiations to achieve our target objectives by the end of the second quarter.
For those clients representing the final 20% of our 2014 total PLS closing volume they remain highly engaged and we continue to work diligently with them to conclude these negotiations as soon as possible.
We believe our clients' high level engagement and desire to work with us is reflective of the value for outsourcing servicing and the spirit of our partnership.
We are maintaining a balanced perspective to ensure these discussions result in an outcome that meets both our clients' needs as well as our own.
We are highly appreciative of our clients' efforts to work with us during these renegotiations.
We believe the sizable changes we are making to these contracts are positive changes for us and our clients; however we can make no assurances that these clients will ultimately agree to renew or amend their contracts prior to renewal.
Now please turn to Slide 7.
I want to talk for a moment about relationship with Realogy.
As you know we maintain a joint venture with Realogy of which own 50.1% that contributed 87% of loan originations in our retail Real Estate channel in 2014.
Our joint venture agreement with Realogy continues until January 31 2055 unless terminated earlier.
Beginning on February 1 2015 Realogy has the right at any time to give us two years notice of their intent to terminate their interest in PHH Home Loans and the strategic relationship.
We have been informed by Realogy that they do not currently intend to exercise this option.
At present they remain highly-engaged in strategic and operational matters pertaining to the joint venture.
And continue to work diligently to contribute to the joint venture success.
We believe we have a strong relationship with Realogy and we look forward to continuing to work with them to grow the joint venture as the purchase market recovers.
Now please turn to Slide 8.
We intend to invest up to $150 million for selective growth opportunities over the next 24 months.
We believe these opportunities could generate up to $175 million in annualized operating benefits.
Our goal is to diversify our earnings stream and enhance profitability by leveraging our existing infrastructure and capabilities to improve operating efficiency.
In private label services we and our clients desire to expand the target market for our mortgage program to include our clients' mass affluent customer base.
The timing of implementation of this growth strategy will be influenced by the outcome of our private label contract renegotiations.
We are developing more standardized service models to expand our client base especially to regional and community banks.
We are encouraged by the initial response from perspective clients in this sector and we are pleased that how that pipeline is developing for both standardized services and traditional private label services.
In our real estate channel we remain focused on continuing improvement in relationship management operational execution and customer experience to improve capture rate.
We are also expanding our preferred mortgage program by marketing our mortgage services to all the employees of our relocation client as opposed to just relocating employees.
We now have the total of 19 clients participating in the program and are in various stages of conversations with several potential partners.
Also in a real estate channel we have opened new origination offices in the Houston Dallas Los Angeles Orlando and Boston market.
We intend to continue to opportunistically expand our coverage in the Top 25 home purchase market in 2015 and 2016.
In our Mortgage Servicing Segment we remain focused on improving profitability and scale through growth in both owned servicing and subservicing.
In 2014 we signed contracts with seven new subservicing clients and on boarded 28 000 loans or approximately $7 billion in unpaid principal balance.
We also expect these contracts to provide a significant flow of subservicing loan growth going forward.
We continue to build the pipeline of subservicing client opportunity and we are excited about this potential contribution to the profitability of our mortgage servicing segment.
We believe there are multiple profit improvement opportunities for our servicing segment including reducing the delinquency rate of our total servicing portfolio reducing foreclosure related and REO charges related to the VA no bid loans increases an interest income on ex growth and the benefits of our reengineering initiatives.
Finally we also continue to consider inorganic growth opportunities.
We believe the combination of current market conditions and our strong capital liquidity position could create opportunities for us to enhance our scale and profitability.
We are targeting purchase market focused retail platforms with the strong culture of compliance and growth that can leverage our existing support infrastructure.
While we have a number of growth opportunities our near-term priorities remain reengineering operations renegotiating our private label contracts and most recently managing our capacity to accommodate the surge in origination activity.
We intent to provide further detail on our growth initiatives as they develop.
Now please turn to Slide 9.
Before I turn it over Rob I want to make a few comments about the recent changes in the residential mortgage origination environment.
With the decline in mortgage interest rate in the month of January we've seen a significant pick-up in refinancing and purchase applications.
Total January 2015 application volume was up 62% from January 2014 and 9% greater than our peak month for all of 2014.
We are adding resources to accommodate the surge in origination activity.
As a result direct variable and indirect variable operating costs in our mortgage production segment are likely to increase in the first quarter.
I mentioned this because I want to remind you that our reengineering cost reduction goals were based stable origination volume levels.
In addition because of this expected increase in origination volume some of our reengineering such as facilities consolidation may be delayed as not to disrupt operations in the midst of a refi wave.
Although the timing may move out a bit I want to reiterate that we fully expect to achieve our stated target annualized operating benefits from reengineering.
You should also expect us to scale our resources based on the current anticipated environment.
With that I'll turn the call over to Rob.
Thanks Glen.
Our consolidated results are shown on slide 10 and notable items are shown on slide 11.
For the fourth quarter of 2014 we reported net loss attributable to PHH Corporation of $33 million or $0.66 per basic share.
The net loss from continuing operation attributable to PHH Corporation was $32 million or $0.62 per basic share as compared to a net loss of $88 million or $1.64 per basic share in the third quarter of 2014.
Core loss after tax and core loss per share in the fourth quarter which excludes a net MSR mark and the result of discontinued operations were $24 million and $0.47 per share respectively.
This compares to a core loss after tax of $64 million and a core loss per share of $1.19 in the third quarter of 2014.
Our fourth quarter results as compared to last quarter reflect a production environment of lower closings and locks but wider margins leading to a slightly narrower loss.
The servicing segment benefit from the lower rep and warrant cost and lower legal and regulatory reserves.
Included in notable items this quarter was $12 million net market related fair value adjustment to our MSR.
In 2014 we incurred a total of $15 million in severance expenses related to our reengineering initiatives.
We expect the remainder of reengineering investment to be incurred over our previously disclosed timeframe.
Now moving to Slide 12.
In the fourth quarter mortgage production had a segment loss of $26 million compared to $28 million segment loss in the third quarter.
Loan closings fell 5% in the fourth quarter along with the 13% sequential quarter decline in interest rate lock commitments expected to close.
While total application volumes fell 4% to $10.9 billion refi application volume rose to $5.8 billion up 17% as compared to the third quarter driven by the decline in rates in the fourth quarter.
Total loan margin in the fourth quarter widened to 291 basis points as compared to 278 basis points in the previous quarter increasing for the second quarter in a row.
Total loan margin continue to increase in the month of January to 311 basis points reflecting a strong increase in refi demand.
Fee based closings as a portion of total closings equaled 68% in the fourth quarter up from 65% in each of the first three quarters of 2014 and above the fourth quarter of 2013 level of 61%.
We expect to see improving profitability as the year progresses as a result of the progress we've made renegotiating our PLS contracts.
Now please turn to Slide 13.
Our mortgage servicing segment recorded a segment loss of $13 million in the fourth quarter of 2014 as compared to a segment loss of $71 million in the third quarter of 2014.
These results include market related MSR mark-to-market adjustments net of hedging gains of negative $12 million in the fourth quarter and negative $40 million in the previous quarter.
Primary mortgage rate fell 30 basis points between September 30th and December 31st resulting in $68 million negative market related MSR mark-to-market adjustment.
Our hedge portfolio for the same period gained $56 million and outperformed our historical coverage ratio due to the increase in value of our in the money swaption position.
We would expect our hedge coverage ratio to exceed historical level should rates move lower in the near term.
Fourth quarter 2014 mortgage servicing core loss pretax was $1 million compared to $31 million core loss pretax in the third quarter.
The majority of the sequential quarter improvement was due to $14 million less in legal and regulatory reserves $7 million improvement in non market related MSR fair value adjustments and $7 million from a decrease in repurchase and foreclosure related charges.
Total loan servicing portfolio of $227 billion in UPB at the end of the fourth quarter 2014 was up slightly from the third quarter of 2014 as increases in sub servicing UPB were mostly offset by decreases in the capitalized portfolio.
The decline in the capitalized servicing portfolio was driven primarily by volumes of saleable closings and the sale of newly created and existing MSRs.
At the end of the fourth quarter we valued our MSR at 89 basis points of our capitalized loan servicing portfolio or $1 billion representing a 3.1x capitalized servicing multiple.
The capitalization rate declined from 93 basis points and the multiple declines from 3.2x both at the end of third quarter.
Actual prepayments fees decreased slightly in the fourth quarter to an annualized average CPR of approximately 11% as compared to 12% for the third quarter of 2014.
During the fourth quarter we completed $25 million in MSR sales as compared to $19 million in the third quarter.
This includes the sale of newly created mortgage servicing rights as we've done for the past few quarters and the sale of our high delinquency Ginnie Mae portfolio.
Now moving to Slide 14.
With regards to liquidity we closed the fourth quarter with approximately $1.2 billion on restricted cash excluding cash held in variable interest entities as compared to $1.6 billion of cash in investment securities at the end of the third quarter.
The key cause of the change for our cash balance during the quarter was approximately $500 million in tax payments mostly related to our gain in the sale of fleet business.
This is partially offset by cash generated from the sale of MSRs and a net change in hedge collateral postings.
Our key cash requirements now totaled $275 million $375 million unchanged from the prior quarter after accounting for the tax payment.
Now please turn to Slide 15.
Our agent continues to execute on our $200 million Accelerated Share Repurchase program or ASR which we expect to complete by the end of this quarter.
Through January 30th the average repurchase price under the ASR program was $23.23.
If the volume weighted average price of our common stock remains the same through the expiration of the program we would retire approximately 1.65 million additional shares with no additional cash outlay.
Book value for basic share at the end of the fourth quarter was $30.21 based on 51.1 million basic shares outstanding.
The sequential quarter decrease from $31.06 at the end of the third quarter was primarily driven by operating losses in the quarter the unfavorable net MSR mark and increase in shares issued in outstanding.
Now please turn to Slide 16.
Regarding regulatory matters in November 2014 the Administrative Law Judge assigned to our CFPB reinsurance matter issued a recommended decision that PHH ordered to pay $6.4 million to the CFPB in connection with past activities.
We are disappointed with the recommended decision and continue to believe we complied with the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act and other laws applicable to our mortgage reinsurance activities in all respects.
Both PHH and the CFPB’s Enforcement Division are appealing the decision to the CFPB’s director.
There can be no assurances as to the final outcome of any such appeals.
And there can be no assurance the ultimate resolution of this matter will not result in losses which could be material to the Company’s results of operations cash flows or financial position.
And now I'll turn it back over to Glen.
Thanks Rob.
Please turn to Slide 17.
In 2014 we took an important step forward with the sale of our fleet business.
Which provided us with the financial flexibility to return $200 million of capital to our shareholders reduce our unsecured debt by $435 million to within our target range execute on the reengineering plans and have made solid progress on the organization redesign vendor management and process improvement work streams? Work diligently with our private label client and/ or at or near the end of contract negotiations and have achieved target objectives with clients representing approximately 50% of our 2014 total PLS closing volume.
And execute our growth plans and it increased our retail market share by approximately 1.7 percentage points in the third quarter of 2014 from the third quarter of 2013.
I am excited about 2015 and beyond for PHH.
We intend to operate more efficiently maintain our focus on quality compliance and customer service as well as diversify and expand our revenue opportunities.
We believe we are in a very strong position to continue to deliver value for our shareholders.
I want to recognize and thank the PHH Board of Directors and my colleagues at PHH for their continued hard work and enduring commitment to creating value for our shareholders and customers.
And with that we are ready to take questions.
Catherine? [Operator Instructions] We will go first to Paul Miller with FBR Capital Markets.
Hey guys thank you very much.
On the buyback you said that the ASR program is done by the end of the quarter.
What are your plans to complete the buyback? Are you are going to complete it in the nine months or we enter into another ASR program? Paul as we have discussed on previous earnings calls immediately following the ASR the business has received Board approval for an open market share repurchase plan.
At the present time there is no change in our share repurchase plans.
Obviously the timing and magnitude of repurchase will be based on market conditions at that time.
Okay.
And then real quick follow up question.
You talked about $80 billion and your goal is to get $80 billion in total in production.
You are roughly in that $40 billion to $50 billion range today.
I know you are going to be a little soft on this question relatively speaking but do you need an acquisition to get $80 billion? Or you think you can do it with organic growth.
And how long you think it'd take to get there? Paul as we laid out we do believe we are going to pursue both organic and inorganic growth opportunities to achieve the $80 billion target.
And any goal of the timing on that? I think as we laid out in our Board presentation we expect to execute our growth plans over the next 12 to 24 months.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Cheryl Pate with Morgan Stanley.
Hi good morning.
I just wanted to touch upon the growth initiatives a little bit more.
And obviously looking to invest about $150 million over the next couple of years.
I just wanted to touch upon that the various buckets a little bit more.
I think the private label you spoke to would be a little bit more tied to contract renegotiations and though.
We'd expect we could be about 80% through by mid year.
And then on the real estate some good expansion in to the key market I guess can we maybe just spend a little bit time of thinking about the pace of investments spend given some of the puts and takes here and obviously I've realized the inorganic growth is sort of separate from that.
Cheryl as I laid out for Paul and as we've laid out in previous shareholder presentations we do expect to invest to deliver our growth -- on our growth objectives over the next 12 to 24 months.
As you had mention to extent if there is an M&amp;A opportunity those investments would be opportunistic and lumpy.
They are focused we are focused on as we said retail purchase market focused origination platforms that share the same focus on quality and compliance that we do.
In terms of our investments and the real estate channel as we talked about opening our top or expanding in the top 25 home purchase markets you could expect that will -- we would maintain the pace that we've had so far over the last six to nine months.
We plan to do that on a fairly steady methodical basis.
And then just in terms of the private label renegotiations you layout you think you are able to get the next 30% by the end of second quarter and then profitability increasing as we go out throughout the year.
I guess how should we think about we are sort of 80% through is that getting close to the tipping point or I guess the economics are different across the contracts so maybe just a little bit more color on that would be helpful.
That's correct Cheryl.
The economics do differ amongst each client's contract.
I do believe that what we have achieved so far in terms of 30% being at or near the end of negotiations is a great progress.
And as I mentioned we achieved our target objectives in doing that.
Another 30% as you mentioned we expect to get through by the end of the second quarter.
I really like our private label business model with 80% of the contracts renegotiated to where we've achieved our target objective.
And but obviously getting to a 100% would be better but again I really do like getting to a good position where 80% is completed.
Thank you.
And we will continue on to Kevin Barker with Compass Point.
Good morning.
You mentioned that there was non- market changes to the fair value the MSR this quarter in the press release.
Was that entirely reliant on the -- or related to the highly delinquent Ginnie Mae portfolio that was sold or were there other changes in the valuation of the MSR? Kevin I'll ask Rob to answer that question.
Yes.
Hi Kevin.
That was just -- it's really just related to prepayments and receipts of recurring cash flows.
So we used the -- we tried to use the term value and capsulated everything but market related adjustments so it's just normal basically pay downs in prepayments.
So is that an accelerated -- are you seeing better prepayment speeds than your current assumption of roughly 10.3% as recorded in the third quarter? So the prepayment speeds in the quarter were on an annualized basis was about 11%.
So they were down slightly from the third quarter which basically improved the value of the MSR with respect to that one line item.
Obviously rates fell during the quarter and into the first quarter.
And so prepayments fees going forward in the first quarter may pick up from that point.
So what is the prepayment fees assumed in the MSR now with that adjustment? The life time CPR? Yes.
Will be in the K when we file it.
Okay.
And then could you help us understand the location or -- of the different expense saves that you have incurred so far with your reengineering process whether it is in the salary expense whether it is in other operating expenses and how to think about that in the fourth quarter? Yes.
Kevin during the fourth quarter there were no saving realized in a financial statements related to our reengineering initiatives.
The savings will come through us -- we have described previously in our presentation.
Speaking more generally in terms of where we would expect to what line items the savings would come through our organization redesign efforts would impact primarily salaries and related expenses.
So you would expect to see a reduction there other than for the increases in staffing that we are putting in place for the surge in origination activities.
Facilities expenses would also appear -- Rob I don't know if you have a -- Occupancy Occupancy is a line item that they get reported on.
Vendor management cost typically would be in professional fees.
And then the remainder there would be some remainder of expenses that would fall into other operating expense category.
Thank you.
And we will now go to Bose George KBW Hi guys good morning.
Actually first is a follow up on the cost side.
The cost in the other segment went down quite a bit.
But is there anything unusual there? Was it something reallocated or was it just a reduction and that's a good run rate going forward? Rob would you like to address that? Yes.
I think Bose if I remember correctly we had an unallocated expense last quarter in other related to early debt retirement.
Okay great thanks.
And then just on the MSR can you just discuss the cost of hedging the MSR how we should think about that? And just remind us what the target coverage ratio is on the hedge? Rob would you like to address that as well? Sure.
On the coverage ratio we have historically been in the low 40s I would say percent range we as I pointed in the script given the drop in rate and given our hedge portfolio and some of the swaption that we own they are relatively deep in the money and any further changes in rate lower we get a value pick up that is exceeds what's been in the past just given where rates are.
So that really accounts for the higher than normal coverage ratio.
Look as rates fluctuate as our book matures we would expect to return closer to normalized levels but it is going to be a function of rates and time.
From a hedging perspective we typically are an option based hedger.
We are trying to protect too low rates more than we are sort of using someone that uses swaps.
And the cost of hedging I think was your question is really going to be based on what options we buy how far out of the money they are  where volatility is et cetera.
Okay.
But it is hard to ballpark that in terms of like basis points or -- It really fluctuates.
Okay yes no problem.
And then actually just switching to mortgage volume you gave good information about January when volumes and again on sale.
Just curious what's happening now in February with these rates kind of moving back the other way? Bose I think it is really it is too early to tell whether or not the surge in refinancing activity is going to -- actually refinancing and purchase activity is going to continue as you had mention the 10 year treasury has come up maybe 40ish basis points since the lowest experience during January.
That said on a relative basis with the treasury trading around 210 to 215 that's still about 50 basis points lower than where we were at the beginning of the fourth quarter end of the third quarter.
So relative to recent history it is still as relative low.
So Bose I think time will tell after just how long this surge in activity will last.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Brad Ball with Evercore ISI.
Thanks.
Could you describe or characterize your contract negotiations relative to expectations? Had you expected to complete more of the negotiations by yearend and what is it that's causing the delay of the 30% that you described in separately the 20% that you can't put a target date on completion? Brad as we have mentioned in previous calls we do -- these contracts are highly complex.
They are very complex business arrangements.
And to achieve our all of our objectives we are making many changes to these contracts beyond just economic changes.
And to get that done good results quite frankly takes time.
We are maintaining a balanced perspective in these discussions with our clients who want to ensure that the outcome meets our clients' needs as well as our own.
As we indicated on the call earlier for PLS clients representing about half the volume.
We have mutually agreed to extend the negotiation to address their unique program requirements and potentially expand corporate services to be provided.
Our clients have been highly engaged and want to work with us.
We believe that's a testimony to strength of our relationship.
And the importance of the services we offer.
But again good results take time.
We are as we are getting through these negotiations achieving what we set out to achieve but given the complexities arrangement and the change need of both us and our clients good result will take time.
Okay fair enough.
And then in terms of your guidance for returning to profitability in the second half of 2015 what are you assuming in that guidance that you will have completed that 80% that 50% plus 30% by the end of the second quarter and what other assumptions underlie that what interest rate assumption are you expecting January to continue and how would those assumptions change relative to when you first gave that guidance back in the third quarter call back in November December? Relative to general market condition the assumption that the business would return to profitability in the second half of 2015 was assuming that the market and interest rate that were experienced in the second half of 2014 continue through 2015.
As far as what impact the current surge in origination volume will have on that target as I mentioned earlier on the call I think it is too early to tell whether or not this surge in activity is going to last and where interest rate will end up.
But again I think overall those assumptions were based on the environment that existed in the second half of 2015.
In terms of our reengineering assumptions and what was underlying there again I go back to previous guidance and comment that we made for our reengineering actions we had specified for each of the categories of organization redesign and facilities vendor management and process improvement.
A timeframe in which we expected to execute those actions and when those saving would hit the P&amp;L.
Our assumptions they are largely unchanged other than for how the surge in origination activities would expected.
So our assumptions are unchanged on our reengineering actions.
And in terms of our PLS renegotiations our expectations are as we laid out in the call that 50% the benefits associated with the 50% that we renegotiated will materialize in the second half of the year as well that 30%.
Okay that's helpful.
And then finally you talked about inorganic interest acquiring retail origination capabilities.
What about anything on the servicing side? Would you have any interest buying agency MSRs for example to help you get to your $300 billion of UPB in servicing target? As we indicated on I think when back in July when we laid out our overall management framework and capital redeployment actions.
We do want to get the servicing portfolio above $300 billion.
We will consider both organic and inorganic opportunities there.
We have already added on a fair amount of subservicing 28 000 loans during the course of 2014.
And for the right quality portfolio we would consider acquiring servicing.
If we can do it in a way that produces comparable economics to the servicing we originate through our own origination channels.
Does that mean the delinquencies would need to be at or below the average delinquencies in your book before you would acquire an agency book? Delinquency is a very important factor to focusing on.
We are not a special servicer nor do we want to be a special servicer so we are not interested in high delinquency or high credit risk portfolio we would want the attribute to the portfolio to be at or below of the average delinquency profile that we have in our portfolio today.
As well as you might suspect there is a lot of elements that need to be looked at when you acquire a servicing portfolio.
You could expect us to engage in the appropriate level of rigorous diligence to ensure that all the documentation is complete.
There has been adequate performance in the servicing part was taking it.
So it is more than just credit quality.
I would say it is the overall quality of the servicing to include the underlying documentation and supporting.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] Our next question comes from Chris Gamaitoni with Autonomous Research Investments.
Good morning.
Thanks for taking my call.
On the PHH or sorry -- the PLS contract that we are negotiating how do we think about for the 50% that has been completed some type of unit economics of profitability I guess to go forward? Regarding the 50% that's at or near from completion and quite frankly all of our PLS contracts as you know Chris we don't disclose the pricing terms for those contracts.
That said our economics objective was to have those contracts be profitable on a fully allocated basis.
So you can expect that those contracts would be profitable on a fully allocated basis.
Okay thank you.
On the -- can you give us any type of sense of the potential market share opportunity as you noted that some of these PLS contracts expanding your services to mass -- beyond the mass affluent and to the mass market.
Just relative maybe however you want to frame it a potential volume increase we could see from that? So as we had discussed I believe on our previous call that we believe there is approximately one million potential consumers in the mass affluent customer base across our private label clients.
Hard to estimate what the propensities for those clients who want to purchase a home or refinance their mortgages but we do believe that's a sizeable and potentially very attractive growth opportunity for us.
Okay.
And just housekeeping.
There was an increasing professional fee this quarter-over-quarter was that related to the reengineering issues or is there anything that's more run rating that number? I would ask Rob to address that first.
Yes.
Chris there is nothing that I can point to specifically.
Trying to think back for the quarter we certainly have engaged some resources as we work through some of these reengineering initiatives some outside resources to assist.
But there is nothing notable that comes to mind right now.
Okay.
And did you give an update on the number of top 25 markets that you've entered or how the two that you publicly announced that you entered have performed so far? We did give an update on the markets that we had entered.
So repeating back there is five new markets that we had entered.
Okay.
And how have the first two that you entered performed so far? They are performing consistent with what our expectations were; we have not disclosed individual performance that's on a market level.
But I would say that performance is consistent with what our expectations were.
We will now go to Henry Coffey with Sterne Agee.
Yes good morning everyone.
I was hoping you could help me a little bit through slide 5.
So you start by talking about $200 million of expenses and then in the block below it is $160 million of expected investment.
What's the difference between the two and the $160 million? Just overall stepping up a level Henry.
As we laid out our reengineering initiatives.
Our reengineering initiatives do include the potential benefits associated with our PLS contract renegotiations.
So the difference between the $225 million in annualized operating benefits and the $175 million in annualized operating benefits from expense reduction actions would benefit that are derived from our PLS contract renegotiations.
And similarly the delta and investment would also be investment required to execute on the benefits associated with PLS.
And then looking at the $160 million figure you expensed approximately 10% of that so far.
That how should we interpret? Yes.
That is the way it should be interpreted And the remaining whatever $145 million is also likely to be expensed or will some of that be capitalized? We would expect to reflect the ratios that are actually on slide 5 there 45% would be operating expense and 55% is -- That's my fault.
I didn't pick that up.
Okay so and then going to slide 8.
Most of that would be capitalized.
We have not previously given guidance on what percentage of that would be capitalized versus expense.
Thank you.
And we will go to Kevin Barker with Compass Point for a follow up.
Yes.
Just wanted to follow up on Chris' question regarding how to think about the PLS contracts profitability going forward? It make sense that you won't talk about the units or the numbers around it but could you help us understand some of your hurdle rate for reinvesting or renegotiating these contracts should we think about it on a -- how much -- how it compares to your cost capital which your earnings yield would be on this particular items what's the -- what the ROE maybe on the investment could you just describe a little bit with your hurdle rate maybe on continuing with these PLS contracts.
Generally within the business there are two return metrics that we use for investment decision.
So for investments that will require the deployment of capital our desire is to achieve at least the 12% after-tax return on my capital.
For those investment decisions that or business decisions that don't require a return a capital outlay or capital deployment our target is generally to maintain a 20% return on revenue or return on sales.
That 20% pretax margin? That's correct on a fully allocated basis.
Thank you.
And with no additional questions in the queue.
I would like to return things back our to PHH management for any additional or closing remarks.
Catherine thank you very much.
And thank you everyone on the call for your continued interest in PHH.
And look forward to speaking with you next quarter.
Thank you.
This concludes the PHH Corporation's fourth quarter and full year 2014 earnings conference call.
Once again ladies and gentlemen the replay will be available beginning later today at the company's website at www.phh.com/invest or by dialing 888-203-1112 or 719-457-0820 and using conference ID 9626580.
It will be archived until March 5 2015.
You may now disconnect.
Good day ladies and gentlemen.
Welcome to the PHH Corporation First Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
Your lines will be in a listen-only mode during remarks by PHH management.
At the conclusion of the company's remarks we will begin the question-and-answer session at which time I will give you instructions on entering the queue to ask your questions.
Today's call is also being webcast and recorded for replay purposes.
The audio replay can be accessed either on the company's website at www.phh.com/invest or by telephone at 888-203-1112 or 719-457-0820 and using conference ID 9398060 beginning shortly after the conclusion of the call.
It will be available until May 22 2015.
The access information is also described in the company's press release and I will repeat it again at the end of the session.
At this time Dico Akseraylian Senior Vice President of Communications will proceed with the introduction.
Good morning and welcome to PHH Corporation's first quarter 2015 earnings conference call.
There is an investor presentation to accompany this conference call including an appendix of supplemental schedules that is posted in the Investors section of our website at www.phh.com under Webcasts &amp; Presentations.
Please note that statements made during this conference call includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 as further described in slide 2 of our first quarter 2015 investor presentation.
Such forward-looking statements represent our current beliefs regarding future events and are not guarantees of performance or results.
Actual results performance or achievements may differ materially from those expressed or implied in such forward looking statements due to a variety of factors including but not limited to the factors under the headings Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements and Risk Factors in our periodic reports filed with the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission including our most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K and Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q which are also available in the investor section of our website.
Investors are cautioned not to place undue reliance on such forward-looking statements.
The earnings release we issued yesterday also may be accessed from the investors section of our website where you may request a fax or mail copy by calling our investor hotline.
During this call we may discuss various non-GAAP financial measures including core earnings or loss pre-tax core earnings or loss after tax core earnings or loss per share adjusted cash flow and tangible book value per share.
Please refer to our earnings release and accompanying investor presentation for a description of these and other non-GAAP financial measures as well as a reconciliation of such measures to their respective most directly comparable GAAP financial measures.
Speaking on the call today will be Glen Messina President and Chief Executive Officer; and Rob Crowl Chief Financial Officer.
Other members of PHH's senior management team are also with us and will be available to take your questions.
I now will turn the call over to Glen Messina.
Thanks Dico good morning everyone and thank you for your interest in PHH.
This morning I will briefly discuss our financial results for the first quarter.
Then my remarks will focus primarily on our reengineering actions including our PLS contract renegotiations our growth initiatives and some thoughts on the current environment then Rob will discuss our results for the quarter.
Now please turn to slide 4 in the first quarter we reported net income of $21 million attributable to PHH Corporation and a core loss after-tax of $20 million.
We continue to execute on the strategies that we're established upon completion of the sale of the Fleet business in 2014.
In the first quarter we reduced our outstanding common shares by an additional $1.574 million due to the successful completion of our accelerated share repurchase programs.
We achieved $11 million of operating benefits as a result of our reengineering actions as compared to the first quarter of 2014 and recorded $10 million in onetime investments in reengineering and growth initiatives.
And we saw in revised contracts with clients representing approximately 50% of our 2014 total PLS closing volume and we continue to make progress with our remaining clients.
Provided that market and industry conditions materialize as expected and the continued successful execution of our reengineering actions we anticipate reporting positive core earnings for the second half of 2015 excluding onetime items.
I'm pleased with our progress to-date but we have more work to do achieving meaningful and sustained profitability at our targeted return levels will require the continued successful execution of both our reengineering and our growth initiatives.
Now please turn to slide 5 as we have previously stated our Board of Directors has authorized up to $450 million in share repurchases.
This includes the ASR programs completed in March and up to $250 million in open market share repurchases over the 12 months following the completion of the ASR.
As we announced yesterday prior to commencement of the open market share repurchase plan we have launched an exchange offer for our 2017 convertible notes.
We intend to commence the open market share repurchases as soon as legally permitted after the completion of the convertible bond tender.
Our objective is to complete the repurchases on or before March 31 2016.
Any open market share repurchases will be subject to market and business conditions the trading price for common stock and the nature of other investment opportunities.
We are electing to tender for our 2017 convertible notes prior to commencing the open market share repurchase program for several reasons.
This is our most expensive debt with a GAAP interest rate of 13% and an annual interest cost of $32 million The premium at which the notes are traded above par has declined materially and we believe this action can mitigate further potential dilution that could result from the conversion of the tendered notes at maturity that may arise from the continued successful execution of our reengineering and growth actions.
Although a successful exchange offer may move us below the end of our targeted unsecured debt level we believe that the transaction is accretive to shareholders and provides a reasonable return on invested cash given our current and projected liquidity needs.
Now please turn to slide 6 we remain focused on our reengineering initiatives and are on track to deliver up to $225 million in annualized operating benefits from these initiatives.
As of the end of April we have completed at least 55% of the actions necessary to deliver up to $175 million in annualized operating benefits from expense reduction actions.
These actions include organization structure redesign facilities management origination and servicing operations process improvement and vendor management and consolidation.
And as a reminder there can be a time delay between the completion of an action and its related cost savings.
In total we expect to spend $200 million in one-time costs associated with re-engineering.
The timeline for IT investments will be longer than anticipated due to our near-term focus and prioritization on compliance with the TILA-RESPA Integrated Disclosure changes which I'll discuss in more detail later.
Our expected facilities consolidation plans have also been extended as a result of the surge in refinancing activity.
We expect our IT investments will occur over the next 18 months and our facilities actions will occur over the next 12 months.
Now please turn to slide 7 our private label contract renegotiations are progressing consistent with our expectations last quarter.
We have signed and completed contract negotiations with clients representing 50% of our 2014 total PLS closing volume and have achieved our business and economic objectives with respect to these contracts.
In the first quarter we realized $4 million in annualized benefits from the economic adjustments to our PLS contracts as compared to the first quarter of 2014.
The majority of the annualized benefits from these contracts will be reflected in our financial results in the second quarter.
We are near the end of negotiations with clients representing 30% of our 2014 total PLS closing volume and we should complete these negotiations by the end of the second quarter.
To the extent we are successful.
We would expect to realize the revenue benefits associated with these contracts beginning in the fourth quarter.
For clients representing the remaining 20% of our 2014 total PLS closing volume these clients remain highly engaged.
And we continue to work diligently with them to conclude these negotiations as soon as possible.
We are highly appreciative of our clients’ efforts to work with us during these renegotiations.
We are maintaining a balanced perspective to ensure these decisions result in an outcome that meets both our clients’ needs as well as our own.
We believe our clients’ high level of engagement is reflective of the value of our services and the spirit of our partnership.
However we can make no assurances that these remaining clients will ultimately agree to renew or amend their contracts prior to renewal.
Now please turn to slide 8.
We intend to invest up to a $150 million for selective growth opportunities throughout the balance of 2015 and 2016.
We believe these opportunities could generate up to a $175 million in annualized operating benefits.
Our goal is to diversify our earnings streams and enhance profitability by leveraging our existing infrastructure to improve operating efficiency.
In private label services we and our clients desire to expand our mortgage program pending completion of our contract discussions.
And we are developing more standardized service models to expand our client base.
In our real estate channel we remain focused on continuous improvement in relationship management operational execution and customer experience to improve capture rate.
We continue to expand our preferred mortgage program and we have opened new origination offices in 8 of the top 25 home purchase markets.
The timeframe to fully staff these offices is longer than we anticipated due to the surge in refinancing activity and a highly competitive recruiting environment for high performing retail loan officers.
As a result it will take us longer than expected to achieve our target level of performance.
Our focus in the near-term will be fully staffing and achieving target performance levels in the offices we have already opened.
We also continue to consider inorganic growth opportunities.
We believe the eventual transition to a home purchase driven market elevated compliance costs and our strong liquidity and capital position could create opportunities for us to enhance our scale and profitability.
We're targeting purchase market focus platforms for the strong culture of compliance in growth which can leverage our existing support infrastructure.
While we have a number of production related growth opportunities our near-term priorities remain reengineering operations renegotiating our private label contracts and managing our capacity to accommodate the surge in refinancing activity.
We intend to provide further detail on our production growth initiatives as they develop.
In our mortgage servicing segment we remain focused on improving profitability and scale for growth in both on-servicing and sub-servicing.
We believe the largest control level opportunity is in reducing foreclosure and delinquent servicing costs in our own servicing portfolio.
Over the last four quarters we have incurred $57 million in foreclosure and repossession costs in our servicing segment primarily related to the delinquent owned Ginnie Mae servicing.
We continue to pursue a long-term strategy of being a more capital-light fee based business.
However in the near-term we will be taking action to proactively change our owned servicing portfolio composition to reduce delinquent servicing expenses.
To this end we sold $3.3 billion in delinquent Ginnie Mae servicing UPB in the fourth quarter of 2014 and we intend to explore the sale of other delinquent servicing portfolios during the remainder of 2015.
We will be replacing the UPB sold and the runoff of performing servicing related to the current surge and re-financing activity by retaining high credit quality GSE servicing.
This may include bulk and mini bulk purchases of performing high credit quality GSE loan portfolios.
We expect these actions will accelerate the reduction of delinquent servicing UPB and related expenses as well as allow us to invest our cash in income producing assets.
Now please turn to slide 9 with interest rates lower in the first quarter of 2015 compared to the fourth quarter of 2014 total application volume for the first quarter of 2015 was up 46% over the prior year outpacing the comparable period performance for the total industry as reported by the MBA.
Our retail home purchase mortgage application volume was up 10% versus the first quarter of last year also comparing favorably to the first quarter results for the overall industry as reported by the MBA.
We are adding resources to accommodate the surge in originations volume.
And as a result we are likely to see an increase in the direct variable and indirect operating costs in our mortgage production segment through the third quarter of 2015 to address increases in loan origination volume.
Consistent with GSE and MBA projections of industry origination volumes we expect refinancing related application volume to decline and a transition to primarily a home purchase driven mortgage market by the end of the second quarter.
We will utilize the resources added to support the surge in refinancing volume earlier this year to support the seasonal home purchase market origination volume surge that occurred in the spring and fall.
Now please turn to slide 10.
The pace of regulatory change continues and we are focusing on the implementation of the TILA RESPA integrated disclosure regulations to provide consumers with more meaningful information to make more informed home financing decisions.
We are investing over $10 million to modify our IT systems and business processes and we expect to be fully operational and compliant on the August 1 effective date.
Managing in a complex constantly changing regulatory environment has become a critical element of our business.
Our operating activities are subject to numerous examinations throughout the year.
We are directly regulated and or examined by HUD FHFA CFPB and other regulatory members of the FFIC as well as the banking and financial services departments of all 50 states.
The client's we serve engage in regular examinations of our operations and as part of the banking regulators oversight of their member institutions our client s regulators examine us largely in the same way that they would examine our regulated clients.
The purpose of these examinations is to ensure PHH operates in compliance with all applicable regulatory client and investor requirements.
And PHH does not present an unwanted risk to consumers or its clients businesses or investors of mortgage backed securities.
In the first quarter alone we responded to nearly 1 000 information requests from our clients their regulators and our regulators.
We believe this level of activity is the new normal state.
Consistent with our focus on operational excellence we have made significant investments in our compliance and risk management infrastructure over the last several years to address and stay abreast of the evolving regulatory and investor environment.
We have implemented a three line of defense risk and compliance over oversight and control model.
The finance compliance and risk management committee of the PHH board regularly evaluates management's risks and compliance performance.
We maintain a staff of over 250 people in risk and compliance management business testing remediation exam management changed control process improvement and consumer advocacy to fulfill our risk management and compliance responsibilities.
We execute over 8 500 unique compliance and quality control test scripts on an annual basis.
And we are continuously modifying processes and systems to support changing regulations.
We believe our investment in this infrastructure is critically important element of our business.
And we believe compliance competency will evolve to be a competitive advantage in the years to come.
However this investment has added significant cost to our business.
And as a result scale is critical to absorb the ongoing costs of maintaining a compliant business platform.
With that I’ll turn the call over to Rob.
Thanks Glen our consolidated results are shown on slide 11 and notable items are shown on slide 12.
For the first quarter of 2015 we reported net income attributable to PHH Corporation of $21 million or $0.40 per basic share.
This compares to a net loss from continuing operations of $32 million or $0.62 per basic share in the prior quarter.
Included in this quarter's results were market related MSR mark-to-market adjustments net of hedging gains of positive $65 million as compared to negative $12 million in the fourth quarter of 2014.
Core loss after-tax and core loss per share in the first quarter which exclude the net MSR mark and the results of discontinued operations were $20 million and $0.38 per basic share respectively this compares to a core loss after-tax of $24 million and a core loss per basic share of $0.47 in the fourth quarter of 2014.
The sequential quarter improvement in our results are reflective of higher production related earnings due to a decline in mortgage rates which led to increased origination activity and wider total loan margins.
Included in notable items this quarter was a $65 million net market related fair value adjustment to our MSR $8 million in cost related to fleet separation and $9 million in cost related to re-engineering and growth initiatives.
Through the first quarter of 2015 we have incurred a total of $25 million in charges and investments related to our growth and re-engineering activities.
Now moving to slide 13 in the first quarter mortgage production had a segment loss of $19 million compared to a $26 million segment loss in the fourth quarter applications were up 39% and interest rate lock commitments expected to close were up 33% based on the drop in mortgage rates during the quarter.
While closing volumes were flat versus prior quarter we would expect higher closing volumes in the second quarter based on the surge in application activity in the first quarter.
Total loan margins widened 24 basis points to 315 basis points.
During the month of April margins have trended slightly lower in the 290 basis to 300 basis point range.
Fee-based closings as a portion of total closings equaled 67% in the first quarter down some 68% in the fourth quarter as new PLS contract pricing is implemented we expect to see the effect materialize in higher loan origination fees in the production segment.
Now please turn to slide 14 our mortgage servicing segment recorded a profit of $57 million in the first quarter of 2015 compared to a segment loss of $13 million in the fourth quarter of 2014 these results include market related MSR mark-to-market adjustments net of hedging gains a positive $65 million in the first quarter and negative $12 million in the previous quarter the $65 million and favorable market related adjustments was comprised of $53 million in hedge gains which can be attributed to a 26 basis point decline in the 10-year swap rate and $12 million in market related fair value adjustments to our MSR.
The $12 million in adjustments were driven by a drop in mortgage rates offset by changes we made to our prepayment model.
Primary mortgage rates fell 12 basis points resulting in a $34 million negative market related fair value adjustment.
Changes to our prepayment model resulted in a $46 million positive MSR adjustment.
We believe the model is now better aligned to our historically absorbed prepayment speeds which have been running slower than model projections and other market data.
On a core basis first quarter 2015 mortgage servicing core loss pre-tax was $8 million compared to $1 million core loss pre-tax in the fourth quarter.
The majority of the sequential quarter decline was due to $6 million in higher rep and warrant related provisions.
Our total loan servicing portfolio of $224 billion in UPB at the end of the first quarter 2015 was down $3 billion from last quarter primarily due to the settlement of the high delinquency Ginnie Mae portfolio sale.
Total portfolio delinquency now stands at 3.21% down from 4.14% last quarter primarily due to the Ginnie Mae portfolio sale.
At the end of the first quarter we valued our MSR at 91 basis points of our capitalized loan servicing portfolio or $986 million representing a 3.2 times capitalized servicing multiple.
Actual annualized prepayments speeds in the first quarter were 12% as compared to 11% in the fourth quarter.
During the first quarter we completed $13 million in MSR sales as compared to $25 million in the fourth quarter.
The results of our re-engineering actions are shown on slide 15.
In the first quarter we realized $11 million or $44 million on an annualized basis of re-engineering benefits after adjusting for volume differences.
This represents approximately 20% of our annualized targeted operating benefits associated with our re-engineering actions.
The primary drivers include $8 million in productivity related benefits $2 million in lower addressable expenses after adjusting for notable items and investments and $1 million in revenue benefits related to PLS contract re-pricing.
Now moving to slide 16 with regard to liquidity we closed the first quarter with approximately $1.2 billion in unrestricted cash excluding cash held in variable interest entities comparable to the end of the fourth quarter.
As a reminder we intend to utilize excess cash for our open market repurchase program and growth and re-engineering initiatives.
In addition we intend to utilize up to $280 million for the tender of our 2017 convertible notes assuming a 100% tender participation rate.
Actual cash utilization will depend on the final participation rate.
Now please turn to slide 17.
We completed our ASR program during the first quarter resulting in the retirement of an additional 1.574 million shares.
In total we retired 8.537 million shares at an average price of 23.43.
Our book value per basic share at the end of the first quarter was $31.64 based on $49.6 million basic shares outstanding.
The sequential quarter improvement from $30.21 at the end of the fourth quarter was primarily driven by GAAP earnings in the quarter and the completion of our ASR program.
And now I'll now turn it back over to Glen.
Thanks Rob.
Now please turn to slide 18.
We are executing on our re-engineering and growth plans working diligently with our private label clients to conclude our discussions as soon as possible.
And expanding business opportunities within our production and servicing segments to diversify our earnings streams and enhance profitability.
Provided that market in straight conditions materialize as expected and the continued successful execution of our re-engineering actions we anticipate reporting positive core earnings for the second half of 2015 excluding one-time items.
I'm pleased with our progress to-date.
But we have more work to do.
Achieving meaningful and sustained profitability at our targeted return levels will require the continued successful execution of both our reengineering and growth actions.
We are confident that the investments in our business will continue to payoff and we look forward to responding to the challenges and opportunities that lie ahead in our mortgage production and servicing businesses.
I want to recognize and thank the PHH's board of directors and my colleagues at PHH for the continued hard work and enduring commitment to creating value for our shareholders and customers.
And with that we are ready to take questions.
Jennifer? Yes.
[Operator Instructions] And we will go first to Paul Miller with FBR Capital Markets.
Yes hey thank you very much.
Hey Glen on writing up the MSR I mean a lot of guys really took some big hits on the MSRs this quarter and I think clear including myself was expecting you guys to take a hit but you rode it up what drove that because it really looks like when you just mentioned your CPR rates went from only 11% to 12% and I think most people CPR rates are in the mid-teens to high-teens it would make a little bit of sense but what drove the write up was it the auditors or was it just re-examining the model and you were too conservative? Yeah as a matter of fact Paul I am going to let Rob our CFO to handle that question.
Yes.
Hey Paul we’ve been monitoring our actual prepayments fees which you’ve quoted there relative to model and well we don't make adjustments just based on one or two months trend.
We have been following the speeds and over the last 12 months actual speeds have been running about 80% of model.
And so we did decide this month to make some adjustments to the prepayment model that we use and that largely offset what would have been a $36 million decline in the MSR due to the 12 basis points decline in primary wealth mortgage rates.
And then I mean can you add any color why do you think that your CPR rates are running below market? Below market well I do believe that a lot of the nature of the origination channel and I think both our real estate and our private label channels tend to generate speeds that are slower than maybe somebody who might have for instance more broker to correspondent volume in their mix.
Okay.
And then one last follow-up question in the you mentioned Glen that if the tender I guess it's on the tender for your convert if it was converted 100% if the tender was excess of 100% you would be below your liquidity or your leverage goals would you go out and issue debt to get back up to where you want to be? You well we would be below our targeted unsecured debt levels.
Paul I think right now we would be comfortable with where we are and we’re not at this time this stage of the game considering going out and racing new debt.
Okay.
Hey thanks a lot Glen thanks a lot guys.
You are welcome.
We will go next to Cheryl Pate with Morgan Stanley.
Hi good morning guys I just wanted to touch on the growth in re-engineering initiatives a little bit.
I understand your comments on the retail sales offices and some of the slower trajectory given the rate and competitive environment.
Can you maybe just speak a little bit to expectations as you build out a more math-affluent type model in the private label side? And how quickly something like that could ramp up and imagine a lot of it is tied to the contracting negotiations and then secondly in the regional bank channel.
Cheryl that is correct.
So it is first and foremost tied to completion of the contract renegotiation efforts.
As we've said previously and I think as it remains the case the mortgage program for wealth management clients is a very important product for them both of the customer retention tool and as an earnings driver as well.
So our clients with us do share the – desire to want to continue to grow and expand the program.
Again we are focused as well on developing more streamlined private label and or outsourcing programs and we are continuing to take those to market.
We are encouraged by the pipeline of potential new clients that's been developed.
And Cheryl I go back to just our overall expectations on the growth initiatives we will be making investments over the course of the next 18 months to 24 months so I expect it would take 18 months to 24 months for the growth objectives to materialize.
Okay and then just on the re-engineering side and some of the timing on the expense initiatives obviously given sort of where you are benefiting from some refis still today as well.
How easy or difficult is it to sort of flip the switch if we were to move into higher rate environment and refis slowed dramatically? Cheryl that is the managing capacity is just part of what we have to do in our business subject to contractual commitments that we may have with our private label clients on staffing levels and or case loads.
We would look to respond as quickly as possible to changes in volume if we expect those volume changes to be permanent.
As I mentioned on the call I do think when I look at the environment for the balance of this year has the refinancing – surge in refinancing activity declines if the MBA and GSE forecasts are correct.
It would be concurrent with the surge in application activity to expect to see with the home purchase market.
So you probably would be able to ride the capacity through to the third quarter or so.
And then we would have to evaluate our client's projections for volumes from that point forward to determine what the appropriate adjustments are and our operational capacity.
Okay great.
Thanks very much.
We'll go next to Henry Coffey with Sterne Agee.
Yes good morning everyone and congratulations on tremendous amount of progress.
The idiot's guide to repurchasing converts maybe you can help me out here.
You are carrying the convert at 219 million.
you've got $that $26 million discount and you obviously would have to pay some sort of premium in there to the par value of the bonds to bring them in can you walk through the accounting and the impact on book value for me.
And let me know are there tax consequences as well.
Henry I'm going to let Rob our CFO answer that.
Rob? Yeah Henry thanks for the question.
A long story short is that we will need to recognize the difference between the current carrying value and the market value of the liability that will come through as a loss to book value call it around $25 million to $30 million.
A portion of that could be tax deductible the portion that is related to the debt instrument but we have not made any final determinations on that.
But I do know the whole amount the $25 million to $30 million loss will not be tax adjustable but a piece will.
And then we will obviously issues shares for the premium and that will increase book value but we'll have a corresponding reversal as it's kind of treated as reacquiring our equity.
So book value will go net net.
Book value should go down by some portion of the $25 million to $30 million and obviously share count will go up and book value per share will obviously go down.
So the plan is to tender for the bonds that pay off the premium with stock.
That is correct.
And then your board has an authorization in place of $250 million.
Could you – well let's not call it immediately but immediately the next day whatever repurchase the equivalent amount of share is issued.
And Henry as I think as I said on the call our intent is to as soon as legally permitted to engage in the open market share repurchase plan and to – our intent is to try to complete it by March 31 2016 as originally planned.
And you guys have always been the ultimate in belt and suspenders and generally if you when you put something in writing it's almost that it's completely done.
What are the mechanisms of getting this tender done.
How do you know how confident you can be or cannot be? Have you had dialog with bond holders et cetera? So Henry we yeah obviously it is subject to acceptance by the bondholders the bondholders do have the right to either surrender or not-surrender.
We believe we’ve had the appropriate level of guidance and input from financial advisors and an understanding of what is going on in the marketplace.
And based on all those facts as well as the fact that the premium has declined and the other financial reasons we talked about we think now is the appropriate time for us to tender for the instrument.
Great well thank you very much.
Thank you.
We will go next to Chris Gamaitoni with Autonomous Research.
Good morning thanks for taking my call.
On the Fleet expenses just want to clarify is that incorporate and kind of what's the run rate going forward and when will those related expenses the others are at stop being recognized? I'm going to ask Rob to handle that.
Yes.
Chris they do roll up under that other parent segment.
And the transition services agreement runs as it currently stands runs through June 30 but there is a 90-day option that element has to extend the IT services for another 90 days which would take it to September 30.
So the way to think about it is those expenses really sort of built-up a lot of the work was done in the first quarter.
They should begin to trail down and then ultimately extinguish somewhere between June 30 and September 30.
Okay thank you.
For the fee benefit from the PLS and renegotiations will we see the full impact in the second quarter for the 50% that have signed the renegotiated contracts? Yes we will.
Okay.
That's really helpful.
And then I just wanted to clarify on the actual expenses that we're taking in the quarterly restructuring charges did those occur in the corporate overhead portion of mortgage production? Rob do you want to address that.
You’re talking about the reengineering? Exactly the charges taken not the saves.
Some of those charges are located in the parent and other segment yes.
Could you give us like a breakdown that I'm just trying to look at kind of – it was a pretty significant increase in corporate allocation add mortgage production I was just wondering if that was charge related or if there is something else going on? Yes Chris I think we can yes provide that detail after this call.
Okay.
So we can give you the picture on which segment each one of those charges was reported in.
All right perfect.
And then just on the growth side just give us some color of what your loan officer targeting strategy is for the retail expansion I know you said it was going slower I'm just – where are you looking to hire the loan officers out of just based on those sort of considerations.
Yes generally Chris I would say that we're looking at certainly we're leveraging our relationship with realtors in those geographies where we're participating to understand who are the better performing loan officers and or loan officer teams in a given geographic region.
We're then targeting based on market recommendations who we believe the highest performing loan officers are in those regions.
It’s being that we are in a refinancing wave – loan officer behavior is typically such that if they've got a refinancing pipeline that's fairly large.
They're not going to want to move until that pipeline clears.
That makes sense and do you find your compensation for those loan officers is similar to market practices? Yeah we do benchmark to market.
Chris so we're comfortable that the compensation plan we’ve put in place is competitive.
We also believe that some of the operational improvements that we’ve made on the retail origination side like the express path process is a good selling tool for us especially as we transition towards the purchase market environment.
And I assume – if I was a loan officer having a direct channel until we already – exclusive on franchises would be a selling – point to me.
So I would think that would probably help us well.
And it does help the selling process for sure.
All right.
That's all my questions.
Thank you.
Thank you.
We'll go next to Bose George with KBW.
Yes good morning.
When you talk about being breakeven and you note that it's provided that the market in interest rate conditions materialize as expected can you just elaborate on what kind of underlying sort of assumptions on the market you are thinking about? Yeah Bose it's basically the MBA/GSE industry forecast so at a very high level refinancing volume continues through but starts to tail off in the second quarter we transitioned to primarily a home purchase driven market in the third and fourth quarters.
Okay great.
And then in terms of the number you guys have for foreclosure and reposition expenses that line item.
As we go forward do you think there could be a meaningful decline there over time? Bose that's one of those things that I talked about it in my overview of some of the strategies for our servicing business.
We are looking to actively change portfolio composition by selling high delinquency asset servicing assets in our own servicing book.
And replacing them with high credit quality performing GSE servicing our goal is to drive those expenses lower by changing portfolio composition.
Okay but is it – it's still probably too early to tell like what a normalized number there could be? I think that's fair.
Okay and then just one last one once the reengineering growth initiatives are over and the tender buyback are done is there still going to be any excess cash at that point? Or is that largely going to be utilized by all those? You know we don't typically disclose a multiyear cash forecast.
Well I can say that our strategic planning process and our liquidity forecasting process does go out multiple years and execution of our re-engineering contract renegotiation and growth initiatives are not – or will not be impacted by the tender for the convert and we do believe the company would have adequate liquidity to tender for the convert and execute all of its initiatives.
Okay great.
Thanks very much.
[Operator Instructions] And at this time there are no further questions.
I'll turn the call back to Glen Messina for any additional or closing remarks.
Jenifer thank you very much.
And thank you to all of our shareholders for attending the call.
We look forward to speaking with you next quarter.
This concludes the PHH Corporation first quarter 2015 earnings conference call.
Once again ladies and gentlemen the replay will be available beginning later today at the company's website at www.phh.com/invest or by dialing 888-203-1112 or 719-457-0820 and using conference ID 9398060.
It will be archived until May 22 2015.
You may now disconnect.
Please standby we're about to begin.
Good morning ladies and gentlemen.
Welcome to the PHH Corporation Second Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
Your lines will be in a listen-only mode during the remarks by PHH management.
At the conclusion of the company's remarks we will begin the question-and-answer session at which I will give you instructions on entering the queue to ask your questions.
Today's call is also being webcast and recorded for replay purposes.
The audio replay can be accessed either on the company's website at www.phh.com/invest or by telephone at 888-203-1112 or 719-457-0820 and using the conference ID 6527323 beginning shortly after the conclusion of the call.
It will be available until August 21 2015.
This access information is also described in the company's press release and I will repeat it again at the end of today's session.
At this time I'd like to turn the conference over to Dico Akseraylian Senior Vice President of Communications who'll proceed with the introduction.
Good morning and welcome to PHH Corporation's second quarter 2015 earnings conference call.
There is an investor presentation to accompany this conference call including an appendix of supplemental schedules that is posted in the Investors section of our website at www.phh.com under Webcasts &amp; Presentations.
Please note that statements made during this conference call includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 as further described in slide 2 of our second quarter 2015 investor presentation.
Such forward-looking statements represent our current beliefs regarding future events and are not guarantees of performance or results.
Actual results performance or achievements may differ materially from those expressed or implied in such forward-looking statements due to a variety of factors including but not limited to the factors under the heading Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements and Risk Factors in our periodic reports filed with the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission including our most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K and Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q which are also available in the investor section of our website.
Investors are cautioned not to place undue reliance on such forward-looking statements.
The earnings release we issued yesterday also may be accessed from the investor section of our website where you may request a fax or mail copy by calling our investor hotline.
During this call we may discuss various non-GAAP financial measures including core earnings or loss pre-tax core earnings or loss after tax core earnings or loss per share adjusted cash flow and tangible book value per share.
Please refer to our earnings release and accompanying investor presentation for a description of these and other non-GAAP financial measures as well as a reconciliation of such measures to their respective most directly comparable GAAP financial measures.
Speaking on the call today will be Glen Messina President and Chief Executive Officer and Rob Crowl Chief Financial Officer.
Other members of PHH's senior management team are also with us and will be available to take your questions.
I now will turn the call over to Glen Messina.
Thank you Dico good morning everyone and thank you for your interest in PHH.
This morning I'll briefly discuss our financial results for the second quarter.
Then my remarks will focus primarily on our re-engineering actions our growth initiatives some thoughts on the regulatory environment and our capital structure actions then Rob will discuss our results for the quarter.
Now please turn to slide four.
In the second quarter we reported a net loss attributable to PHH Corporation of $66 million.
Our results included $86 million in pre-tax charges relating to one-time and notable items and net cost associated with the sale and separation of the fleet business.
We completed the tender for our 2017 convertible notes.
We've made meaningful progress in executing our re-engineering plan.
We have substantially completed the renegotiations of our private label contracts and we have executed 70% of the actions necessary to realize our expenses reduction targets.
We realized our $104 million of annualized operating benefits from our re-engineering actions in the second quarter and we're on track to deliver up to $225 million in annualized operating benefits by the end of 2016.
Production segment profit was $3 million in the second quarter of 2015 which improved $30 million in the second quarter of 2014.
Production segment profit included notable item charges of $13 million in the second quarter of 2015 compared to $3 million in the second quarter of 2014.
The improved profitability was driven by improved margins higher volume and increased fees on fee-based closings.
We've opened 12 offices in the leading home purchase markets.
Recruiting a slower than we expected and we've added approximately half of the amount of the retail loan officers we targeted at this time.
As a result we're behind our expectations for organic growth and our real estate channel.
Servicing segment core loss was $66 million in the second quarter of 2015 a decrease of $68 million in core earnings in the second quarter of 2014.
Servicing core earnings included notable item charges of $36 million in the second quarter of 2015.
The decline in core earnings was driven by increased core MSR amortization expense and increased delinquent servicing and foreclosure cost.
We increased our legal reserve by $34 million in the second quarter.
Since our last update we've had significant developments relating to our legacy regulatory matters with the CFPB MMC and New York DFS.
The increased loss in our servicing segment combined with slower than expected organic growth could put more pressure on the second half of 2015 results that we anticipated.
Provided market and straight conditions materialize as expected and the successful execution of our strategic initiatives we expect core earnings before one-time items to improve from the current levels and approach breakeven for the second half of the year.
On the same basis we expect to return to profitability in 2016.
Looking forward achieving meaningful and sustained profitability at or targeted return levels will require completion of our re-engineering actions realization of our growth initiatives repositioning our servicing portfolio and disciplined execution of our compliance service management strategies.
Now please turn to slide five.
We've made meaningful progress on our re-engineering initiatives and are on track to deliver up to approximately $225 million in annualized operating benefits from these initiatives.
We're revising the one-time spend associated with our re-engineering actions to $175 million down from $200 million.
Now please turn to slide six.
We've made substantial progress in our private label contract renegotiations.
We are increasing the expected annualized benefit to at least $75 million from up to $50 million.
The increase versus our expectations is to accommodate client specific requests related to staffing levels and the operational customization.
In the second quarter we realized $8 million or 43% of our expected annualized operating benefits.
We have previously signed revised contracts with clients representing 50% of our 2014 PLS closing volumes and have achieved our business and economic objectives with respect to these clients.
During the second we have substantially completed negotiations with the majority of the clients representing the remaining 50% of our annualized 2014 total PLS closing volume.
Absent any unforeseen circumstances we expect to execute revised agreements with clients representing 47% of our annualized 2014 closing volume in the third quarter and expect the benefits of these revised agreements to be realized in the fourth quarter.
One private label client representing 3% of our 2014 total PLS closing volume has indicated their intention to re-insource their mortgage fulfillment operations.
We thank our clients for working with us to achieve our mutual objectives.
We are committed to fulfill our obligations and commitments under our revised agreements.
Now please turn to slide seven.
We are revising the expected annualized operating benefits related to our expense reduction actions to up to $150 million down from up to $175 million due to reduced operations productivity targets to meet our staffing and operational customization commitments for our clients.
In the second quarter we realized approximately $18 million or 48% of our targeted annualized operating benefits.
As the end of the July we have completed at least 70% of the actions necessary to deliver on our expense reduction target.
As a reminder there can be a delay between the completion of it action and its related cost savings.
Our expected facility's consolidation plans have also been extended as a result of the surge in refinancing activity.
We expect these actions will be completed by the end of the first quarter of 2016.
The timeline for IT investments will also be longer than anticipated due to our near-term focus and prioritization on trade compliance and IT related investments to accommodate client's technology related request.
The operating expense portion may be larger than expected and the capital expense portion may be less than expected.
Now please turn to slide 8 we intent to invest at least 150 million for selective growth opportunities over the balance of 2015 and 2016.
We believe these opportunities could generate up to a $175 million in annualized operating benefits.
We have a multi faceted growth strategy leveraging both organic and in-organic growth initiatives.
Our goal is to diversify our earning streams and enhance profitability by leveraging our existing infrastructure to improve operating efficiency.
As we have previously discussed we need to achieve $80 billion in annual originations volume and over $300 billion in servicing UPB to deliver sustained profitability and our targeted return levels.
Our retail home purchase mortgage application volume growth of 3% in the second quarter lagged the 14% reported by the MBA for the overall industry for two reasons.
First as part of our re-engineering efforts we consolidated and reduced the number of regional origination and processing centers in real estate.
This includes being more selective and withdrawing from relationships that did not meet our profitability objectives.
As a result of these actions we have reduced our related relationships by 43% turned over nearly 25% of our retail loan officers and reduced our retail loan officers staffing in legacy locations by nearly 15%.
Back then we're not placing the same emphasis on FHA and VA loan originations as other industry participants.
Our total closing volume of FHA and VA insured loans grew 18% in the second quarter of 2015 over the same period last year as compared to 77% to the overall industry as reported by insight mortgage finance.
Our pipeline to POS opportunities continues to build and we're excited about the prospects and potential.
As a result of the increasingly complex regulatory environment the client qualification processes intent and the decision-making processes protracted.
These continued to be long cycle opportunities.
We are in the process of staffing 12 new officers in the leading home purchase markets and it has taken us longer than anticipated to recruit high performing retail loan officers who share our values.
The surge in refinancing activity leading into the purchase season and our lack of an established consumer facing brand has slowed our recruiting activity.
We've added approximately half the number of retail loan officers we expected at this time.
As a result we are behind our expectations for organic volume growth in real estate.
In our mortgage servicing segment we remain focused on improving profitability and scale through growth in both home servicing and sub servicing.
We continue to see a shift in our portfolio compensation from home servicing to sub servicing which was up $18 billion in the second quarter of 2015 from the same period last year.
Year-to-date we have added $5.3 billion in subservicing EPB from sources other than our own origination channels.
Core earnings in servicing has been adversely impacted by a 20% increase in core MSR amortization expense in the first half of 2015 versus the same period last year despite a 16% reduction in owned servicing UPB.
Additionally delinquent servicing and foreclosure related costs are up 13% in the second quarter of 2015 over the same period last year despite a 25% reduction in delinquent loan UPB in our own servicing portfolio.
We need to rebalance the servicing portfolio and intend on taking action to sell on profitable and our highly delinquent legacy servicing and purchase high credit quality GSE servicing.
As a result of our slower than expected organic growth it places a greater emphasis in the near term on inorganic growth in order for us to attain the scale necessary to achieve our targeted profitability.
Over the past several quarters we have been engaged with our advisers to evaluate and screen potential opportunities.
Now that we have substantially completed our POS contract renegotiations we intend to intensify our efforts on this imitative.
We will be disciplined in our approach and focused on those opportunities that allow us to leverage our existing support infrastructure have a good cultural fit and achieve our cost of capital.
Now please turn to slide nine.
There are four items I want to update you on related to our regulatory matters.
First at the end of the second quarter the CFPB ordered PHH to pay $109 million and other relief in connection with legacy activities of our former Atrium Reinsurance subsidiary.
We have appealed to the U.S.
Court of Appeals for the D.C.
Circuit.
Just a few days ago our motion to stay enforcement of the order pending appeal was granted and we'll not be required to place the $109 million into escrow.
While there can be no assurances as to the final outcome we continue to believe our appeal will be successful.
We have not included any amount and reasonably possible losses for this matter.
Second regarding the MMC examination in late July we received a settlement proposal that would require PHHs to pay a substantial amount in restitution and penalties and agree to certain servicing practices and other requirements in connection with resolving the findings associated with their 2011 examination.
Third regarding the New York DFS examination.
In early July the DFS clarified its intense propose of the company enter into a public consent order whereby PHH should be ordered to pay restitution and penalties and maybe substitute to other requirements in connection with the settlement of the New York findings from the 2011 MMC and other legacy examinations.
At this time we did not have clarity around the amounts or specifics of the DFS expected demand.
Fourth with regard to the HUD subpoenas based on the current status of the investigations discussions with individuals familiar with industry settlements in this area and other available information we believe we have a clear picture of the aggressive positions being taken by the government in these cases regarding the definition of loan origination defects and other FHA compliance issues.
While to-date we have not been approached by the government with any demands or claims in connection with this matter.
Several large mortgage originators that participate in FHA learning programs have been subject to similar investigations which have resulted in settlements involving a payment of substantial damages.
The range of losses vary significantly for each originator as there were different facts and circumstances underlying each investigation.
We cannot estimate an amount of probable loss a range of reasonably possible loss or the maximum amount of possible losses in connection with the New York DFS and FHA matters.
Finally in recent weeks some mortgage lenders have indicated their intention withdraw from certain marketing services agreements for MSAs.
PHH has used MSAs and we believe they have been structured in compliance with all applicable laws and regulations.
However as a result of increasing uncertainty surrounding regulatory oversight of these types of arrangements PHH has been exiting it's MSAs and expects to have withdrawn from substantially all of its MSAs by September 1 2015.
As it relates to our MSA with Realogy franchise orders we're jointly exploring a number of new options to support our relationship with them.
This decision doesn't not impact the joint venture with Realogy which is not an MSA.
From the last 12 months our mortgage production under all active MSAs has been less than 2% of our overall volume.
As we reflect on the many accomplishments over the past year we're ever mindful of the increased regulatory focus in the mortgage industry.
The regulatory environment has undergone massive change the environment is highly punitive and the consequences of once accepted legacy practices are more unpredictable.
We believe compliance excellence will be the foundation of success in the mortgage industry.
Our role as a key service provider to leading financial institutions requires us to take an institutional approach and we appreciate our client's partnership and continuously evolving our practices and platform.
We have made and we'll continue to make substantial investment in our compliance risk management process control quality assurance change management and technology infrastructure.
Now please turn to slide 10.
In the second quarter we completed an exchange for $243 million of principle of our convertible notes due in 2017 which will result in interest expense savings of $32 million annually.
We did not repurchase shares in the second quarter due to restrictions related to the convertible note exchange offer cooling-off period and earnings black out.
As we have just discussed the regulatory environment has undergone radical changes and continues to change.
In light of the uncertainties with our revolving legacy regulatory matters the volatile nature of our regulatory and industry environment and our need to increase scale to meet our return objectives we believe it's prudent to conserve our cash and protect the capital base of the company at this time.
As a result we've delayed the implementation of our intended share repurchases.
We're uncertain as a duration of time we will not be in the market buying back shares the situation is unfolding and we'll provide an update next quarter.
We will continue to evaluate our overall capital structure and liquidity position and remain committed to executing a capital deployment framework to achieve our long-term return objectives.
Now I'll turn it over to Rob to discuss our results for the quarter in more detail.
Thanks Glen our consolidated results are shown on slide 11 and notable items are shown on slide 12.
For the second quarter of 2015 we reported net loss attributable to PHH Corporation of $62 million or $1.20 per basic share.
This compares to net income from continuing operations of $21 million or $0.40 per basic share in the prior quarter.
Included in this quarter's results were pre-tax market related MSR mark-to-market adjustments net of hedging gains of positive $20 million as compared to positive $65 million in the first quarter of 2015.
Core loss pre-tax in the second quarter which excludes the net MSR mark and the results of discontinued operations totaled $100 million and included $86 million in pre-tax charges comprised of $34 million additional legal and regulatory reserves $30 million in debt retirement costs $17 million in reengineering and growth related charges and investments and $5 million in fleet separation costs net of transition services revenue.
The compares to a pre-tax core loss of $36 million last quarter which included $9 million of reengineering and growth related investments and $8 million in fleet separation costs net of transition services revenue.
For the first six months of 2015 core earnings totaled a pre-tax loss of $136 million including $90 million of notable items and $13 million of fleet separation costs net of transition services revenue.
This compared to a pre-tax loss of $85 million for the first six months of 2014 including $9 million of notable items.
Year-over-year we are experiencing measurable improvement in production segment results partially offset by increasing challenges in the servicing segment.
Now moving to slide 13.
In the second quarter mortgage production had a segment profit of $3 million compared to a $19 million segment loss in the first quarter.
Second quarter results for the production segment include $13 million of notable items related to reengineering costs and investments as compared to $6 million in the first quarter.
Closings were up 29% consistent with the strong application volume witnessed in the first quarter.
Applications were down 8% primarily due to a 13% drop in private label volumes real-estate applications were up 9% interest rate lock commitments expected to close were up 1%.
Total loan margins narrowed 16 basis points to 299 basis points.
During the month of July margins have trended slightly wider in the 300 basis points to 320 basis point range.
For the first six months of 2015 the production segment loss totaled $16 million as compared to a loss of $87 million for the same period in 2014.
Applications are up 26% closings are up 28% interest rate lock commitments expected to close were up 13% and total loan margins are up 26 basis points to 307 basis points.
In addition to stronger volume and margin related metrics the production segment results benefited from the early stages of our re-engineering efforts.
Now please turn to slide 14.
Our mortgage servicing segment recorded a loss of $46 million in the second quarter of 2015 compared to a segment profit of $57 million in the first quarter of 2015.
These results include market related MSR mark-to-market adjustments net of hedging gains of positive $20 million in the second quarter and positive $65 million in the previous quarter.
During the second quarter primary mortgage rates increased 36 basis points leading to a $69 million positive market related fair value adjustment in the MSR partially offset by $49 million in hedge losses.
On a core basis second quarter 2015 mortgage servicing core loss pre-tax was $66 million compared to an $8 million core loss pre-tax in the first quarter.
The majority of the sequential quarter decline was due to $34 million in legal and regulatory reserves $13 million from faster prepayment speeds $6 million in provision for certain non-recoverable fees to foreclosure activities and $4 million in lower servicing income.
For the first six months of 2015 the core servicing loss pre-tax totaled $74 million as compared to our profit of $12 million for the same period in 2014.
This is primarily due to $34 million additional legal and regulatory reserves $21 million of lower servicing income due to an $18 billion decline in capitalized servicing UPB $15 million from faster prepayment speeds and $7 million from higher rep and warrant expense.
Our total loan servicing portfolio of $225 billion in UPB at the end of the second quarter of 2015 was up $1 billion from last quarter.
At the end of the second quarter we valued our MSR at 97 basis points of our capitalized loan servicing portfolio or $1.20 billion representing a 3.4 times capitalized servicing multiple.
Actual annualized prepayment speeds in the second quarter were 15% as compared to 12% in the first quarter.
During the first quarter we completed $12 million in MSR sales as compared to $13 million in the first quarter.
The results of our re-engineering actions are shown on slide 15.
In the second quarter we realized $26 million or a $104 million on an annualized basis of re-engineering benefits after adjusting for volume differences between the quarters.
This represents approximately 46% of our annualized targeted operating benefits associated with our re-engineering actions.
The primary drivers include $10 million in re-engineering expense benefits $8 million in re-engineering revenue benefits $2 million in productivity-related sales and $6 million in fleet standard cost savings.
Now moving to slide 16.
With regard to liquidity we closed the second quarter with approximately $880 billion in unrestricted cash excluding cash held in variable interest entities as compared to $1.2 billion at the end of the first quarter.
The majority of the change was due to the utilization of $273 million in cash in connection with the exchange offer for our convertible notes.
Key cash requirements at the end of the second quarter totaled $300 million to $400 million.
As a reminder we have year marked at least a $150 million for growth investments and have a $130 million remaining to invest in re-engineering activities.
In addition as Glen mentioned earlier the implementation of our board authorized open market purchase program will be delayed.
Now please turn to slide 17.
Our tangible book value per basic share at the end of the second quarter was $25.03 million based on $59.8 million basic shares outstanding.
We issued a little over 10 million shares in conjunction with the exchange of our convertible notes.
No shares were repurchased during the second quarter.
And now I'll turn it back over to Glen.
Thanks Rob.
Before we conclude we'll pause now to take questions.
Danny? Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question is from Bose George from KBW.
Please go ahead.
Hey guys.
Good morning.
The first question is just on the higher cost in the servicing.
I mean just leaving aside the charges it looks like it's higher.
Just curious what's driving that and if whether the some of the regulatory stuff you noted is tied into that in many way? So Rob do you want to handle that one.
Yeah.
So Boss on the serving segment we did have obviously the legal charges rollup in the segment results.
We also had higher amortization expense this quarter as I mentioned based on the faster prepayments fees on the quarter.
And then we also had $6 million worth of the charges that would have rolled up other expense in the servicing segment related to the – some foreclosure related expenses that are un-reimbursable to the company and that was about $6 million.
The – in terms of the regulatory stuff that you noted is it in terms of all of it kind of – or incremental information that's coming out now is that sort of coincidental or is any sort of relation – reason they're all kind of be happening simultaneously? Bose I believe it is all coincidental a lot of this information it is real-time the facts and circumstances can change at any time.
We're trying to provide the most recent information to the market on what's happening on these matters.
Okay.
Great.
Thanks.
And actually let me just thrown in one more.
You noted you needed $80 billion of volume to sort of get you where you needed to be from earnings et cetera.
Can you just talk about the landscape there for the acquisitions you'd need to do that is it are they anything big or is it going to probably be just having to couple together smaller deals? Bose I believe as I mentioned before we are – we are looking at more sizable platforms.
So we have – do have an interest in getting a strong recognized consumer facing brand.
So we are looking at retail purchase market focus platforms of upscale.
So we don't have to go through onesie-twosie acquisitions to string together a whole bunch of them.
Integration integration is a lot of hard work; you're better off doing it with a couple of medium-to-larger size deals than a whole bunch of smaller ones.
Okay.
Great.
Thanks.
And our next question comes from Paul Miller from FBR Capital Markets.
Please go ahead.
Yeah.
Hey Glen how are you doing? The buybacks I mean one of the big initiatives and catalysts for you selling the fleet business was one to grow I mean to re-engineer the business to get it more profitable? And secondly to buy back a big portion of your shares.
I know you you put that you had that [ph] JPM ATM deal that that I think is almost complete but why suspend the buyback now like what's driving that? As we've – Paul as we've looked at the current updates look as the regulatory matters have continued to evolve and the increasing uncertainty there as well as our increased dependency on acquisitions to support the growth objectives for the business.
We believe it's prudent to conserve capital at this time until we can have clarity and to the capital requirements for acquisitions as well as the range of reasonably possible losses with some of these regulatory matters that are developing.
Okay.
And then on the – I know some I know some companies have on the FAH products have not I won't say stop filing claims but on questionable claims they've stopped filing claims.
Are you continuing to filing claims on the FHA or have you stopped have you slowed that down because of the possibility of DOJ is coming to knocking your door asking too many tough questions? Paul we've – we continue to service our portfolios consistent with the servicing guides and practices and continue to manage all aspect of our business in accordance with our operating requirements to include the claims filing process.
And then on the hedging loss I mean you guys have not really hedged your portfolio and I've never seen a hedging loss this big before.
Are you trying to hedge your portfolio at this point because I don't remember you guys talking about this in the past and if you did I apologize I missed it to have this big of a hedge on.
And so I'm just – can you add some color around that hedging loss? Sure.
So Rob do you want to address that? Sure.
Yeah Paul.
We actually have had in our practice to hedge our MSR but primarily for low rate scenarios.
So we bought – the hedge book is primarily comprised of swaptions and we've actually seen in the past two quarters a pretty significant increase in the value of those as rates drop.
So this is just rates having backed up 36 basis points – at least mortgage rates having backed up 36 basis points this quarter this is just sort of giving back some of the gains that we had in the past couple of quarters from this option book.
Okay guys.
Thank you very much.
And following we have Chris Gamaitoni with Autonomous Research.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
Thanks for taking my call.
Could you remind us what your IRR targets I mean just on a high level are for M&amp;A? Yeah.
Chris after the fleet sale and separation we had talked about us striving to achieve a 12% after-tax return on investment.
Okay.
That's what I wanted to check.
And then related to the FHA HUD enquiry.
Can you give us any sense of the years they're looking at or the total volume that you put through that channel during those years? Yeah.
At this point in time Chris there are facts and circumstances surrounding the FHA related subpoena is covered under confidentiality.
We're not at liberty to disclose that.
Okay.
That's all my questions.
Thank you.
Actually one more can you clarify the number.
I think you said the – you had reduced realtor relations by 43% is that over a couple of years? Or is that like in the quarter? That was I would say within the last six months to nine months.
And is that so I would assume that those were very low producing volume because we haven't seen the volume dropout nearly that much.
Yeah.
These were marginal profitability relationships Chris as part of our reengineering efforts yeah obviously if we're going to commit sales processing underwriting closing resources to relationships and maintain an infrastructure.
You got to make money on them right.
So yeah on these – we just didn't we just didn't have the necessary profitability to support the commitment of resources.
That makes sense that clarity really helps.
Thanks so much for taking my call.
You're welcome.
From Compass Point we have Kevin Barker.
Please go ahead sir.
Could you help us understand the difference between the MSAs and your Realogy JV and what makes that different in regards to the RESPA-TILA roles that are being implemented? Sure so MSAs marketing services arrangements are basically a contractual agreement whereby somebody agrees to market your brand and such in accordance with what is required or what is permissible by law.
The Realogy joint venture is in fact a true separate legal entity separately capitalized on 50.1% by PHH and 49.9% by Realogy Corporation it has its own separate advisory board its own people its own licensing it is in fact a separate company a separate entity that has been established in accordance with all required laws and regulations.
It is not an MSA.
Okay.
And then in regards to your agreement with Realogy do you currently send all your title fees or your title work to Realogy's title business right now? Realogy is an industry actually title resource group which is the subsidiary in Realogy that does title.
Is one of our approved title and settlement providers.
Here we have a good relationship with PRG.
They do a great job for us and they continue to process well.
So but ultimately the consumer has the option to select whatever title and or settlement services provider.
So it's not really our call it's the consumer's call.
But Realogy is one of the approved providers that our customers can pick from.
Okay.
And then regarding the regulatory issues that you've discussed earlier I know you can't really discuss like numbers or discuss your negotiations with these examiners.
But could you potentially give us a little bit more detail on what issues there concentrating on is it default servicing is it rent originations and the servicing of those loans.
And just give us a little more details what specifically that you're looking at? Yeah.
The MMC I believe we previously disclosed that the MMC is in fact related to our legacy servicing practices and consistent with I would say the FHA subpoenas are consistent with the other one that have been out throughout the industry.
And what about regarding in the New York DFS? As I mentioned the New York DFS is looking to settle with us separately as it relates to the 2011 MMC examination so again it's servicing related.
Okay.
And then – okay.
And obviously there's a HUD subpoenas that you all previously disclosed? That's correct.
Okay.
And then and in your $80 billion target for originations is there a specific target regarding how much of that would be correspondent retail or wholesale? Yeah we certainly would like to have the majority of it in retail.
Look I think the wholesale segment of the market is a market that has rebounded after the financial crisis with better controls better behaviors.
So it is the segment of the market that we do have an interest in.
I think correspondent lending will always be a mix of our originations but I don't expect it to be in terms of percentages change significantly from where we are today we're just less than 10%.
All right.
Thank you for taking my questions.
And from Sterne Agee CrT we have Henry Coffey.
Please go ahead.
Good morning and thank you for taking my questions.
One housekeeping item.
In terms of where you stand with the PLS clients I know you indicated that you're almost complete with everybody.
Is that the way to think about it? Yes sir.
You've got firm contracts or near firm contracts with 48% and then your effectively an agreement would be – with the remaining tax minus that's with the other we call it 47% and then you got 3% that's leaving.
It seemed like a little bit yeah little bit different Henry we have firm contracts with 50% we're substantially compete with 47% and 3% I have decided to in-source.
And more of a big picture item okay in today's world it doesn't seem like you can have anything that looks like a marketing agreement where a large pool of realtors agree to represent your product or you have a person in the office or however you like to see it.
What is the new world's tool for developing a purchase money business I mean that business normally channels through kind of a retailer it normally channels through the realtor? But what's the new world look like how do you get – how do you get access to the individual purchase money business or are you still going to really be dependent on PLS arrangements to get that job done? Henry I look at PLS and the – basically the realtor related businesses are slightly different so I think – look the cornerstone of a good retail platform has always been good strong aggressive retail sales people.
So first and foremost I'd say you got to have a good strong high performing sales force with the right values of course.
I don't look at – we're not doing MSAs I think Prospect are also not doing them Wells Fargo is not them.
I think they go by the way side.
Right.
It's just – it's just not worth of discussion.
And look I think you could always do joint ventures because those are still legally permissible but they have to be structured like real honest-to-goodness through joint ventures with capital at risk.
But nothing – at the end of the day nothing is better than having a good strong retail sales force.
And whether that'd be centralized in the telesales platform of that great brand or whether that'd be good strong people out in a field.
And you're more likely to do the strong people in the field approach what do you – are you thinking of doing the branded campaign around PHH? Our focus right now is strong people in the field.
Great.
Thank you.
And we'll take a follow-up question from Chris Gamaitoni with Autonomous Research.
Thanks for taking my call.
I was wondering if you could give us any type of like sign post or how we should think about what we have to see for the buyback to return back on? Chris I think it's a – it's a couple of things.
If you go back to I think we need to have clarity as to the reasonably possible – range of reasonably possible losses related to our regulatory matters.
And more mileage under our feet as it relates to our acquisition strategy and line of sight into the capital require to achieve the volume targets that we set out there.
And then third I'd add to that to that the capital requirements to reposition the servicing portfolio.
Perfect.
And is there do you have a breakout kind of how much of the delta to get the $80 billion is from acquisition versus organic or is it just kind of however you can get there that's the best use of capital? It really is going to be based on the best use of and deployment of our capital.
Obviously we want to achieve our targeted returns as quickly as we possibly can.
We're going to be disciplined in our approach and looking at our retail acquisitions and our servicing acquisitions.
We're going to look to achieve our targeted rate of return we're going to look for opportunities that can leverage our existing infrastructure that we've invested a lot of money into.
But we recognize the need to achieve our targeted returns in a reasonable timeframe.
Organic growth is longer than inorganic so we are going to intensify our focus on doing inorganic transactions.
Perfect.
Thank you so much.
And we have another follow-up question from Kevin Barker with Compass Point.
Yeah.
Just one of the follow-up regarding the joint venture comments could you if the PHH Realogy JV is a completely separate company from the existing PHH franchise is it possible that that separate joint venture that separate company has MSA agreements with Realogy franchises? No.
There are no MSAs inside the joint venture.
None.
Okay.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] We have another follow-up question from Bose George with KBW.
Hey guys.
Just question on the $34 million reserve is that related to the CFPB or is that for all three is there a way to break that out? As a matter of practice we don't disclose reserves related to specific regulatory matters.
Okay.
Then let me just switch and ask another one.
Just on the delay the RESPA-TILA impact.
Is that -- has impact mainly been delaying some of the restructuring initiatives or has there been incremental cost to that as well? Actually a little bit of both.
So obviously in order to make the changes in our systems and processes we've had to invest in order to get that done.
Last earnings call I had mentioned that we're investing in excess of $10 million to get those changes done.
As a result of the commitment of resources to get that done that did delay some of the technology-driven productivity initiatives because we're focusing our people on getting [ph] threat compliant first and then we can drive productivity afterwards.
Okay thanks.
At this time it appears there are no further questions in our queue.
I'd like to turn the call back over to Glen Messina.
Please go.
Great Danny.
Thank you very much.
Now I'd ask everybody to turn to slide 18 and we'll wrap up.
I believe we've got meaningful progress as compared to the first half of 2014.
Our capital structure actions in the second quarter will result in annualized interest expense reductions of $32 million.
And we have previously repurchased 200 million of PHH stock.
We are substantially complete with our PLS contract renegotiations and we've completed in excess of 70% of the actions required to deliver our expense reduction targets.
In the second quarter we achieved a $104 million of annualized operating benefits as a result of our re-engineering actions.
And we expect to realize up to $225 million in annualized operating benefits and incur a $175 million in one-time cost and reinvestment.
We've made great progress but we have more work to do.
We need to reposition this servicing portfolio to operate a profitable servicing platform.
We need to increase scale meaningfully in both production and servicing to achieve sustained profitability and our targeted return levels a larger portion of which will need to come from inorganic sources.
We are making this a priority we have engaged the necessary resources to support us in this effort.
The current regulatory environment creates uncertainty on top of inherently volatile industry complicating the balance among investment return of capital and contingencies.
We believe the investments in our business will continue to payoff and we look forward to responding to the challenges and opportunities that lie ahead in our mortgage production and servicing businesses.
I want to recognize and thank the PHH Board of Directors and my colleagues at PHH for their continued hard work and enduring commitment to creating value for our shareholders and customers.
Thank you.
And we look forward to speaking with you next quarter.
Ladies and gentlemen that does conclude today's presentation for PHH Corporation second quarter 2015 earnings call.
Once again ladies and gentlemen the replay will be available of later today at the company's website at www.phh.com/invest or by dialing 888-203-1112 or 719-457-0820 and using conference ID of 6527323.
It will be archived until August 21 2015.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning ladies and gentlemen.
Welcome to the PHH Corporation Third Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Today's call is also being webcast and recorded for replay purposes.
The audio replay can be accessed either on the Company website at www.phh.com/invest or by telephone at 888-203-1112 or 719-457-0820 and using conference ID 6947173 beginning shortly after the conclusion of the call.
It will be available until November 20 2015.
This access information is also described in the Company's press release and I will repeat it again at the end of our session.
At this time Dico Akseraylian Senior Vice President of Communications will proceed with the introductions.
Good morning and welcome to PHH Corporation's third quarter 2015 earnings conference call.
There is an investor presentation to accompany this conference call including an appendix of supplemental schedules that is posted in the Investors section of our website at www.phh.com under webcasts and presentations.
Please note that statements made during this conference call include forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 as further described in slide two of our third quarter 2015 investor presentation.
Such forward-looking statements represent our current beliefs regarding future events and are not guarantees of performance or results.
Actual results performance or achievements may differ materially from those expressed or implied in such forward-looking statements due to a variety of factors including but not limited to the factors under the heading Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-looking Statements and Risk Factors in our periodic reports filed with the US Securities and Exchange Commission including our most recent annual report on Form 10-K and quarterly reports on Form 10-Q which are also available in the Investors section of our website.
Investors are cautioned not to place undue reliance on such forward-looking statements.
The earnings release we issued yesterday also may be accessed from the Investors section of our website or you may request a faxed or mailed copy by calling our Investor hotline.
During this call we may discuss various non-GAAP financial measures including core earnings or loss pretax core earnings or loss after tax core earnings or loss per share adjusted cash flow and tangible book value per share.
Please refer to our earnings release and accompanying investor presentation for a description of these and other non-GAAP financial measures as well as a reconciliation of such measures to their respective most directly comparable GAAP financial measures.
Speaking on the call today will be Glen Messina President and Chief Executive Officer and Rob Crowl Chief Financial Officer.
Other members of PHH's senior management team are also with us and will be available to take your questions.
I now will turn the call over to Glen Messina.
Thank you Dico.
Good morning everyone and thank you for your interest in PHH.
This morning I will briefly discuss our financial results for the third quarter.
And my remarks will focus primarily on updates related to regulatory matters our share repurchase program servicing profitability growth initiatives and our expectations for 2016.
Then Rob will discuss our results for the quarter.
Please turn to slide four.
In the third quarter we reported a net loss attributable to PHH Corporation of $50 million which included $22 million pretax unfavorable net MSR hedge results.
Pretax core loss totaled $68 million and included $61 million in notable items and $1 million in fleet separation costs net of transition services revenue.
This compares favorably to a pretax core loss of $92 million in the third quarter of 2014 which included $53 in notable items and $2 million related to fleet separation costs.
Our results for the quarter are consistent with prior guidance of core earnings excluding notable items approaching break-even in the second half of 2015.
We continue to make measurable progress executing our reengineering plan during the third quarter.
We have completed negotiations and executed revised agreements with private label clients representing approximately 72% of our 2014 total PLS closing volumes.
We believe negotiations are substantially complete with one client representing approximately 25% of our 2014 total PLS closing volumes.
We are both taking the necessary time to make sure our mutual needs and objectives are addressed.
Absent any unforeseen circumstances we expect to conclude this process by year-end.
As we discussed last quarter one client representing 3% of our 2014 total PLS closing volume has intended to in-sourced their mortgage fulfillment operations.
We expect the benefits of all our revised agreements to be fully realized in the first quarter of 2016.
We have completed exiting our MSAs within the expected time frame and we successfully implemented the TILA-RESPA integrated disclosure or TRID changes.
Now please turn to slide four.
If you recall in June and July a number of significant developments occurred relating to our legacy regulatory matters.
We lacked sufficient information and clarity prior to our second quarter earnings call to estimate an amount of probable loss any range of reasonably possible losses with respect to certain of these matters.
As a result of these uncertainties in addition to the volatile nature of our regulatory and industry environment and our need to increase scale and evaluate the capital required to rebalance the servicing portfolio we postponed the open market share repurchase program to conserve our cash and protect the liquidity base of the Company.
During the third quarter we continued to carefully monitor and evaluate the matters that necessitated the delay in our open market share repurchase program.
Regarding legacy regulatory matters we have had continuing dialogue with the MMC and the NY DFS and we received an update from the FHA on the status of their investigations.
As a result of these discussions we have updated our loss estimates and contingent liquidity needs for all of these matters.
We believe the actions related to rebalancing our servicing portfolio will be limited in scope and therefore are likely to require a limited commitment of capital.
We will discuss the details of these actions later.
Regarding our growth objectives the investment levels communicated on our second quarter earnings call remain unchanged at this time and we continue to expect a greater emphasis on inorganic growth.
In light of the foregoing we intend to commence open market share repurchases of up to $100 million effective upon the next available securities purchase window.
The execution of share repurchases is subject to market and business conditions and the trading price of our common stock.
In addition our board has extended its prior authorization for up to $250 million in open market share repurchases from March 31 to December 31 2016.
In considering the implementation of open market share repurchases in excess of $100 million we will closely monitor regulatory development and evaluate our overall capital structure liquidity position and the nature of other potential uses of cash including investments and growth.
Now please turn to slide six.
As I mentioned earlier we have had continuing activity related to our legacy regulatory matters.
First with regards to the CFPB our case has garnered broad support from industry trade associations and other interested parties who have filed amicus briefs.
We have filed our opening brief with the DC court of appeals and expect the briefing schedule to be completed by the end of 2015.
We anticipate oral arguments in the spring and court decision likely by the fall of 2016.
While there can be no assurances as to the final outcome we continue to believe our appeal will be successful.
We have had continuing dialogue with the MMC and the NY DFS and have received an update from the FHA and the status of their investigation.
Considering these updates during the quarter we increased our legal reserves $44 million to a total of $106 million.
We believe that some or all of these matters will likely carry into 2016 and we cannot estimate a final resolution date.
Due to the inherent uncertainties surrounding these matters as of the end of the third quarter we estimate that our reasonably possible losses in excess of reserves are $150 million.
Legal reserves in reasonably possible loss amounts have been included in our key cash requirements and we will continue to assess our loss estimates as our discussions progress.
We continue to believe our joint venture with Realogy is fully compliant with Section 8-C4 of RESPA which provides an explicit exception for properly structured and managed joint ventures.
The JV is fully licensed as a mortgage lender in all states where it does business and staffed with its own employees providing loan origination services in locations throughout the country.
The JV carries its own established warehouse lines of credit and sells production to PHH Mortgage and numerous other third parties in arm's length transactions.
Returns to JV partners are based solely on ownership interests.
With regards to the arrangement with Title Resource Group they are a provider of title and closing services to the JV and PHH Mortgage.
We recently amended our agreement with Realogy and while we continue to value TRG as a quality service provider in no event is PHH mortgage required to recommend TRG or their affiliates to borrowers.
Further there has never been compensation of any kind provided to PHH or the JV in connection with the relationship with TRG or received disclosures as applicable and always can elect to use the closing and title services vendor of their choice.
Finally the FHA released guidance with regards to underwriting practices which have been widely viewed as insufficient by the industry.
We are considering our options with regards to continuing participation in the FHA program.
3% of our volume over the past 12 months has been FHA lending.
We will continue to proceed cautiously as we evaluate the risk adjusted return of these products and programs.
We expect the regulatory environment will continue to be challenging in 2016 and regulatory related costs will continue to rise as standards are migrating to near zero defect levels.
We are building a bank-like compliance process management and technology infrastructure.
We expect this infrastructure will cost us approximately $175 million in 2016 roughly twice what we spent in 2011 and $25 million more than 2015.
We are committed to maintaining a safe sound and compliant business for the benefit of our shareholders customers and our employees and we further believe that compliance excellence will be a competitive differentiator.
Now please turn to slide seven.
Last quarter we discussed some of the challenges in our servicing segment including scale increases in core amortization expense and delinquent servicing costs.
We have evaluated our delinquent servicing costs by investor and determined that a significant portion of our costs are related to Ginnie Mae servicing.
Ginnie Mae loans cannot be sold individually they can only be sold at the pool level.
We have identified potential pools for sale but in light of the dispersion of the delinquencies across Ginnie Mae pools it would be dilutive to servicing profitability to sell the identified pools.
As a result we do not intend to pursue further Ginnie Mae sales at this time.
Instead we intend to execute a series of operational improvements related to late stage delinquency performance loss mitigation and foreclosure to improve our delinquent servicing results.
Performing servicing costs across the industry as reported by the NBA have nearly tripled in the last five years.
Delinquent servicing costs have increased even more.
There has been no commensurate change in service or compensation.
Absent meaningful and realistic compensation reform we will need scale to meet these cost challenges.
We plan to hold more originated MSR and acquire additional MSR either through bulk flow or as part of our inorganic growth strategy while continuing to build our subservicing business.
I would like to remind everyone that MSRs are valued in the market using the forward curve as an input.
As such a portion of our MSR value is ascribed to higher escrow earnings and slower prepayments driven by the expectation of higher rates.
If interest rates do not follow the forward path then certain cash flow assumptions will not materialize which would negatively impact our mortgage servicing results.
Absent changes and other factors this will result in higher core amortization and not realizing assumed escrow income potentially without an offsetting increase in production earnings.
Effectively hedging the value the change in value with MSRs with derivative financial instrument is constrained by cash collateral requirements so we believe that this risk is inherent going forward.
Now please turn to slide eight.
In light of the substantial increasing costs to run a compliant mortgage business we need to achieve approximately $80 billion in annual originations volume and at least $300 billion in servicing UPB to deliver sustained profitability and achieve low double-digit ROE levels through the cycle.
In servicing we continue to build a pipeline of subservicing opportunities.
Through the third quarter we have added $8.4 billion in subservicing volume.
We have a committed backlog of $8.5 billion in bulk subservicing addition and have executed agreements that provide for approximately $1 billion in subservicing additions per month.
Our pipeline and PLS opportunities with existing and potential new clients continue to build.
While there could be no assurances that these opportunities will result in signed agreements we are excited about the prospects and potential.
Sales cycle times for potential new clients have extended from previous experiences largely due to more intense due diligence processes.
In real estate we consolidate and reduce the number of regional origination and processing centers exited relationships that did not meet our profitability objective and exited 100% of our MSA agreements.
As a result of these actions we have turned over approximately 40% of our retail loan officers and reduced our field retail loan officer staffing in legacy locations by approximately 20%.
We are in the process of staffing 12 new offices in the leading home purchase markets.
It has taken us longer than anticipated to recruit qualified loan officers.
To address this we are committing to invest approximately $11 million over the next 12 months to intensify our loan officer recruiting efforts.
Overall we are not placing the same emphasis on FHA/VA loan originations as other industry participants.
Our total closing volume of FHA/VA insured loans grew 10% in the third quarter of 2015 over the same period last year as compared to 58% for the overall industry as reported by Inside Mortgage Finance.
Our retail home mortgage purchase application volume in the third quarter was down 21% versus the second quarter and down 1% versus the same quarter last year.
This compares unfavorably to the industry metrics of down 8.5% as compared to the second quarter and up 23% as compared to the third quarter of 2014 as reported by the NBA index.
This was largely due to the restructuring actions taken in real estate and our more cautious approach to FHA lending at the time.
We intend to invest at least $150 million for selective growth opportunities through 2017 and believe these opportunities could generate up to $175 million in annualized operating benefits.
The expected investment and returns include both organic and inorganic growth and activities.
As a result of the expected slower pace for organic growth in near term we are placing greater emphasis on inorganic growth.
We believe that if we are able to consummate the right acquisition it could provide the necessary scale and synergy benefits needed to exceed our cost of capital.
We expect to accelerate our pace of growth investments in 2016 and 2017 the payback of which will occur in 2017 and beyond.
Over the past several quarters we have been engaged with our advisors to evaluate and screen potential inorganic growth opportunities.
We will be disciplined in our approach and focus on those opportunities that allow us to leverage our existing support infrastructure and have a good cultural fit and achieve our cost of capital.
Now please turn to slide nine.
We anticipate the full impact of the PLS contract renegotiations will be evident by the first quarter of 2016.
Further we expect to complete all of our nontechnology-related cost initiatives by the end of the second quarter of 2016.
We expect our technology-related initiatives to continue into 2017.
In 2016 we expect the industry will return to a home purchase-driven market.
Industry projections at the May 2016 industry origination volumes will be $1.38 billion down 12% from 2015 levels based on an average of Fannie Mae Freddie Mac and MBA October housing forecast data.
We expect that industry origination margins will also decline from 2015 levels.
Looking forward to 2016 based on our expectation for slow organic growth the seasonal patterns of the home purchase market the high fixed costs to run a compliant mortgage business and lower origination margins we expect core earnings excluding notable items to be break-even to modestly profitable assuming market and industry conditions materialize as expected and the successful execution of our strategic initiatives.
Now I will turn it over to Rob to discuss our results for the quarter in more detail.
Thanks Glen.
Our consolidated results are shown on slide 11 and notable items are shown on slide 12.
For the third quarter of 2015 we reported a net loss attributable to PHH Corporation of $50 million or $0.84 per basic share.
This compares to a net loss in continuing operations of $62 million or $1.20 per basic share in the prior quarter.
Included in this quarter's results were a pretax market-related MSR mark-to-market adjustment net of hedging gains of negative $22 million as compared to a positive $20 million in the second quarter of 2015.
Core loss pre-tax in the third quarter which excludes the net MSR mark and a result of discontinued operations totaled $68 million and included $62 million in pretax charges comprised of $44 million in additional legal and regulatory reserves $17 million in reengineering and growth related charges and investments and $1 million in expenses related to the sale and separation of our fleet business net of transition services revenues.
This compares to our pretax core loss of $100 million last quarter which included $86 million in notable items and net fleet separation costs.
For the first nine months of 2015 core earnings totaled a pretax loss of $204 million including $151 million of notable items and $14 million of fleet separation costs net of transition services revenue.
This compares to our pretax core loss of $177 million for the first nine months of 2014 including $62 million of notable items and $2 million of net fleet operation costs.
Year-over-year we have experienced measurable improvement in core earnings primarily driven by higher production segment earnings and benefits of our reengineering efforts.
Moving to slide 13 in the third quarter mortgage production had a segment loss of $10 million compared to a $3 million segment profit in the second quarter.
Third quarter results for the production segment include $14 million of notable items related to reengineering costs and investments as compared to $13 million in the prior quarter.
Production volume metrics reflected seasonal declines in the third quarter.
As compared to the prior quarter total closings were $10.3 billion down 14%.
Total applications equaled $12.2 billion down 13% and interest rate locked amendments expected to close were $1.7 billion down 20%.
Total loan margins widened by 20 basis points to 319 basis points.
During the month of October margins have been fairly steady and have fluctuated in the 300 to 320 basis point range.
For the first nine months of 2015 production segment pretax loss totaled $26 million and included $33 million in charges and investments related to notable items.
This compares to a loss of $115 million for the same period in 2014 which included $4 million in charges related to notable items.
For the first nine months of 2015 applications and closings are up 20%.
Interest rate locked amendments expected to close are up 6% and total loan margins are up 30 basis points as compared to the first nine months of 2014.
Now please turn to slide 14.
Our mortgage servicing segment recorded a loss of $77 million in the third quarter of 2015 compared to a segment loss of $46 million in the second quarter.
These results include market-related MSR mark-to-market adjustments net of hedging gains of negative $22 million in the third quarter and positive $20 million in the previous quarter.
During the third quarter primary mortgage rates decreased 28 basis points leading to a $72 million negative market related fair value adjustment in the MSR partially offset by $50 million of hedge gains.
On a core basis third quarter 2015 mortgage servicing pretax core loss was $55 million compared to a $66 million pretax core loss in the second quarter.
Included in the third quarter's results were $46 million of notable items $44 million of which were related to an increase in legal reserves.
The majority of the sequential quarter improvement was due to $8 million from slower prepayments $5 million from lower rep and warrant charges and $4 million from lower foreclosure and repossession expenses partially offset by $6 million in lower servicing income.
For the first nine months of 2015 the core servicing loss pretax totaled $129 million and includes $84 million in charges and investments related to notable items.
This compares to a pretax core loss of $19 million for the same period 2014 which included $22 million in charges and investments related to notable items.
Faster prepayment speeds and a reduction in the size of the owned servicing portfolio are the main drivers of the reduction in servicing segment performance.
Our total loan servicing portfolio of $227 billion in UPB at the end of the third quarter of 2015 was up $1.7 billion from last quarter.
At the end of the third quarter we valued our MSR at 91 basis points of our capitalized loan servicing portfolio or $927 million representing 3.2 times capitalized servicing multiple.
Actual annualized prepayment speeds in the third quarter were 14% as compared to 15% in the second quarter.
During the third quarter we completed $10 million in MSR sales as compared to $12 million in the second quarter.
The results of our reengineering actions are shown on slide 15.
In the third quarter we realized $28 million or $112 million on an annualized basis of reengineering benefits.
This represents approximately 50% of our annualized targeted operating benefits associated with our reengineering actions.
The primary drivers include $19 million in reengineering expense benefits and $9 million in reengineering revenue benefits.
Now moving to slide 16 with regard to liquidity.
We closed the third quarter with approximately $881 million in unrestricted cash excluding cash held in variable interest entities consistent with $880 million at the end of the second quarter.
Key cash requirements at the end of the third quarter totaled $485 million to $585 million up from $300 million to $400 million last quarter.
Third quarter key cash requirements increased primarily due to changes in contingent liquidity needs and reflect our best estimate at this time of potential liquidity needs resulting from various regulatory matters.
Cash in excess of our key cash requirements equaled $300 million to $400 million at the end of the third quarter.
As a reminder we have earmarked at least $150 million for growth of which at least $144 million remains to be invested.
With regards to reengineering we earmarked $175 million of which $107 million remains to be utilized and we expect to fund all or a substantial portion of this amount from cash flow from operations.
In addition as Glen mentioned earlier we intend to implement up to $100 million of share repurchases pursuant to our board-authorized open market share repurchase program at the next available securities purchase window.
The execution of share repurchases is subject to market and business conditions and the trading price of our common stock.
Now please turn to slide 17.
Our tangible book value for basic share at the end of the third quarter was $24.18 based on 59.8 million basic shares outstanding.
No shares were repurchased during the third quarter.
And now I'll turn it back over to Glen.
Thanks Rob.
Now please turn to slide 18.
We have gained additional clarity into our legacy regulatory matters successfully implemented TRID and have exited our MSAs.
We intend to commence open market share repurchases for up to $100 million effective upon the next available securities purchase window.
We are nearing completion of our PLS contract renegotiations.
We have completed in excess of 75% of the actions to deliver our expense reduction targets and realized approximately 50% of our expected reengineering operating benefits.
Our pipeline of PLS opportunities continues to build and while there can be no assurances that these opportunities will result in signed agreements we are excited about the prospects and potential and we are reengineering our real estate platform for disciplined profitable growth.
We are taking decisive operating actions to improve servicing profitability added over $8 billion in subservicing UPB this year and build a meaningful committed opportunity pipeline.
We continue to make meaningful investments in building a bank-like compliance process management and technology infrastructure and believe this will be a competitive advantage.
We expect the challenges facing the mortgage industry and PHH will continue into 2016.
We need to increase scale meaningfully in both production and servicing to achieve low double-digit ROE levels through the cycle a larger portion of which will need to come from inorganic sources and we are intensifying our efforts to achieve this.
We believe the investments in our business will enhance our competitiveness and we look forward to responding to the challenges and opportunities that lie ahead.
And with that we are ready to take questions.
Camille? Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] And our first question comes from Bose George from KBW.
Hey guys good morning.
The first question just is a clarification on the buybacks.
If you do the $100 million and the reauthorization is extended and then you do the other $250 million I just wanted to make sure that incremental so if you do everything on both you end up with $350 million? No Bose.
So the Board has extended the remaining $250 million authorization from March 2016 to December 2016.
Under that $250 million we are commencing $100 million open market share repurchase program effective at the next available open window.
We will continue to monitor our regulatory development and liquidity position to consider the appropriate timing structure and it will implement the remaining $150 million.
Okay great.
That makes sense.
And in terms of the window with earnings out does that open pretty quickly? Bose we would expect that absent our being in possession of material non-public information that within two business days we would be able to commence the program as effectively in one day.
Okay great thanks.
And then switching over to normalized profitability I mean it seems like there are some pieces of it that sort of you control in terms of cost and the renegotiations which look like they will largely be done successfully.
But the other pieces you control less in terms of growth of the market share etc.
So just wanted to think about what would the returns be if you sort of accomplish everything you need on your end but it still remains hard for you to get the growth that you need? Is there kind of a way to think about where you get to on returns as you kind of wait for that growth to get there? Bose absent you know all things being equal there are still reengineering benefits that come through the P&amp;L on a fully annualized basis and that would certainly get us into the modestly profitable range.
But there are a number of things that we are expecting for 2015 so we expect the overall mortgage market to be 12% smaller than it was in 2015.
We do expect with a smaller market there will be margin compression.
We do expect that we will see profitability patterns following the home purchase market seasonality.
And there are continued increased cost to invest in maintaining a bank-like or achieving a bank-like compliance technology and profits management infrastructure.
We don't give specific numerical guidance.
We say that look we are again absent any of the changes I talked about the math would suggest you look forward to a modestly profitable scenario but we do think it's going to be a tough environment for 2016.
Okay great thanks.
Thanks a lot.
Our next question comes from Paul Miller with FBR &amp; Company.
Hey good morning.
This is Jessica Ribner in for Paul.
How are you? Good Jessica.
Just a couple of questions here.
Your previous contingencies contingent liquidity needs what did you put that at? Rob would you like to address that? Last quarter? Okay.
Yes if you turn to the key cash requirements slide Jessica.
In total our key cash requirements last quarter were $300 million to $400 million.
And it's page 16.
Of that we're now saying that's $485 million to $585 million.
The contingent liquidity needs piece of that is about $360 million to $410 million.
Okay.
And then in terms of your inorganic growth initiatives are you looking to buy a full platform or would it be more like a tuck-in acquisition or a bolt-on acquisition? How are you thinking about that? Jessica for our inorganic growth strategy we are focused on retail purchase market focused platforms that operate at meaningful scale but I would call it national scale is preferred.
But we certainly would be looking to obtain cost synergies from leveraging the substantial infrastructure that we built around compliance and shared services.
So compliance technology finance HR legal those types of things.
As it relates to our staffing activities and looking at trying to hire new loan officers we are considering individual loan officers as well as what we call loan officer teams in our recruiting activities.
But that would not include "tuck-in" acquisitions.
I wouldn't really look at it that way.
Okay great.
Thank you very much.
[Operator Instructions].
And our next question comes from Chris Gamaitoni with Autonomous Research.
Good morning guys.
Thanks for taking my call.
Can you give some additional detail on the building pipeline for the private label channel? What are kind of -- what's the average or range of clients that you're having conversations with on a relative basis? They may be small large like what do you think on an incremental basis that will add in volume those type of conversations and how the profitability versus what you do today? What can be the incremental lift should it be successful? So Chris certainly in this compliance environment and looking at TRID and the servicing standards and just overall the rapid pace and change and magnitude of regulatory events we are seeing I would say a mixture of people who already offer a mortgage product today and operate on a national or regional scale to people who do not offer a mortgage product today but recognize the consumer retention benefits of offering mortgage product.
So when I look at the pipeline and again compared to our product offering again we are an end-to-end private label customized service delivery model.
The nature of clients that we are seeing in the pipeline all kind of fit the profile of what we have engaged with historically which are larger regional banks and wealth management organizations.
Perfect.
So not holding you to anything but if it was successful there could be a relatively decent pickup just from the size of the organizations? Chris we can't give forward guidance on that.
Sure.
Thank you for taking my call.
You're welcome.
Our next question is from Cheryl Pate with Morgan Stanley.
Hi good morning.
I just wanted to follow up a little bit on the new guidance for 2016 and just wondering if you could help us think a little bit more about the key changes there.
Sort of thinking about how much of that is maybe a more difficult or softer mortgage market at the industry level versus prior expectations versus some higher costs that seems perhaps in the servicing business regulatory trade related? And how much of that might be due to different than expected economics on some of these renegotiated contracts? So again all things being equal we would expect to be modestly profitable with the successful completion of our reengineering initiatives.
However 2016 as compared to 2015 we are expecting a 15% overall smaller mortgage origination market lower mortgage origination margin.
Given the challenges we've had in staffing retail loan officers we are expecting slower organic growth.
We do expect to see increased fixed costs related to compliance technology and process management infrastructure.
We do expect that those costs that basket of costs will approach $175 million for next year which is $25 million higher than it was in 2015.
And a profitability profile that is reflective of the home purchase market seasonality.
So overall I think it's going to be a tough environment for 2015 with a smaller market.
And again while we are investing to recruit additional loan officers I still think it will be a competitive environment and so we are expecting slower organic growth.
Okay thanks.
That's helpful.
And then just a second question in terms of the inorganic strategy and I appreciate your comments on sort of some of the things you're looking for.
I'm just wondering how to think about is there specific channels that you would be interested in getting into? I'm thinking specifically is there an opportunity maybe online in leveraging some technology here that might be of interest? Generally look I believe the mortgage businesses of the future need to be for lack of a better term ambidextrous.
So you need to be able to originate your retail loan officers you need to be able to originate over the phone and I think you need to be able to originate online or through mobile devices.
So in the future all three technologies will be important or all three avenues will be important and relevant.
Our focus from an inorganic growth perspective is going to continue to be purchase market focused retail platforms primarily.
We are looking for a distributed retail environment.
We certainly would consider opportunities that demonstrate strong technology capability either from a call center perspective or an online perspective.
But being that we do have call center technology today that's less impairment to us.
A market segment where we do not participate today which is still important and relevant in certain markets is the wholesale market.
So we would evaluate opportunities that have wholesale concentration as well.
Okay great.
Thanks very much for taking the questions.
We do have a follow-up question from Bose George with KBW.
Hi guys thanks.
I just wanted to back to the earlier comment I think you made about the $150 million being a reasonably possible number for regulatory losses over the reserve.
Can you just kind of go over that and describe what reasonably possible is? Is that more likely than not? Is that 30%? I mean just kind of ways for us to think about that number.
Bose reasonably possible is defined as more than remote but less than likely.
It is a defined accounting term.
It comes from accounting guidance and accounting literature.
And just given the potential variability of outcomes as it relate to some of these legacy regulatory matters we are under GAAP required to establish an on-book loss reserve for probable loss.
But we also want to provide clear and transparent disclosure around the reasonably possible loss which is again less likely than probable but more likely than remote.
Okay great.
That's helpful.
Thank you.
And that does conclude our question-and-answer session.
I would like to turn the call back over to President and Chief Executive Officer Glen Messina for closing remarks.
Thank you Camille.
I want to recognize and thank the PHH Board of Directors and my colleagues at PHH for their continued hard work and enduring commitment to creating value for our shareholders and customers.
Thank you and we look forward to speaking with you next quarter.
Back to you Camille.
Thank you.
And this does conclude the PHH Corporation Third Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
Once again ladies and gentlemen the replay will be available beginning later today at the Company's website at www.phh.com/invest or by dialing 888-203-1112 or 719-457-0820 and using conference ID 6947173.
It will be archived until November 20 2015.
You may now disconnect.
Please standby we are about to begin.
Good morning ladies and gentlemen.
And welcome to the PHH Corporation Fourth Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
Your lines will be in a listen-only during remarks by PHH management.
At the conclusion of the company’s remarks we will begin a question-and-answer session.
At which time I will give instructions on entering the queue to ask your questions.
Today’s call is also being webcast and recorded for replay purposes.
The audio replay can be access either on the company’s website at <a href="http://www.phh.com/invest" rel="nofollow"><u>www.phh.com/invest</u></a> or by telephone at [(888) 203-1119-457-0820] (sic) (888) 203-1112 (719) 457-0820 (888) and using the conference ID 6379559 beginning shortly after the conclusion of the call.
It will be available until February 27 2014.
This access information is also described in the company’s earnings release and I’ll repeat it again at the end of our session.
At this time Jim Ballan Vice President of Investor Relations will proceed with the introduction.
Thanks Tim.
Good morning.
And welcome to PHH Corporation's fourth quarter 2013 earnings conference call.
Please note that statements made during this conference call include forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 as further described in slide three of our fourth quarter 2013 Investor Presentation of Supplemental Schedules which is posted in the Investors section of our website at www.phh.com under Webcasts and Presentations.
Such forward-looking statements represent only our current beliefs regarding future events and are not guarantees of performance or results.
Actual results performance or achievements may differ materially from those expressed or implied in such forward looking statements due to a variety of factors including but not limited to the factors under the headings Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements and Risk Factors in our periodic reports filed with the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission including our most recent annual report on Form 10-K and quarterly reports on Form 10-Q which are also available in the Investors section of our website.
Investors are cautioned not to place undue reliance on such forward-looking statements.
The earnings release we issued yesterday also maybe accessed from the Investors section of our website or you may request a faxed or mailed copy by calling our investor hotline.
During this call we may discuss various non-GAAP financial measures including core earnings or loss pre-tax core earnings or loss after-tax core earnings or loss per share adjusted cash flow and tangible book value per share.
Please refer to our earnings release and accompanying Investor Presentation of Supplemental Schedules for a description of these and other non-GAAP financial measures as well as a reconciliation of such measures to their respective most directly comparable GAAP financial measures.
Speaking on the call today will be Glen Messina President and Chief Executive Officer; and Rob Crowl Chief Financial Officer.
Other members of PHH's senior management team are also with us and will be available.
And now I will turn the call over to Glen Messina.
Thanks Jim.
Good morning everyone and thank you for your continued interest in PHH.
This morning I want to briefly discuss our fourth quarter and full year 2013 results after which Rob will discuss our results in greater detail.
Then I will provide updates on some of the items we discussed on our last earnings call and discuss the outlook for 2014 including the Board and management’s decision to explore ways to maximize shareholder value through the separation of sale of our fleet business our mortgage business or both.
In the fourth quarter our Mortgage Servicing business generated positive results on the both the GAAP and core earnings basis as prepayment rates dropped significantly and reduced reserves for mortgage loan repurchases.
A positive mark on our MSR also contributed to servicing results in the quarter.
Our mortgage production segment generated a loss for the fourth quarter due to a continued decline in application and lot volume a higher mix of client invested originations and severance charges.
This was partially offset by meeting the cost improvement objectives we laid out last quarter.
Meanwhile our fleet business continued to provide solid segment profit.
For the full year 2013 we delivered meaningful improvements in our business in the pace of a rapidly changing mortgage industry environment and rising interest rates.
In 2013 as compared to 2012 retail closings were up 4% and retail home purchase applications were up 19%.
The number of subservice loans increased by 194% as we focused on less capital-intensive servicing opportunities.
Total mortgage quality related cost decline 76%.
We implemented the necessary systems and process changes to ensure we operate in compliance with numerous regulatory changes including the ability to repay regulations.
Mortgage customer satisfaction scores improved reflecting our commitment to operation and process improvements.
Fleet continued to grow average total service units in all three key ancillary services.
We extended the maturity profile lower the cost of our unsecured debt.
We improved our ratio of unencumbered assets unsecured debt and we initiated alternative funding source for MSRs.
We believe our operating execution and the improvements in our liquidity and capital structure position our business for the challenges and opportunities that lie ahead.
Now I’ll turn it over to Rob to discuss our financial results.
Thanks Glen.
On a GAAP basis we reported net income attributable to PHH Corporation for the fourth quarter of 2013 of $45 million or $0.78 per basic share which included a $48 million pre-tax favorable mark-to-market adjustment on our MSR asset net of $2 million in hedge losses as mortgage interest rates continue their upward trend in the fourth quarter.
Core earnings after-tax and core earnings per share both of which exclude the net MSR mark equaled $16 million and $0.28 per share respectively in the fourth quarter.
The GAAP and core earnings results included $12 million pre-tax charge or $0.13 per basic share after-tax for severance cost-related capacity reductions implemented in our mortgage production segment.
For the full year 2013 on a GAAP basis net income attributable to PHH Corporation was $135 million or $2.36 per basic share which included a $257 million pre-tax favorable mark-to-market adjustment on our MSR asset primarily from rising mortgage interest rates throughout the year net of $19 million in MSR hedge losses.
Core loss after-tax and core loss per share for the full year of 2013 were $19 million and $0.32 per share respectively.
Full year 2013 results included $54 million pre-tax loss on the early retirement of debt $22 million in pre-tax severance charges primarily related to capacity reductions and $21 million in pre-tax on active mortgage reinsurance agreement together totaling a loss of $1.04 per basic share after-tax.
GAAP segment profit for the combined mortgage segments was $41 million in the fourth quarter compared to a loss of $50 million in the third quarter.
Core earnings pre-tax for the combined mortgage segments was a loss of $7 million during the fourth quarter as compared to a loss of $39 million in the third quarter Sequential quarter improvement in GAAP and core earnings pretax results was driven by improved profitability in our mortgage servicing segment partially offset by decline in mortgage production segment results.
For the full year 2013 GAAP results for the combined mortgage segments totaled profit of $179 million and $157 million in profit in the mortgage servicing segment and $22 million in the mortgage production segment.
Core earnings pretax for the full year of 2013 for the combined mortgage segments totaled a loss of $78 million on $22 million of core earnings in the production segment offset by $100 million core loss in the servicing segment.
Mortgage production segment profit in the fourth quarter equaled a loss of $45 million compared to a loss of $23 million in the third quarter.
Results in the third and fourth quarters of 2013 include $9 million and $12 million in severance-related charges respectively.
As compared to the third quarter of 2013 mortgage production earnings were down $23 million primarily due to a decline in both applications and Interest Rate Lock Commitments expected to close.
Interest Rate Lock Commitments expected to close sequentially declined 27% to $2.1 billion in the fourth quarter while total loan margin narrowed by only 2 basis points to 313 basis points for the fourth quarter.
The IRLC decline was driven by a decline in purchase and refinance activity which were down 29% and 24% respectively quarter-over-quarter.
In addition fee-based closings rose to 61% of total closings from 58% last quarter and 41% in the fourth quarter of 2012.
Fee-based loans represent production that is retained by our clients for their own balance sheet so we do not recognize the gain on sale.
Also our fee-based revenues are recognized in mortgage fees at closing.
Applications for the fourth quarter totaled $10.4 billion down 18% from the third quarter and consistent with an 18% decline in the MBA application index for the same periods.
For the full year the mortgage production segment earned $22 million and these results include $22 million of severance-related cost taken in third and fourth quarters.
Mortgage servicing segment profit was $86 million in the fourth quarter compared to a segment loss of $28 million in the previous quarter.
Mortgage servicing core earnings pretax was $38 million in the fourth quarter compared to a core loss of $17 million in the previous quarter.
The $55 million improvement in sequential quarter core earnings was driven by a $19 million improvement in MSR runoff due to slower prepayments a $19 million reserve release primarily from lower than expected repurchase requests from the GSEs $8 million of additional loan servicing income and $8 million in lower servicing expense primarily from lower provisions for compensatory fees and uncollectible servicing advances.
We continue to see opportunities for improvement in the core earnings result of our mortgage servicing segment as prepayment speed slow and quality-related costs improved.
For the full year of 2013 segment profit and mortgage servicing was $157 million and core earnings pretax in the mortgage servicing segment equaled a loss of $100 million both included $21 million loss on the termination of an inactive mortgage reinsurance agreement.
Our total loan servicing portfolio of $227 billion at year end 2013 was up 23% from the beginning of the year principally due to the assumption of $47 billion in subservicing during the second quarter.
The capitalized portion of our loan servicing portfolio which totaled $129 billion in UPB at year end was down slightly from the third quarter and down 8% from the beginning of year.
The decline in the capitalized servicing portfolio during 2013 was driven primarily by high prepayment rates a greater portion of mortgage production on a fee-for-service basis and our narrowed focus in correspondent -- in our correspondent channel.
We experienced a significant slowdown in prepayments during the fourth quarter as CPRs fell to an annualized rate of approximately 11.5% as compared to 17.6% on average for the third quarter.
At year end 2013 we valued our MSR at 99 basis points of our capitalized loan servicing portfolio representing a 3.4 times capitalized servicing multiple.
These valuations are up from 94 basis points and 3.2 times at the end of the third quarter and 73 basis points and 2.4 times at the end of 2012.
The valuation increases were primarily driven by the increase in mortgage interest rates and represents the present value of higher expected servicing cash flows in the future.
We believe both Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac have substantially completed the issuance of repurchase demands of pre-2009 origination vintages.
As a result of the agencies pushing to meet their year end deadlines the total number of newly purchase request in fourth quarter rose to 1017 from 735 in the third quarter and the total dollar amount outstanding repurchase request equaled $191 million as compared to $150 million at the end of the third quarter.
During the fourth quarter our repurchase and foreclosure reserves fell to $142 million from $180 million at end of the third quarter as the total amount of request from agencies was less than previously anticipated.
While we believe that GSEs are substantially complete with their pre-2009 vintage repurchase demand process we remain obligated to repurchase loans of these vintages for items such as lien or title issues or charter violations.
We currently do not expect the remaining repurchase obligations for these loan vintages to have a material impact on our future results of operations.
Our estimate for reasonably possible future losses related to repurchase and indemnification request declined to $30 million at the end of 2013 from $35 million at the end of the third quarter.
As a reminder the estimate for reasonably possible losses is above and beyond our recorded repurchase and foreclosure related reserve.
Our year-end estimate on reasonably possible future losses is entirely related to FHA claims and represents the potential for reduction in the number of claims we may file in the future as compared to historical experience.
With regard to the recently announced CFPB action regarding our legacy reinsurance business we are extremely disappointed that that CFPB has filed a notice of charges related to those subsidiaries’ former activities.
We believe the CFPB’s allegations grossly mischaracterized legitimate former business activities of mortgage reinsurance subsidiaries.
We firmly believe our mortgage reinsurance subsidiaries comply with applicable statutory and regulatory requirements in existence during the period that such subsidiaries were engaged in the mortgage reinsurance business.
And that we complied with the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act HUD guidance for the structuring of captive mortgage reinsurance arrangements and other laws applicable to our mortgage reinsurance activities.
Consumer protection has always been and remains core to our customer service philosophy.
We have been very supportive of the CFPB’s efforts to improve customer consumer protection across the mortgage industry and have maintain a positive working relationship with the bureau since they assumed supervisory responsibilities for PHH in 2012.
From time-to-time these agreements may arise in the interpretation of laws and regulations that were seen by the CFPB and we seek to resolve such conflicting interpretations as fairly and efficiently as possible.
Nevertheless as we have said we intend to vigorously defend against the CFPB’s allegations.
However there could be no assurance that we would be successful in such efforts given the inherent uncertainties involved in litigation.
Our fleet business had another solid quarter continuing to provide consistent segment profit.
Fourth quarter segment profit for fleet was $22 million down from $24 million in the third quarter of 2013 and up from $20 million in the fourth quarter of 2012.
On a sequential quarter basis leased vehicle average unit accounts and net investment and leases were both down 1% while maintenance and fuel card average units were up 2% and 1% respectively.
For the full year of 2013 fleet were $88 million up from $87 million in 2012.
Maintenance fuel and accident services the average units all experienced year-over-year growth.
The net investment in leases was up one half of 1% from 12/31/12 to 12/31/13 and leased vehicle average unit accounts for 2013 compared to 2012 were down 3%.
With regards to liquidity we closed the quarter with approximately $1.2 billion in unrestricted cash an increase of $90 million compared to the end of the third quarter.
Drivers of this increase include $47 million in reduced collateral posting requirements and the balance from improvements in working capital.
Approximately $750 million to $825 million of our unrestricted cash at year-end was earmarked for specific purposes compared to a range of $820 million end of the third quarter.
These cash earmarks are outlined in our investor supplement.
In addition the cash balance at year-end included $110 million of cash held for our Canadian fleet business which we do not intend to use in the U.S.
and $99 million of cash held in consolidated variable interest entities.
And now I will turn it back over to Glen.
Thanks Rob.
We continue to pursue making our loan bank retail focus prime mortgage lender with greater scale and increased capital and operating efficiencies.
We've made progress with regards to the milestones we identified as important to the mortgage business on our last earnings call.
The first milestone is a resolution of our repurchase backlog with the GSEs for our pre-2009 originations.
As Rob mentioned we believe both Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac have substantially completed the issuance of repurchase demands for pre-2009 originations.
Accordingly this milestone has been met.
The second milestone is the sustained execution of our alternative MSR funding strategy.
Under our recently announced MSR purchase and sale agreement with an affiliate of Two Harbors Investment Corporation we started committing MSRs on lock loans in the fourth quarter and we expect sizable settlements to occur in the second quarter.
We expect this funding relationship to contribute positively to our adjusted cash flow this year while diversifying our funding sources and allowing us to maintain scale for our servicing operations.
While we are pleased with the execution of this agreement so far we believe more time is required to demonstrate the program’s sustainability.
We continue to believe we can achieve this milestone in the first half of 2014.
The third milestone is the renegotiation and amendment of our PLS contracts.
In our discussions with PLS clients they have acknowledge the significant increases in costs to produce and service mortgages today and we believe they recognize the value that PHH brings to their franchises.
We have completed the process of modifying our contracts for the qualified mortgage regulations and remain in active discussions regarding revised economics our rights to directly source a refinancing from PLS client borrowers our flexibility with regard to capacity management and our ability to sell and encumber MSRs created from PLS source loans.
We have achieved a targeted economic adjustment with clients representing 22% of our 2013 total PLS closing volume.
Discussions with our largest PLS clients are ongoing and are expected to continue into the second quarter.
If we do not achieve our target economic on our largest PLS contracts based on current market conditions and expected volumes margins and mix these contract will likely be unprofitable on a fully allocated basis and unless and until we can renegotiate the economics upon renewal which occurs from December of 2015 through 2018.
We expect a highly challenging mortgage industry environment in 2014.
The MBA’s anticipating industry origination volumes will be down by approximately one third as compared to 2013 to a level the industry has not seen since the year 2000.
Additionally we are continuing to see total loan margin compression and an increasing mix of fee-based closings related to our PLS originations.
As these market conditions materialize and interest rates remain at the current level our Mortgage Production segment will likely be unprofitable in cash consumption this year while our Mortgage Servicing segment profitability will likely improve from meaningfully lower MSR amortization curtailments expense and payoff related costs in 2014 as compared to 2013.
Should this increase we would expect the value of our MSR would increase and we could have the opportunity to generate increased interest income on our approximately $3.3 billion in escrow balances.
However we would expect PHH on a consolidated basis to produce negative adjusted cash flow in 2014.
Management is taking decisive actions to reengineer PHH mortgage to offset the challenging market conditions we expect for 2014.
We met our goal of at least $60 million in annualized expense savings by the fourth quarter of 2013 relative to the second quarter 2013 levels.
In total based on expected 2014 volume levels the expense reduction actions taken to-date plus our planned expense reduction actions in 2014 we expect to achieve at least a $110 million in annualized expense savings in 2014 relative to the second quarter of 2013.
We will continue to monitor application activity and adjust our origination capacity levels to match market demand.
Given the higher fixed cost in mortgage resulting from the more complex regulatory environment more stringent loan originations quality requirements and the unique nature of our PLS contracts we believe mortgage will be set as scale of projected volume levels for 2014.
As we said last quarter the company is committed to evaluating all alternatives to address the scale challenges in mortgage including but not limited to new products new channels organic and inorganic growth.
We believe our focus on operational excellence has allowed us to build a leading origination and servicing platform that is capable of meeting today's stringent standards.
This will be a critical success factor in our pursuit of organic growth opportunities to provide mortgage origination services and subservicing to regional community banks.
We also believe our real estate platform has opportunities for enhanced profitability and growth as we improve mortgage loan officer effectiveness fulfillment performance and expand regional coverage in products to improve our capture rate and the real estate offices we currently serve and to selectively expand our presence in offices we are not.
In our Mortgage Servicing segment as a result of our belief that the GSEs are substantially complete regarding repurchase request related to pre-2009 loan originations and our effort to reduce new loan origination defects we expect lower mortgage quality related cost in 2014 as compared to 2013.
As we work through the ultimate disposition of loan repurchases relating to pre-2009 originations and our delinquent FHA and VA insured loans we would expect our delinquent loan servicing foreclosure and REO expenses which were $61 million in 2013 to decline.
To further improve the profitability of our servicing segment we’ve engaged an advisor to assist us in evaluating the economic benefits of loan sales and outsourcing opportunities relating to our high delinquent servicing.
The costs of servicing highly delinquent loans are multiple of the cost of service high credit quality performing loans.
While our delinquent loan portfolio was smaller than some of the larger loan servicers and we are meeting investor requirements for servicing delinquent loans it is not our core competency and we may not be as efficient as servicers who specialize in delinquent loan servicing.
Regarding our evaluation of a separate MSR financing vehicle to further diversify our funding sources we have concluded that the economics of an MSR secured funding arrangement are more favorable than that of our REIT at this time.
As a result we are actively pursuing the development of secured funding structure that would provide financing for MSRs related to originations from approximately 2009 or later vintages.
The implementation of a separate MSR financing vehicle remains a high priority for us and our goal is to implement our first secured funding transaction in 2014 subject to attaining GSE approvals amendments to our PLS agreements and the achievement of the targeted economics.
Additionally in September of 2014 $250 million of convertible debt will mature.
Once this debt is retired this will result in annualized interest expense reduction of $32 million.
On our third quarter earnings call we talked about some of the complications that could arise as a result of the separation of the fleet and mortgage businesses.
Over the last several months the board management and its advisors have continued to analyze the debt and tax complexities of such a scenario and I'm pleased to say that we have made substantial progress in possibly reducing what could be material frictional cost.
As a result PHH has retained JPMorgan Centerview Partners and Kirkland &amp; Ellis to explore a separation or sale of our fleet business our mortgage business or both.
This action reflects our determination and commitment to maximize shareholder value.
We expect to come to some conclusions with regard to this process as we approach the end of the second quarter.
We appreciate the constructive input we have received from Orange Capital and our other shareholders in this regard.
As part of the process the company will evaluate the use of any excess cash which may include the prepayment of unsecured debt strategic business investments and/or the return of capital to shareholders.
In conclusion PHH has consistently shown the resilience to manage through credit crisis and numerous interest rate cycles.
We have accomplished this by staying focused on our customers’ needs enhancing our processes and taking decisive actions and pursuing new growth opportunities.
I have confidence in our employees and leadership team to navigate us through these challenging times and I want to recognize and thank my colleagues at PHH for their continued hard work and enduring commitment to our success.
And with that we are ready to take questions.
Tim? (Operator Instructions) And we will take our first question from Paul Miller with FBR.
Yes thank you very much.
Hey on the capital front I know -- I don’t think you mentioned on what you’re going to be planning buyback any more of your debt.
What is your ticket initiatives when hiring an outside consulting people to look at your -- to maximize shareholder value.
Are you holding off from buying back debt or where you stand there? Paul given the complexities involved in separating the fleet and mortgage business certainly we are going to -- as we move through this process we will give consideration to what we do with any excess capital to include as we said returning capital to shareholders or strategic business investments or retiring some of our debt.
So are you just going to wait I guess until there is an analysis done by your advisors? We have to consider the proceeds of the process to see what the best decision is as it relates to the separation of the fleet and mortgage business.
Okay.
And then when you talk about a -- just to clarify when you talk about an MSR secured funding vehicle are you referring to Two Harbors are you referring to some other type of strategy with the MSR funding? This is in addition to Two Harbors Paul.
So Two Harbors MSR funding is actually considered a sale.
And the MSR is actually come of our balance sheet.
In addition to that we are exploring secured funding for MSRs which actually would be recorded on balance sheet.
Is that issuing like securitizations and things like that? Yeah similar structure.
Okay.
And then one other thing I notice is that your MSR portfolio including your -- I can’t think of it -- your sub-servicing loans went down over the quarter.
That doesn’t usually happen is that -- was that by design or is that just you weren’t able to recapture a lot of the refis this quarter? It wasn’t a lot of refis but your recapture ratio went down.
Its just timing of additions and run-off Paul.
Okay thank you very much.
You’re welcome.
And we’ll take our next question from Henry Coffey with Sterne Agee.
Yeah good morning everyone.
Good morning Henry.
Going back to this I mean obviously we’ve been reading the press.
Its sounds like your bankers had been pretty engaged for a while.
Can you give us a sense of what sort of timeline they’ve presented you with in terms of delivering proposals? Henry as we said earlier as we progress to this process we expect to reach some conclusions by the end of the second quarter.
Okay.
So -- and obviously if they concluded that you should -- you could sell the mortgage business to someone would there be anything that would stop you from doing that? The board management are evaluating all opportunities to maximize value for our shareholders.
No I know I may have missed this.
We had a bad connection here.
But you talked about the PLS contracts did you talk about a specific contract or does the general contract concept? The contracts in general.
Have you had -- have you renewed anything say in the last six months that would give us an indication of how receptive clients are to new terms and conditions? Yeah as I mentioned Henry we’ve successfully completed amending the contracts for revised economics on about 22% of the volume that were recorded in 2013.
Can you give us some insight into what that meant to PHH? Pardon now.
I mean what was the net effect of those revised contracts.
How does that business look vis-à-vis the other 88% of the business for the period or the other 78% of the business of the period? Yeah.
On a go-forward basis we believe those contracts would be profitable on a fully allocated basis based upon the expected outlook for 2014.
Can you put some numbers on it for us? Not at this time.
And then the mark on the MSR was it 99 basis points approximately? That’s correct.
Great.
Well thank you.
You’ve obviously done a lot and seen a lot.
And I think this is a good step forward.
Thank you Henry.
And we’ll take our next question from Kevin Barker with Compass Point.
Good morning.
Could you follow up on your comments on the reps and warrants reserves.
Did you officially settle with the agencies or did they indicate to you that they’ve concluded their reviews in any future claims that they expect to make? Yeah based upon our ongoing dialogue with the GSEs we believe they’ve substantially completed the presentment of repurchase request related to pre-2009 originations.
So would that be official settlement or they just indicated they have done during their reviews? It is not an official settlement.
Okay.
And then how much of your $142 million of reserves are currently allocated to post 2009 originations? Yeah that’s something that we don't disclose in any of our public financials or earning supplement.
Okay.
And you mentioned the potential -- correct me if I’m wrong the potential sale or expiration of liquidating post 2009 MSRs.
Could you just give us a little more color around that and the details of the sale of MSRs or the possibility of may be selling pieces or strips of those MSRs? Yeah the statement from our comments is really directed towards the application of MSR secured funding.
And we believe that secured funding could be applied to post 2009 for MSRs relating to post 2009 loan origination.
Okay.
So that essentially would be -- would you secure finding when you’re issuing debt that would essentially mimic an I/O strip or the servicing fees associated with that MSRs.
Is that the right way to think about it? That’s correct.
Okay.
And then -- okay thank you.
That was all my questions.
Your welcome.
And we’ll take our next question from Daniel Furtado with Jefferies.
Thanks for the opportunity.
Just as point of clarity you can’t currently sell the MSRs associated with the PLS business in the past can you? That’s correct.
And so is your focus predominantly on the ability to free those MSRs in your renegotiations or is it predominantly on driving incremental profitability into the positive territory? It’s on the combination of things Daniel .As we said it’s economic.
It’s getting the right to solicit bars directly for recapture.
It is about getting flexibility to secure and/or find alternative funding for the MSRs as well as the capacity management.
Got you.
And so when we duck-tailed that into the secured financing vehicle to be absolutely clear which you’re contemplating now is basically moving bringing those MSRs up funding them long term.
And then on incremental production what would the play be there just sell 50% of that to Two Harbors? The play would be actually best execution.
So if it made sense for us to selling the Two Harbors and sub-service we would that.
Obviously if the economics are more beneficial we keep it on our books in new secured funding forth.
Got you.
And then my last question is just the clarity earlier you said that -- am I correct when you said assuming current outlook for the mortgage business you expect negative operating cash flow for 2014 in that segment? Negative adjusted cash flow that is correct.
Okay okay.
Thank you for the time.
You are welcome.
And we’ll take our next question from Cheryl Pate with Morgan Stanley.
Hi good morning.
Couple of questions from my side.
I think I just wonder if you could expand upon your earlier comments did you say that you had done some transaction with Two Harbors and we should expect to see that hit -- is it first quarter or second quarter? Sure we had started to actually commit MSRs for two harbors on loans locked.
And we expect the bulk of our fundings there that will occur in the second quarter.
Okay.
So loans locked now and then we’ll start to see that flow through in the second quarter? That’s right.
Okay.
And then just on the planned expense reductions for 2014 in the production segment I think.
Can you just expand a little bit upon what other sort of opportunities there are to take out costs over and above what you’ve been able to execute on already?  Yes.
We will continue to manage our originations capacity to match volume.
As we talk about at the end of the third quarter we've done some of that already through the course of 2013 and we are continuing that trend to 2014.
And the $110 million of cost reduction activities includes things like managing overtime managing contractors some of the fixed cost reduction activities we had talked about previously.
So to make it easier for people we bucket it all to one number.
Okay.
Got it.
And then just one last one from me on the numbers.
Was there anything unusual in the tax rate this quarter?  Yes.
So we did have some state tax adjustments that we made all in the fourth quarter related to some prior provisions.
And they rolled up in the fourth quarter made an unusual tax position for the forth quarter.
But we better to look at it for the full year for the effective tax rate.
Okay.
Great.
Thanks very much.
(Operator Instructions) We'll take our next question from Chris Gamaitoni with Autonomous Research.
Chris Gamaitoni your line is open.
Hi.
I have three questions two detailed one higher level.
Can you hear me?   Yes.
We can now Chris.
Thank you.
All right.
Thanks.
Can you give us any detail around how we should think about the deferred tax liability from depreciation of the fleet asset and in concept? It's hard to put a valuation on the difference if we don't kind of understand that concept.
Yeah Chris generally if there is a sale of assets the deferred tax liabilities trigger and it gets paid.
If you structure a transaction where somebody would purchase the stock of an entity or business generally the deferred tax liability would not be triggered and it would be inherited by the new owner of the business the various IRS rules which can create a different outcome in that scenario.
Chris I would recommend that to the extent you want to get detailed in that conversation then we would probably do that offline.
Okay.
Okay no problem.
On the issue of the mortgage business can you give us any idea of the profitability targets how we should think about the private-label contract margin return on equity? I'm not asking for any detail.
But when you roll it up five years from now what do you want to see the business produce? Yeah.
Five years from now assuming we can get all of our contracts replaced and adjusted our target for the business has been to be in that double-digit return -- low double-digit ROE average throughout the cycle.
So that continues to be our target for that business.
Okay.
You spoke about a possible sale of either fleet or mortgage.
Given the nature of the contracts relative and unique to PHH are there any like change in control provisions if you were to sell the mortgage business where some of your more valuable contracts become kind of rebid or any -- were there specific servicing contracts that would allow for like a buyer to not take out costs that might fit on their platform those types of operational considerations? Yeah.
Chris as you are maybe aware of some of our public fillings our PLS arrangements are a joint venture agreement with Realogy and several of our financing arrangements maybe affected by a change in control.
However those changes in control provisions may or may not be triggered and that would be really dependent upon the structure of a transaction.
And it's really too early to speculate on whether or not those would be triggered.
Yeah obviously we would take into account.
We have complexities of the separation including what would happen under any change in control provisions as we decide on the appropriate structure and path to move forward.
Sure.
And then finally the high level -- underneath the noise and the generally bad industry environment for originations you accomplished a lot of your goals.
You are starting to restructure PLS contracts.
What’s the thought of even putting the mortgage business on the block at a level when you haven't really come close to what your targeted ROEs are for the business? It seems to me any buyer would probably not to be full baked-in value of your ultimate return profile and that kind of leaves a lot of money on the plate for future value for the shareholders.
Yeah Chris as I said earlier the management and Board are considering all opportunities to maximize shareholder value.
And as well all opportunities to position the mortgage business to be successful in the purchase market environment.
Okay.
Thank you so much.
Appreciate it.
You're welcome.
We'll take our next question from Brad Ball with Evercore.
Hi.
Thanks.
You mentioned that the amount of cash that is -- that has a call upon and it is $750 million to $825 million.
Could you talk about what the different calls on the cash are and what drove the reduction from the amount of cash that was encumbered last quarter? Rob you want to take that one? Yeah.
Sure.
Hey Brad it’s Rob Crowl.
So in investor supplement you will see it is on Page 10.
We do detail out the $750 million to $825 million.
$200 million to $250 million is just basically cash for working capital needs.
There is another $250 million for the repayment of the 2014 convertibles.
There is another $200 million which is essentially cash held for contingencies related to either mortgage loan repurchases or legal regulatory matters.
And then there is a $100 million to $125 million that are related for interest rate risk management activities and the collateral posting related to that.
That is down from the third quarter as I stated in the script.
The two buckets that had changes are the minimum cash balances for operating capital was $250 million to $300 million last quarter.
It’s come down to $200 million to $250 million it’s really just based on some of the reduction in the business that we are doing just a slowdown in the mortgage business and the working capital that’s required for funding loans.
And then our contingent liquidity needs was 225 last quarter we’ve reduced that to 200 based on both the settlement with the New Jersey AG along with our drop in reasonably possible rep and warrant along with some of the progress that we’ve made with the GSCs on legacy rep and warrant reserves.
Okay.
And did you say that the $110 million of cash related to the Canadian fleet and the $99 million related to consolidated variable interest entities is that in addition to these 750 825? So those are -- it would be in addition and so we’ve got a total cash balance of $1.245 billion 110 out of that was in Canada which we did not intend to repatriate to U.S.
and 99 of that is held in variable interest entities the bulk of that for our Realogy joint venture.
So again sort of adding this all up and netting it you’ve got a couple hundred $200 million $250 million of excess cash that it doesn’t have a call on it at this time.
Yes if you want to take the subtraction there of the $1.36 billion less the range we’ve given you.
Okay.
And then… (Inaudible) Separately related to the POS renegotiations you said that you’ve renegotiated 22% now would that include some that you attempted to renegotiate and failed the contracts that are not going to be updated.
I guess the question is did you talk to 50% of your customers and now we’ve resolved 22% of the total or you only addressed 22% so far? Obviously we are in continued dialogue with all of our POS clients the 22% resolves are those contracts that we have concluded negotiations on it’s roughly about eight clients for about 22% of our volume.
Okay.
So eight clients have come to final resolution and other negotiations are ongoing I guess? That is correct.
Okay.
And then finally sort of bigger picture with respect to the strategic options that you are considering would you envision potentially separating the mortgage servicing in origination businesses is that something you are contemplating or would you likely separate that out as one entity? We are not at this time contemplating separating servicing from originations.
Okay.
So any spend or separation would be a divide of the two businesses mortgage and fleet overall? That is correct.
Okay.
Thank you.
And we will take our next question from Jeffrey Schachter with Morgan Stanley.
Hi.
How are you doing? A quick one for you is can you give a sense for 2014 under the back expense structure and margin expectations kind of a breakeven lock volume either on monthly basis or quarterly or where you would like to be for the origination channel under that structure? Yes I don’t think that’s a number we’ve previously talked about in the framework.
Bob I don’t think that’s guidance we’ve given before is it? It’s not.
.Okay.
And then the last one is there any contemplates for 2014 on the MSR front in terms of an actual acquisition strategy or is it just own servicing retained from your portfolio or and sub-servicing work? Is there any aggressive notion of going out and biding on portfolios or acquiring MSRs in that manner? Yes Jeffery as we have said earlier management is considering all options to better position the mortgage business in this environment and to address some of the scale challenges.
We think having access to alternative funding as such with the arrangement we have with Two Harbors.
And to the extent we are successful developing the MSR secured funding enable us to pursue a broader range of options potentially including acquiring servicing.
Okay great.
Thank you.
And at this time there are no other questions in queue.
I will turn it back to our presenters for any closing remarks.
Great.
Thank you Tim.
Thanks everybody.
Look forward to giving you updates on our next quarter call.
And this concludes the PHH Corporation fourth quarter 2013 earnings conference call.
Once again ladies and gentlemen the replay will be available beginning later today at the company’s website www.phh.com/invest or by dialing 888-203-1112 or 719-457-0820 and using the conference ID 6379559.
It will be archived until February 27 2014.
You may now disconnect.