Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by.
And welcome to the Parker Drilling First Quarter 2011 Conference Call.
During today’s presentation all parties will be in a listen-only mode.
Following the presentation the conference will be opened for questions.
(Operator Instructions) This conference is being recorded today Wednesday May 4<sup>th</sup> 2011.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Richard Bajenski.
Go ahead sir.
Thank you Joe.
And welcome everybody good morning.
We thank you for joining the Parker Drilling first quarter 2011 conference call.
This is Rich Bajenski Director of Investor Relations.
Joining me today are Bobby Parker Executive Chairman Dave Mannon President and Chief Executive Officer and Kirk Brassfield Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
In the course of our comments today we will make statements regarding management’s expectations for the Company’s future performance that we believe will be informative and beneficial to our shareholders.
These statements are considered forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Securities Act.
Each forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date of this call and actual results may differ materially due to various factors we have referenced in our public filings and other factors addressed during this call including changes in market conditions affecting our industry.
We will also refer to non-GAAP financial measures such as adjusted EBITDA and non-routine items.
Please refer to the table in our current press release or on the Company’s website for a definition of adjusted EBITDA and a reconciliation of this measure to the comparable GAAP measure and for further information regarding non-routine items.
Having said that here is Bobby Parker to begin our review.
Bobby?  Thanks Rich and welcome to our conference call.
Earlier today we reported our 2011 first quarter results.
Dave Mannon and Kirk Brassfield will review the operating and financial details and discussed our outlook in a moment.
Before they do I thought have a few thoughts to share on current events sort of shaping our business and maybe of interest to investors.
Turning to the deepwater Gulf of Mexico the slow return to activity with delayed permitting and increase regulations will be a factor in the growth of this business as it returns in time to a normal business.
And in growth and international E&amp;P spending is forecasted to rise the second half of this year when we discuss international activity one has to ask what areas are you in they’re certainly hot and cold areas of activity and we have those as well.
This concludes my remarks now I will turn over to Dave Mannon to discuss our operating performance and outlook.
Dave?  Thanks other highlights of the quarter include increased rig fleet utilization and higher average dayrates for the Gulf of Mexico barge rig business our higher average dayrates in each region of our international drilling operation.
The commencement of a relocation project for our customer owned Parker operated Yastreb rig taking it back to its original drilling site at the Chayvo Field on Sakhalin Island.
In summary the record of setting rental tool results improvements of our Gulf of Mexico barge drilling business and additional project management activity this past quarter offsets lower utilization of our international operation.
Here is a look at each business in detail.
Rental tool revenues increased 55% and segment gross margin increased 61% compared to the prior year's first quarter.
The primary contributor was growth in the demand and in the U.S.
land market for drill pipe as a result of the expanded increase in lateral drilling for both share resources and more conventional oil and gas reserves.
Our store locations are positioned to serve many of the most active markets and we continue to dynamically reposition our inventory to meet our customer needs and improve our utilization and earn favorable pricing.
In addition we took delivery of approximately $16 million of new rental tools inventory during the quarter to support the growing demand in this business.
The U.S.
Gulf of Mexico barge drilling rig market continues to strengthen.
Parker’s first quarter average fleet utilization at 57% its best first quarter utilization rates since 2008.
For the first quarter of 2011 we had the equivalent of 7.5 barge rigs working compared with seven equivalent barge rigs working during the 2010 first quarter.
Our average fleet dayrate increased to $22 600 per day from 21 900 per day for last year’s first quarter dayrates continue to improve.
Our current fleet lined average dayrate is approximately $25 000 per day.
Based on industry information we estimate that there are 26 drilling rigs in the industry’s Gulf of Mexico barge rig fleet and at 24 of those are available to work.
Of those 24 22 are currently under contract including all 11 of Parker’s currently available rigs.
In the international drilling our first quarter utilization rate was 44%.
Last year’s first quarter comparable utilization rate was 68%.
We had the equivalent of 12 rigs working during the 2011 first quarter compared with 18 equivalent rigs working during the 2010 first quarter.
In the Americas region our 10 rig drilling fleet achieved 60% average utilization a decline from the prior year’s first quarter utilization of 77%.
This is due to having four idle rigs in Mexico three stands last quarter of 2010.
One of those rigs is now on contract for work in Colombia and has currently in transit.
It is expected to commence drilling operation later this quarter.
The other three idle rigs are being marketed primarily in Mexico and Colombia.
And all have some prospects of going to work in 2012 or sooner.
In the CIS AME region our 11 rig drilling fleet operated at 27% average utilization a decline from the prior year’s first quarter utilization of 64%.
During the quarter one rig had its contract extended into 2012.
The two land rigs in Kazakhstan that are currently under contract were on full-day rig.
Rig 257 or arctic-class barge rig located in the Caspian Sea was on a standby dayrate throughout the quarter and we expected to return so until and we expect it to remain so until the operator asks for it to be moved to its drilling location.
The idle rigs in Kazakhstan are being actively marketed both for opportunities in Kazakhstan as well as markets within the region.
In addition both of our rigs in Algeria are also being actively marketed primarily for applications within Algeria where we have had an increase in tender request.
In summary while our international rig fleet utilization declined in comparison with the prior year’s first quarter our international drilling operation ended the quarter with the same number of rigs under contract as at the beginning of the period.
Tender request activity in several of our markets is such that I believe there are work opportunities for many of our currently idle rigs.
Lastly our two newbuild arctic land rigs continue under construction and are scheduled for delivering to Alaska later this year.
Our project management and engineering service operations were active during the first quarter.
We continued to provide services to Exxon NAFTA gas limited the operator of the Sakhalin-1 project.
Currently this involves the relocation of the Yastreb drilling rig maintaining the Orlan platform in a warm stack mode and providing engineering and procurement services for the construction of an offshore platform that will target the Arkutun-Dagi field.
Earlier in the first quarter the Yastreb rig completed its most recent drilling campaign in the Odoptu field.
It is now in the process of moving 100 kilometers south to the Chayvo field for the new drilling program.
You may recall that the Yastreb rig made the reverse journey in 2009.
On that earlier move Parker managed the rig down and rig up while a third party handled to move logistics.
On this return trip Parker will be handling the entirety of the move which will provide incremental revenues and earnings for Parker during the move period.
The technical services provided to the Kuwait Drilling Company have grown to cover a fleet of 25 rigs up from an average of 21 rigs under the services agreement in the prior year’s first-quarter.
In addition we are engaged in some early stage engineering projects that could lead to further project related opportunities for Parker in the years ahead.
The sole project in the construction contracts segment was the Liberty rig project.
Construction was suspended by our customer BP in the fourth quarter of 2010 and the construction contract in February of this year.
Looking ahead our current business outlook is that the rental tools business should benefit from the continued growth of lateral drilling in the U.S.
land market.
The resumption of drilling in the deepwater Gulf of Mexico may provide some additional growth opportunities for this business yet this year.
We expect to make further capital investments in this business to increase our growth potential.
We expect our Gulf of Mexico barge drilling business to maintain its fleet utilization around current levels and realize higher average day rates during the year.
Higher market prices for oil and a growing interest in the deeper drilling prospects should support continued activity for this business.
International E&amp;P spending is believed by many industry forecasters to be on the increase should this occur in the regions we serve we would expect to have opportunities to increase our fleet utilization.
For example the rig tender request are active in both the Colombian and Algerian markets.
However given the lead time from tender award to drilling operation we are not expecting much impact in our international drilling business this year.
The portfolio of our project management and engineering service segment is growing and is expected to generate relatively steady earnings with incremental contributions in 2011 from the Yastreb rig move project and other early stage engineering projects.
Our Liberty rig preservation activities are currently being performed under a pre-operations phase of the operation and maintenance agreement that will expire at the end of this month.
We do not anticipate an extension of the agreement.
In addition we will continue to invest in our four strengths safety training technology and performance.
The four pillars of preferred drilling contractor.
Our goal is to leverage these to differentiate the Parker brand to support our growth and create more value based offering for our customers.
Let me spend a little time on one of these safety.
Safe is how we operate and our continual focus on being safe is one of the reasons why people choose to work at Parker while our customers choose to hire our rigs and cruise and why others ask us to design and operate unique drilling solutions to their challenging drilling needs.
Our April year-to-date safety measure total recordable incident rate or TRIR of 0.54 is an improvement on our full year 2010 TRIR of 0.63 and significantly better than the industry average based on the latest statistics from IADC.
Safety is a key requirement for tender pre-qualification.
Well will continue to invest in the people products and programs that can help us make a continued improvement in each of the four pillars for Parker and contribute to differentiating us in the drilling contractor market place.
I will now turn the call over to Kirk Brassfield to discuss our financial results.
Good morning.
For the first quarter of 2011 Parker Drilling achieved a significant increase in EBITDA and operating income on a 1% decline in revenues compared with the prior years first quarter.
The decline in revenues was all due to the exploration of the Liberty rig construction contract otherwise revenues increased nearly 7% and EBITDA increased 24%.
There was one non-routine item this quarter $0.7 million pretax of expense related to the ongoing U.S.
regulatory investigations and Parker’s internal review regarding possible violations of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and other loss.
Excluding this non-routine item Parker earned $5.3 million in net income or $0.05 per diluted share.
The comparable result for last years first quarter was $0.02 per diluted share.
Also we had an out of the ordinary $1.9 million expense in the 2011 first quarter in response to a new Columbia Equity Tax law that went into effect on January 1<sup>st</sup> 2011.
As a result of the new law the entire expense is recognized at the beginning of the applicable tax period even though the payments will be made semi-annually over a four year period.
The affect of this was to reduce 2011 first quarter after-tax earnings by approximately by $1.2 or $0.01 per diluted share.
Turning to ongoing operations our Rental Tools segment revenues were $52.3 million.
Segment gross margin was $34.2 million and segment gross margin as a percentage of revenues was 65%.
These are record revenues and gross margin results for this business.
The growth of this business is attributable to the increasing use of lateral drilling in U.S.
land drilling markets.
Our continued investments in Rental Tools inventory and our ability to strategically position our products can best serve customer needs meet market demand and improve pricing.
The U.S.
Drilling segment reported first quarter revenues of $15.9 million and segment gross margin of $1.9 million.
The increase in revenues was due to an increase in rig utilization and a higher fleet average day rate.
While rig utilization improved it was driven by increased work among the intermediate depth rigs and less work among the deeper depth portion of our fleet.
In addition one of the deep barge rigs was employed on a work over contract during the period.
These contributed to a decline in gross margin and average gross margin percent compared with the prior year.
Our International Drilling segment reported first quarter revenues of $42.4 million and segment gross margin of $7.6 million.
The decline in revenues in segment gross margin compared with the 2010 first quarter reflects fewer rigs under contract during the quarter offset somewhat by higher overall average day rates.
As rig activity declined our Caspian Sea arctic barge as they return to a standby rate during the quarter compared to being on a higher rate during the prior year’s first quarter when its refurbishment overhaul and upgrade program was underway.
In addition Project Management and Engineering Services segment revenues were $35.9 million for the 2011 first quarter and gross margin was $6 million.
Revenue additions came from the Yastreb rig relocation project the Liberty rig maintenance contract and engineering work related to the Arkutun-Dagi platform rig construction and other early-stage projects.
The segments increased in gross margin and decline in gross margin as a percent of revenues is primarily due to the increased amount of reimbursables included in the current portfolio compared with the prior year’s first quarter.
Construction Contract revenues decreased $9.6 million and we reported a gross margin loss of $0.7 million related to work consolidated on delivery rigs.
These results reflect the work on the project during the quarter.
G&amp;A expense decreased to $6.9 million for the quarter compared with the prior-year first quarter expense of $10 million.
This is primarily due to a lower legal and professional fees related to the DoJ SEC and Parker investigations.
Excluding these G&amp;A expense for the 2011 first quarter was $6.2 million similar to adjusted G&amp;A expense of $6.2 million for the 2010 first quarter.
Interest expense was $5.9 million in the first quarter below the prior year’s quarterly expense of $6.7 million due primarily to the higher amounts of capitalized interest.
Our cash balance at quarter-end was $41.6 million compared to $51.4 million at the end of 2010.
Capital expenditures were $50.7 million for the quarter included our capitalized interest of $4.4 million Alaska rig reconstruction spending of $26.1 million and rental tool purchases of $15.8 million.
At the end of the quarter we had $471.3 million of debt outstanding or a net debt position of $429.7 million.
Our net debt to net capitalization ratio at quarter-end was 42%.
Subsequent to the end of the first quarter we expanded the term loan facility by $50 million and used the proceeds to repay the amount outstanding on our revolving credit facility to purchase additional rental tool inventory and for other corporate purposes.
Our debt covenants contain two important financial tests a leverage ratio of debt to EBITDA and an interest coverage ratio.
At quarter-end our leverage ratio was 2.6 times against the covenant maximum of four times.
Our interest coverage ratio was seven times against a covenant minimum of 2.5 times.
That ends the financial review.
Joe we are ready to take questions.
Thank you sir.
(Operator Instructions) And our first question comes from the line of John Keller with Stephens Incorporated.
Go ahead sir Good morning guys.
Good morning John.
Just a couple of questions on the barge market to start with.
It sounds like things have improved very appreciably there.
What are the kind of leading edge spot rates in the deep market and it seems to me also that the intermediate market has kind of closed the gap a little bit.
Maybe if you can just talk about those two items? Well John just as a reference we I think do a pretty good job in trying to give the market place an average day rate.
We don’t typically talk about specific rigs.
What I didn’t talk about in the conference call is that our average right now is in the $25 000 range which is considerably above what our 13-week average are on our website.
That having been said we’re seeing a couple of rigs going to work in deep gas projects and those are materially above the average that I just gave you mainly due to the complexity of those wells as well as just the competency of what the customer is asking for in that drilling operation.
As far as a market place in general we think that the wind is at our backs today.
That’s the term I’ve used within the last couple of months.
And so we’re seeing hopeful increase in utilization and that’s been realized.
We’ve got 11 of our rigs currently working and we’re quite happy about that from an industry perspective and the majority of rigs are also are utilized.
And what tends to happen is that day rate tend to trend up upward as utilization starts to approach the 90% range which from a fleet we’re there.
Got it.
And then on the margins it sounds like there were some kind of items in the first quarter that drove your average margins down there.
But particularly relative to the fourth quarter it was up near to that 30% gross margin range for the segment.
And that’s kind of if you think about on a normalized basis if I go back to kind of ’03 ’04 ’05 timeframe 30% gross margins or slightly above that was kind of where you will run in before things got real floppy.
Is that where we should think about gross margins kind of on a normalized basis going forward or is there upside to that? Well I think that that’s certainly where we’re at.
Some of the I guess the downdraft and margins in the first quarter is that we had to go out and improve some of our labor rates internally.
And so that certainly affected our margins in the first quarter.
Going forward some of our day rate increases have been reflective of those labor cost increases.
And so our margins in the second quarter should expand.
But I don’t see a material expansion of that going forward.
Now are you talking about kind a material expansion relative towards in the first quarter or say the fourth quarter where margins were higher?  Yeah from the fourth quarter.
Okay perfect.
That’s good for me guys.
I’ll turn back.
Thanks John.
And our next question comes from the line of Matt Beeby with Global Hunter Securities LLC.
Go ahead sir.
Good morning.
Good morning Matt.
Dave you've talked about the unlikelihood of the Liberty Project now that O&amp;M contract being renewed.
Can you – is that back on the radar at some point in the future and maybe can you talk about any potential other impacts with your relationship with BP in Alaska? Sure.
I can’t step into BP’s thought process so Matt so and I hope you appreciate that.
So I don’t know what’s going to happen with Liberty going forward.
What I can talk about is just what has been communicated to us from BP.
And BP has decided that due to some of the uncertainties of the schedule and timing going forward that they’ve elected not to extend the O&amp;M contract past the end of this month.
The O&amp;M contract was specifically for drilling operations and so I think that that’s fairly consistent with their thought process.
We don’t foresee drilling operations happening in the near future.
As far as our relationship with BP we have certainly worked with them on this project.
We are – there is a full review of the rig from a design and operation perspective and also from a capability perspective.
We’re a part of that review with them and so we’re assisting in that endeavor as we also have a separate project the Alaska Arctic Drilling units which are projects that are two rigs that we own.
And we don’t see the connection between a Liberty and AADU those are separate projects and actually in different business unit within the Alaska within our customer help in Alaska.
Okay that’s very helpful.
Thank you.
Also to on the rental tool side I think you mentioned $15 million or so in inventory was added.
What are the expectations for 2Q that going to be more like the 30-plus or about even in 3Q so how is that looking are you guys seeing any kind of delays with deliverability or pricing pressure for giving supply of tubulars? Well as I’ve said in the past we’ve been a very proactive in ordering tubulars and equipment before you actually need it and that is based on our relationship that we have with our customers throughout the United States.
And so consistent with what we did back in 2009 for the 2010 capital we ordered a material amount of inventory in the summer time of 2009.
We did the same in 2010 in anticipation of expansion of rental demand in 2011.
So the first tranche which is about $16 million was delivered on time to us by our vendor.
We anticipate a similar amount in the second quarter and you should expect us to talk about additional inventory delivery in the third and fourth quarter this year.
So we’ve been very very consistent at adding to our inventory as the demand from our customer has been proactively anticipated and then once this inventory comes into our rental storage it immediately goes out to our customers.
Okay.
And just real quick follow to that one is that evenly spread throughout the quarter It was mostly delivered in the February timeframe at $16 million and so I don’t think it was delivered on one particular day but it was that’s a fair amount of inventory but that was scattered throughout the February timeframe.
Okay that's helpful.
Thanks Dave.
And our next question comes from the line of Daniel Burke with Johnson Rice &amp; Company.
Go ahead sir.
Good morning guys.
Good morning Daniel.
Given the improvement in the domestic barge business I was just wondering if you'll consider this year reactivating I guess the remaining two barges where if that something you wouldn’t envision considering this year.
Well one of those barge rigs 55B we had done some work on that barge back in 2008 and beginning of 2009 that project was shelled due to the lower utilization of the fleet and so that would be 55B could be reactivated with some capital infusion.
We don’t anticipate that occurring this year unless we are able to get some type of commitment from either one or two companies for some type of term work.
Term work meaning that not to term up rates but just the term up a work commitment.
What I hope I’m where hope happens is that I’m surprised sometime in the third or fourth quarter of this year but right now we don’t have any present plans on activating that.
Okay great.
And then other one from me was on rig 257 just kind of unclear for me opening comments do you still anticipate that that mobilization will take place here in Q2 or early Q3 or is that uncertain at this point? Well one again we are relying on our customer to activate that rig.
And our customer is working with the local permitting officials as well as the government to put that rig back to work and until that happens we are going to be on a standby rate.
What we have been told by our customer is they anticipate that occurring in the second quarter.
Whether or not that is realized is really depended upon a governmental sanction.
Okay great.
I understand.
Thanks thanks for the comments.
Sure.
And there are no further questions at this time.
So I’ll turn the call back to Mr.
Bajenski.
Go ahead sir.
Thank you Joe.
And thank you all for joining us for this call on the first quarter results.
We appreciate your interest in the company and wish you to have a good afternoon.
And ladies and gentlemen that does conclude your call for today.
Thank you for using ACT Conferencing.
You may now disconnect.
Welcome to the Parker Drilling second quarter 2011 earnings conference call.
(Operator Instructions) At this time I'd like to turn the conference over to Richard Bajenski Director of Investor Relations.
Good morning and welcome to everyone to Parker Drilling second quarter conference call.
This is Rich Bajenski Director of Investor Relations.
Joining me today are Bobby Parker Executive Chairman David Mannon President and Chief Executive Officer and Kirk Brassfield Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
In the course of our comments today we will make statements regarding management's expectations for the company's future performance that we believe will be informative and beneficial to our shareholders.
These statements are considered forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Securities Act.
So each forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date of this call and actual results may differ materially due to various factors we have referenced in our public filings and other factors addressed during this call including changes in market conditions affecting our industry.
We will also refer to non-GAAP financial measures such as adjusted EBITDA and non-routine items.
Please refer to the table in our current press release or on the company's website for a definition of adjusted EBITDA and a reconciliation of this measure to the comparable GAAP measure and for further information regarding non-routine items.
Bobby Parker will begin our review.
Bobby? Thanks Rich and welcome to our conference call.
Earlier today we reported our 2011 second quarter results.
Dave Mannon and Kirk Brassfield will review the operating and financial details and discussed our outlook in a moment.
Before they do that I have a few thoughts to share on current topics shaping our business.
I believe that it's worth noting that the long-awaited upturn in international drilling has not yet arrived if this is on the word drilling.
What we have seen so far is an increase in international E&amp;P spending and that should bode well for drilling contractors though we're not there yet.
A lot of second quarter earning reports have said as much and is not a total no show.
There are some industry blind sports in drilling notably Latin America and the Middle East on land and pretty much all international areas offshore.
So while a broad upturn in international drilling has not yet occurred we do believe it is beginning to develop.
For a contractor like Parker the slow to the well uptic and drilling has been frustrating.
But we too are seeing signs of improvement.
Our active rig count in Columbia and Mexico has grown and our opportunities in Asia-Pacific have improved.
We can expect a more wide-spread improvement when the increase in international E&amp;P spending reaches into our markets.
We certainly are waiting on an increase in industry spending to stimulate drilling here in the U.S.
with $90 to $100 oil and gas economic sweetened by a liquids content has been boosted by the benefits of lateral drilling and longer well bores.
These have changed many aspects of drilling including the rental tool industry.
What hasn't changed though is customer service performance and safety remain critical components of success and we believe they will continue to differentiate players in the industry.
As you will hear in our upcoming comments and well have read in our earnings press release the inland waters Gulf of Mexico barge drilling business has strengthened.
The industry had been all but written off just a short time a while ago and is now staging a renewal.
This concludes my remarks.
I will now turn this over to Dave Mannon to discuss our performance and our outlook.
Thanks Bobby.
The highlights for the second quarter were the progressive stronger operating and financial performance of our Rental segment and the continued dayrate momentum in our U.S.
barge drilling business.
The Quail team's execution is outstanding.
In addition I wanted to commend the entire team of the barge drilling business for their performance.
They delivered positive cash flow in the depth of the industry downturn in 2009 and we are now turning a solids earning report this morning.
We have now established themselves in the barge business as a leading-contract driller in the Gulf of Mexico inland waters business segment.
Also in this quarter we had several projects underway in our project management portfolio.
We made good progress on the move of the ENL-owned Parker-operated Yastreb rig on Sakhalin island Russia and continued our participation in the Arkutun Dagi platform construction project.
In addition we completed a recently awarded shipyard refurbishment project for Talisman Energy.
The Talisman Energy-owned Coral Sea land rig is a purpose-built heli rig that was refurbished for upcoming work in Papua New Guinea.
We are currently finalizing the details of a three year O&amp;M contract for this rig.
In summary record setting rental tool results.
Improvement in our Gulf of Mexico barge drilling business and additional project management activity offset the impact of continued low utilization in our international drilling operation.
Now here let's look at how each business performed during the second quarter.
For the seventh quarter in a row the rental tool segment continue to grow revenues and expand gross margin.
Revenues increased 41% and the segment's gross margin increased 50% compared to the prior year's second quarter.
Gross margin as a percent of revenue was 70% exceeding the 66% for last year's second quarter.
These are outstanding results from a business that has done an excellent job of developing and executing a successful customer focus profitable growth strategy.
To support the growth and demand we took delivery of approximately $14 million of new rental tool inventory during the second quarter.
In addition we continue to dynamically position our inventory among our seven strategic store locations to optimize our utilization and meet our customers need.
Parker's U.S.
Gulf of Mexico barge drilling rig business continued to strengthen.
Our 2011 second quarter average utilization of 81% is the best utilization rate this segment has realized since the second quarter of 2008.
For the second quarter of 2011 we had the equivalent of 10.5 barge rigs working compared with 8.4 equivalent barge rigs working during the 2010 second quarter.
The barge rig drilling market has recovered significantly and demand for the Parker operated rigs brought us to a near full utilization of our available rigs for the quarter.
Based on the industry information 23 of the markets 24 available rigs are working today.
And all of Parker's 11 available rigs are employed 9 of those 11 are on multi-well programs ranging from 45 days to 1 year.
As a result several of our Barge drilling rigs have assignments that should lead to continue work extending into 2012.
This should provide support for continued strong utilization rates through the rest of the year.
Longer duration well programs near full utilization and our operating performance have contributed to improved dayrates for Parker.
Our second quarter Gulf of Mexico barge drilling fleet average dayrate was $26 000 up 37% from $19 000 per day in last year's second quarter.
And dayrates continued to improve.
Our fleet average dayrate today is approximately $27 500 with three of our rigs earnings dayrates of $30 000 or more.
Turning to our international drilling segment.
Second quarter average utilization rate was 46% a modest increase from the preceding quarters 44%.
Last year's second quarter comparable utilization rate was 61%.
We had the equivalent of 12.4 rigs working during 2011 second quarter an increase from an equivalent working rig count of 12 for the first quarter.
In the Americas region our 10 rig drilling fleet achieved 67% average utilization a sequential increase from the 60% average utilization in the first quarter.
Though below last year's second quarter average utilization of 83%.
The sequential improvement was due to redeployment to Columbia of a rig that had been idle in Mexico.
The year-to-year decline was due to reduction in activity in Mexico.
However one idle rig in Mexico last summer has since gone to work in Columbia.
One rig idled in Mexico last fall now is on contract in Mexico and will begin working this month.
And the last of our available land rigs in the region is being marketed in Mexico and Columbia and has some prospect of going to work in 2012.
In the CIS/AME region our 11 rig drilling fleet operated at 27% average utilization unchanged from the prior quarter and down from the prior year's second quarter average utilization of 49%.
Though utilization is low all three rigs working in the region are on contracts that extend into 2012.
So we can expect this baseline activity for the remainder of the year.
In addition one of the three rigs working rig 257 our barge rig located in the Caspian Sea is preparing to move to a drilling location for a upcoming drilling assignment.
The eight idle rigs in this region six in Kazakhstan and two in Algeria are being marketed for opportunities both inside and outside the region.
In the Asia-Pacific region our five rig drilling fleet operated at 55% average utilization.
A sequential decline from 60% average utilization over prior quarter and below prior year's second quarter average utilization of 58% for the same five rig fleet.
The decline in utilization since the first quarter is a result of a short break between contracts for one of the rigs in Indonesia.
That rig is expected to be back at work later this quarter.
In addition to the two currently idle rigs in New Zealand are being actively marketed in New Zealand market as well as other areas in the region.
Moving on to Alaska I am please to report that our two newbuild arctic land rigs began their journey to the North Slope in July and are due to arrive in Prudhoe Bay later this month.
After they are off loaded they will be undergo final commissioning and we expect them to be ready for customer acceptance testing in the fourth quarter.
To summarize our international rig fleet utilization appears to have stabilized.
After several quarters of decline in utilization we ended the second quarter with the same number of rigs under contract as at the beginning of the quarter.
And the contractual commitments for many of these run through the remainder of 2011.
Our project management and engineering service operations were active during the second quarter.
We are more than midway through the move of the Yastreb rig.
This is a significant project moving the worlds largest operating land rig across a 100 kilometers of terrain with little pre-existing infrastructure.
The rig move began in the first quarter and will be completed over the next few months.
During the second quarter we completed the shipyard refurbishment of Talisman Energy-owned Coral Sea heli-rig that was in Indonesia and now has been transported to Papua New Guinea.
We are currently finalizing a three-year O&amp;M agreement with Talisman to operate the rig in PNG.
This will provide us a larger operating base in Papua New Guinea where we currently have a Parker-owned rig under contract to Talisman.
Looking ahead our current business outlook is at current trends in the U.S.
land drilling market including growth and the active rig count and greater use of lateral drilling are expected to provide continued momentum for our renal tool business.
We intend to continue invest in this business to support its growth potential.
Fleet utilization drilling commitments and dayrates have all improved in the Gulf of Mexico barge drilling business.
I believe that market prices for oil and a growing interest in the drilling deeper oil and gas prospects in shallow water location should provide support for continued strength in this business.
Our international land activity has stabilized.
The growth in international spending by E&amp;P companies provide a good reason to expect fundamental improvement in this business.
Rig tender activity in regions where we have rigs available has been good yet contract awards have been slower to develop.
In addition we continue to further refine our rig deployment strategy to improve our current performance and provide better results from our investment in these assets.
The portfolio of our project management and engineering service segment is growing.
Recent award including the Yastreb rig move and the Coral Sea refurbishment and a follow-on O&amp;M contract demonstrate a portion of the breadth of the opportunities that are available to us.
We also have other early stage work going on that has prospects for us to make exciting projects down the road.
In addition we will continue to raise our future potential by investing in our four strengths safety training technology and performance.
The four pillars of a preferred drilling contractor.
Our goal is to leverage these to differentiate the Parker brand to support growth and to create more value-based offering for our customers.
Now I will turn the call over to Kirk Brassfield to discuss our financial results.
Thank Dave.
For the second quarter of 2011 Parker Drilling reported earnings of $0.12 per share with a 10% increase in revenues and a 52% increase in adjusted EBITDA after non-routine items compared with the prior year's second quarter.
Excluding the impact of the recently expired Liberty rig construction contract revenues rose 27% and adjusted EBITDA increased 46%.
There was one non-routine item in the second quarter a $2.6 million pretax number expense related to the ongoing U.S.
regulatory investigations and Parker's internal review regarding possible violations of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and other laws.
Excluding this non-routine item Parker earned $15.9 million in net income or $0.14 per diluted share.
The comparable result for last year's second quarter was $0.03 per diluted share.
Turning to ongoing operations the rental tool segment revenues were $58.5 million gross margin was $40.8 million and gross margin as a percentage of revenue was 70%.
The strength of this business is attributable to the increasing use of lateral drilling in U.S.
land drilling markets.
Our continued investment in rental tool inventory and our ability to strategically position our products to best serve customer needs and meet market demand.
The U.S.
drilling segment reported second quarter revenues of $26.1 million and gross margin of $9.2 million.
The significant increase in revenues and gross margin is due to a higher average dayrate and an increase in rig utilization.
Our international drilling segment reported second quarter revenues of $42.7 million and gross margin of $8.8 million.
The decline in revenue in gross margin compared with the 2010 second quarter reflects fewer rigs under contract during the current quarter offset by higher average dayrates in each region.
As rig activity declined we reduced local and regional overhead expenses.
And manage to temper the impact of lower utilization on earnings.
Also included in the 2011 second quarter was a $2.3 million write-off of an unrecoverable debt VAP.
Project management and engineering services segment revenues were $45.6 million from the 2011 second quarter and gross margin was $8 million.
Revenue additions came from the Yastreb rig relocation project and our work on the Talisman Energy-owned Coral Sea land rig refurbishment project.
There were no construction contract revenues in the second quarter.
The $1.5 million gross margin reflects the closeout of the Liberty rig construction project.
G&amp;A expense in the second quarter was $8.1 million compared with the prior year's second quarter expense of $6.9 million.
Both year second quarters expense included legal and professional fees related to the DOJ SEC and Parker investigations.
Excluding these cost adjusted G&amp;A expense for the 2011 second quarter was $5.4 million below the similarly adjusted G&amp;A expense of $6.2 million for the 2010 second quarter.
This reduction was primarily due to lower professional fees and compensation expense.
Interest expense was $5.8 million in the second quarter below the prior year's quarterly expense of $7.4 due primarily to $1.4 million higher amount of capitalized interest.
Our cash balance at quarter-end was $67.5 million compared to $51.4 million at the end of 2010.
Capital expenditures were $48.7 million for the second quarter and included the Alaska rig construction spending of $29.4 million for the quarter.
Project-to-date we have spend approximately $255 million and we expect an additional $15 million excluding capitalized interest.
Renal tool purchases were $13.6 million for the quarter and capitalized interest totaled $4.7 for the quarter.
At the end of the second quarter we had $491.7 million of debt outstanding or a net debt position of $424.2 million.
Our net debt to net capitalization ratio at quarter-end was 41%.
That ends our financial review.
We are ready to take questions from the audience.
(Operator Instructions) Well it looks like the earnings release schedule has got the people occupied at this time.
We want to thank everybody for their participation in our call.
And we look forward to reporting on Parker's further progress as we go forward.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude the Parker Drilling second quarter 2011 earnings conference call.
Thank you very much for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by.
Welcome to the Parker Drilling Third Quarter 2011 Conference Call.
During today’s presentation all parties will be in a listen-only mode.
Following the presentation the conference will be open for questions.
(Operator Instructions) This conference is being recorded today Thursday November 3 2011.
I’d now like to turn the conference over to Richard Bajenski please go ahead.
Thank you Marissa.
And good morning and thank you all for joining the Parker Drilling 2011 third quarter conference call.
This is Rich Bajenski Director of Investor Relations.
Joining me today are Bobby Parker Executive Chairman; Dave Mannon President and Chief Executive Officer; and Kirk Brassfield Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
In the course of our comments today we will make statements regarding management’s expectations for the company’s future performance that we believe will be informative and beneficial to our shareholders.
These statements are considered forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Securities Act.
Each forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date of this call and actual results may differ materially due to various factors we have referenced in our public filings and other factors addressed during this call including changes in market conditions affecting our industry.
We will also refer to non-GAAP financial measures such as adjusted EBITDA and non-routine items.
Please refer to the table in our current press release or on the company’s website for a definition of adjusted EBITDA and a reconciliation of this measure to the comparable GAAP measure and for further information regarding non-routine items.
I’ll start this off with Bobby Parker giving us a review.
Bobby? Thanks Rich and welcome to our conference call.
Earlier today we reported our 2011 third quarter results.
David Mannon and Kirk Brassfield will review our performance and outlook in a moment.
But before they do I have a few thoughts to share on current events that are shaping our business and may be of interest to our investors.
Worldwide oil prices have been in a range that has been supportive of both short-term and long-term E&amp;P activities.
Generally speaking this has been good for upstream spending by most energy companies and for most energy markets.
So I recognize there are certainly exceptions.
As long as the current range of prices is sustained we would expect drilling to remain strong.
I recognize that there are concerns about a slowdown or disruption in worldwide economic growth and how it might impact the E&amp;P business.
I won’t even venture a guess as to how that works out.
While the IEA reports indicate that world oil demand is on the increase once again we continue to watch closely how any changes in economic conditions around the world might impact that trend.
The focus at Parker will continue to be staying close to our customers so that we are ready to meet their needs both in drilling or rental tools.
To continue to shape Parker in ways that moderate the impact of the cycles inherent in our business like strengthening our diversification across markets across locals and across customers and to continue to grow organically through investments in ways that increase competitiveness of our operations and complement our diversification like our investments in safety training and now technology that enhance our operational competitiveness and our technical expertise for work on fit for purpose drilling solutions.
In sum these are all about growing our capabilities and achieving more consistent performance in a way that will provide reward for our investors throughout the cycles that define our industry.
That concludes my remarks.
I’ll now turn this over to Dave Mannon to discuss our performance and outlook Dave? Thanks Bobby.
The highlights of the third quarter were sustained operating and financial performance of our Rental Tools segment and the continued day rate momentum in our US barge drilling business.
In addition our project management team initiated the O&amp;M activities on a customer-owned Coral Sea Land rig in Papua New Guinea after having successfully completed its refurbishment and mobilization.
I applaud the individuals involved in the stage – in all stages of the Coral Sea project.
Their diligent and safe and efficient work throughout contributed greatly to the successful delivery of the rig and the award of the O&amp;M contract to Parker.
Our Coral Sea Team has worked IFO incident-free operations through shipyard mobilization and start-up of operation and PNG which means no one got hurt not even a band aid and no environmental issues.
Here’s a more detailed review of our business segments.
Our Rental Tools segment continued to grow revenues and expand gross margin.
Revenues increased 30% and segment gross margin increased 39% compared to the prior year’s third quarter.
In the quarter we took delivery of approximately $24 million of inventory all of it to meet identified customer needs.
As expected the addition of new inventory lowered the monthly reported tubular goods utilization index.
Part of that is just due to the time it typically takes to receive and inspect incoming pipe before it goes out to a job.
Another part is due to having received some pipe in advance of when the customer had committed to use it.
These effects go away over time.
And our current utilization levels reflect that with the latest one-week utilization rate being above the September and October levels.
In the US Gulf of Mexico our barge drilling business continued to benefit from improvements in utilization and day rates.
In 2011 third quarter average utilization of our 13 rig fleet was 82%.
This is effectively full utilization of our marketed 11 rigs.
Our fleet utilization rate was 81% for the prior quarter and 59% for the 2010 third quarter.
The improvement in utilization has been accompanied by increased day rates.
Our third quarter Gulf of Mexico barge drilling fleet average day rate was $28 200 up 41% from $20 000 per day in last year’s third quarter.
Our current average day rate for comparable equipment is 4% higher than the third quarter average.
We have had a brief pause in deep gas drilling after an active summer with all three of our rigs with ultra deep well capabilities being idle for a time in October.
However two of the three are currently signed up for work that will begin in the fourth quarter and is expected to carry over into 2012.
Turning to our International Drilling segment the third quarter average utilization was 46% the same as for the preceding quarter.
Last year’s third quarter comparable utilization rate was 54%.
We had the equivalent of 12.6 rigs working during the 2011 third quarter.
In the Americas region our 10 rig drilling fleet achieved 73% average utilization a sequential increase from the 67% average utilization in the second quarter though below last year’s third quarter average utilization of 86%.
The sequential improvement was due to resumption of drilling by a rig in Mexico which was contracted during the third quarter.
Year-to-year decline primarily due to the late 2010 termination of a rig that remains idle in Mexico.
We are currently tendering that rig for projects in both Mexico and Colombia.
In the CIS/AME region our 11-rig drilling fleet operated at 27% average utilization unchanged from the prior quarter and down from the prior year’s third quarter average utilization of 36%.
The three rigs working in the region are all on contracts that extend into 2012.
Rig 257 our barge rig located in the Caspian Sea recently moved to location and has commenced drilling operations.
We have made progress towards improved fleet utilization in this region.
We recently signed a contract for our two rigs in Algeria.
They are currently being mobilized and are expected to begin operations before year-end.
In addition we have six auto rigs in Kazakhstan which we continue to market inside and outside the region.
In the Asia-Pacific region our five rig drilling fleet operated at 46% average utilization a sequential decline from the 55% average utilization of the prior quarter and better than the prior year’s third quarter average utilization of 40% for the same five-rig fleet.
The decline in utilization since 2011 second quarter is a result of a break between contracts for one of the rigs in Indonesia.
That rig is now under contract and waiting to be mobilized.
At the end of the quarter the second rig in Indonesia completed its contracted work and is currently being marketed.
The two rigs idle in New Zealand continue to be marketed in country as well as in other markets in the region.
In Alaska our two new-built arctic land rigs are on the North Slope and undergoing commissioning.
We’re currently working with our customer BP to schedule acceptance testing.
Last quarter I reported that our international rig fleet utilization appeared to have stabilized.
That continues to hold true.
After several quarters of the sequential declines in fleet utilization conditions have improved somewhat.
We ended the third quarter with one more rig under contract than at the beginning of the quarter.
I see the recent tender awards and contracts for the two rigs in Algeria as signs of sustainable activity.
Our project management and engineering service operations were active during the third quarter.
Contributing to increased revenues and earnings this quarter were the Yastreb rig move in the Sakhalin Island.
This is expected to be completed in the fourth quarter.
The commencement of our operation of the Talisman-owned Coral Sea heli-rig in Papua New Guinea our engagement in early engineering projects that could evolve into development work in future O&amp;M opportunities.
Offsetting this were the transition of the Orlan platform to warm stack status ever after having been engaged in work over activities in the prior year’s third quarter.
The transition of our involvement in the (inaudible) platform previously referred to as Arkutun-Dagi from engineering related work to construction oversight.
And the end of the Liberty project which was active during last year’s third quarter.
Looking ahead through the end of the year we expect further improvements in US markets and continued stability in international markets.
We expect could growth in demand for rental tools in the US land drilling market.
The current focus on liquid-rich shale drilling and the continued increase in footage drilled due to longer laterals should support continued demand for rental tools.
In addition the recovery of deepwater drilling in the Gulf of Mexico presents further opportunities.
We’re continuing to focus on meeting customers’ needs and expect to purchase additional inventory to meet their requirements.
Drilling activity in shallow water of the Gulf of Mexico has led to improved utilization and higher day rates for the Gulf of Mexico barge drilling business.
I believe a demand in the barge market will continue to be stable and supported by the current range of oil prices and interest in drilling deeper oil and gas prospects.
In our selected international drilling markets our rig utilization appears to have stabilized.
The expected growth in international spending by E&amp;P companies should provide good support for this level of business.
Rig tender activity in several markets where we operate has been good and contract awards are being made.
The portfolio of our project management business and engineer service segment has grown to provide a foundation of activity.
Some of the early stage engineering work which we are currently engaged could lead to expanded projects related work over time.
We expect to enhance our growth potential by continued investment in our four strengths safety training technology and performance the four pillars on which we have built our position as a preferred drilling contractor and service provider.
Our goal is to leverage these to differentiate the Parker brand to support growth and create more value-based offerings for our customer.
Now I will turn the call over to Kirk Brassfield to discuss our financial results.
Kirk? Thanks Dave.
For the third quarter 2011 we reported earnings of $0.18 per share.
There was one non-routine item in the third quarter a 1.5 million pre-tax expense related to the ongoing US regulatory investigation and our internal review regarding possible violations of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and other laws.
Excluding this non-routine item Parker earned 21.7 million in net income or $0.18 per diluted share.
Comparable result for last year’s third quarter $0.01 per diluted share.
Turning to ongoing operations Rental Tools segment revenues $62.4 million and segment gross margin 43.7 million.
The strength of this business is attributable to the increase in use of lateral drilling in US land drilling markets particularly in the liquid-rich shale plays our continued investments in rental tools inventory and our ability to position our products to best serve customer needs and meet market demand.
The US Drilling segment reported third quarter revenues of 28.9 million and segment gross margin of 11.5 million.
The significant year-to-year increase in third quarter revenues and gross margin is due to a higher average day rate and increase in rig utilization.
Our International Drilling segment reported third quarter revenues of 51.4 million and segment gross margin of 14.6 million.
The 2010 third quarter included revenue and gross margin benefits from a 3.2 million early termination fee and operating expenses from 8 million of property and VAT tax adjustments.
Excluding those segment revenues and gross margins increased due to higher average day rates in all three regions that more than offset the effects of lower utilization in the Americas and CIS/AME regions.
Project Management and Engineering Services segment revenues were 34 million for the 2011 third quarter and gross margin was 7.9 million.
Higher amounts of reimbursed expenses for the combined Sakhalin Island operation and Coral Sea heli-rig project were significant contributors to revenue increase.
In addition revenues and gross margin for the segment benefited from the Yastreb rig move on Sakhalin the Coral Sea operations and maintenance contract awarded earlier this year and an increase in engineering work for perspective customer programs.
These were partially offset by the impact of the phase-out of the Liberty project and transitioned to a lower-revenue producing phase of work on the Berkut platform.
Construction contract segment has had no activity since the Liberty contract ended in February of this year.
G&amp;A expense in the third quarter was 8.8 million compared with the prior year’s third quarter expense of 7.1 million.
Both quarters included expenses related to the DOJ SEC and our internal investigations.
Excluding these adjusted G&amp;A for the 2011 third quarter was 7.2 million compared with the similarly adjusted G&amp;A expense of 6.1 for the 2010 third quarter.
This increase was primarily due to higher professional fees.
Interest expense was 5.6 million in the third quarter below the prior year’s quarterly expense of 6.4 due primarily to a higher amount of capitalized interest.
Our cash balance at quarter end 103.1 million compared to 51.4 million at the end of 2010.
Capital expenditures were 141.8 million year-to-date which included rental tool purchases of 54.3 million and Alaska reconstruction spending of 69 million.
Upon completion the projected total cost of the two Artic land rigs were approximately 290 million before capitalized interest.
At the end of the third quarter we had 487.2 million of debt outstanding or a net debt position of 384.1 million.
Our net-to-debt capitalization ratio at quarter end was 37.8%.
On the balance sheet our 125 million principal amount of 208 convertible notes were reclassified to current as they mature in July 2012.
We intend to refinance the notes prior to maturity and are actively considering alternatives.
That ends the financial review.
And Marissa we’re ready to take questions.
(Operator Instructions) Our first question comes from the line of James West (Barclays Capital).
Please go ahead.
Hi good morning guys.
Good morning James.
Dave you mentioned rig tender and activity has been picking up.
I was wondering if you could just address which markets specifically you’re seeing the most incremental demand? I know of course Algeria you saw some rigs go back to work.
Mexico seems to be an area but what – outside of those two perhaps which other markets are you seeing good increases in tendering activity today? Well just to start on those two James so we’ve had some increased activity in Mexico which has led to a rig going back to work there.
And we also have additional opportunities for the auto rig in Mexico.
Moving also to Algeria yes our two rigs have gone back to work based on our previous tender activity but there’s a new tender package that is being led in Algeria that will – we will be bidding on and we hope to add to our rig count in Algeria in 2012.
In Colombia we’ve had some increase tender activity as well.
Really those are the three markets that we’ve had increases in activities.
Okay.
And then on the rigs that have gone back to work here recently have you seen any movement at all either up or down on day rates? We haven’t.
They’ve been pretty well flat.
As I’ve talked about in the past we haven’t really seen a dip in day rates since 2009.
And so it really hasn’t been a question of pricing it has just been a question of activity in getting our rigs back to work.
Okay.
And then any updated thoughts about Iraq at this point I mean we’re at the point now where a lot of rigs are going to work all of the big service companies have contracts.
The rigs that are there are I guess neighbor’s rigs and Chinese rigs and of course neighbors is having issues in some cases getting the rigs into the country any chance you might decide to enter Iraq? Yes.
We’ve looked at Iraq and we continue to look at Iraq at this present time we do not have interest in going into that country.
We think that there’s a considerable amount of risk in Iraq and commensurate to the size of our company we think that that risk is not consistent with our strategic plan.
Okay.
Then just one final question for me for Kirk do you have a sense – sorry if I missed this but our CapEx for 2012? No we’re going through that process and we have not given any numbers yet as to 2012.
Do you have – directionally up or down? I assume biggest down with the land rigs? Yes.
We’ll complete the two land rigs and we would expect that to go downward.
Right.
For 2012.
Okay.
Great thanks guys.
Thank you.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from the line of Matt Beeby with Global Hunter Securities.
Please go ahead.
Thank you good morning guys.
Good morning Matt.
Dave could you maybe give a little color on the Talisman project that impacted project management about when that might have started during the third quarter? Well we’ve had work shipyard work and mobilization work in the last two quarters in the second and third quarter and commenced operations right at the end of the third quarter.
Are you referring to the O&amp;M contract starting for the third quarter? Yes.
So the O&amp;M contracts commenced operations right at the end of the third quarter.
So we’ll see the full benefit of that contract in the fourth quarter.
Sure.
You mentioned also the potential for rental tool improvement as it relates to recovery in the US Gulf deepwater can you again remind us previous contribution previous market share what that looked like pre-Macondo? We had about 10% market share in that business.
If you remember right after the days of Macondo we were off about $1 million a month and so we’ve caught all of that back.
We do have – still have some idle strings of – landing strings that are available for hire.
So with the recent permit activity in the Gulf of Mexico with select customers that we have worked for in the past we anticipate some of those idle strings going to work here in the fourth quarter and also first quarter of next year.
Okay.
Thanks Dave.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from the line of John Keller with Stephens Inc.
Please go ahead.
Hi this is Walt Chancellor for John Keller.
So margins were strong in International Drilling segment big sequential improvement what’s driving that is that all day rate? Are there any other or transitory items in there? I think the majority and I’ll let Kirk to also speak to this but the majority of the margin improvement internationally was 257 our Caspian barge rate going from a standby rate into a pre-operational rate in the third quarter and then in the fourth quarter it’s going to be – have the full benefit of the operating rate Walt.
Okay.
So moving forward this level or stronger is likely indicative of where you see margins in 2012? We haven’t – we don’t provide forecasts going forward.
Walt so I’m not going to comment on what we’re going to do in 2012.
Okay.
To follow-up do you see the potential to get back to some of those higher levels that we had in the past are the international business in ‘08 or ‘09? What we’ve – what we’ve said in our prepared remarks was we believe that the international market has stabilized.
We still have a number of idle assets both in the CIS Asia-Pacific and also in Latin American regions.
Our challenge is to get those rigs back to work.
And with that we’ll see a continued improvement in our margins.
As far as timing with that I’m not going to forecast when that’s going to come.
What I have said is is that we have some tender activity in both in the Latin America and in the CIS/AME region.
All right.
Thank you very much.
Thanks.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) Our next question comes from the line of George Vanturo with Johnson Rice.
Please go ahead.
Hey guys thanks for taking the call.
Sure.
Just looking for a little clarity on the two Alaskan new build rigs.
Sounded like they are undergoing commissioning right now.
Do we have any update in terms of the timing those should come online? Well as I said in my prepared remarks we’re waiting on scheduling our customer acceptance.
And so really that’s all I can say at that time about timing.
What I will say – these are new technology rigs and so we’re not really sure how long this customer acceptance program is going to last.
Okay.
Great.
And then I guess second question in terms of the International Drilling segment with regard to the six idle rigs that you have in Kazakhstan obviously you mentioned that you’re working on marketing some of those inside of the region as well as outside.
Can you talk a little bit about some of the areas that you’re marketing outside of that region and where you expect to see the best opportunities there? Sure.
We’re marketing those rigs in Kazakhstan as well as in Turkmenistan and also are in Russia.
So the surrounding countries we’re marketing – that’s inside the region.
Outside of the region there is a couple of rigs that would be or could be appropriate for our Algerian operations and so we anticipate tendering those rigs into the future tenders in Algeria to potentially grow that area.
Great.
I appreciate it.
Thanks.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) And our next question comes from the line of Gary Stromberg with Barclays Capital.
Please go ahead.
Hi.
Good morning.
Hello Gary.
Good morning Gary.
Good morning.
You’ve talked about you’re looking at options to refinance the converts.
Can you talk about what options are out there and what you’re thinking about? Yes Gary.
I mean we’re looking at – either we can look at an add-on to our existing or we may look at a new high yield.
Obviously it’s just another option too.
We obviously have the ability even within our balance sheet with the cash on hand or even within the revolving credit to take care of the converts.
So we’re looking at all options.
We still have a little bit of time just to make sure to see when the market is right.
So we’ll continue to monitor that.
Okay.
And then just to clarify in terms of capital is the 2011 budget still $160 million? I think the last budget number we gave was 165 for the capital budget for 2011.
And James asked about 2012 directionally.
You think 2012 will be lower.
Is that what you said? I missed the response.
Yes Gary.
If you remember the majority of that 165 went to the two rigs in Alaska.
So we see that – we’ll look at other opportunities and the best use of the money.
Yeah.
And I’ll just add on to that Gary is that we continue to see opportunities in our Rental Tools section of our business.
As I reported in our call we’ve delivered $24 million with an inventory in the third quarter.
And we’re just catching up with the demand that’s currently there.
And so we’re anticipating adding to that capital in 2012.
Okay.
And then how about on the barge side – any appetite to add rigs there? I know there are some assets that are out there.
Yeah.
We have two idle rigs that are currently not being marketed.
One of those rigs which I believe is 55B we started on a construction program in 2008 of which we stopped that program in the first quarter of 2009 because of market conditions.
We anticipate potentially looking at bringing that rig out in 2012 at some point in time.
Once again we’re going to closely watch the market.
So we will be opportunistic to bring that rig out and we’ll bring that rig out with the close alignment with a customer program.
Okay.
And then the final one for me is how busy are you guys in the project management side in terms of looking at new opportunities bringing Pre-FEED deals and turning them into signed deals.
Do you have any success there? Well the project management business is a – as I’ve said in the past there’s a period of time where you are working on Pre-FEED projects of which some of those are sanctioned and they go into Feed and then EPCI and then O&amp;M.
So some evidences of that is the procured project which started in a Pre-FEED and we announced a FEED project analysis in construction.
So we do have some other projects that are currently in Pre-FEED not all of these projects actually get sanctioned.
So we earn revenues on these projects and our engineers are hard at work on those projects.
But there’s really nothing to announce at this point.
We anticipate some of these will be sanctioned and go forward and some of these will not.
And so we have a – what I would consider a pretty full hopper right now.
And so we anticipate having something to come to market sometime in 2012.
Okay.
That’s all I had.
Thank you.
Good thanks.
Thank you Gary.
Thanks.
Thank you.
And at this time I’m not showing any further questions.
I would now like to turn it back over to management.
Please go ahead.
Great Marissa.
Thank you for your help on this call.
I want to thank all those who are listening in for joining us here for this call.
And we look forward giving you updates on our progress as time goes on.
Have a good morning or good afternoon.
Thank you ladies and gentlemen that does conclude our conference call for today.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Good day ladies and gentlemen.
Thank you for standing by.
Welcome to the Parker Drilling Fourth Quarter 2011 Conference Call.
During today’s presentation all parties will be in a listen-only mode.
Following the presentation the conference will be opened for questions.
(Operator Instructions) This conference is being recorded today Thursday February 23 2012.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Richard Bajenski.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Camille.
Good morning and thank you all in our audience for joining the Parker Drilling 2011 fourth quarter conference call.
This is Richard Bajenski Director of Investor Relations and joining me today are Bobby Parker Executive Chairman; David Mannon President and Chief Executive Officer; and Kirk Brassfield Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
In the course of our comments today we will make statements regarding management’s expectations for the company’s future performance that we believe will be informative and beneficial to our shareholders.
These statements are considered forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Securities Act.
Each forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date of this call and actual results may differ materially due to various factors we have referenced in our public filings and other factors addressed during this call including changes in market conditions affecting our industry.
We will also refer to non-GAAP financial measures such as adjusted EBITDA and non-routine items.
Please refer to the table in our current press release or on the company’s website for a definition of adjusted EBITDA and a reconciliation of this measure to the comparable GAAP measure and for further information regarding non-routine items.
Bobby Parker will begin our review.
Bobby? Thanks Richard and welcome to our conference call.
Earlier today we reported our 2011 fourth quarter results.
Dave Mannon and Kirk Brassfield will review our performance and outlook in a moment.
Before they do I have a few thoughts to share on current events that are shaping our business and may be of interest to investors.
Starting here in the US I expect natural gas prices are a lot on people’s mind.
New drilling techniques and a warm winter have led to high natural gas inventories and consequently a lot of pressure on gas prices.
Meanwhile escalating tensions in the Middle East have driven up the price of oil making it more attractive to drillers.
We’re all interested in the impact of a price below $3 per Mcf for natural gas and over $100 per barrel for oil we’ll have on the drilling in the US As I talked with customers and other industry participants the general expectation is that rigs will continue to come down into our gas plays and many of them will go to work developing oil and wet gas resources.
While there is a wide range in opinions as to what this means for the rig count and many related businesses the shift to oil to wet – some oil to wet gas or the wet gas particularly in the shale plates is expected to continue to be favorable for our rental tool business.
Advances in drilling techniques have led to longer well bores with equipment spending more time in the hole.
Those trends continue to require an increasing amount of drill pipe and other tubulars and that means potentially more business for oil tools.
On the international front we took notice when the International Energy Administration recently cut its forecast for global oil demand.
Yet the IEA forecasts still project a year-over-year growth in global demand for oil albeit at a slower pace.
Meeting rising demand is not getting any easier due to both geological and geopolitical reasons.
Already we have seen major E&amp;P companies stepping up they are spending in 2012 including extensive exploration programs and deepwater Arctic frontiers and other regions.
So I expect Parker’s businesses worldwide should continue to benefit from these trends.
We are quite well-suited to serve the US land market for rental tools and in Gulf of Mexico large market as the US driven shifts to more oil and gas liquid targets.
Internationally we will continue to position our assets and markets where there our long-term drilling prospects and to apply technological services to work with the major international E&amp;P companies as they open out new frontiers.
That concludes my remarks.
I will now turn this over to Dave Manning to discuss our performance and outlook.
Dave? Thanks Bobby.
For the 2011 fourth quarter we had solid growth in revenues producing 37% increase in operating gross margin and a 39% increase in adjusted EBITDA compared with 2000 fourth quarter.
Excluding the impact of the asset impairment and other non- routine items we had a significant improvement in net income and earnings per share.
We also continue to surpass the industry in safety performance in 2011.
Our total reportable incident rate was 40% better than the industry average reported by IADC.
Incident free operation continues to be our objective where we believe our safety performance contributes to our success.
I also count among our accomplishments in 2011 the addition of several key individuals to our management team.
Individuals with records of successful accomplishments now serving in key roles at Parker focused on operational excellence and growth.
Recently we also updated our business segment structure to align more closely with these changes in organizational structure and management responsibilities and the strategic focus of the company.
We have expanded our segment by one adding a US drilling segment represented primarily by our two rigs in Alaska.
We have aligned our international operations more closely with the management structure we now have in place.
Our previous three geographical regions are now to Latin America and Eastern Hemisphere and each region now includes results from O&amp;M contracts as well as from Parker’s international rig fleet.
Our technical service activities which primarily include our engagement in projects that have the potential to evolve into future O&amp;M opportunities will also be reported as an individual segment.
Our Rental Tools and US barge drilling segments remain unchanged.
We set records this past quarter for revenues and segment gross margin in the rental tools segment.
The segment includes – the segment continues to grow as it responded to increased demand for rental tools in the US land market.
A shift in rig count from dry gas to oil and liquid rich fields has also been a shift to longer well bores increasing the need for premium drill pipe and other tubular.
To meet the growing demand we still continue to shift inventory to active areas and to add to our inventories of tubulars BOPs and other products.
In the fourth quarter we acquired an additional $7 million of inventory bringing our 2011 purchases to $62 million.
We have additional pipe scheduled for delivery in early 2012 to meet the growth and customer needs and maintain service levels.
In addition we are actively exploring expanding our international rental tools activity and most recently have appointed a manager and established a business unit to the lead this effort.
In the US Gulf of Mexico our Barge Drilling business continued to benefit from improvements in day rates that more than offset the impact of lower utilization.
In 2011 fourth quarter we worked an average 8.6 rigs of the available 11 one less than last year’s fourth quarter average.
We had a brief pause and deep gas drilling after an active summer with all three of our ultra deep drilling barge rigs being idle for a time in the fourth quarter.
All three are currently working.
Our fourth quarter Gulf of Mexico Barge Drilling fleet average day rate was 27 700 up 32% from 21 000 per day in last year’s fourth quarter.
This is a notable accomplishment considering that three of the rigs with a highest day rate potential were idle for some time during the period.
Today 10 of our 11 rigs were at work predominantly drilling for oil.
With the 11th rig committed with a scheduled start up in early March.
Our current average day rate is $31 100 per day.
We had to rigs working at over $40 000 per day.
The shift to oil focused drilling for the barge rig fleet is not unique to Parker.
Based on an industry information over two-thirds of Barge Drilling today is targeted to oil specifically or has dual oil and gas plays primarily driven by the current price for oil and liquid content from these fields.
In our US drilling segment we are in the process of commissioning the AADU.
In January we reported that this would take longer than expected as a result of modifications needed to meet the operational and safety objectives we desire.
We made good progress on completing these modifications and currently are working with the customer to schedule acceptance testing.
Based on work requirements we have identified and the progress we made so far we expect these rigs to be operational ready during the 2102 third quarter.
The international drilling segment achieved higher revenues and earnings in the 2011 fourth quarter compared with 2010 fourth quarter.
This was a result of the higher fleet average day rate on modestly lower utilization for international rig fleet and improved results from our O&amp;M projects.
Our international rig fleet average utilization was 51% during the 2011 fourth quarter.
The comparable utilization for last year’s fourth quarter was 54%.
We have the equivalent of 13.3 rigs working during the 2011 fourth quarter compared with 13.9 during last year’s fourth quarter.
In the Latin America region our 10 rig fleet achieved 80% average utilization an increase from last year’s fourth quarter average utilization of 67%.
A year-to-year improvement was primarily due to a successful redeployment of a rig from Mexico to Columbia early in 2011 and the re-engagement of a previously idle rig in Mexico.
In this region we have an idle land rig that we are currently tendering for projects in both Mexico and Colombia.
In the Eastern Hemisphere region our 16 rig fleet operated at 33% average utilization compared with prior year’s fourth quarter equivalent average utilization of 45%.
The two rigs contracted to work in Algeria began mobilizing in January and we’re not included as working in the fourth quarter utilization rate.
They will be included in the utilization this quarter.
The decline in regional utilization since 2010 fourth quarter is the result of two rigs being idle since late 2010 and the recent completion of work by a third rig.
We have to idle rigs in New Zealand and six idle rigs Kazakhstan.
We continue to market idle rigs in country and for suitable applications in other markets.
The international drilling segment also includes result of drilling using customer owned rigs under O&amp;M contracts.
These projects include operating the extended reach the o-strip and land rig and the offshore Orlan platform for Exxon Neftegas and their stock being more in project.
Operating the Coral Sea Land rig for Talisman and Papua New Guinea.
Managing a fleet of 25 land rigs for quite drilling company in Kuwait and most recently providing a rig management team for a Chevron owned land rig drilling in China's Sichuan province.
The increase in O&amp;M operating results compared with 2010 fourth quarter was primarily driven by the 2011 edition of the Cora Sea project to the O&amp;M portfolio and increased reimbursable associated with the Sakhalin Island activity.
For the technical services segment the change in results for this past quarter compared with the prior year’s fourth quarter primarily reflects the completion in early 2011 of work on the Liberty project offset by contributions from other engineering projects.
I am encouraged by the state of our operation and their performance potential and expect to see solid results in 2012 in line with that potential.
During the past several years we invested in our rental tool business people facilities and equipment to meet the surge and demand for premium drilled pipe and to provide premier customer service.
I expect the demand to continue to grow as a result of the shift in US land drilling market away from dry gas targets to oil and the liquid rich targets and a continued increase in footage drilled due to longer laterals in the shale plays.
We continue to be proactive in meeting customer needs and expect to add inventory in 2012 to meet the requirements.
In addition the growing fleet of deep water drilling vessels in the Gulf of Mexico is a further source of opportunities for rental tool business.
We continue to lead in the Gulf of Mexico Barge Drilling market drilling remains active in the shallow waters of the GOM and its more oil focused today than it’s traditionally been.
For our Barge Drilling business I expect this shift to oil focused drilling and the continue interest in deep gas play will provide ongoing support to drilling activity.
I expect for US drilling operations to reflect our two new technology AAD use being commissioned and presented to work in 2012.
We have been transforming our international drilling activities focused on enhancing the deployment of assets we have in the field and on leveraging our drilling expertise through O&amp;M contracts.
The long expected growth and international E&amp;P spending appears to be taking hold and should provide support to our international drilling activities while we develop additional opportunities.
Much of the current work in our technical services segment will continue during most of this year.
In addition there were several early-stage engineering and development opportunities we are engaged on and I look forward to having some more to stay on our participation of these later this year.
I will now turn the call over to Kirk Brassfield to discuss our financial results.
Good morning.
For the fourth quarter of 2011 Parker Drilling’s earnings adjusted to exclude non-routine items was $0.17 per share.
Non-routine items include the non-cash asset impairment charge of 170 million pre-tax or 109.1 million after-tax and expenses associated with the ongoing US regulatory investigations in Parker’s internal review regarding possible violations of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and other laws.
The comparable result for last year’s fourth quarter was earnings of $0.01 per diluted share.
Rental tools segment revenues were 63.9 million and segment gross margin was 43.9 million.
Both revenues and gross margin our record results for this business.
The growth and performance of this business is attributable to the increasing use of lateral drilling in US land drilling markets particularly in the oil and liquids rich shale plays.
Our continued investments in rental tool inventory and our ability to position our products to best serve customer needs and meet market demand.
The US Barge Drilling segment reported fourth quarter revenues of 22.9 million and segment gross margin of 6.4 million.
The significant year-to-year increase in fourth quarter revenues and gross margin is due to the higher average day rate we achieved despite a decline in utilization.
US drilling segment recorded no revenues for the 2011 and 2010 fourth quarter.
Expenses reported in each period are those associated with preparations being made to support the AADU rigs.
Our international drilling segment reported fourth quarter revenues of 89.2 million and segment gross margin of 23.6 million.
Segment revenues and gross margins increased due to higher average fleet day rate in both the Latin America and Eastern Hemisphere regions offset somewhat by lower fleet utilization in the Eastern Hemisphere.
The segment also benefited from the addition of the Coral Sea heli-rig project that began earlier in 2011 and the contribution from the Yastreb rig move project.
Technical service segment revenues were 5.1 million for the 2011 fourth quarter and segment gross margin was 800 000.
Revenues are lower than in the 2010 fourth quarter reflecting primarily completion in early 2011 of our activities related to the Liberty Project.
This was offset by contributions from ongoing work related to the Berkut platform and other early stage engineering projects.
The construction contract segment reported – recorded no revenue or segment gross margin for the 2011 fourth quarter now that work on the Liberty project has seized.
G&amp;A expense in the fourth quarter was 7.9 million compared with the prior year’s fourth quarter expense of 6.7 million.
Both years include expenses related to the DOJ/SEC and Parker investigations.
Excluding these expenses adjusted G&amp;A for the 2011 fourth quarter was 7.4 million compared with similarly adjusted G&amp;A expense of 6.2 million for the 2010 fourth quarter.
This increase was primarily due to higher fees for professional services.
Total interest cost in 2011 fourth quarter was 10.5 million with 5.4 million recorded as interest expense and 5.1 million capitalized to AADU construction project.
In the prior year fourth quarter total interest cost was 10.3 with 6.3 recorded as an expense and 4 million being capitalized.
Our cash balance at quarter end was 97.9 million compared to 51.4 million at the end of 2010.
2012 capital expenditures were 190.4 million which included Alaska rig construction spending of 72.8 million rental tool purchases of 61.5 million and capitalized interest of 19.3 million.
At the end of the fourth quarter we had 482.7 million of debt outstanding or a net debt position of 384.9.
Our net debt to net capitalization ratio at quarter end was 41.4%.
That is a financial review.
Operator we’re ready to take questions from the audience.
Thank you sir.
(Operator Instructions) Our first question is from the line of John Keller with Stephens.
Please go ahead.
Hey guys.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Just want – a couple questions on the international segment I guess is Kazak rigs obviously haven’t worked in a while and kind of what’s the outlook for those rigs.
I guess we are hearing some positive chatter out Kazakhstan just kind of at macro level.
And then also the prospect for the five rigs rolling off contract in Mexico maybe it’s only four that they are rolling off in Q2 what is the continuity there.
John we’ve certainly talked about Kazakhstan in the past and that’s the softest area of our utilization on an international basis.
We have tendered those rigs in other areas.
We’ve mentioned that in the past and we are also just looking at the possibility of redeploying those rigs outside of that area.
So we are certainly trying to get those rigs back to work.
I think it’s relatively limited within Kazakhstan to get those rigs to work this year.
We are looking at both Russia and Turkmenistan as potential other areas and also we are considering tendering those rigs outside the CIS.
As far as Mexico is concerned we are currently working under a 50 well contract with the Schlumberger.
We have been advised by Schlumberger that we still have a number of wells to do which should take us through the majority of this year with work on that.
At some point in this year we will be re-tendering those works for additional work.
Just the feedback we’ve gotten from Pemac is that there certainly interested in this field.
This is an oilfield that we have been drilling for the last three and a half years and in the remarks back from Pemac is that they are interested in continuing with the oil development program.
Okay.
So I guess from the structure of the contract it sounds like while you have contracted I’m looking at the fleet utilization report that you’ll put out it looks like they are rolling off in Q2 but what you’re saying the workflow on those is going to keep them contracted longer than that? Yes.
We have been advised that there are additional wells to be drilled with that 50-well program.
Some of those wells are being drilled by us and some of the wells have been drilled by a period contractor.
And so with Schlumberger’s advice there is an additional amount of wells that need to be finished.
That they want Parker to finish before those rigs – before that new tranche of wells is tendered sometime later this year.
So we have pretty good visibility for work throughout 2012 for those units.
Good.
And then I just – maybe this is a technicality to queue here but on the two Alaska rigs units you mentioned that they are ready to go in Q3.
Is there some risk to those actually getting put to work in Q3 or do you expect them to be earning rate? That’s a good question.
I was recently up in Alaska John and I was up in dead horse looking at our rigs and evaluating the amount of work that we still have left to do to get those rigs teed-up for acceptance which is earlier than the third quarter.
And then and one of the observations that I’ve made is that I didn’t see any idol drilling rigs in anybody else’s yard.
So it’s a very active season in Alaska.
The reports back from our customer is that they need these rigs for their 2013 production and so we anticipate these rigs going to work once they finish their acceptance testing but still we are in discussions with the customer on specific timetable of that.
The timetable that I provided within my comments for the third quarter I think that’s a very realistic timetable right now.
Okay.
Great guys.
I’ll turn it back.
Thanks.
Thanks.
(Operator Instructions) Our next question is from the line of Georg Venturatos with Johnson Rice.
Please go ahead.
Good morning guys.
Good morning Georg.
I just wanted to speak briefly about the rental tool side.
Obviously you maintain a positive outlook there.
We have seen kind of that utilization trend down slightly over the last few months.
Should we attribute that largely to capacity adds or is there some impact from the dry gas shift and I guess on top of that looking ahead as you will likely continue to add capacity there should we expect those rates to kind of remain similar to what we’ve seen over the last few months? Good question.
So the utilization I think you are referring to is our utilization on rental tools.
So I’ll actually talk also about utilization of the US land rig fleet to.
So first our utilization we have taken a substantial amount of inventory over the last two quarters of which we have deployed the majority of that out into our – into the field.
But the utilization flatness really is more of a reflection of just the amount of inventory that we’ve received and is now still waiting to go out to our rig locations.
We’re confident as I said in the call earlier about adding additional inventory.
We have additional inventory coming in and the first and second quarter of this year.
So we are still bullish on the market for the North American operation.
We’ve seen a substantial shift from gas to oil related type projects.
To granulate the US fleet you know we don’t focus on the macro number.
What we focus on is the granulated number of how many horizontal rigs are currently working today.
That’s the market that we are focused on.
And that rig count is still continuing to either slightly increase or maintain so we should see a substantial amount of rigs shifting from gas to oil.
We are going to those projects.
So one of our customers announced recently that they are going to curtail their gas drilling and what they also said in that same press releases that they’re going ramp-up their oil drilling and so that we are pretty active with that customer today.
And so we’ve seen a substantial amount of shift from gas to oil.
I think that will continue to occur in 2012 but right now we are still confident that we can add top end to our revenue this year just based on the amount of work that our customers told us they are going to go.
In addition there is a fairly substantial amount of Gulf of Mexico activity especially in deepwater we’re anticipating.
We have two strings that are currently working in the Gulf of Mexico.
We anticipate somewhere between four to five strings are going to be put to work over the next quarter to quarter and a half as these rigs either re-contract or enter the Gulf of Mexico for work.
Great appreciate it.
And then just looking ahead some of the initial CapEx budget plans for 2012 obviously we will see continued spend in rental tools; we know some incremental capital will be headed toward the Alaska rigs.
But just with the understanding that you do have the convert maturing in July how do you look out to ‘12 in terms of capital spending? George this is Kirk Brassfield in 2012 we’re looking at total capital budget approximating 170 million.
So that will be a little bit lower than what we spend in 2011.
And quayle will be in that 70 million plus range and then we will also probably spend in that mid-30 range to complete the AADU Project.
And the remaining part of that is our maintenance that we’ve discussed in the past and maintain our rigs and so that’s pretty much the 170 million.
We have some money in there also to deploy rigs to new contracts in the world today.
Perfect.
I appreciate the answers guys.
That’s it for me.
Thanks.
Thank you.
Thank you.
And that does conclude the question-and-answer session.
I would now like to turn the call back over to Mr.
Bajenski for closing remarks.
I want to thank all those who have joined us today for this update on Parker Drilling.
We appreciate your time and efforts.
We wish you a good day and look forward to updating you on our activities as we go through the remaining part of this quarter.
Have a good day.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes the Parker Drilling first quarter 2011 conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Thank you for using ACT Conferencing.
Good morning ladies and gentlemen and thank you for standing by.
And welcome to the Parker Drilling first quarter 2012 conference call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Following the presentation there will be a question-and-answer session and instructions will be given at that time.
(Operator Instructions) And as a reminder this call is being recorded today May 2 2012.
I would now like to turn the call over to Richard Bajenski.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Craig and good morning to all in our audience.
Thank you for joining our conference call today.
This is Richard Bajenski Director of Investor Relations and joining me today here at Parker are Bobby Parker Chairman CEO &amp; President; and Kirk Brassfield Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
In the course of our comments today we will make statements regarding management’s expectations for the company’s future performance that we believe will be informative and beneficial to our shareholders.
These statements are considered forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Securities Act.
Each forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date of this call and actual results may differ materially due to various factors we have referenced in our public filings and other factors addressed during this call including changes in market conditions affecting our industry.
We will also refer to non-GAAP financial numbers such as adjusted EBITDA and non-routine items.
Please refer to the table in our current press release or on the company’s website for a definition of adjusted EBITDA and a reconciliation of this measure to the comparable GAAP measure and for further information regarding non-routine items.
Bobby Parker will begin our review.
Bobby? Thanks Rich and welcome to our conference call.
Earlier today we reported our 2012 first quarter results.
They were great results with increases in revenues gross margins and gross margins percent for businesses serving the US land drilling market US Gulf of Mexico market and the international market.
I believe that we have more good results to come.
Kirk Brassfield and I will review our operational and financial performance in detail and an outlook in a moment.
Beforehand though an update on some related items.
First is progress on our CEO search that effort is underway and is being let by committee of the board.
In the mean time I have been very active in my role as interim CEO.
As I previously mentioned I will not be a place over CEO.
In addition to being engaged in day-to-day operations of several projects I am specifically focused on and expect to have completed or moving forward towards completion by the time we appoint a new CEO.
Number one on my list is to get the Arctic Alaska Drilling Units or AADU rigs completed and working.
Since stepping into this role I’ve been to Alaska twice both times to meet with our customer BP and Anchorage and once to the North Slope for a firsthand look at rigs to discuss the completion plan for the rigs and to review our progress.
Everything appears to be on track to meet the objective we set out when we reported our fourth quarter results.
And it is to have the rigs operational ready to be turned over to BP for their acceptance testing during the 2012 third quarter.
We currently are in discussion with BP to establish more specific dates.
I believe our AADU rigs will prove to be the right answer for the needs of this market and we’ll deliver a new level of safety efficiency and consistency to the region.
Also among my objectives is to reestablish momentum in our international rig fleet utilization which has been around 50% for 2012.
While I am specifically focused on our idle rigs in Kazakhstan I am mindful of the need to have a good forward plan for all of our rigs regardless of their utilization status today.
Regarding Kazakhstan we have nine rigs in country with two currently working for a number of reasons political and economic.
I have concerns about the long-term demand in Kazakhstan for the nine rigs we have there.
Consequently we are assessing all available options for these rigs including asset redeployment as well as potential asset sales.
For example we are currently evaluating several drilling tenders in Turkmenistan and Algeria a suitable redeployment for some of the rigs.
While it will time before any of these can be converted into operating results my objective is to have a clear plan for these rigs and be acting on that plan.
Excluded among my objectives is to maintain the momentum in our business operation the energy and our relationship with customers and the consistency in our communication with investors.
I can assure everyone our corporate strategy and the direction of the company is unchanged and is fully supported by the board.
It is understandable that there may be some uncertainty at this time.
As a result the leadership team and I have stepped our communication and outreach to our employees our customers and our shareholders.
We want everyone to understand that we expect to continue to conduct business in line with our shared strategy objectives and goals.
I am also very intent on maintaining our focus on working safe.
At all level of the company we are working diligently to keep everyone aware as a need to be watchful of their own safety as well as a safety of those that they work with and to assure that we don’t lose sight of this most important responsibility.
You have read in our earnings release and you will hear Kirk report it on our operations.
All of our operations are doing well several quite well.
We are working to maintain net momentum to improve and grow our businesses.
And for market trend the US drilling market has been fairly robust.
The shift by land operators from dry gas targets to oil and wet gas targets has had little impact on our rental tool business.
Our rental tool inventory is fluid and is easily moved between markets as customer demand moves geographically.
One of our strengths is that we can relocate drill pipe quickly.
An important trend affecting drill pipe demand has been the increase in footage drilled due to the growth in wells drilled the expanded use of lateral drillings in all types of formations not just shale plays and the longer well bores of lateral wells.
Combined these have led to a need for more drill pipe in the fields concentrated in the oil and wet gas shale plays and also occurring more recently in conventional fields where lateral drilling has begun to take hold.
The Gulf of Mexico shallow water barge market appears steady supported by a price of oil that makes drilling even small reservoirs a good cash flow decision.
In the international market prices for oil and natural gas had been a stimulus for exploration and development drilling activity.
As this unfolds more broadly I expect it will continue to support growing demand for contract drilling services as well as a technical advice and expertise necessary to carry out these activities in more remote and challenging locations.
On conclusion of my remarks at this time I will turn this over to Kirk Brassfield to discuss our operating and financial performance.
Kirk? Thanks Bobby.
For the 2012 first quarter we had solid growth in revenues producing a 67% increase in operating gross margin and a 81% increase in adjusted EBITDA compared with the 2011 first quarter.
This led to a significant improvement in net income and earnings per share.
For the quarter Parker Drilling's earnings were $0.22 per diluted share.
The comparable result for last year’s first quarter was earnings of $0.04 per share.
We set records this past quarter for revenues and gross margin in the rental tools segment.
Revenues were $66.3 million and gross margin was $44.7 million.
And gross margin as a percent of revenues increased to 67.4% from last year’s 65.3%.
The growth and performance of this business is attributable to the increasing use of lateral drilling in US land drilling markets particularly in the oil and wet gas shale plays our continued investments in rental tools inventory and our ability to effectively position our products to best serve customer needs and meet market demand in a timely manner.
The expanded use of lateral drilling in both shale plays and increasingly in conventional fields have led to a rising demand for premium drill pipe to match the continued growth in footage drilled.
To meet the increased demand we continue to add to our inventory of tubulars PLPs and other products.
In the first quarter we invested approximately $25 million in the rental tools business and we have additional pipes scheduled for delivery in the second quarter.
As a result of the added inventory our tubular goods utilization level is trending back to normal a condition that allows us to maintain our service level and grow our business.
The US Barge Drilling segment reported first quarter revenues of $27.8 million gross margin of $10.7 million and gross margin as a percent of revenue of 38.4%.
All of these measures are significantly increased from the prior year’s first quarter.
The Barge Drilling business continued to benefit from increased utilization and higher day rates.
Our 2012 first quarter average utilization was 75% compared with the 2011 first quarter utilization of 57%.
Our first quarter fleet average day rate was 30 400 up 35% from the 22 600 per day in last year’s first quarter.
Today all of our available 11 barge rigs are at work predominantly drilling for oil as is also true for most of the industry’s GOM barge drilling fleet.
Based on current industry information over 80% of barge drilling is targeted to oil specifically or has dual oil and gas legs primarily driven by the current price for the oil and liquids contents from these fields.
The US Drilling segment recorded no revenues from the 2012 and 2011 first quarters.
Expenses from the quarter in each period are those associated with preparations being made to support the AADU rigs.
As Bobby mentioned earlier we are in the process of commissioning the AADU rigs and working with our customer BP to schedule acceptance testing.
Based on the work requirements we have identified and the progress we have made so far we expect the rigs to be operationally ready and turned over to BP for acceptance testing during this 2012 third quarter.
Our International Drilling segment reported first quarter revenues of $78.8 million gross margin of $26.5 million and gross margin as a percent of revenue of 33.7%.
Segment revenues gross margins and gross margin percent improved due to the increased utilization and a higher average day rate from the Parker rig fleet and an increase in the number of O&amp;M projects.
Revenue growth was reduced by the completion in late 2011 of the Sakhalin Island-Astra rig (inaudible) project eliminating a significant amount of revenue from reimbursed project expense.
Our international rig fleet average utilization was 58% during the 2012 first quarter a comparable utilization for last year’s first quarter was 46%.
We had the equivalent of 15 rigs working during the 2012 first quarter compared with 12 equivalent rigs during last year’s first quarter.
In the Latin America region our 10 rig fleets sustained its 80% average utilization well above last year’s first quarter average utilization of 60%.
The year-to-year improvement was primarily due to the successful redeployment of a rig from Mexico to Columbia early in 2011 and the reengagement of a previously idle rig in Mexico.
In this region we have an idle land rig that we are currently tendering for projects in both Mexico and Columbia.
In the Eastern hemisphere region our 16 rig fleets operate a 44% average utilization compared with the prior year’s first quarter equivalent average utilization of 38%.
Two rigs contracted work in Algeria begin working or were mobilizing in the first quarter contributing to the improved utilization rig.
This benefit was partially offset by the completion of work in late 2011 by a rig in Indonesia.
We had two rigs idle in New Zealand and six rigs idle in Kazakhstan that we continued to market in-country and for suitable applications in other markets.
The international drilling segment O&amp;M projects produced lower revenues with higher gross margin dollars in 2012 first quarter compared with 2011 first quarter.
This is primarily due to the completion in late 2011 of the [Astra] rig move on Sakhalin Island.
This project had a significant amount of reimbursable expense that contributed to reported revenues but little to earnings.
Otherwise the addition of the [coral] rigs the operations contract in Papua New Guinea and the China rig management contract adding to the revenues and earnings in the O&amp;M portfolio.
Our technical service segment revenues were 3.7 million for the first quarter and gross margin was 200 000.
Revenues are lower than the 2011 first quarter reflecting primarily the completion in early 2011 of our activities related to Liberty Project in Alaska and the transition of the Sakhalin Island for crude platform project from its engineering phase to a less revenue-intensive construction over side phase.
This was partially offset by contribution from other early stage engineering projects.
The construction contract segment recorded no revenues or gross margin for the 2012 first quarter.
Now the work on the Liberty Project has ceased.
G&amp;A expense in the first quarter was 5.5 million compared with the prior year’s first quarter expense of 6.8 million.
While both years include expenses related to the DOJ/SEC and Parker investigations the amount for 2012 first quarter was quite small.
Adjusted G&amp;A expense for the 2011 first quarter was 6.1 million.
A year-to-year decrease in G&amp;A expense was primarily due to lower fees from professional services and reduced compensation expense.
Total interest cost in 2012 first quarter was 10.4 million with 8 million recorded as interest expense and 2.4 million being capitalized prior to the AADU rigs construction.
In the prior year’s first quarter total interest cost was 10.3 million with 5.9 million recorded as expense and 4.4 million was capitalized.
Our effective tax rate for the quarter was 36% well below the prior year’s first quarter rate of 50%.
Contributing to the low rate in the 2012 first quarter was the 1.6 million discreet tax items.
Otherwise our tax rate would have been approximately 40%.
We expect our full-year tax rate to be around that level.
Our cash balance at quarter end was 69 million compared to 97.9 million at the end of 2011.
First quarter capital expenditures were 59.34 million which included the Alaska rig construction spending of 26.9 million and expenditures of 25.1 million for our rental tools business.
At the end of the first quarter we had 478.2 million of debt outstanding or a net debt position of 409.3 million.
Our net debt to net capitalization ratio of quarter-end was 41.7%.
In April we issued 125 million of add-on notes to our senior secured notes and initiated a tender offer for our convertible senior notes due in July.
Upon completion of the tender offer next week we will have effectively refinance the convertibles and extend the debt maturities in 2018.
We believe our balance sheet is in good shape and that our operational performance and strategic balance and diversity can provide cash flows to allow us to continue to be successful and grow profitably.
That ends the operations and financial review.
I will turn this back to Bobby for comments on the outlook and then we will take questions.
Thanks Kirk.
I am encouraged by the recent performance of our operations.
We had a very good first quarter with significant gains in several of our businesses and I expect current business trends our commanding position and other strategic strengths will continue solid performance from our operations.
The shifting focus of U.S.
land drilling from dry gas to oil and wet gas target is not expected to reverse the growth in footage drilled and the resultant increase in demand for premium-drilled pipe and other tubular products.
In addition to the drilling fleet and deep water drilling vessels in the Gulf of Mexico is expected to be a source of further opportunities from our rental tools business.
We intend to invest further in our rental tools operation in people facilities and equipment to meet the growing demand and to continue to provide premier customer service.
The Gulf of Mexico barge drilling market remains active with oil and wet gas targets being the predominant focus.
If market dry gas to oil remains around the current level there should be good support for continued drilling in the shallow waters of the Gulf of Mexico.
Further interest in developing deep gas plays in this area could provide some additional growth opportunities.
The long expected growth and international E&amp;P spending could lead to deployment opportunities for international rig fleet and to additional contracts for our O&amp;M portfolio.
These are longer term developments though such that any tender or contract win in the next few months are more likely to have the greatest impacts on 2013 results.
For the near-term we will be focused on maintaining our current utilization through contract renewals or new contracts.
Our rig 257 the Caspian Sea barge rig has completed its latest contracted work and the (inaudible) have been released.
It is under consideration for a couple of projects.
In our technical services segment we expect most of our project activities to continue during the rest of the year.
There are some early stage engineering and development projects that we are engaged in that could transform into more expansive involvement in the future.
That concludes my remarks.
Operator we are ready to take questions from the audience.
Thank you very much.
(Operator Instructions) And our first question does come from the line of John Keller with Stephens Inc.
Bobby I just like -- if you could elaborate maybe on 257 and the outlook for that rig I think you kind of closed your remarks out with saying that it’d been released kind of where is that stand and what are the prospects going forward? Hi John.
We’re not allowed to say at this time.
We’re in discussions with at least one customer now about potential future work and that’s really as much as we can say at this time.
Certainly we told people before that the future of the drilling program was on the well to well basis and our current customer decided to terminate the program at the end of its current contract.
So we’re in discussions and when we have more information we will sure let you know.
Okay sound good.
And then maybe if we could just kind of turn to oil for second and the margins coming down a little bit in that business.
What’s behind that? Is it really utilization issue as you’re continuing to move mobilized pipe from gassy or oily basins or you know how is the level of discounting in that business? Maybe just kind of elaborate a little bit on that and I think Kirk had mention that our utilization kind of started to turn back up to normalize levels? Yes John this is Kirk.
Yeah there has been just from the discounting perspective there has been as we talked other the times there is a little bit more pressure in the Williston area but still well within our normal range.
So you don’t see that come down from the fourth quarter slightly I think in the fourth quarter we were probably around 60% 67% 68% are pressured a little bit.
The other areas we have not seen the same impact.
So it’s been primarily going back to the Williston and North Dakota area.
And how about utilization the utilization has sort of suffered in the first quarter as you reposition pipe or…? I think a lot of it also had to do with the amount of pipe that we brought in during the first quarter and once you get the pipe in you do have to go to a process to -- go through the testing and just checking of the pipe and then make sure that the customer is ready for that pipe.
You have a little brief period from the time you receive it from the time it goes out to a job.
So as you noted we did have that 25 million pipe come in during the first quarter.
So some of that is just building back our inventories to that normal level so that we can more adequately serve our customers and so we need potential new customers which is what we are building to.
And John this is Bobby.
We are happy certainly with Quail in our results (inaudible) they have great quarter.
We are always watching trends in US land drilling business especially where it’s headed but our results our customers tell us they’re going to be continue to be busy.
Of course we are moving pipe around to the more of the oil areas that we talked about.
Kirk’s comments about inventory levels is certainly Rental Tools folks like to have a little inventory around so they can service new clients or when they get request from current customers they can respond.
And it’s always nice to think everything you have has been rented but in reality this the best way to the business.
So the normal area that we like to operate in is to have some pipe around to be able to service both new accounts and current customers.
So we are happy with what we are seeing with Quail at this time.
(Operator Instructions) And our next question comes from the line of Daniel Burke with Johnson Rice.
I was wondering if you can give us an update on full year CapEx plans and if the deployment into the completion of the AADU’s and/or the plans for Quail had changed from previous; it look like you’ve spend a fair chunk of the annual Quail budget in your Q1? Daniel this is Kirk; yes we are always front loaded on our capital including Quail and obviously the AADU.
We are looking at – still looking at $170 million for the year and we would expect to have a comparable amount or just below what we saw in the first quarter coming in the second quarter.
So we still have additional five coming in for Quail and we also will continue to spend on AADU in the same quarter.
Any change to the dollar amount needed to finish the AADU’s; I believe you guys have talked about mid $30 million as last update; I assume the total budget the same and that number haven’t moved? Right now we are still looking at that number; so obviously as we proceed forward with as Bobby mentioned we are talking with BP we’ll obviously update the market if that number changes.
And then maybe last on from me good to see the health of the Barge business.
Anyway we could get an update on where rates stand today or are you still seeing the rate momentum that characterize the business you know over the last couple of quarters continue? Yes I believe we mentioned the average for the quarter was $30 400 for the first quarter.
Today at a one day look we are about $31 500.
And we are still working all 11 rigs.
And our next question does come from the line of RJ Cruz with Trust Company of the West.
Can you provide an update on your search for current CEO? Yes it’s Bobby.
There is not much to what we said earlier that as the Board Committee has initiated the search and its ongoing at this time and when we have a selection made certainly now of that will be made but until that time the search is ongoing and that's as much as I can add this time.
Is there a timeline to complete that process? No there is not a specific timeline it’s just finding the right candidate; right person is the most important thing.
But there is not any specific timeline out there but the search is certainly ongoing and moving forward.
And then during your last event road show you did talked about your conversations with BP any updates in that regard and are you still thinking about putting those rigs to work in the third quarter.
Is there any push back there? There is nothing really new.
We are still in discussions with BP; on my trip to the [Norfolk].
I certainly was impressed with the rigs and the people that are up there.
As we publicly stated we are on-track to deliver these rigs after Parker’s commissioning of the rigs to BP for their acceptance testing in the third quarter this year.
So no change and everything I’ve sold when I was up there would led me to believe that we are on-track for that timeframe and so I hope that to-date and in the future as we get more progress certainly in our discussions with BP.
And maybe last one from me is as we see the rigs the natural gas volume go down I mean does that impact you in anyway or if your Quail business essentially agnostic between natural gas and oil? RJ this is Richard Bajenski could you repeat the question we had a difficult time hearing you here? Right so I was saying that with respect to just the Quail tools business and as you see the natural gas and rig count drop I mean does that impact in anyway or is your business more agnostic between oil and gas rigs? Yes thank you very much for repeating that.
The impact to Quail has been nothing financially; in fact continue to see returning good results.
They certainly have been very fluid in moving inventory as needed between the let's say dry gas or gas drilling areas where rig counts have come off some to the areas where oil or liquid rich drilling is occurring in some of the shale plays there.
So Quail is able to move very quickly their drill pipes to wherever it’s needed in these areas.
I’ll also add that besides the shale plays the vertical drilling and excuse me horizontal drilling in these areas has also gone to areas which are non-traditional shale plays and I’ll use the Permian Basin is a great example and all the oil field that has a lot of rig activity right now and so the new style horizontal drilling or new completions has helped this area and increased the number of rigs there.
That kind of thing for a Rental Tools company is wonderful.
So the impact we’ve seen in shifting inventory around and making sure that at Quail stays very close to the customers to make sure the pipe that they have is where it’s needed and that’s still -- so I would say no financial effect but the effect is as far as where the pipe is located around the country.
And at this time there are no further questions in the queue I would like to turn the call back to over to Mr.
Bajenski for any closing comments.
Thank you Craig for assisting us in this call.
And thank you all for listening to us today.
We appreciate your interest in the company and we wish you all a safe and prosperous good day.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen that will conclude the conference for today.
And do thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect your lines at this time.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by.
And welcome to the Parker Drilling Second Quarter 2012 Conference Call.
During today’s presentation all participants will be in a listen-only mode.
Following the presentation the conference will be open for your questions.
(Operator Instructions) Today’s conference is being recorded August 2 2012.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Richard Bajenski.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Alicia.
Good morning to you and our audience.
And thank you for joining the Parker Drilling 2012 second quarter conference call.
This is Richard Bajenski Director of Investor Relations.
And joining me today are Bobby Parker Chairman CEO and President; and Kirk Brassfield Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
In the course of our comments today we may make statements regarding management’s expectations for the company’s future performance that we believe will be informative and beneficial to our shareholders.
These statements are considered forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Securities Act.
And these forward-looking statements speaks only as of the date of this call and actual results may differ materially due to the various factors we have referenced in our public filings and other factors addressed during this call including changes in market conditions affecting our industry.
We will also refer to non-GAAP financial measures such as adjusted EBITDA and non-routine items.
Please refer to the table in our current press release or on the company’s website for a definition of adjusted EBITDA and a reconciliation of this measure to the comparable GAAP measure and for further information regarding non-routine items.
Bobby Parker will begin our review today.
Bobby? Thanks Rich.
And I want to welcome everyone to our conference call.
Earlier today we reported our 2012 second quarter results.
We achieved year-to-year increases in revenues adjusted EBITDA net income and earnings per share.
In addition our U.S.
Barge Drilling and International Drilling segments contributed a greater portion of our earnings demonstrating the balance and diversity of our sources of revenue and earnings growth.
Kirk and I will review operational and financial performance in detail in a moment before hand though an update on our CEO search and other topics.
Our CEO search is ongoing and has been led by the Board assisted by an outside search firm.
There is not much more that can be said about a project like this until it is complete and we have an executive onboard until then one of my objections is to maintain the momentum in our business operations.
There are two other areas that I’m focused on.
First is to get the AADU rig completed and working.
We are making good progress on this.
One rig is scheduled to begin acceptance testing today.
Once accepted by BP it will move to its first location and begin operations that could be before year end.
The second rig is scheduled to begin testing shortly after the first rig has gone through the process.
Our people on the North Slope have never been busier working to complete the rigs and they are training for rig operations.
They made great progress since earlier this year and I want to thank them for the perseverance their dedicated work and their safety performance.
Our safety record on the North Slope has been terrific.
Year-to-date we have had no reportable injuries.
Our second area of focus is to reestablish momentum in our international rig fleet utilization.
Our current rig utilization is not where we wanted to be and it will trend lower before it improves.
We have been working vigilantly to remedy that.
As a result of our efforts and an increase in E&amp;P spending our tender activity has increased significantly and we have been actively submitting tenders in all of our key markets and developing opportunities in some promising new markets.
A particular focus of that work is our under utilized fleet of nine rings in Kazakhstan only two of the nine Kazakhstan rigs are working today and we have been actively tendering them for work in country and through the CIS and other regions.
We’re also accessing other options for these rigs including potential sales.
One of my personal priorities has been a commitment to maintain our focus on safety throughout the company.
Our people have done a good job of maintaining that focus being watchful of their own safety as well as the safety of those they work with.
As a result our company-wide safety performance today is better than it was this time last year and significantly better than our target everyone should be committed for this effort has to taken to achieve that.
Turning now to market trends as we see them demand for the rental tools in the U.S.
land drilling market has slowed as footage drilled and the overall rig count have leveled off.
As a result we are seeing more than adequate supplies of drill pipe and related products in most of our key markets as rental tools supplier bring to the market previously ordered equipment.
I would expect this oversupply condition will rebalance itself relatively quickly as it usually does through the normal wear and loss of pipe as they used.
In the meantime equipment utilization and pricing are trending lower.
The Gulf of Mexico shallow water barge drilling market appears study today supported by oil prices that make drilling even in small reservoirs a good cash flow decision.
Most recently almost all of the industry’s available barge rigs have been working and many operators have multi-well drilling programs to execute.
There is however a shortage of deep gas drilling programs in this market.
So some of our deepest drilling rigs might go through patches of idle time or continue to be used to drill shallower wells at corresponding day rates.
Although we are seeing stronger utilization today it should be noted that we are entering the typically more active part of the hurricane season and some operators may choose to postpone drilling during the coming months to avoid drilling delays and extra cost caused by storm events.
In the international market prices for oil and natural gas have been a stimulus to exploration and development drilling.
Through our current international rig utilization rate is low and trending lower we have been experiencing higher levels of tendering activity recently significantly above where it has been.
Not all of this will lead to contracted work for Parker but it was a good indication.
As this unfolds more broadly I expect it to lead to more demand for our contract drilling services as well as a technical advice and expertise we provide to those with projects in more remote and challenging location.
That concludes my remarks for now.
I’ll turn it over to Kirk Brassfield to discuss our operating and financial performance.
Kirk? Thanks Bobby.
For the 2012 second quarter we achieved a 4% year-to-year increase in revenues producing a 9% increase in operating gross margins a 7% increase in adjusted EBITDA and a 35% increase in adjusted net income.
For the quarter our earnings were $0.17 per diluted share and $0.18 per share when adjusted for non-routine items a 38% increase from the comparable results from last year second quarter.
Revenues and segment gross margins for the Rental Tools segment continued to grow compared to the 2011 second quarter.
Revenues were $65 million gross margin was $42.5 million and gross margin as a percent of revenue was 65.3%.
The growth and performance of this business is attributable to the continued demand for premium Rental Tools driven by the expanded use of lateral drilling in U.S.
land drilling markets particularly in the oil and wet gas plays our expanded rail tools inventory the geographic shift by operating from dry gas oil fields to oil and wet gas fields and our ability to efficiently position our products to best meet those shipping customer needs in a timely manner.
The U.S.
Barge Drilling segment reported second-quarter revenues of $33.3 million gross margin of $14.5 million and gross margin as a percentage of revenue of 43.6%.
All of these reflect significant increases from the prior year second quarter.
The Barge Drilling business continued to benefit from increased utilization and higher day rates.
Our second-quarter average utilization was 85% compared with the 2011 second quarter utilization of 81%.
Our reported average utilization is based on a marketable fleet of 13 Barge rigs which includes two rigs that would require capital outweighs before they would operate.
Excluding these two rigs we were effectively a full utilization of our marketed fleets of 11 drilling Barges.
In addition to reaching full utilizations in the second quarter we also were able to increase our average day rate by 23% to [31.09] from 26 000 into the 2011 second quarter.
And we were able to accomplish this while our ultra deep Barge rigs were drilling shallower wells some of the time at corresponding day rates.
Today all of our available 11 Barge rigs are at work.
And our current average day rate is approximately $34 000.
Most of our rigs are engaged in drilling for oil as this is also true for most of the industry Gulf of Mexico Barge drilling fleet.
The U.S.
Drilling segment recorded no revenues from the 2012 and 2011 second quarters.
Its business reported in each period are those associated with the preparations being made to support the AADU rigs.
Let me address the financial impact that will occur as the rigs move through the acceptance process and then on to drilling.
As each rig is presented for acceptance testing it is deem to be substantially complete and ready for its intended use.
At that time we will seek capitalizing rig related costs and depreciation of each rig will begin.
The majority of costs incurred after that time are expected to be recorded as an operating expense which we estimate will be at least $1.5 million per rig per month.
We expect that there’ll be some months ahead in which we will have little or no revenues from these rigs.
Revenues will be generated only after rig has been accepted by BP move to these locations and began operations.
As a result the segment gross margins are likely to reflect losses during the remainder of the year.
Our International Drilling segment reported second quarter revenue of $76.9 million gross margin of $18.2 million and gross margin as a percent of revenue of 23.7%.
Compared to the 2011 second quarter segment revenues gross margins and gross margin percent all improved to the increased utilization in the higher average day rate for the Parker fleet up from the Parker fleet.
Offset primarily by much lower revenues from reimbursable expenses in our O&amp;M projects our international rig fleet utilization was 51% during this 2012 second quarter.
The comparable utilization for last year’s second quarter was 48%.
In the Latin America region our 10 rig fleet operated 70% utilization and ahead of last years second quarter average utilization of 67%.
The year-to-year improvement was primarily due to the reengagement in Mexico of a previously idle rig.
In this region we have three planned rigs idle two of which recently completed contracted work in Colombia.
All three are either included in recently submitted tenders or are at the subject of discussions with operators in the area.
In the Eastern Hemisphere region our 16-rig fleet operated at 39% compared with the prior year second quarter average utilization of 36%.
The utilization increase was primarily the result of putting two previously idle rigs to work in Nigeria earlier this year.
During the 2012 second quarter our Caspian Sea drilling barge completed its work in the (inaudible) field and is currently idle and at zero day rate.
We are in discussion with the operators about their plans for the rig while we also seek other work in the region.
In addition to the rigs we have idle in Kazakhstan.
We have two rigs idle in New Zealand and one rig idle in Indonesia.
We continue to market these in the region.
The International Drilling segment O&amp;M projects had lower revenues and gross margins in the 2012 second quarter compared with the 2011 second quarter primarily due to the completion in late 2011 of the Yastreb rig move on Sakhalin Island.
Personally offsetting this were increased contributions from the Coral Sea project in Papua New Guinea a new rig management contract in China and a ramp-up to operating status from one status from the Orlan platform off the Sakhalin Island Russia.
Beginning this week our work on Sakhalin Island with Exxon Neftegas Ltd.
moves to a new chapter.
With the exploration of one of the original O&amp;M contracts ENL initiated a tender for a new consolidated contract covering the existing two operations which are the Oster brand rig and Orlan platform and adding the under construction for Berkut platform..
We were successful in winning the new consolidated contract expanding the scope of our involvement with ENL on Sakhalin Island and replacing a significant portion of the financial contribution that the original contracts had provided.
The new consolidated contract is expected to produce revenues around $350 million during its five-year term.
Our initial work under the new contract will focus on the two programs we previously operated the Oscar rig and the Orlan platform and will expand to include the Berkut platform when it is activated which is expected to occur in late 2013 or early 2014.
The initial EBITDA of the new consolidated contract is expected to be approximately $1 million to $1.5 million per quarter.
It will significantly increase from there when the Berkut platform is activated and an additional content is added to the work scope which is already begun to occur.
Our technical services segment revenues were $3.7 million for the 2012 second quarter and gross margin was a loss of $258 000.
Revenues are lower than in the 2011 second quarter reflecting primarily the completion in 2011 of the pre-operations activity related to the Liberty project in Alaska and the transition of the Sakhalin Island Berkut platform project from its engineering phase for a less revenue intensive construction phase.
The construction contract segment recorded no revenues or gross margin for 2012 second quarter now that the work on the Liberty project has ceased.
BP recently announced it will not proceed with its Liberty project as originally designed.
While we had hoped we would be in line to operate that rig once it ready for drilling BPs announcement does not impact any of our current activity nor does it affect the expectations for our AADU rig deployment.
G&amp;A expense in the second quarter was $7.4 million compared with the prior year’s quarter expense of $7.9 million.
Both years included expenses related to DOJ SEC and Parker investigations.
Excluding these adjusted G&amp;A expense for 2012 second quarter was $7.1 million compared with the similarly adjusted G&amp;A expense of $5.5 million for the 2011 second quarter.
This increase was primarily due to higher professional fees.
Total interest cost in the 2012 second quarter was $11.9 million with $8.9 million reported as interest expense and $3 million being capitalized.
Much of the capitalized interest is related to the AADU rig construction.
This capitalization of the AADU rig construction will see being capitalized as rigs are presented for acceptance testing.
In the prior year’s second quarter total interest was $10.5 million with $5.8 million recorded as expense and $4.7 million capitalized.
The increase in interest expense is primarily the result of the April refinancing of our 208 first hand convertible notes that matured in July.
We issued a $125 million at ad on notes to our senior secured notes and later completed a tender offer for the convertible notes.
We have effectively refinanced the convertibles and extended the debt maturity to 2018.
In executing the refinancing we also incurred debt extinguishments cost of $1.6 million which reduced earnings per share by $0.01 in the second quarter.
Our effective tax rate for the quarter was 33% well below the prior year’s second quarter rate of 49%.
The primary factor leading to the lower rate in the 2007 -- 2012 second quarter was our ability to utilize net operating losses.
In addition we benefited from the realization of previous tax deductions that we had reserved against due to uncertainties and those conditions of uncertainty have been resolved.
We expect the tax rate for the remainder of the year to be just below 40%.
Before turning to other financial matters let me summarize some of the current or upcoming events that will impact our near-term financial performance.
Between now and the end of the year each of our two AADU rigs is expected to move from a condition of capitalizing cost to one of expensing costs.
We expect this to add expense in the third and fourth quarter with no significant revenue to be generated until each of these rigs begin operating for the end of this year or in early 2013.
Our Caspian Sea barge rig 257 is expected to be at a low dayrate or the idle for the rest of 2012.
The recently awarded consolidated O&amp;M contract for ENL Sakhalin Island project will produce revenues and earnings lower than the previous now expired contracts.
Initially revenues and earnings of the new consolidated contract will reflect the operation of the two ongoing drilling programs the Yastreb rig in the Orlan platform and I expected to increase when the Berkut platform is activated.
Turning to other financial matters our cash balance at quarter end was $77.5 million compared to $97.9 million at the end of 2011.
Second quarter capital expenditures were $50.1 million bringing our year-to-date capital spent to $109.5 million.
Included in that are Alaska rig construction spending of $48.5 million year-to-date we currently estimate our overall capital costs for the AADU rigs will be approximately $400 million including capitalized interest.
Including the 2011 asset impairment charge the net book value is expected to be approximately $230 million.
Rental tools expenditures of $41.6 million were capitalized year-to-date.
At the end of the second quarter we had $481 million of debt outstanding or a net deposition of $403.6 million.
Our net debt to net capitalization ratio quarter end was 40.4%.
We believe our balance sheet is in good shape and that our operational performance and strategic balance and diversity to provide cash flows that will allow us to continue to be successful and grow profitably.
That is the operation and financial review I’ll turn it back to Bobby for comments on the outlook and then we will take questions.
Bobby? Thanks Kirk.
We had a good second quarter with continued gains in several of our businesses.
However shifting trends in U.S.
land drilling in the current market uncertainty about the outlook for all the natural gas prices has begun to lead to slower growth in some of the markets and has us alert for changing conditions that might further impact our business.
We believe that our competitive advantage geographic and market diversity and other strategic strengths position us to face this market challenges and take advantage of competitive opportunities to produce relatively resilient operating results.
We expect market conditions for rental tools to reflect the recent softening in U.S.
land drilling activity and a more typical competitive environment as rental tool suppliers rebalance their available inventory.
We believe the usage of rental tool by U.S.
land operators will continue driven by the broadening application of lateral drilling in the trend toward more complex well designs.
In addition the growing activity in the Gulf of Mexico both on the Shelf and in deepwater is expected to be expanded source of business for opportunities for rental tool segment.
Given market conditions we do plan -- we do not plan on placing orders for drilled pipe for the remainder of the year.
We believe our available stock including previously ordered equipment new to arrive in the second half will be sufficient to meet customer requirements.
Drilling remains active in the Gulf of Mexico barge drilling market with oil and liquid rich natural gas targets being the predominant focus.
If market prices for these commodities remained around the current level there should be good support for continued drilling in the shallow waters of the Gulf of Mexico.
Further interest in developing deep gas plays in this area could provide some additional growth opportunities.
It remains to be seen what the recent strengthening and domestic natural gas prices may due to overall drilling activity in the U.S.
both for U.S.
land as well as the shallow and deepwater areas.
Our international rig fleet is expected to experience declining utilization in the near term.
As current drilling contracts expire not all of them are expected to be renewed.
Drilling redeployment opportunities for international fleet and additional contracts for our OEM portfolio take time to develop.
Though there appears to be a growing interest among international operators to expand land drilling in several regions where we are focused.
These are longer term developments.
Any tender or contract wins in the next few months are most likely to have the greatest impact in 2013.
We have substantially completed several of the projects that were contributors to our technical service segment revenues and earnings for the first six months of 2012 and expect a lower level of activity for the remainder of the year.
We are engaged in some early stage engineering and development projects that could transform into more expensive technical services or activity later this year.
To summarize the near-term outlook for our markets are slowing demand and some early pressure that will impact utilization and operating margins.
Volatility and cyclicality are normal characteristics of our market and I believe we are well prepared to deal with them.
Add to that the impact of the specific advance that Kirk listed and we expect reduced levels of revenues and earnings until market strength and our initiatives in Alaska and internationally begin to take effect.
That concludes my remarks.
Operator we are ready to take questions from the audience.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) And our first question comes from the line of John Keller with Stephens Inc.
Please go ahead.
Inc.</strong> Good morning.
This is Walt Chancellor for John Keller.
Hi Walt.
Inc.</strong> So as we look out to ‘13 internationally where are some of these specific pockets of demand and that tender activity that you’re seeing? Walt it’s fairly widespread the majority of it would be in the Latin America region.
And there is some still in North Africa but it generally spread throughout.
We’re seeing really a great number of tenders.
And it’s just a good -- it was spread out throughout the regions that we operate in.
Our weaker area of the Far East still remains I guess you’d say a weaker area of tenders but other operational areas that we work and remain at least we have tenders for those areas.
Kazakhstan is still an issue.
While we are tendering inside of Kazakhstan there are still not a lot of tenders in that particular country at this time.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
And just shifting gears to rental tools.
In your remarks you talked about strength in the Gulf of Mexico.
If you could refresh us how many landing streams are in the portfolio right now or in the inventory in the Gulf? We have the ability of up to nine… Inc.</strong> Okay.
…landings streams in the Gulf of Mexico and inventory.
And we currently today have six that are out on work today.
And we have other tenders out for additional work.
Inc.</strong> And do you all see that as an area to maybe deploy some more capital as we look out into ‘13? Yeah.
Walt as I mentioned in the comment we’re certainly not adding any drill pipe right now just due to the conditions at market.
But landing streams is one area that we would -- if we view the market and talk to our customers that’s one area that we could and probably will add some capital to in 2013.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
And then I guess coming back to land as we see this situation with the rig count sort of going sideways utilization.
I guess pricing coming down where do you all see margins sort of normalizing? And I know it’s a dynamic situation and it may not be easy to provide a specific answer on that one.
That is.
And to -- the barge rig helps drive that number.
So I would think being around that 20%.
Concerning the second quarter the barge rigs worked very little and that does tend to be a higher margin item.
So I would see for the international land that would probably be around 20% area -- to where we are today 23%.
Inc.</strong> And on rentals where do you see that normalizing? I think the number we’re at now is a good number.
I think its 65% for the second quarter.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
And then I guess finally on barges very strong day rates right now strong utilization.
You mentioned there are some multi well programs out there.
Have you seen a step change in the level of backlog or visibility or term commitment to operators are willing to make in this environment? Well we really haven’t.
It’s just been good steady work.
Well-to-well even though there are some multi well programs the commitments are well-to-well.
We’ve not really seen a build up in backlog.
As you’re probably familiar the shelf jackup business is doing well in the backlog and the backlog in that business continues to increase.
And I would say the barge business correlates to that segment as well as anything.
So that gives us I guess you could say hope for a continued strength in the barge business given how well the shelf jackup is doing.
Inc.</strong> All right.
Great.
Thank you all very much.
Yeah.
Thanks Walt.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) And I’m showing no further questions at this time.
I’d like to turn the conference back to management for any closing remarks.
Thank you Alicia.
And I want to reach out to everyone on our call today and thank you for joining us.
We appreciate your interest in Parker Drilling and look forward to speaking to you at least this time at the end of next quarter and at times in between now and then.
Have a good day.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes the Parker Drilling second quarter 2012 conference call.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by.
Welcome to the Parker Drilling Third Quarter 2012 Conference Call.
During today’s presentation the lines will be in a listen-only mode.
Following the presentation the conference will be opened for questions.
(Operator Instructions) This conference is being recorded today Thursday November 1 2012.
I would now like to turn the call over to Richard Bajenski.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Marissa.
Good morning to you and our audience and thank you for joining the Parker Drilling 2012 third quarter conference call.
This is Richard Bajenski Director of Investor Relations.
Joining me today are Bobby Parker Chairman Gary Rich President and CEO and Kirk Brassfield Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
In the course of our comments today we may make statements regarding management’s expectations for the company’s future performance that we believe will be informative and beneficial.
These statements are considered forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Securities Act.
Each forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date of this call and actual results may differ materially due to various factors we have referenced in our public filings and other factors addressed during this call including changes in market conditions affecting our industry.
We will also refer to non-GAAP financial measures such as adjusted EBITDA and non-routine items.
Please refer to the table in our current press release or on the company’s website for a definition of adjusted EBITDA and a reconciliation of this measure to the comparable GAAP measure and for further information regarding non-routine items.
Our first comments today are from Bobby Parker.
Bobby?  Thanks Rich and welcome to our conference call.
Earlier today we reported our 2012 third quarter results.
We will review our operational performance and financial results in detail in a moment.
Before that so I have the pleasure of introducing Parker’s new President and CEO Gary Rich.
Let me tell you some things about Gary and why the entire Board of Directors believe he is the right person to be the CEO of Parker Drilling.
When the board set out its criteria to beginning of the selection process among those were three important attributes deep and broad industrial knowledge and international experience a record of successful execution and better its performance and the demonstrated ability to envision growth and lead others to achieve it.
I believe Gary has all those attributes and more.
Before Parker Gary spend over 25 years at Baker Hughes one of the industries leading equipment and solutions provider.
He led the Hughes Christensen Division for a number of years and many of the notable successes of that business were achieved during his time.
Many of Gary’s assignments for Baker Hughes were positioned with significant international responsibilities or global mandate including his most recent role as Vice President of global sales.
He represented the company before international oil companies national oil companies as well as large and small independent operators around the world.
He brings a broad understanding of markets worldwide and key market players that are important to Parker and our future.
In addition while at Baker Hughes Gary had an important role in defining the company’s forward vision including developing its future leaders.
As you get to know Gary I believe you’ll come to the same conclusion as our board.
We’ve made a great hire for Parker.
Gary has not only the qualifications of a CEO but he has the vision and desire to lay out a path of performance in growth for Parker that I believe will make a positive difference for our shareholders our customers our employees and in communities where we were.
As for myself I’ll return to my old job Executive Chairman which includes doing my best to make Gary and Parker successful.
This is a beginning of a new era for Parker and our CEO and it’s my pleasure then to introduce Gary to review our operating results.
Gary?  Thanks Bobby.
I’m quite pleased to be here and to have this opportunity to lead Parker Drilling.
I choose to come here because among other things I saw great assets with great potential.
As I’ve met with many of the employees during my first month on the job I’ve also come to appreciate that we have a great pool of human talent here at Parker.
I’m really looking forward to what we can do together to make this an even better company for our shareholders as well as for our customers and our employees.
One of my first objectives is to finish the projects that Bobby has been most intently focused on first get the Alaska Drilling rigs completed and working and we’re making good progress.
One rig is completed its initial acceptance test together with our client we developed a punch list of items that needed further attention.
Nearly all of those items have been corrected.
There are a few in the final stages of being corrected and the rig is expected to be ready to begin drilling before year-end.
The second rig will begin acceptance testing shortly after deployment of the first rig.
Since both rigs are identical we will quickly apply the learning from acceptance testing of the first rig to accelerate final preparation for the second rig deployment.
Our crews on the North Slope are well trained and rehearsed and are ready to start drilling.
I’m looking forward to the day each of these new rigs spud their first well.
Second on Bobby’s list was international rig fleet utilization.
As has been noted before our current rig utilization is not satisfactory.
Of particular interest is our fleet of nine rigs in Kazakhstan for too long there have been three or fewer of those rigs working.
Our international business development team has been diligently working to secure additional contracts.
Recently we signed a contract for a third land rig to go to work in the Karachaganak field.
They were being mobilized to work starting early next year.
In addition there are prospects to put other rigs to work both in and outside of Kazakhstan.
We’re also marketing two of the Kazakhstan rigs to potential buyers.
Another Bobby’s priority has been to maintain our business momentum and safety focus during the period of Executive transition.
I joined Bobby in his commitment to safety.
I want the best available people wanting to work for Parker on our rigs in our warehouses and shops at every office and location making that happen includes providing them with safe working conditions.
Parker safety performance is among the best in the industry and continues to improve.
I expect to carry on that tradition.
In addition to completing these projects there are four strategic objectives you’ll hear me address regularly as keys to the success of Parker’s future.
These are first delivering reliable results second improving profitability third strengthening our strategic position and fourth developing pads for future revenue growth.
I look forward to sharing more of my thoughts on these objectives and reporting progress on them in the future.
For now though let me stay with the purpose of this call and turn to a review of the business conditions and market trends as we see them.
Demand for rental tools in the U.S.
land drilling market is slow.
As a result rental tool inventory utilization and pricing have declined.
So both of these measures have come down from their cyclical peak they are at levels that continued to produce solid earnings and cash flow for Parker.
I was in New Iberia Louisiana yesterday meeting with the leadership and many employees of our Quail Rental Tools business segment.
I’m confident in the ability of those leaders to appropriately respond to the current market environment.
Orders of drill pipe and related products have been reduced however equipment we ordered earlier in the year continued to be received in the third quarter and an additional amount we received in the fourth quarter.
Our Rental Tools business in the Gulf of Mexico continues to grow servicing drilling programs on the shelf and in deepwater with drill pipe BOPs landing strings and related products.
This growth will provide some offset to the unfavorable trends on land.
The Gulf of Mexico shallow water barge drilling market appears steady primarily focused on oil targets.
Industry data show about 80% of the industry’s available rigs currently working and our fleet continues to account for about half of the drilling that takes place in this market.
We believe our average day rig continues to be above industry averages which we attribute to our consistent and reliable drilling performance and the number of multi-well drilling programs to provide steady work for some of our rigs.
In the international drilling market prices for oil and natural gas have been a stimulus to exploration and development spending.
Our international rig fleet utilization has not benefited from this.
However there has been a notable increase in drilling intentions in several of the markets in which we currently operate and this has significant increased our tender activity.
As this unfolds more broadly I expect it to lead to more demand for the contract drilling and technical services we provide.
That concludes my remarks I’ll turn this over to Kirk Brassfield to discuss our operating and financial performance.
Kirk?  Thanks Gary.
For the 2012 third quarter we reported revenues of $165.3 million segment gross margins of $63.8 million EBITDA of $55 million and net income of $10.9 million.
Each of these measures was less than in the prior year’s third quarter.
Our reported earnings were $0.09 per diluted share and $0.10 per share when adjusted for non-routine items.
The rental tool segment reported revenues of $59.9 million gross margin of $38.1 million and gross margin as a percent of revenue was 63.5%.
Compared with the prior year’s third quarter revenues declined 4% and gross margin declined 13% primarily driven by price discounting in the Bakken and Eagle Ford where pipe deliveries has been increasing – have been increasing and drilling activity slowed.
The impact of this was somewhat offset by increases in our international business and in Gulf of Mexico rentals.
In the third quarter we took in about 5 million of new inventory and we expect we will taking between 10 million and 15 million of new inventory in the fourth quarter.
Both of these are well below the first half run rate of about 20 million per quarter.
The U.S.
barge drilling segment reported third quarter revenues of $33.1 million gross margin of $15.9 million and gross margin as a percent of revenue of 47.9%.
All of these reflect significant increases from the prior year’s third quarter.
Our third quarter average utilization was 80%.
Our reported average utilization is based on the fleet of 13 barge rigs which includes two rigs that would require capital upgrades before they operate.
Excluding these two rigs we were at 94% utilization with the equivalent of 10.4 rigs working of our fleet of 11 marketed rigs compared with 2011 third quarter utilization of 97% or the equivalent of 10.7 rigs working.
Our average day rate increased by 18% to 33 200 per day from 28 200 in the 2011 third quarter.
Today 10 of our 11 barge rigs are at work with our one idle rig scheduled to return to work early this month.
Our current average day rate is 33 300.
Most of our rigs are engaged in drilling for oil as is also true for most of the industry’s Gulf of Mexico barge drilling fleet.
There is a shortage of deep gas drilling programs in this market so some of our deepest drilling rigs continue to drill shallow wells at corresponding day rates.
The U.S.
drilling segment recorded no revenues for the 2012 and 2011 third quarter.
The 2012 third quarters operating expenses of $2.6 million are primarily those associated with the AADU rig commissioning process and rig related operating cost.
The first of the two AADU rigs began the acceptance testing process early in the third quarter at that time we began expensing rig related cost and depreciating the rig and its components.
The prior year expenses were mostly cost and support pre operational needs including training and facility expenses.
Our international drilling segment reported third quarter revenues of $68.5 million gross margin of $12.6 million and gross margin as a percent of revenue of 18.4% compared with the 2011 third quarter segment revenues gross margins and gross margin as a percentage of revenues all declined primarily due to lower utilization of our international rig fleet.
In addition lower earnings on higher revenues from O&amp;M contracts added to the decline in gross margin and gross margin as a percentage of revenues.
Our international rig fleet average utilization was 45% during the 2012 third quarter with the equivalent of 11.7 rigs working during the period.
The comparable utilization for last year’s third quarter was 48% with the equivalent of 12.5 rigs employed.
The primary cause of the decline in utilization compared with the prior year’s third quarter was having our Caspian Sea barge rig 257 idle since earlier this year.
In the Latin America region our ten rig fleet operated at 60% average utilization less than last year’s third quarter average utilization of 73%.
The year-to-year change was primarily due to having two rigs idle during the 2012 third quarter in Columbia after each completed its contracted work.
This was partly offset by the reactivation of a rig in Mexico late in last year’s third quarter.
In the eastern hemisphere region our 16 rig fleet operated at 35% utilization compared with the prior year’s third quarter average utilization of 33%.
The utilization increase was primarily the result of putting two previously idle rigs to work in Algeria earlier this year offsetting the impact of having the Caspian Sea drilling barge idle since this year second quarter.
The international drilling segment O&amp;M projects had lower segment gross margins on higher revenues in the 2012 third quarter compared with the 2011 third quarter.
The increase in O&amp;M revenues is primarily due to increased contributions from the Coral Sea rig operating project in Papua New Guinea and a new management contract in China.
This was partially offset by reduction in overall revenues associated with our O&amp;M activities on Sakhalin Island Russia.
Revenues for the 2011 third quarter included those from the Yastreb rig relocation project and the day rate contracts for the Yastreb rig and Orlan platform.
The rig relocation project was completed in late 2011 and the day rate contracts which expired earlier this year have been replaced with the cost plus operating contracts producing lower revenues and earnings.
The declining segment gross margin is primarily due to lower rig utilization and reduced earnings realized from the O&amp;M contracts for projects on Sakhalin.
Our technical service segment revenues were 3.7 million for the 2012 third quarter and gross margin was a loss of 79 000.
Revenues are lower than in the 2011 third quarter reflecting primarily the completion earlier this year of some early phase engineering projects and the transition of the Berkut platform project from its engineering phase to a less revenue intensive construction phase.
G&amp;A expense in the third quarter was $8.9 million compared with the prior year’s third quarter expense of $8.6 million.
Both years included expenses related to the DOJ SEC and Parker investigations.
Excluding these items adjusted G&amp;A expense for the 2012 third quarter was $8.3 million compared with similarly adjusted G&amp;A expense of 7.1 from the 2011 third quarter.
This increase was primarily due to cost associated with the July departure of an executive officer and the implementation of a new enterprise resource planning system.
Total interest cost in the 2012 third quarter was $10.7 million with $8.2 million recorded as interest expense and $2.5 million being capitalized.
Most of the capitalized interest is related to AADU rig construction and the prior year’s third quarter total interest cost was $10.6 million with $5.6 million recorded as expense and $5 million being capitalized.
The increase in interest expense is primarily due to the impact of having the first AADU rig move from the construction project to the commissioning process.
Our effective tax rate for the quarter was 38% and we expect the tax rate for the year to be similar to the third quarter level.
Before turning to other financial items let me summarize some of the current or upcoming events that will impact our near-term financial performance and comparisons.
The first of the AADU rigs began its acceptance testing process early in the third quarter.
At that time we began expensing rig related cost and depreciating the rig and its components.
Revenues for that rig are not expected until it begins operating later this quarter.
The second AADU process will go through a similar process shortly after the first rig is operational.
As a result we expect there will be some further months ahead in which we will have rig related expenses with little or no operating revenues.
We’re making changes to our rig fleet in Kazakhstan to better reflect our long term opportunities there.
At the end of the third quarter we reclassified two of the rigs as assets held for sale these are two older technology land rigs that we believe maybe of interest to others.
We will began to actively preposition other rigs in our international rig fleet to locations that we believe provide more ready access to market where we expect them to find work.
This should improve our tender opportunities by reducing the mobilization time.
As a result we could incur mobilization costs that are not funded by a drilling contract.
We have begun the implementation of an Oracle based enterprise resource planning system.
The system will provide a platform to support all our major business functions in a more efficient less costly and more responsive manner and will increase visibility and insight into the results of our business.
Today the majority of cost of developing the system have been capitalized as they support development activities.
As we proceed through deployment and into the net implementation this year and next we expect to have added G&amp;A expenses related to conversion and personnel training these cost should diminish over time as we improve our processes and realize operational savings and efficiency from the new system.
Turning to other financial matters our cash balance at quarter end was $114.1 million compared to $97.9 million at the end of 2011.
Third quarter capital expenditures were $38.1 million bringing our year-to-date capital spend to $147.7 million included in that are Alaska rig construction spending of $69.9 million year-to-date Rental Tools expenditures of $49.6 million year-to-date and $9 million year-to-date for our new ERP system.
At the end of the third quarter we have $472.5 million of debt outstanding or a net debt position of $358.3 million.
Our net debt to net capitalization ratio at quarter end was 37.1%.
During the fourth quarter we plan to refinance our revolving credit facility at term similar to our current agreement.
The current agreement matures in May 2013.
We believe our balance sheet is in good shape and that our operational performances and strategic balance and diversity can provide cash flows that will allow us to continue to be successful and grow profitably.
That is the operations and financial review I’ll turn this back to Gary for comments on the outlook and then we will take questions.
Thanks Kirk.
The middle part of this year has been a challenging period.
We believe that our competitive position operating performance and geographic and market diversity are strategic strengths to position us to navigate these market challenges take advantage of competitive opportunities and produce resilient operating results.
I believe the same strength provide a foundation from which to develop as per further profitable growth in the future.
Looking ahead I expect the recent trend in U.S.
land drilling will lead to further reductions in the demand for our Rental Tools.
Having cut back our purchases of new tubular goods we expect our inventory of Rental Tools will adjust to market conditions quickly and that this business will sustain its traditional strong earnings and cash flow.
In addition we believe the growing level of deepwater drilling in the Gulf of Mexico will be a source of business opportunity for the Rental Tool segment.
There is solid demand for drilling in the shallow waters of the U.S.
Gulf.
We believe our drilling performance and the markets focus on oil targets will support a solid utilization of our barge drilling fleet.
Further development of deep gas plays may provide additional growth opportunities for this business segment.
Contract terms and market conditions specific to our international markets are expected to result in further near term declines in utilization for our international rig fleet and reduced levels of revenues and earnings from our O&amp;M contract portfolio.
While rig deployment opportunities take time to develop our business development team has been working on a selection of rig tenders that should provide operational momentum for 2013 and later.
I mentioned earlier about the new contract we recently secured in Kazakhstan.
Our Technical Services group is busy and engaged in some early stage engineering development projects one or two of these could transform into more expansive technical services activity this year or next.
To summarize our outlook shifting trends in the U.S.
land drilling and the market general uncertainty about the outlook for oil and natural gas prices will continue to impact our domestic Rental Tools business.
The sluggish recovery of land drilling in the international markets will serve we serve will continue to limit the near-term growth opportunities for our international drilling business however continued growth of drilling activity in the Gulf of Mexico inland on the shelf and then deepwater is expected to further benefit both our Rental Tool segment and our Barge Drilling segments.
That concludes my comments.
Operator we’re ready to take questions from the audience.
Thank you sir.
At this time we will start the question and answer session.
(Operator Instructions) And our first question comes from the line of John Keller with Stephens.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
This is Walt Chancellor for John Keller.
Good morning Walt.
So I guess just to get started on the Alaska I appreciate the update there just wondering if we could get maybe a little bit more detail as we look to get these rigs or the first rig working in the fourth quarter what are the critical path items or dates that need to be cleared to get these up and running just a little bit more detail there would be appreciated?  Walt this is Gary.
I appreciate the question and we’ve been spending lot of time looking at these critical path items over the last few days at least I have since I’ve come into the Parker organization and I’m very pleased with the team that we have and the focus that they have placed on making sure we get those units ready and operating.
We got a couple of items that we’re still finalizing in terms of having the rigs ready to go.
We will then have and we’re very close to that this week we’ve seen some potential progress and I feel very good that we’re nearing the final conclusion there.
There will be final acceptance by our customer and then it will subject to their drilling program and when they’re ready for us to go but we were quite confident that we’ll see those rigs or the first rig operating before the end of this quarter.
Okay great.
I appreciate the color there.
And then may be on pricing a little too finely here your comments about the O&amp;M contract portfolio the reduced revenues and earnings is there anything incremental there is that just the new cost plus contract on the Sakhalin?  Walt this is Kirk.
The new contract there is incremental one it includes that third rate for crews that has been completed currently in Korea.
Okay.
But you did change though how the contract was put together as we mentioned now it’s a cost plus so that did reduce our current revenues and margins from where we had been under the old contract.
But about the plus side is that the prior contract did not include the third rig that we’re looking to come on into next year end of 2014.
So that is the incremental piece which will help build up back up those revenues and margins as we proceed through the contract.
Okay.
Thank you.
And then moving to the barge business I guess an update on operator activity or sort of what you’re seeing as the leading edge there would be greatly appreciated I mean we’re hearing at least among land players more pronounced seasonality weakening demand in Q4 I’m wondering if you’ve seen any indications of that in the barge business.
And then I guess on the other hand is as gas moves back up towards four are you seeing any incremental demand for some of those gas projects on the margin?  Well this is Gary again I think that what we’ve seen on the barge business is it’s more of a steady state than it is a decline on increase.
We see that clearly as you mentioned gas going back north of that is some real potential upside for us.
So right now it’s staying pretty steady which is at quite high utilization levels.
So we’re very confident and bullish about our barge business right now.
Okay great and then one more if I could just if you could speak briefly to the margin performance from the Rental Tools business in the quarter now decline by only about 180 basis points that seems with everything going on in North America like I guess it could have been more severe in the quarter some color there would be appreciated and then any progression during the quarter did margins exit Q3 materially worst than the average?  That’s a challenge that I ask my team when I was over in Louisiana yesterday and trying to make sure that we were on top of it and I came away from there very very pleased with the team we have and their ability to manage in this kind of uncertain environment we have in U.S.
land.
They’re doing a wonderful job to make sure that they’re involved in activities with the customer that helped demonstrate to the customer the benefits were far beyond just pricing.
And I think that gives them some protection a little bit from the competitors that we’re facing out there but there are some competitors that are putting some pressure on us and the guys are going to appropriately respond as necessary.
But the other thing that they’re really doing is making sure that as an example we’ve cut back significantly the amount of new assets that we’re deploying so that we minimize the deprecation burden that we’ll bear given the current demand levels.
And some of that as I’ve mentioned you’re going to have a carryover because some of us ordered much earlier in the year and is just finally arriving but they’re reacting quickly and I have every bit of confidence that they will continue to do well but saying that it would be unwise of us not to recognize that there is more downward pressure than there is upside in the short term.
Okay.
I appreciate it.
Thank you all very much.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) And our next question comes from the line of Trey Cowan with Clarkson Capital Markets.
Please go ahead.
Hi thank you.
Good morning guys.
Couple of questions on Rental Tools first with the reduction in what you’re seeing for your CapEx when you guys do to finally decide to kind of restock inventory there on your Rental Tool side what do you think based on trends right now for the cost of those assets do you think it will be more expensive less expensive or about the same to when you do finally decide to buy some more assets there?  Well that’s a good question Tray.
I don’t think that we’re going to see a significant change in the acquisition cost of those assets.
They certainly shouldn’t be pressure necessarily for them to be increasing that much right now but some of the things that we’re doing is as an example I told you yesterday the new machine shop that we’re just opening up down there in New Iberia to bring in-house some of the things that we would have gone to external suppliers to provide in the past and to do it much more efficiently.
So those are actions that the team down there are taking to make sure that we mitigate any potential cost increases in order at least secure more margin for us on our side.
Great.
And then the other question relates to Hurricane Sandy do you have any kind of status update as far as how that look towards you guys Rental Tools business?  It really doesn’t have much impact the guys haven’t come back to me and given any indication other than the comment in West Virginia the guys were commenting at one point in time about the rain and then it was just a couple hours later they were woken up there is snow on the ground and so on.
All right well I appreciate your help there.
You guys have a good one today.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) one moment.
And I’m not showing any further questions at this time.
You may continue.
Thank you Marissa and thank you all who have joined us for this call.
We appreciate your time and we’ll look forward to talking with you as the quarter proceeds in front of us.
Have a good day.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen that does conclude our conference call for today.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Good day ladies and gentlemen.
Thank you for standing by.
Welcome to the Parker Drilling Fourth Quarter 2012 Conference Call.
During today’s presentation all parties will be in a listen-only mode.
Following the presentation the conference will be opened for questions.
(Operator Instructions) This conference is being recorded today Thursday February 21 2013.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Richard Bajenski.
Please go ahead sir.
Investor Relations</strong> Thank you and good morning to everyone who has joined us today for Parker Drilling’s 2012 fourth quarter conference call.
This is Richard Bajenski Director of Investor Relations.
And joining me today are Bobby Parker Chairman; Gary Rich President and CEO; and Kirk Brassfield Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
In the course of our comments today we may make statements regarding management’s expectations for the company’s future performance that we believe will be informative and beneficial to our shareholders.
These statements are considered forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Securities Act.
Each forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date of this call and actual results may differ materially due to various factors we have referenced in our public filings and other factors addressed during this call including changes in market conditions affecting our industry.
We will also refer to non-GAAP financial measures such as adjusted EBITDA and non-routine items.
Please refer to the table in our current press release or on the company’s website for a definition of adjusted EBITDA and a reconciliation of this measure to the comparable GAAP measure and for further information regarding non-routine items.
Our first comments today are from Bobby Parker.
Bobby? Thank you Rich and welcome everyone.
Good morning and welcome to our conference call.
Earlier today we reported our 2012 fourth quarter results.
We will review our operational performance and financial results in detail in a moment.
Before that takes place though I wish to acknowledge the departure of Kirk Brassfield our long serving CFO.
Though Kirk will not be leaving us until the end of April this may be his last appearance on a Parker Drilling earnings call.
So I am going to take this opportunity to say farewell.
Kirk will be leaving Parker in better shape and in a better condition than it was when he took over the CFO responsibilities.
He has been instrumental in getting our balance sheet de-levered and sustaining the company’s ability to invest despite several tough commodity cycles and some complicated international issues.
In addition he has built a sound financial organization.
He has been a leader in implementing new technologies to improve our processes internal controls and financial reporting and has been a control voice for doing the right thing.
It is my honor then to say this farewell to Kirk to recognize his contribution to Parker’s success and our shareholders’ well being.
So Kirk on behalf of us at Parker I thank you for all you have done for the company for your commitment and your dedicated service we wish you a very successful future.
But until April 30 Kirk is the CFO and he will continue providing the same leadership and guidance he always has.
He is with us today to take us through the financial results of the fourth quarter which he will do in a few minutes.
What Gary and Kirk will cover has not been made easier by industry trends during this period.
In the U.S.
the fourth quarter price of oil was down 5% compared to the third quarter continuing a year long slide during which oil price has declined around 15%.
And though natural gas prices finished the year on upward trend the increase only succeeded in getting prices back to the mid $3 range a little higher than they are right now.
They surely contributed to the operator’s decision to scale back their drilling throughout the year including a 5% decline in the U.S.
land rig count in the fourth quarter.
Since year end though with natural gas prices have for the most part moved sideways oil prices have reversed their decline and began to move upward.
This maybe a little too data to call this a trend but I am pleased to see that U.S.
land rig count has moved slightly upward lately.
Trends in the U.S.
offshore and international markets have been more encouraging.
The U.S.
offshore rig count rose through 2012 ending the year at 51 rigs active.
That trends continues into 2013 and U.S.
offshore rig count stood at 55 rigs most recently.
Meanwhile the industry surveys indicate the international market is expected to have one of the highest growth rates in E&amp;P spending following the year of solid growth in 2012.
Included are expected increases in land markets in Latin America the Middle East and in various Asian areas.
Overall weak market trends in the U.S.
land drilling in late 2012 were a harsh backdrop for our domestic operations and appear now to be improving.
Meanwhile offshore U.S.
and international trends indicated available opportunities.
I will turn this over to Gary to review how our business adverse these conditions and the current direction of our operations.
Gary.
Thanks Bobby.
I too convey my thanks to Kirk for all he has done for Parker.
He has my best wishes along with those of many who know him well both from within and outside of the company.
The search for his successor is process and we hope to have a person in place soon.
I look forward to making that announcement when the time comes.
I previously communicated my initial focus on getting our Alaska drilling units in service and improving utilization on our international rig fleet.
Let me start there I am pleased to report that both of our Alaska drilling units are now operational.
Rig 273 moved to its second well and Rig 272 is on location and poised to spud its first well.
Startups of the large drilling operations such as these are often plagued with miscellaneous issues.
In December the deployed Rig 273 had good operational performance.
However we experienced 54 hours of downtime.
In January we had 13.5 hours of downtime.
This may not seem like a big deal to many on this call but it tells me we have a great team and a great product too so early after the initial commencement of operations only have 13.5 hours of downtime.
February should continue to show our progress on this front.
And I am confident that our team is focused on reducing the downtime number to zero.
As a reminder in the fourth quarter we only had a few weeks of revenue from one of these two rigs so don’t take the reported results as indicative of anything other than we are now generating revenues with these two drilling units.
While the results of our International Drilling segment included lower rig utilization we are progressing towards higher utilization and let me give you a few examples.
We ended the fourth quarter with one more rig under contract than at the beginning of the quarter.
Additionally we have recently placed two previously idle rigs in Columbia under contract.
One went on revenue in January and the other in February.
During the quarter we also made commitments to move two of our idle rigs from Kazakhstan to Kurdistan.
We have signed contracts for both of these rigs and are in process of mobilizing the rigs as we speak.
This initiates our presence in what we believe will be a profitable growth market for Parker and reduces our exposure to the lower utilization we have experienced for sometime in Kazakhstan.
By electing to remove the rigs from Kazakhstan we will forego the opportunity to recover a portion of VAT tax we paid when we first imported the rigs into the country resulting in a $3.5 million write-off in the fourth quarter.
I don’t like write-offs of anything but I believe moving these rigs was the right decision.
Additionally previously idled Rig 258 located in Kazakhstan was deployed yesterday on a contract within Kazakhstan.
This rig actually went for work on or went to revenue back in December but the rig physically moved yesterday.
During the quarter we concluded that after several years we do not have sufficient assets or opportunities at this time to build a successful business in Algeria.
As a result we have decided to exit the country and began removing our rigs during the fourth quarter.
These rigs are being moved without firm contracts so we incurred approximately $1.2 million a fourth cost that was expensed as it occurred.
These rigs had just come off a contract and if they were to be idle in the country for a long period we were exposed to some significant tax payments.
Since we had struggled for years to earn a reasonable return in this country we decided to move.
We have several viable options for these rigs and are currently in discussions with operators that could lead to drilling contracts in the near future.
I remain committed to improving the utilization of our international assets.
With steps we are taking to reposition these assets will result in some bumpiness in our quarterly results.
But these steps are necessary to ensure improvement happens and then we can capture opportunities that will be accretive to our operating margins and our return on capital.
So let’s talk about some of the more routine activities in this past quarter.
In the U.S.
trends during the latter part of 2012 presented utilization and profitability challenges.
This was particularly evident in our Rental Tools in our U.S.
Barge Drilling segments during the quarter.
Our responses focused on both ways to preserve our competitive position and shore up our operating results.
Within Rental Tools we faced the challenging U.S.
land market during each of the past two quarters.
The competitive environment has become quite aggressive as many players are trying to maintain utilization of their rental assets.
This business management team with the confidence they have in their customer driven marketing strategy is being very selective in the use of discounts and service offerings primarily to defend their market position but also to strengthen their customer base.
Our margins and utilization within Rental Tools remain substantially higher than during the last activity trough we experienced in 2009.
We remain committed to a combination of customer service product quality and geographic scope that will prove valuable for our clients.
We expect our rental business will strengthen and recover profitability as the inherently self-correcting mechanisms of this market take hold.
Already there are signs of improvement.
Our inventory utilization is rising improving in December and then again in January.
But I expect it will take sometime before price discounting and utilization are clearly on an upfront.
Our rental tools business in the offshore drilling market continued to grow servicing drilling programs on the shelf and then deepwater with drill pipes surface BOPs landing strings and related products.
We made capital investments in the fourth quarter to support this growth and expect to continue to make further investments in this area in 2013.
With respect to the barge business working in the inland waters market of the U.S.
activity slowed in the fourth quarter a bit more than it’s typical for the seasonal slowdown that we see.
We took advantage of the short-term slack in demand and drydock three of our growing barges for planned inspections repairs and upgrades that otherwise would have taken these same barges out of service later in 2013 when we expect much stronger demand.
In the process we incurred our capital costs.
Some of this continued into the first quarter.
But I am pleased to say this today we are backup to 100% utilization of our drilling barges.
With respect to the O&amp;M business it was a – it continues to provide a bit of stability for us and did so in this quarter.
This business tends to be more predictable and less cyclical.
We are seeking to expand our O&amp;M portfolio of projects and in February we did just that and in a new O&amp;M contract for three Exxon Mobil offshore platforms in California.
We are already crewed up and at work under the contract.
The rapid response in this case being operationally ready an under 60 days is a capability we believe gives us a strategic advantage in building this business.
Additionally I am pleased to report we have made progress towards reaching a final settlement regarding the DOJ and SEC investigations in the possible violations of U.S.
law.
Last week we announced an agreement in principle on this matter and recorded to fourth quarter charge of $15.9 million.
We look forward to receiving the necessary court and government approvals and concluding the settlement process.
As I mentioned in last week’s announcement we will continue to maintain of vigorous compliance program because we believe in the importance of compliance and ethical business conduct and we will continue to enhance our compliance efforts.
I hope you can see in this brief description the connections between our strategic objectives and our responses to market conditions and the actions we were taking to drive performance.
Get in the Alaska rigs on revenue building our O&amp;M portfolio being selective in our response to competitive conditions in the rental tools market using a period of slow demand to prepare our barge drilling rigs for more continuous work in a better market decreasing our exposure to the Kazakhstan market through rig redeployment positioning ourselves in the growing Kurdistan market and exiting Algeria are all consistent with my commitments that I made during the last call to focus on delivering more reliable results improving the profitability of the organization strengthening our strategic position and developing paths for future growth.
While there are certainly more to be done I would like to start we have made credit is due to a lot of people here at Parker and I really appreciate the reception they have given me since I have been here.
But there is many other accomplishments that are also not so evident but contributed the overall performance of the company and I certainly appreciate all of those who have made those contributions.
With this kind of dedicated focus we have a great future ahead of us.
Now it’s your turn Kirk to discuss our financial performance.
Thanks Gary.
For the 2012 fourth quarter we have reported revenues of $157.2 million segment gross margins of $44.1 million adjusted EBITDA of $19.9 million and a net loss of $20.1 million.
The loss included $16.3 million of non-routine expenses primarily those associated with our proposed settlement with the DOJ and SEC.
Excluding non-routine items we’ve recognized the loss of $0.03 per share.
The Rental Tools segment reported revenues of $55.7 million gross margin of $32.8 million and gross margin as a percent of revenues was 59%.
Compared with the third quarter revenues declined 7% and gross margin declined 14% and gross margin as a percent of revenues fell by 4.5 percentage points.
Our greatest competitive challenges in the quarter were in the Bakken and West Texas fields with availability of inventory relative to drilling activity improves the level of discounting in the market.
We continue to invest in the business.
In the fourth quarter we received about $10 million of new rental tools inventory much of it for the growing offshore market.
The U.S.
Barge Drilling segment reported fourth quarter revenues of $29.4 million gross margin of $13.2 million and gross margin as a percent of revenue of 44.8%.
Compared with the third quarter revenues declined 11% and gross margin declined 17% primarily driven by lower utilization.
We had the equivalent of one less barge rig working during the fourth quarter compared to the third quarter as the utilization moved to 83% in the fourth from 94% in the third on a comparable base of 11 marketable rigs.
This was partially offset by an increase in the average rate to 33 600 per day from 33 200 per day in the preceding quarter.
Today all of our available 11 barge rigs are at work and our average rate has increased to 34 400 per day.
The U.S.
Drilling segment recorded revenues of $1.4 million for the 2012 fourth quarter produced by the first of our two Alaska rigs as it went into operation during the month of December.
The fourth quarter’s operating expenses of $5.9 million include the cost of our Alaska-based rig related operating cost and rig commissioning expenses.
These costs are higher than the prior quarter as the first and the Alaska rigs progressed from the construction project through the acceptance testing and then to operating.
Our International Drilling segment reported fourth quarter revenues of $67.6 million gross margin of $2.7 million and gross margin as a percent of revenue of 3.9%.
Compared with the third quarter segment revenues declined 1% while gross margins declined by $9.9 million.
While revenues appear to be relatively unchanged we recorded a $3.4 million increase in revenues from reimbursable expenses.
Excluding these segment revenues declined approximately 7% primarily the result of lower rig fleet utilization.
Our international rig fleet had the equivalent of nearly two less rigs working during the fourth quarter compared to the number of rigs working during the third quarter and as average utilization declined to 42% from the comparable 49%.
In the Latin America region our 10 rig fleet operated at 60% average utilization the same rate of the utilization as in the third quarter.
In the Eastern Hemisphere region our 14-rig fleet operated at 29% utilization.
The third quarter comparable was 41%.
The primary cost of the decline in utilization compared with the third quarter was the completion of contract work by each of our two rigs in Algeria one during the third quarter one during the fourth and by one of our two rigs in Indonesia.
The $9.9 million decline in segment gross margin is due to market and operating conditions as well as cost associated with the repositioning and redeployment we have underway.
Reduced activity in Indonesia and higher operating cost in Mexico impacted gross margin.
The cessation of operations in Algeria the cost to reposition those two rigs outside the country without contracts and the commitment to redeploy rigs from Kazakhstan to Kurdistan has associated costs of approximately $4.7 million in the fourth quarter.
This included $1.2 million for the repositioning of the two rigs from Algeria and the write-off of approximately $3.5 million of VAT taxes in Kazakhstan.
As a result of our decision to redeploy certain Kazakhstan rigs to other countries we deemed certain VAT taxes to be unrecoverable.
Our international O&amp;M contracts produced higher revenues the lower earnings in the fourth quarter compared to the third.
The increase in revenues was largely due to an increase in reimbursable expenses which do not impact earnings.
The reduction in earnings from O&amp;M contracts reflects the impact of having been successful in retaining the consolidated Sakhalin Island Russia contracts after they were re-fashioned from operating contracts the lower margin cost plus contracts and re-bid by the operator.
Our Technical Services segment was $3.1 million for the fourth quarter and gross margin was a loss of $119 000.
Revenues in gross margin are lower than in the third quarter reflecting primarily the completion of some early phase engineering projects and the cost of retaining our engineering expertise and experience as we transition between projects.
G&amp;A expense in the fourth quarter reflects the charge for the proposed DOJ and SEC settlements and related expenses.
Excluding these adjusted G&amp;A for each quarter was $8.3 million.
Total interest cost in the fourth quarter was $10.7 million with $8.4 million recorded as interest expense and $2.3 million was capitalized.
Most of the capitalized interest is related to AADU rig construction.
The increase in interest expense is due to both the increased rate on the debt we refinanced earlier in the year and the deployment of the first AADU rigs.
Thus moving interest cost from being capitalized as part of construction to being an expense of operations.
Looking forward our 2013 interest expense will increase from 2012 for the same reasons debt refinancing and construction project completion.
As a result we expect our 2013 interest expense to be approximately $10 million per quarter.
Excluding the impact of the proposed DOJ and SEC settlements our effective tax rate for the year was 39%.
We expect our 2013 tax rate to be about the same.
Fourth quarter capital expenditures were $43.9 million bringing our year-to-date capital spend to $191.5 million.
Included in our 2012 capital expenditures were Alaska rig construction spending of $86 million which includes approximately $10.2 million of capitalized interest Rental Tool expenditures of $62 million and $13.8 million for our new ERP system.
Our cash balance at quarter end was $87.9 million compared to $97.9 million at the end of 2011.
At the end of 2012 we had $479.2 million of debt outstanding or a net debt position of $391.3 million.
Our net debt to net capitalization ratio at quarter end was 39.9%.
As we announced earlier we are in discussions from finalizing settlement with the DOJ and SEC should we reach a final settlement at the amount included in the agreement and principle which is $15.85 million.
We have the final financial capacity to make this payment and fund our current operations.
Before turning to the outlook let me summarize some of the current or upcoming events that will impact our near-term financial performance and comparison.
The second of the two AADU rigs completed is acceptance testing process and is onsite.
We will soon have both the rigs working under current contract.
First quarter results will reflect a full period of revenues for one rig and a few weeks of revenues for the other but a full period of operating cost for both rigs.
An additional impact of bringing the two AADU rigs to operating status is their effect on depreciation expense.
The two rigs will add approximately $15 million to 2013 depreciation and amortization expense.
As a result we expect our 2013 depreciation expense to approximately $33 million per quarter.
The relocation of the two rigs from Algeria will be completed in first quarter.
Costs we incur will be expensed in that quarter.
We are in the process of implementing our new Oracle-based enterprise resource planning system.
As we proceed through deployment and the implementation we expect to have higher G&amp;A expenses this year related to the conversion and personnel training.
The added expense is expected to be approximately $2 million per quarter.
That is the operations and financial review.
I’ll turn this over to Gary for comments on the outlook and then we will take questions.
Thanks Kirk.
Well I feel good about the progress we are making.
There are further things we can do to improve the performance of our operations.
Two of our segments Rental Tools and U.S.
Barge are in better shape today than they have been at this point in past cycles.
Our Rental Tools segment has grown to be larger more diverse and as a business with very strong gross margins.
Our barge business has had the higher gross margins at fourth quarter’s average of 9 rigs working than it ever had in the past when it was working with the similar level number of rigs.
These are leveragable positions.
And I believe the primary markets they serve will offer opportunities for them to do just that as we progress into 2013.
Our two Alaska rigs have commenced operating under their five-year contracts as they began operating experiences and continued to learn more about the operation of these we should gain some additional efficiencies.
We just initiated an O&amp;M project offshore California as I mentioned earlier that will be also be a source of incremental revenue and earnings relatively little capital cost on our side.
We are making progress on the International Drilling segment but the changes we are implementing to improve the position in this market while they will deliver better returns in long term – run we will also continue to see some bumpiness as we move forward and execute these redeployments.
There are still more to be done but I really do feel confident that we have made a very good start at this point.
And our Technical Services business continues to be involved with some of the new and interesting projects that apply our technical knowledge and engineering expertise and expand our technical foundation something that we feel is important and will be a valuable contributor to our long-term growth in the business.
To summarize our outlook the rental tools business is making these gains offshore and we are continuing to invest in that business.
While the U.S.
land operations remains a little bit challenged right now as I mentioned before because of the competitive environment.
Our U.S.
barge drilling fleet is all back to work now and is in good shape for the remainder of the year and we feel confident that the year will bring some good opportunities further – for the barge drilling business.
The repositioning of several of our international drilling rigs will continue to improve our rig fleet utilization and will place us in markets with more growth potential.
Our capitalized O&amp;M portfolio is growing.
We are confident that these will produce better operating results and translate into an increase in our cash flow.
This will allow us to further strengthen our balance sheet make investments for operating and increase and improve our internal expansion as well as support the development of pads for further strategic growth in the future.
That concludes my comments.
Operator we are ready to take some questions from the audience.
Thank you sir.
Ladies and gentlemen we will now begin the question and answer session.
(Operator Instructions) Our first question is from the line of Trey Cowan with Clarkson Capital Markets.
Please go ahead.
Good morning nice job on certain things for 2013.
Looking at the intermediate drilling barge rigs here in the Gulf of Mexico and the three that just came back on line.
And going from your operational status report versus the 34 400 that you discussed today is the average day rate is that more a function of the deep drilling barges.
And if so can that still kind of I think of it is like about $2000 difference between the two or has that gap widened between the deepwater and the intermediate rigs? Trey this is Gary.
The opportunities we have continued to show real promise for us to move prices along with all ranges of our barges in the inland waters.
And I think we have a pretty good track record and if you go back and look over the last several quarter where we have shown repeated increase in pricing for the organization.
As far as the differentials between the mid-range and the deepwater the deeper it’s just widening.
It is widening some but I think that again its general market environment that creates some opportunities for the entire range of our barge rigs.
But both are actually moving up is what it sounds like you are hearing you say? Yeah.
Yeah.
Okay.
And internationally the rigs moving out of Algeria are they going to stay in North Africa or have you all decided yet? Not likely the stay in North Africa we’ll position them in Tunisia for a time.
And as we continue to look for some opportunities I would say not likely in North Africa only because of the discussions we are having with the people right now will suggest that there is some pretty good opportunities else where.
Great that’s all I have.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question is from the line John Keller with Stephens.
Please go ahead.
Hey good morning guys and congrats on the entry into Kurdistan.
Thanks John.
I am curious as you can elaborate on that a little bit.
You have taken two rigs from Kazakhstan and moving them there when will those things actually be on the ground and up in running? That’s a very good question and I am sure that you can imagine John it’s not a simple task to move these rigs from one location to another and it does take some time.
The contracts for one of the rigs – that contract for one of the rigs will initiate in Q3 of 2013 and the second one in Q4 of 2013.
So it’s the later part of this year we’ve already initiated the move process.
Okay.
And so is that something where you will – are you getting paid to mobilize those? There are some funds that are helping to offset a portion of the mobilization but not 100% of them.
Okay.
And so I guess you will continue to incur some level of cost over the – really the balance of the year just moving those around.
We will and that’s what I was trying to communicate earlier about – there is going to be some bumpiness as we’ve worked through this but it’s the right thing to do we really feel good about the move and what we are trying to do here.
Sure and along those lines how about the remaining extended Q1 cost that you still see lingering on the two rigs coming out of Algeria.
Kirk? Yes John this is Kirk.
As we noted we spend about $1.2 million the remaining cost impact in the first quarter be $1.5 million to $2 million additional cost during the quarter.
Okay.
It’s not a very long move.
Got it.
And then I guess inferior there could be incremental cost once you decide what to do with those rigs beyond Indonesia.
It depends on the contract that we have.
Again I’m quite pleased with the options that we are developing through redeploying those and some pretty good market.
One of the things that we’ve been working really hard and I just need to congratulate our business development and sales and marketing teams is that we’re working options and the last thing in the world you want with these big capital intensive units is not have options will then put you in a pretty tough negotiation position and so they’re developing some good options for us as we work to redeploy rigs in different areas and I am quite pleased with the progress we are making.
Okay and sticking with the international rig fleet here for a minute and switching to Latin America you get several rigs rolling off contract it looks like middle of the year still have one idle rig notwithstanding the barge rig in Mexico kind of how do you see that the environment for those rigs playing out over the course of the year.
We continue to see Mexico is one of the areas where there is an increase in demand for drillings rigs and consequently we are optimistic that we’ll be able to keep those rigs operating going forward in the future.
We feel really good about Mexico.
Columbia is also been a challenge to you – to us and I mentioned a second ago that we’ve had two of those idle rigs down there that have just going under contract one in January one in February.
So we are pleased with the progress we are making there as well.
Those are under term commitments or how long the contracts are those? Those are on a rig - well basis but looks like they will work for less than one year on the current contract.
Okay perfect.
And then just one more from me guys is where do you projected the CapEx this year if you said it – if you said I apologize I missed it.
Yes what we are looking at is between $150 million to $175 million for the current year and that would include any cost involved with moving the rigs from Kazakhstan to Kurdistan.
Got it.
Sure.
And could you – with the split there between what sort of maintenance what’s going toward Quail etcetera? Yeah I think we have usually around $100 million of total maintenance probably $60 million $65 million of that is Quail and the rest just maintenance for our barge rigs in our international fleet and then anything above that would be the more growth intensive amounts.
Some of which like moving from Kazakhstan to Kurdistan is to make some changes to current rigs to put them on contract.
But our normal maintenance typically runs around $100 million including Quail’s $60 million to $65 million piece.
Perfect I’ll get back in queue guys thanks.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) The next question is from the line of Daniel Burke with Johnson Rice.
Please go ahead.
Good morning everyone.
Good morning Daniel.
Good morning Daniel.
I was curious with the decision to exit the Algerian market thus the review of other regions or countries is a concluded or you comfortable with the markets are otherwise active in or we see you exit one or two additional countries.
That’s a very good question Daniel.
And I think that hopefully our actions were indicating that we’re pretty aggressive in trying to make sure that we get these rigs in places where we can get some good utilization and good return on them.
And so there is definitely some ongoing reviews of other countries and that to consider where our best opportunities are.
But no other decision has been made right now.
Okay great.
And then I guess more specifically than that for rig that’s a little bit more difficult to move Rig 257 any update on the prospects there? Yeah I am a little embarrassed on that because in the last call I told you guys we are in the final stages of negotiating a contract on that thing and the reality is we continued to be in the final stages of negotiating a contract on that.
Actually the contracts negotiated is going through the approval process right now.
And as these things when you get different entities some public some private the process that they go through to get approvals takes forever and I think that’s the case here with respect to Rig 257.
But we remain optimistic that that will be working soon.
Okay.
And actually one more are there any further color on the duration of the employment you will be looking at? It’s the support to drilling program I think it might be is it two years? Yeah I think what we’re looking at is that rig available for a couple of year of period.
And then hopefully it goes into more of a full drilling contract after that.
Okay.
In the short-term this is about a two year program.
Okay okay.
And then maybe just last one from me.
On the Rental Tools and the notation that utilization has ticked high in the couple of months.
I was unclear is that being entirely driven by the improvement in the Gulf of Mexico or if we parse it land versus – U.S.
land versus international in the U.S.
land business you are also showing a stabilizing utilization trend at this stage? I think is more indicative of the U.S.
land than I guess offshore because of the way that we have calculated that utilization.
But I have been cautious I want to say wow that’s we’re on the road but I’ve been in this business long enough to say you know what two months is enough to give me too much confidence.
So I’m going to watch that little bit.
But we think its going in the right direction and as I mentioned earlier I am really pleased in the leadership team that we have running that business segment and the selective efforts they are taking to target the right customers and make sure they maintain their position and that’s sort of thing I’m very pleased with them.
Great I appreciate the answers guys.
Thanks.
Thanks Daniel.
Thank you.
I am showing no further questions at this time.
I would now like to turn the call back over to management for closing remarks.
Investor Relations</strong> Great Camille thank you for assisting us on this call today.
I want to extend my appreciation to all for joining us during this busy earnings season.
That officially ends our call.
We look forward to speaking with you in the days and weeks ahead.
Have a good afternoon.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes the Parker Drilling fourth quarter 2012 conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Thank you for using ACT conferencing.
Good day ladies and gentlemen.
Thank you for standing by.
Welcome to the Parker Drilling First Quarter 2013 Conference Call.
During today’s presentation all parties will be in a listen-only mode.
Following the presentation the conference will be opened for questions.
(Operator Instructions) This conference is being recorded today May 1 2013.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Richard Bajenski.
Please go ahead sir.
Investor Relations</strong> Thank you Camille and good morning to those of you listening to us today.
Thank you for joining the Parker Drilling 2013 first quarter conference call.
This is Richard Bajenski Director of Investor Relations.
And joining me today are Gary Rich President and CEO; and Philip Schlom Controller and Chief Accounting Officer.
In the course of our comments today we may make statements regarding management’s expectations for the company’s future performance we believe will be informative to our shareholders.
These statements are considered forward-looking statements within the meaning of U.S.
Securities laws.
Each forward-looking statements speaks only as of the date of this call and actual results may differ materially due to various factors we have referenced in our public filings and other factors addressed during this call including changes in market conditions affecting our industry.
We will also refer to non-GAAP financial measures such as adjusted EBITDA and non-routine items.
Please refer to the table in our current press release or on the company’s website for a definition of adjusted EBITDA and reconciliations of this measure to the comparable GAAP measure and for further information regarding non-routine items.
Our first comments are from Gary Rich.
Gary? Thank you Rich.
Welcome to our conference call.
Earlier today we reported our 2013 first quarter results.
Before we review our operational performance and financial results I’d like to update you on our CFO search.
The search is nearly complete.
We have met with several outstanding individuals and are finalizing our discussions.
As a result I expect to have a person in place before the end of May.
I look forward to announcing our selection.
Previously I have outlined four key management objectives that we believe will produce superior financial performance for Parker and value for our shareholders.
These objectives are one delivering reliable financial and operational results; two improving profitability; three strengthening our strategic position; and four developing pads for future growth.
I believe that the results of the first quarter and actions we have taken recently show that we are hard at work on these objectives and that we are making progress.
Let me share with you just a few examples.
We have now completed the launch of two state-of-the-art Arctic class drilling rigs currently deployed on the Alaskan North Slope under five-year contracts with options to extend for another five years.
They are operational and performing well.
The second quarter will be the first period for both rigs to enjoy a full quarter of activity gross margin and cash flow and I am very pleased with the team effort to get these rigs operational.
In mid-February we began working on a new O&amp;M contract for three drilling platforms Offshore California.
The second quarter will also be the first full period of operation for this contract.
Results for both the Arctic class rigs in Alaska and the O&amp;M contract in California will be reported in our U.S drilling segment.
We are making progress redeploying our international rig fleet to focus on regions with promising industry growth that will lead to a better utilization increased operating scale and ultimately a better return on investment.
Our Latin America region exemplifies the direction we want to go in any region we decide to deploy Parker rigs.
During the quarter we continued the process of mobilizing two rigs from Kazakhstan to Kurdistan where they will begin contracts in the third and fourth quarters of this year.
This reduces our involvement in Kazakhstan where we have experienced low utilization for sometime.
The cluster of rigs we will have in the Caspian-Kurdistan area and the corresponding contracts we have secured will form the basis of a region intended to deliver scale and focus in a market with promising industry growth.
This past quarter we also completed moving our two rigs from Algeria to Tunisia while we evaluate alternatives for them.
Though this relocation resulted in $1.7 million of added cost in the first quarter we are avoiding possible tax assessments had they remained idle in Algeria.
And they are now better positioned for work elsewhere.
Among the possible of homes for these rigs is the Middle East Caspian region either in Kurdistan joining the two rigs now being mobilized or near by or we can move them to Latin America to grow our presence in that region.
We are working through these alternatives and expect to have a designated home for these rigs in the not too distant future.
We have recently put Rig 270 under contract.
This is the rig that has been idle for quite sometime.
It will go to work on Sakhalin Island joining our three O&amp;M contracts the Yastreb land rig Orlan platform and the Berkut platform.
Given our existing presence and familiarity with this market we are confident we can efficiently deploy and operate this rig to generate an accretive return for the company.
Rig 270 is currently being mobilized and should begin operations around mid-year of this year.
We are committed to improving the utilization of our international assets.
We will no longer take on several disperse markets with the 1D 2D approach.
It is noted earlier that steps we have taken to reposition these assets may result in some bumpiness in our quarterly results.
But these steps are necessary to ensure we can capture opportunities that will be accretive to our operating margins and our return on capital.
Most recently we completed the acquisition of International Tubular Services Limited and certain affiliates or ITS.
There are approximately $3 million of due diligence costs in our first quarter results related to this transaction.
We closed in April and are really delighted to have this business.
It accelerates the international expansion of our rental tools business.
It provides immediate growth both in revenues and earnings and is expected to produce solid financial results for our shareholders.
Interested parties can find the additional information about ITS on our website including the transactional announcement a replay of our conference call reviewing the transaction and a related PowerPoint presentation covering the transaction.
So I hope that delivering two new fully operational AADU rigs in Alaska securing a new O&amp;M contract for the three platforms in California ceasing operations in Algeria where we did not foresee a profitable future negotiating the contract for a previously idle rig in 270 and acquiring a great international rental tools business are clear signs we are actively working to achieve our four corporate objectives and making good progress.
Now let me spend a minute or two on the business units before turning some time over to Philip to cover the financial results.
Rental tools faced the challenging U.S.
land drilling market during the past several quarters.
Price discounting and declining utilization are outcomes of slowing demand and excess equipment.
However our U.S.
rentals management team with confidence in our customer driven marketing strategy continues to be selective in their use of discounts and service offerings and continues to actively rebalance their inventory of rental tools.
Though segment gross margin came down last quarter compared with the prior quarter they remained well ahead of previous trough we experienced in 2009 at the bottom of the last cycle.
Pricing continued to decline early in the quarter but the pace of decline was significantly less than we experienced from the Q3 to Q4 walk of last year.
We believe that prices are near to the bottom and with some slight increase in rig activity we will begin reversing this trend of price decline.
Our tubular goods utilization rate has improved to an index of 85 in the first quarter of 2013 from a number of 80 an index number of 80 in the 2012 fourth quarter.
And the April utilization index is at 90 the highest level it has been since the low point last November.
As utilization continues to improve and as price discounting eases we expect our U.S.
rental tools business will strengthen and profitability will expand.
In the meantime our rental tools business in the offshore drilling market continued to grow servicing drilling programs on the shales and in deepwater with drill pipe surface BOPs landing strings and related products.
We made capital investments in the first quarter to support this growth and expect to make further investments in 2013.
Let me spend some time on the barge business.
The inland barge drilling market ended the quarter with increased activity.
During the period of slowness that started late in the fourth quarter we drydocked three of our drilling barges for planned inspections repairs and upgrades that otherwise would have taken these same barges out of service later this year.
Some of this drydock activity continued well into the first quarter.
However by the beginning of March we had all 11 of our workable barges back in the water and under contract.
I am pleased that our average day rate again improved sequentially.
Our first quarter average day rate was $33 800 a day the highest quarterly average day rate we have ever reported since 2008.
Nonetheless this is still below the historic high achieved in 2007 of $49 500 for comparable rigs an indication that we still have room for further increases.
The market remained healthy.
Today we continue to have all 11 of our marketable barges working in our spot average day rate is north of $36 000 a day with three of these rigs earning over $40 000 per day.
On the international front I have covered a lot of the strategic movement underway in our drilling segment but it’s also worth noting some other things that are going on.
Our rig fleet utilization picked up in the first quarter with three more rigs working at the end of March than at the end of the prior quarter.
Our operating results improved during the quarter but not as much as they could have due to more mobilization and downtime in our Latin America operations compared with the prior quarter.
Before I turn this over to Philip Schlom for some financial review I wish to note that we did reach a final settlement with the Department of Justice and Securities and Exchange Commission regarding their investigations of possible violations of U.S.
law.
The settlement was finalized consistent with our previous announcement.
We are pleased to have reached this agreement and will continue to maintain a vigorous compliance program.
Now Philip our Chief Accounting Officer will review our financial performance.
Philip? Thanks Gary.
Today for the 2013 first quarter we reported revenues of $167.2 million segment gross margins of $50.1 million adjusted EBITDA of $37.2 million and net income of $0.6 million.
Net income included non-routine expenses of $3.5 million.
The expenditures during the quarter were primarily related to those associated with the acquisition of ITS and final settlements with the Department of Justice and SEC.
Excluding non-routine items net income was $3.9 million or $0.03 per diluted share.
The Rental Tools segment reported revenues of $57.1 million and gross margin of $32.2 million.
Compared with the 2012 fourth quarter revenues rose 3% gross margin declined 2% and gross margin as a percentage of revenues declined to 56.4%.
These results reflect an increase in equipment utilization and further price softness.
In the first quarter we continue to invest in our business.
We received $12.2 million of new Rental Tools inventory with much of it destined for the growing offshore market.
The U.S.
Barge Drilling segment reported first quarter revenues of $29.9 million and gross margin of $12.4 million.
Compared with the 2012 fourth quarter revenues rose 2% gross margin declined 6% and gross margin as a percentage of revenues declined to 41.6%.
Rig fleet utilizations improved in 79% from the fourth quarter’s equivalent of 77%.
As Gary noted the average day rate rose to $33 800.
The gross margin benefits of higher utilization and increased average day rate were unfortunately offset by an uptick in this quarter’s workers’ compensation reserves related to two claims while the 2012 fourth quarter reserves had been reduced on favorable past claim experience.
Without this adjustment margins would have comparable.
The U.S.
Drilling segment recorded first quarter revenues of $11.6 million and gross margins of $0.3 million.
For the 2013 first quarter there was a mismatch between revenues and expenses for one of the two Alaska rigs.
Rig 272 was undergoing commissioning until late in February at which time it began operating and earning revenues.
During the first six weeks for the quarter we had incurred expenses without the benefit of associated revenues.
In addition our new O&amp;M contract in California commenced operations in mid-February and we should see a full quarter of revenues and earnings during the second quarter and beyond.
In our international drilling – excuse me our International Drilling segment reported first quarter revenues of $64.7 million and gross margin of $4.8 million compared to the 2012 fourth quarter segment revenue declined 4%.
Gross margin and gross margin as a percentage of revenues increased to 7.4%.
The segment benefited from higher utilization as we had more rigs working during the first quarter compared with the prior quarter.
The increased downtime and mobilization days in the Latin America region will more than offset the impact of higher utilization.
In addition revenues from international O&amp;M contracts rose primarily due to an increase in the reimbursement revenues during the period.
The quarter-to-quarter earnings comparison reflects the inclusion in the prior period of $4.7 million of expenses related to rig redeployment compared with $1.7 million of related expenses in this quarter.
In the Latin America region our 10 fleet operated at 72% average utilization up from 60% in the prior quarter.
Two previously idle rigs returned to work in Columbia while one other came off contract.
In the Eastern Hemisphere region our 14 rig fleet operated at 24% average utilization compared to 29% in the prior quarter.
The decrease in utilization reflects the net impact of two rigs having completed their contract work during the fourth quarter one in Algeria the other in Indonesia.
Partially offset by the initiation of work of one rig in Kazakhstan.
Our Technical Services segment revenues were $3.9 million for the 2013 first quarter and gross margin was $0.4 million compared with the 2012 fourth quarter revenues and gross margin increased primarily due to contributions from the customer funded project.
Speaking about other financial items general and administrative expense incurred in the first quarter reflects costs associated with settlements with the Department of Justice and Security and Exchange Commission as well as acquisition of ITS both of which were completed in April.
Excluding these event-related expenditures adjusted G&amp;A expense for 2013 first quarter was $9.4 compared with $8.3 million during the fourth quarter of 2012.
The increased G&amp;A of $1.1 million was primarily attributable to ongoing expenditures associated with our new Oracle-based enterprise resource planning system.
Interest expense for the quarter was $10 million $1.6 million higher when compared with the 2012 fourth quarter.
The increase in interest expense was primarily related to the completion of construction of the two Alaska based rigs.
One was completed during the fourth quarter the other at the beginning of the first quarter.
As each rig was completed the associated interest cost that was previously being capitalized began being expensed.
For the first quarter we reported an income tax benefit of $1.5 million.
This included the favorable impact related to the settlements with the DOJ and SEC and a benefit from reduced taxes on prior year’s returns.
Our tax rate was also impacted by the ITS acquisition related expenses that were not currently deductible for income tax purposes.
We expect our 2013 ongoing tax rate to be about 40%.
First quarter capital expenditures were $30.1 million and included rental tool expenditures of $12.2 million and ERP system expenditure of $4.5 million.
Our cash balance at the end of the quarter was $83.7 million compared with $87.9 million at the end of 2012.
At the end of March we had $476.4 million of debt outstanding for a net debt position of $392.8 million.
Our net debt to net capitalization ratio at quarter end was 39.8%.
Before turning to the outlook let me summarize some of the current or upcoming events that will impact our near term financial performance and comparisons.
We completed the acquisition of ITS in April.
Our 2013 first quarter results included $3 million of related transaction expenses.
We expect additional transaction expenses of between $3 million and $5 million in the second quarter.
In addition we expect that second quarter will include some portion of the estimated $2 million to $5 million for 2013 compliance related expenses resulting from the acquisition.
We are in the process of implementing our new Oracle-based enterprise resource planning system as we proceed with new employment and implementation we expect to have higher G&amp;A expense this year related to conversion and personnel training.
The added expense is expected to be approximately $2 million per quarter.
That ends the operations and financial review.
I will turn this back over to Gary for comments on the outlook and then we will take some questions.
Gary?  Thanks Philip.
I feel good about the direction we are headed and the progress we are making.
As I have noted before there maybe some bumpiness in our results as we implement some of the necessary changes in our international rig operations.
But yeah rest assured we will work through those as they are necessary to have a better business and be positioned for continual work and improved profit potential of these large capital intensive assets.
Turning to our outlook based on current activity in the U.S.
land drilling market and expectations for gradual activity increase through the reminder of the year I expect competitive conditions to improve for our U.S.
Rental Tools business.
Meanwhile continued growth in the U.S.
offshore market will also lead to increased opportunities for this business unit adding revenues with solid profitability.
We also expect continued activity in the U.S.
inland water barge drilling market that will allow us to maintain high utilization and continue growing day rates as we have demonstrated over the last several quarters.
Our U.S.
drilling operations comprised of our two Alaska rigs in the California O&amp;M project are operated under long-term contracts with no significant changes anticipated other than being fully active throughout the remainder of the year.
The changes underway in our international drilling segment are expected to improve our strategic position and deliver better returns.
These will take time to be realized but I believe we made a good start.
I expect better rig fleet utilization later this year resulting from the recently awarded contracts.
Our technical services business continues to be involved in new and interesting projects and I believe they will open up some opportunities in the not too distant future.
And the acquisition of ITS is expected to be a profitable addition and bring further opportunities to enhance our now truly international Rental Tools business.
That concludes my comments.
Operator we are ready to take some questions from the audience.
Thank you sir.
(Operator Instructions) Our first question is from the line of John Keller with Stephens.
Please go ahead.
Hi good morning.
Gary I just wanted to ask you kind of on the margin progression or profiling the international drilling business obviously a lot of moving parts there as you kind of repositioned assets but as we sort of look at that business over the course.
How do you see margins progressing? I mean are we going to continue to be stuck in kind of a single-digit range here for the next quarter or two until we get things positioned or maybe help us understand how that progression is and good we see that ultimately back up in the mid-20s where it was running I guess kind of historically? Well I certainly would like to get it up in the mid-20s without a doubt John.
I think that over the next two or three quarters it’s going to remain a challenge for us again as we get some of these rigs positioned but I feel that these are the steps we need to make to give us the chance or the prospect of giving backup into the 20s – mid-20s to give us a good return as an organization.
I think that you will see some substantial progress from where we are today to the time you get to the end of this year.
You will be able to see some notable changes improvements in that market.
Okay fair enough.
And then switching to the U.S.
Rental Tool market I don’t want to pin you down here but given your commentary and kind of what you see as the year unfolds I mean would you be willing to say that Q1 would mark a bottom in terms of margins in that business? Yes that’s always would you mean you don’t want to put me on the spot.
Well I don’t want to pin you down on a number? I think that - I think it’s got to be ready close to the bottom.
I feel like personally that it probably is right there and that will see some improvement going forward but we needed help from the rig activity side.
And without a doubt if we continue to see some positive movement on rig activity and it doesn’t have to be too significant but as soon as it does that will help firm up the position on the pricing side.
So we won’t see any further degradation there and we should then see growth throughout the reminder of the year.
Okay perfect.
That will do for me guys.
If I have anymore I’ll hop back in queue.
Thanks.
Thank you.
Our next question is from the line of Trey Cowan with Clarkson Capital Markets.
Please go ahead.
Hi good morning.
Good morning Trey.
So looking at the U.S.
activity levels and a modest pick up there when we think about that is there a certain region that meshes well with your rental tools division as far as where you would hope the rigs would pickup first and they would lead to the biggest impact.
Well it’s a good question I think that it actually is great that we have such a strong geographic presence in all of the regions so that we can take advantage of the activity wherever it picks up and activity growth in any of them Trey will be positive for us.
It’s nice that we have the ability to reposition equipment and people to take advantage of those opportunities.
I think as an organization we’ve already demonstrated an ability to do that we’ll certainly do that going forward but I don’t necessarily need to pick a favorite I would like any of them to grow.
Great okay switching gears a little bit internationally the Rig 270 is that a barge rig or a land rig? It’s a land rig that actually it’s a brand new rig that we’ve had sitting in our New Iberia facility for quite sometime now it was originally destined for a market that we didn’t go into.
And it’s well suited for the application that it’s going to and so we’re quite excited to get that under contract.
It’s one you haven’t seen on our rig charts in the past.
And then now we’re going to put it on there obviously under contract and I am excited to get it there.
Great and has it already started drilling or is it to start drilling in the second quarter? It should start mid year sometime it’s actually on a boat this week I believe maybe even today sometime this week it’s on a boat to head over there from Houston.
Okay.
And then just one final question looking at the incremental G&amp;A cost of $2 million is that relative to the first quarter? No.
Relative to prior year.
So… We’ve taken part of the ERP system live and the accounting rules to have us capitalizing expensing portion of that and that will be ongoing expenses as we continue to train and implement the remaining modules throughout 2013 and early 2014.
So are you saying that like I should look at last year’s G&amp;A for the full year and add $8 million to it and that’s a pretty good comp? I think at this point that that is about – that is the easiest analysis you can do yes.
Okay great.
Well I’m all for easy.
Thank you guys.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) Our next question is from the line of Daniel Burke with Johnson Rice.
Please go ahead.
Good morning guys.
Good morning Daniel.
Gary in terms of understanding that international rig margin progression could you maybe explain a little bit more the level or the extent of the downtime you experienced in Latin America in the first quarter.
And then maybe the second question would be at this time do you anticipate any unrecoverable cost in international drilling in Q2 do you have anymore rig move expense coming at you? Well the – I mean if you take the Latin America issue first.
We had a couple of units that had some top drive issues and it took us little longer to get those repaired than what we anticipated.
And that’s the issue that’s associated with the downtime that we referenced in our comments earlier.
We clearly don’t expect that to repeat again in Q2 as a go forward so we should be beyond that and those margins should improved.
The extraordinary expenses associated with some of these rig moves.
The rigs that we have in Tunisia dependent on what type of contract those go under and whatever it is we decided to move them it can have an affect is to whether it’s a capitalized expense and associated with the contracts or whether it’s a period expense.
Those types of things are what’s out there that’s what I referred to when I talked about bumpiness is that it just depends on what you’re going to be able to capitalize of those rigs move expenses or whether you need to expense so I mean it’s hard to know until I actually get contract form to tell you what that’s going to be.
Okay that’s helpful.
One other one just to stay on the cost side then pretty apparent we have the utilization statistics for the AADU in the first quarter but with the second one starting up and I guess simple question that the operating cost in Q1 ‘13 is that a good run rate for U.S.
drilling I guess we are also incorporating California O&amp;M in that line item but just trying to figure out where that op cost line is going to settle out? Well what we have said for a while now we still feel comfortable is that we anticipate a 20% to 25% EBITDA margin from those two AADU units.
And when they are fully operating and you are talking about $50 million a year revenue stream so you can back into your cost I think using that 20% to 25% EBITDA margin.
If you look at just our absolute numbers that we are reporting because you do have the O&amp;M contracts and there would be a little difficult for you to decipher the difference between the two.
Okay great.
That’s helpful.
And maybe just the last one I don’t know if this was it what was capitalized interest in the first quarter in Q1 ‘13? Yeah it would have been a very small number.
Yeah I think it was about $1 million I shouldn’t say I think it was roughly $1.5 million of capitalized interest with the rigs having been capitalized in the late fourth quarter and the first quarter that was the significant financing interest that we had in Q4 and Q1 of this year.
Okay.
So in Q1 ‘13 you were still capitalizing $1.5 million and presumably we won’t see capitalized interest in 2Q ‘13 right? There will be small capitalized interest related to our ongoing ERP implementation.
So there will be some continuing capitalized interest but it will be reduced from what you have seen in past.
Fair enough.
Thank you guys.
Thank you.
And that does conclude the question-and-answer session at this time.
I would now like to turn the call back over to Mr.
Bajenski.
Investor Relations</strong>  Thank you all for joining our call.
This ends it for us.
We appreciate your time today and your interest in Parker Drilling.
If you have questions about material covered in our announcement or this conference call please contact me.
Other than that have a good day and good bye.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes the Parker Drilling first quarter 2013 conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Thank you for using ACT conferencing.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and thank you for standing by.
Welcome to the Parker Drilling Second Quarter 2013 Conference Call.
During today's presentation all participants will be in a listen-only mode.
Following the presentation the conference will be opened for questions.
(Operator Instructions) This conference is being recorded today Thursday August 1st 2013.
And I would now like to turn the conference over to Richard Bajenski.
Please go ahead.
Thank you operator.
Good morning and thank you for joining the Parker Drilling 2013 second quarter conference call.
This is Richard Bajenski Director of Investor Relations.
Joining me today are Gary Rich President and CEO; Chris Weber Chief Financial Officer.
In the course of our comments today we may make statements regarding management's expectations for the company's future performance; we believe will be informative to our shareholders.
These statements are considered forward-looking statements within the meaning of U.S.
Securities Laws.
Each forward-looking statements speaks only as of the date of this call and actual results may differ materially due to various factors we have referenced in our public filings and other factors addressed during this call including changes in market conditions affecting our industry.
We will also refer to non-GAAP financial measures such as adjusted EBITDA and non-routine items.
Please refer to the table in our current press release or on the company's website for a definition of adjusted EBITDA and a reconciliation of this measure to the comparable GAAP measure and for further information regarding non-routine items.
Our first comments are from Gary Rich.
Gary?  Thank you Rich.
Welcome to our conference call.
Earlier today we reported our 2013 second quarter results.
Before we review our operational performance and financial results I have the pleasure of introducing Chris Weber who recently joined us as our CFO.
Chris has tremendous leadership experience in the drilling contractor business including valuable integration M&amp;A and strategy development experience.
His first day at Parker had been very active.
He is already fully engaged in our operational reporting planning and business strategy processes and has just come off a road trip for our successful notes offering.
He has been out on several meetings with investors and I'm looking forward to having more of you meeting him in the future.
I believe once you do you'll be as excited as I'm to have him on our team.
Speaking of the team with all the many activities we've been engaged in there has been a tremendous response from employees throughout Parker the acquisition of ITS our ERP implementation.
The many international rig moves and other projects would not be as successful as they have been without their dedication including long hours of work and lots of travel.
I just thank them for their involvement and want to acknowledge that without their efforts we would not have come as far as we have in executing these specific projects and also in building momentum behind our key business objectives which are to deliver reliable operating and financial results to improve profitability the strength of our strategic position and to develop paths for future growth.
Let me share with you some of the more significant events and the success we're having.
In April we completed the acquisition of International Tubular Services Limited or ITS and International Rental Tools and Well Services business which had 22 locations around the globe serving the most of the large and growing international drilling markets such as the Middle East Latin America the UK and Europe and Southeast Asia.
As soon as the deal closed we began in executing an integration plan developed while we were in negotiations.
Prior to closing because of the significant similarity and products customers and suppliers we identified $5 million in potential synergies as a result of the involvement throughout the Parker organization.
We've already made good progress toward achieving that number.
Supply chain is one area in which we see great opportunities for savings.
For example shortly after the acquisition ITS made a purchase of drill pipe for its rental inventory.
Buying as part of the larger Parker organization ITS was able to acquire that pipe 2000 joints of pipe for $725 000 less than the amount quoted for the same order just prior to the acquisition.
That was a 15% of savings on one order.
While synergies and integration benefits will be contributors to the overall performance of ITS by far the more important contribution will come from our ability to provide capital to an organization that has been unable to fund its growth opportunities.
While the example I've cited shows how we can reduce procurement cost one of ITS's past issues with the lack of funds to buy additional equipment.
As a result even with orders in hand they had to either forego business or subrent equipment at basically no margins.
We expect to invest approximately $20 million this year and as much as $30 million next year in capital at ITS to reduce the level of sub rentals and build our product base allowing us to expand our operating margins and grow this business.
As this capital is put to work this year and next it should contribute to ongoing improvements in our operating results.
While ITS is well-positioned in the growing international drilling market our U.S.
rental tools business is operating in a more challenging environment.
Slowed and no growth in the U.S.
drilling activity over the last several quarters has led to price discounting and declining utilization across the industries.
Our U.S.
rental tools management team with confidence in their customer-driven marketing strategy continues to be selective in the use of discounts and service offering and continues to actively rebalance inventory.
As a result of possible pricing actions and continued growth of the Gulf of Mexico business our U.S.
rental tools business increased their revenues gross margin and gross margin as a percentage of total revenues this past quarter.
Our U.S.
Gulf of Mexico barge drilling business had another stellar quarter with higher utilization and average day rate.
We achieved all utilization of our marketed fleet of 11 barge rigs and our average day rate rose by 9%.
We believe the market demand will remain strong and may get even better.
As a result earlier this week our Board authorized an investment plan to complete Barge Rig 55B and having in service sometime in the second quarter of 2014.
In the meantime we are approaching the most active part of storm season for the Gulf of Mexico and expect as typically happens that some operators would chose not to drill during this period.
If operators cut back their activity (technical difficulty) utilization and average day rates may be impacted temporarily.
However we continue to have all the 11 of our marketable rigs working today.
If we incurred gaps in the utilization during this storm season we'll use that pause in activity to do maintenance and upgrade work on idle rigs.
Two or three barges are likely to be brought in at some point during this quarter or during this period.
The rig maintenance and upgrade work we did last year and expect we will be doing this year showcases our commitment to be an innovative reliable and efficient rig provider.
This and the addition of Rig 55B will further strengthen our position as having the most capable fleet of barge drilling rigs in the U.S.
Gulf of Mexico.
Our fleet will represent about half of the industry's number of rigs in service and gives us an unmatched operating scale.
We will have a range of drilling depth capabilities up to 30 000 feet giving us unmatched flexibility in selecting the right rig for a given application.
With the recent refurbishment work that will have been done we should be able to enjoy a long creative operation with few interruptions for major maintenance.
Our U.S.
drilling segment recorded its first full period of operation in the second quarter with results in line with what we expect from this business the two arctic-class drilling rigs on the Alaska North Slope are building a solid performance record demonstrating the kind of value that our technical capabilities and operating experience can bring to the tough conditions of drilling in an Arctic environment.
There has been a lot of activity in our international drilling operation leading up to and during this past quarter.
Underneath the higher utilization and the increased margins we reported for the quarter there is quite a bit of change.
In Kazakhstan Rig 257 our Caspian Sea Barge is now under contract.
In finalizing the contract we also received $6.1 million of revenues for having held the rig in standby since September of last year.
Those standby revenues are included in the segment's second quarter results.
In the second quarter our two rigs Kazakhstan arrived in the Kurdistan region of Iraq and are now going through rig-up activities.
We remain on schedule for a third quarter start-up for one of these rigs and a fourth quarter start-up for the other.
Rig 270 is then contracted to work on Sakhalin Island in Russia.
The rig is arrived on the Island and is in the process of rigging up.
It is expected to start drilling in late August or early September.
Along with the newly contracted work we would think we did have one rig come up on contract during the quarter in Colombia.
We are currently in negotiations over a potential contract for that rig.
That covers the key operations events that have occurred recently.
Chris will provide more detail on the impacts of many of these in his financial review.
However before turning it over to him a few comments on our recent notes offering are in order.
This past Tuesday we closed on a $225 million issue at 7.5% senior unsecured notes.
The primary purpose of the notes was to refinance the $125 million loan from Goldman Sachs that funded our acquisition of ITS in April.
We also used the proceeds to repay our outstanding term loan of $45 million.
The timing and circumstances of the ITS acquisition provided us an exceptional opportunity to make a strategic addition at great value.
As a follow-up to the acquisition the notes issuance gives us long-term financing to 2020 at a good rate and spreads out the maturities of our debt structure.
While these actions have increased our debt-to-cap ratio I remain committed to strengthening our balance sheet through a lower debt-to-capital ratio over time.
This is not because I think we are not capable of handling this level of debt rather it is because at lower debt levels we'll have the financial flexibility to grow our business as we develop strategically and financially attractive options.
In summary I believe the results of the second quarter and the actions we've taken recently show we are at hard at work on the key objectives that we set out for our employees and to our investors just a short while ago to deliver reliable operating and financial results to improve profitability to strengthen our strategic position and to develop paths for future growth.
We're making great progress on all of these.
Now Chris will review our financial performance.
Chris? Thanks Gary.
First let me start by saying how excited I'm to be here.
When I met with Gary Bobby and the Board during the hiring process I took particular note of their collective commitment to provide greater financial discipline in order to raise the performance levels of our operations and to grow the company.
The 10 weeks I've been at Parker I've been impressed with the solid foundation we have in the financial area and believe we can employ that to not only provide discipline to our operations and investments but also the unit to help identify opportunities to improve expand and grow.
Turning now to the results of the second quarter.
Today we reported revenues of $226 million adjusted EBITDA of $62.5 million and net income of $10 million.
Included in the quarter's result is $8.9 million pretax or $7.3 million after tax of ITS acquisition related expenses.
Adjusting for these¸ net income was $17.3 million or $0.14 per diluted share.
The Rental Tools segment reported revenues of $82 million and gross margin of $38.3 million.
In the 2013 second quarter we have a contribution from ITS of $24.2 million in revenue and $5.2 million in gross margin.
Despite all the acquisition disruptions the operations turned in solid results for the period.
ITS's operating margins continue to reflect a high amount of subrentals which we expect to decline as we began to deploy capital.
Including ITS our U.S.
rental tools business achieved increases in revenues and gross margins that led to an increase in gross margin as a percentage of revenues to 57.3% for the second quarter compared with $56.4% in the first quarter.
These results for our U.S.
rental tools operations reflect the net impact of many individual decisions about price disciplines and market positions.
The U.S.
rental tools management team is well experienced with these market conditions and we expect they will continue to make sound vision going forward.
The U.S.
Barge Drilling segment reported second quarter revenues of $38.3 million and gross margin of $20 million.
Compared with the 2013 first quarter revenues rose 28% gross margin increased 61% and gross margin as a percentage of revenues expanded to 52.2% from 41.6%.
Rig fleet utilization for the quarter was 100% up from the first quarter 79% and our average day rate rose to 36 900 a day a 9% increase from the first quarter.
The business was quite successful in converting growing revenues and to increase profitability.
The U.S.
drilling segment second quarter revenues were $17.9 million gross margin was $3.6 million and gross margin as a percentage of revenues was 20.3%.
The 2013 second quarter was the first full quarter of activity for our two Alaska rigs as well as our O&amp;M contract offshore California.
We are seeing good results from these operations and expect this to continue as our Arctic class drilling rigs gain more operating experience.
Our International Drilling segment reported second quarter revenues of $83.2 million and gross margin of $20.3 million or 24.4% of revenues.
Compared with the 2013 first quarter segment revenue decreased 29% and gross margin increased from $4.8 million or 7.4% of revenues.
Second quarter results includes $6.1 million of revenues received for holding our Caspian Sea barge Rig 257 on standby since September of last year while we negotiated this current contract.
Excluding the standby revenues segment revenues increased by 19% to $77.1 million and gross margin as a percentage of revenues expanded to 18.4% from the prior quarter's 7.4%.
In the Latin America region our 10 rig fleet operated at 73% average utilization.
During the quarter one rig came off contract and we are currently in negotiation on a potential new contract for it to go to work in the region.
This past quarter the region benefited from an increase in operating days and reduced downtime compared with the prior quarter.
In the Eastern Hemisphere region we operated at 40% average utilization compared with 24% in the prior quarter.
We brought Rig 270 into the region with a contract to work on Sakhalin Island and benefited from our success in contracting Rig 257 and the arrival in Kurdistan of the two rigs mobilizing from Kazakhstan.
That covers the operating segment.
Regarding other financial items G&amp;A expense in the second quarter included $8.9 million pretax of costs associated with the acquisition of ITS both were pre-acquisition due diligence costs and post-acquisitions integration and compliance costs.
Excluding these adjusted G&amp;A expense for the 2013 second quarter was $11 million.
We had interest income of $2.2 million in the second quarter resulting from interest associated with a recent U.S.
income tax refund related to prior year's tax returns.
For the second quarter we reported an income tax provision of $12 million or 54% of pretax income.
Our second quarter tax provision is higher than expected primarily due to the impact of nondeductible ITS transaction costs incurred prior to the acquisition.
We expect our full year tax rate to be in the mid 40s.
Our cash balance at quarter end was $69.6 million compared with $87.9 million at the end of 2013.
At the end of June we had $599 million of debt outstanding or a net debt position of $529.5 million.
Our net debt to net capitalization ratio at quarter end was 46.5%.
Since quarter end we completed a note issuance comprised of $225 million of senior unsecured notes at 7.5%.
The purpose of the note was to refinance the $125 million loan from Goldman Sachs that funded our acquisition of ITS in April.
In addition we used the proceed to repay our outstanding $45 million term loan.
As part of the transaction we also amended our credit agreement which allow us to reborrow the $45 million term loan adjusted for previously scheduled amortization through April 2014.
This positions us subject to market conditions to potentially use the excess funds raised in the notes offering the call a portion of our 9.125% notes when they first become callable in April of next year while reducing our cost of negative carry.
Before turning to outlook let me summarize some of the current and upcoming events that may impact our near term financial performance and comparison.
We completed the acquisition of ITS in April.
Our 2013 second quarter results included $8.9 million of transaction compliance and integration related expenses before any potential offset from the moneys escrow for some of those expenses in the acquisition agreement.
We expect additional ITS integration and compliance related expenses about to $4 million over the remainder of the year before any escrow recovery.
Our note issuance will result in some one-time expenses in the third quarter.
In addition to the deal related expenses which will be amortized over the license of note there will be debt extinguishment cost of approximately $5 million associated with the early retirement of the ITS acquisition term loan.
That ends the operations and financial review.
I'll turn this back to Gary for comments on the outlook and then we will take questions.
Thanks Chris and welcome aboard.
Now let's spend a minute on our outlook.
I'm really excited about the progress we're making and the momentum we're gaining in our businesses.
As I've noted before there may be some bumpiness in our results as we implement some of the necessary changes in our international rig operations and we're going to have some one-time costs associated with the ITS acquisition our notes issuance and recent refinancing.
Nevertheless we're on a good path forward having operations that will be competitively stronger with better profit potential with the Company in sound financial condition.
Turning to our outlook.
Based on the current activity and recent market trends we expect our rental tools business to benefit from rising demand in international markets and growing activity in the Gulf of Mexico while soft demand in the U.S.
land market will impact competitive conditions affecting our U.S.
rental tools business.
We expect the current pace of activity in the U.S.
Gulf of Mexico barge drilling market to moderate temporarily influenced by operators' typical caution during the storm season but we anticipate no long-term reduction and the robust demand in this market.
Our two Arctic class drilling rigs located on the North Slope of Alaska and one O&amp;M contract for offshore platform operations located in California are projected to generate reliable cash flow during the terms of their multiyear contracts.
Growth in worldwide E&amp;P spending particularly in many of the countries in which we operate should provide good conditions favorable to our efforts to put more of our rigs to work in growing regions with opportunities to gain operating scale.
We are currently mobilizing some rigs for work that will begin in the second half of this year.
Based on recent tender activity further rig deployment opportunities may arise later this year.
That concludes my comments.
Operator we're ready to take questions from the audience.
Thank you sir.
Ladies and gentlemen we will now begin the question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions) And our first question comes from the line of John Keller with Stephens Inc.
Please go ahead.
Inc.</strong> Just wanted to touch on the barge business for a second.
So it sounds like you're moving forward with the barge reactivation here on 55B what's the cost of that and I think you and refreshing on the timing I missed that? We gave estimates at the beginning of the year that we felt like our CapEx spend in 2013 was going to be in the $170 million.
John even as the market has slowed down a little bit with the addition of 55B we still feel like total company will stay within as total $170 million spend and as far as when the rig will be active we’re anticipating that sometime in Q2 of 2014 probably earlier rather than later.
Inc.</strong> And I guess given sort of the limited the sort of the fixed nature of that market and do you anticipate any disruption to the day rate structure that we've kind of positively witnessed over really the last year and a half? We don't.
We feel like the trends of improving day rates are actually going to continue and if you look at that market there was 22 to 24 barges that are working on that market at any point in time.
Right now I think today we probably got 21 or 22 of those barges actually on contract.
So the overall utilization in that market remains quite strong and we feel confident that with our position and these new barges we're bringing into service that our day rate improvement will continue and our utilization will also remain very high.
Inc.</strong> Sure.
And historically you guys have kind of given sort of a spot fleet average in terms of rate where things are currently.
Are you in a position to do that right now to kind of give us where we're today relative to may be the Q2 average? We're pretty close to right on top of the Q2 average.
There is not much difference in the numbers we see today relative to what we reported for Q2.
Inc.</strong> And then may be just turning to the outlook on a couple of used rigs that are idle internationally first and foremost in Colombia.
When do you think you could see some movement on the contracting for the rig that just recently rolled off? Well we actually have effectively a contract for that rig or an opportunity to put it to work.
We reached agreement with a customer where there are some challenges in terms of their environmental permitting there in Colombia.
So it's a little bit of a function of how that progresses.
Of course the longer it's delayed the more other issues can come into play.
We're not just relying though on that opportunity we'll continue to look for some other opportunities we might find elsewhere.
I might say if you look at our overall rig I'm just very very pleased with the progress we've made in getting contract for our rigs.
And if you just walk around the globe for just a second in the Eastern Hemisphere we got 13 rigs today and of those 13 rigs we got 10 of them that are under contract.
Latin America we have nine we have seven of those nine under contract 271 being one that we don't.
The three that we don't have under contract in Eastern Hemisphere we're actually in some pretty active discussion about possibly putting those under contract.
And then of course the barges we have all the 11 of them still under -- fully utilized today and then the two rigs up on the slope are utilized today.
So I feel really good about the utilization we got right now.
Inc.</strong> And then I guess just one more as you demoed I think two of the rigs from Algeria to Tunisia and are working toward contracts in those.
Any update there and may be the potential market destinations for those? Well those are two of the three that are in the Eastern Hemisphere that remain idle today and we are in active discussions with multiple customers about the potential deployment of those.
And we've been saying for quite some time that our intention is to not put them in countries where they will be isolated that's part of the reason we pull them out of Algeria is with the onesy and twosy thing that I've referenced in the past.
And so the discussions that we're having would actually facilitate the scale discussion that we've been talking about in the past.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Daniel Burke with Johnson Rice.
Please go ahead.
A question on the international performance in Q2.
First of all I might have missed it but directionally was O&amp;M favorable in terms of its contribution in gross margin may be relative to where it was in the first quarter.
And then perhaps more prospectively it doesn't sound like as we sit here right now that that there are any one-time style mobilization expenses that would burden the Q3 outlook or for that matter the Q4 outlook is that fair? Yeah on the O&amp;M we did see an increase in contribution from our O&amp;M business particularly on Sakhalin Island in our international drilling segment regarding any sort of rig moves cost in Q3 nothing new that is not in the works now unless we -- something happens on the two rig in Tunisia but we would be unlikely to actually start moving anything in Q3.
And then on ITS the fact that I was curious the CapEx you're putting in what portion of that goes to the subrental market versus I guess growth CapEx.
In other words what percent of that directly supplants external rent that ITS is currently paying for? Well it's Gary again.
Good question I think that if you look at it we've got probably in that business segment in the mid to high teens percentage of our overall business is been serviced by subrentals in the past.
And so clearly there is some real opportunity for us to reduce those.
As far as the split between how much of its applied to that and how much of its applied to growth CapEx we're letting the local operations drive that decision and we're so early in this that I can't give you some specific numbers.
In some cases it actually may be prudent to continue in a subrental mode for a while because they are having more favorable opportunity to deploy that capital.
So we're not dictating that too and with everything else going on we've not tried to be overly hawkish on them in terms on watching how they're allocating that just right now.
And then may be a last one just on initial impressions of ITS look like a kind of low 20% margin which is sort of exactly in line with where you had earlier communicated Gary.
But I guess it doesn't sound like there was anything within the segment level result that would on the cost side go away or be considered one-time in nature and then how do we think about the ability to begin pushing that margin what type of timeline do you often see before that margin can may be make some progression? Well I think that it's we remain very confident that the opportunities are there Daniel.
It's going to take some time for us to roll some of that through.
I gave you a example in my comments about the procurement savings that we had on the string of pipe we saved them 15% using our procurement contract versus what they had been able to purchase the same similar type work or before but of course that's a depreciated item.
So it gets capitalized and it's over some period of time as the depreciation comes off that you would be able to see the benefit of it in the absolute period numbers that we report.
So it is going to take a while for us to work that up I will say though that there is some of the savings that we think will happen near term.
But I wouldn't see it as an immediate change in their cost structure other than where we do apply capital through subrentals.
And then may be just cram one last one I'm going back to an earlier question I had.
Chris the O&amp;M -- will the O&amp;M activity in Sakhalin remain elevated in Q3 or was that kind of encapsulated in Q2? Yeah I think Daniel our Q3 performance would be in line with Q2 on the O&amp;M side.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) And I'm showing no further questions in the queue at this time.
I would like to turn the conference back over to Mr.
Bajenski for his closing remarks.
Please go ahead.
Well thank you all for joining us.
This ends our call.
We appreciate your time and your interest in Parker Drilling.
If you have questions about the material that we covered in our earnings announcement or on this conference call please reach out and contact me.
Thank you for your day and have a good one.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude our conference for today.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and thank you for standing by.
Welcome to the Parker Drilling Third Quarter 2013 Conference Call.
During today's presentation all parties will be in a listen-only mode.
Following the presentation the conference will be opened for questions.
(Operator Instructions) This conference is being recorded today Wednesday November 6 2013.
I would now like to turn the conference over to our host Mr.
Richard Bajenski.
Please go ahead.
Thank you operator.
Good morning and thank you for joining the Parker Drilling 2013 third quarter conference call.
This is Richard Bajenski Director of Investor Relations.
Joining me today are Bobby Parker Executive Chairman; Gary Rich President and CEO; and Chris Weber Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
In the course of our comments today we may make statements regarding management's expectations for the company's future performance we believe will be informative to our shareholders.
These statements are considered forward-looking statements within the meaning of U.S.
securities laws.
Each forward-looking statements speaks only as of the date of this call and actual results may differ materially due to various factors we have referenced in our public filings and other factors addressed during this call including changes in market conditions affecting our industry.
We will also refer to non-GAAP financial measures such as adjusted EBITDA and non-routine items.
Please refer to the table in our current press release or on the company's website for a definition of adjusted EBITDA and a reconciliation of this measure to the comparable GAAP measure and for further information regarding non-routine items.
I ask that you note of discussion of our forward looking statements as we make our comments today.
And our first comments are from Gary Rich.
Gary? Thank you Rich.
Earlier this week we announced the Bobby Parker is retiring.
We all knew Bobby was going to retire some time but the timing was his to choose and the time he has chosen is now.
If you are wondering what Bobby thinks about all is well here he is tell us about it.
Bobby?  Thanks Gary.
Here is how I would I express the variety of feelings I have now.
To those are listening it has been an honor serving over the years as CEO and Chairman and as a representative to our industry.
It has been a great experience.
We have been through a lot together.
I value the interest and interaction that we have had together and that has contributed to the path we have followed.
It is time to move along.
I do this with great confidence in the leadership at Parker today.
I trust Gary and his team with the Parker name and reputation.
I am very excited by the strategic plan and the execution of that plan.
I will be spending more personal time with my wife Risa and our cat George will be at Kerrville ranch and in Austin where I will spend more time working with the great University of Texas.
Thanks for all your support.
I certainly hope to see many of you in the future.
Now back to you Gary.
Bobby I thank you for your stewardship at Parker and for all your years of dedicated service to the employees the customers and the shareholders of this great company.
I appreciate the great expectations you have for us the leadership team to follow behind.
And we look forward to contributing to the Parker legacy that you have established.
We are committed to that.
And we do appreciate your service.
Thank you.
Earlier today we reported our 2013 third quarter results.
Chris Weber will give you all the financial details in a moment.
He has a good report to deliver both for our operating results and business trends.
As you review these I believe you will see we made good progress on the key objectives we set for ourselves just about a year ago.
Those objectives are: to deliver reliable operating and financial results to improve profitability to strengthen our strategic position and to develop paths for future growth.
We believe we will achieve these objectives and create significant value for our investors when customers have confidence that we are the company best capable in the segments and countries where we choose to operate to reduce their operational risks and help manage their operational cost.
Within the company we talk about our efforts and journey a reliable consistent journey where we get up everyday and cannot be any better than we were the day before.
So let us spend a moment reflecting on our progress.
We acquired ITS in April of this year expanding the scope of our Rental Tools business and extending the reach of a very successful business model.
As a growing supplier of rental tools and well services in key international market ITS well positions Parker to benefit from future growth in international E&amp;P spending.
I believe we made a great investment with ITS and it will produce growing value for Parker.
The integration process begun well.
I particularly appreciative of the resilience demonstrated by the ITS employees that are now part of the Parker family; they have responded well.
Beyond the normal integration we have also invested heavily in compliance.
Among other things this does include the reviews of customer contracts and agency agreements.
We are close to being done with these efforts and do not expect any significant integration related expenses beyond Q4.
Despite the many distractions of the acquisition process the business produced solid revenue growth and rising gross margin this past quarter.
Again credit goes for the good team of employees we have in ITS.
Our U.S.
Rental Tools business Quail Tools is making significant gains today in the U.S.
Gulf of Mexico offshore drilling market as a result of prior business decisions and investments.
By taking the long view of its market opportunities Quail Tools offshore drilling revenues have grown at a 25% compounded rate over the last five years.
Today the offshore market accounts for about a quarter of its revenues and is a solid counter balance to the trends in the U.S.
land drilling market.
Our two new Arctic class drilling rigs retail in Alaska operation with the addition of an O&amp;M contract offshore California this business segment is developing into a steady provider of stable cash both for the company.
With a solid record of performing for our customers the U.S.
Barge Drilling business continues to command the lead position both in terms of number of rigs working and day rate.
As we communicated during our last conference call in the third quarter usually the worst part of the Gulf of Mexico storm season and therefore a time of reduced drilling activity we took three rigs to the shipyard for the maintenance in dry-dock work to better position ourselves for sustained work in the future.
With over 75% of our international rigs fleet working or committed on contract in the month of September we have come a long with in this business not only in utilization but also in earnings.
By redeploying our rigs in the regions with large markets and long term growth potential we have gone from nine rigs in Kazakhstan with only two working to five rigs in the country with four working and in active discussion around the future work for the fifth.
We placed two rigs in the Kurdistan region of Iraq of fast developing market with high growth prospects.
The first of those spud yesterday and the second is expected to spud its first well in December.
As we're moving forward on discussion to take the two rigs previously in Algeria also into Iraq putting them to work alongside the two already there building our operational presence and scale in the region.
Each of these actions contributes to achievement of one or more of our key objectives.
Looking forward what will produce further progress? Well there is plenty still to achieve.
I see as just give in to take in and deploy the capital we committed to increase capacity to serve growing markets and to displace much of the subrental business that held margins down.
The construction on barge 55b is under with a commissioning date in the second quarter of next year.
The capabilities of this rig make it a very marketable addition to our Gulf of Mexico fleet.
Our international rig redeployment and regionalization continues.
Contracting these rigs previously in Algeria is high on our priority list.
The more rigs we regionalize the greater our flexibility to respond to ever changing customer programs resulting in more consistent utilization.
In our ERP project to improve our management systems we are live now on two important modules HR and finance.
We are gaining user experience and building a foundation from which we can move forward.
In summary great progress has been made on our journey.
Our financial results are beginning to reflect that and there are further activities underway that will build our momentum.
That covers the key points I wanted to make.
Chris will provide more detail on the impact of these in his financial review.
Chris? Thanks Gary.
For the third quarter we turned in solid results in line with our expectation in most areas and even slightly better in a few instances.
We reported revenues of $237.8 million adjusted EBITDA of $69.7 million and net income of $8 million.
Included in the quarter's results are two even related item that impacted our reported earnings.
These were $4.8 million pre-tax of ITS acquisition related integration expense and $5.2 million pretax of debt extinguishment cost associated with the refinancing the term loan for the ITS acquisition.
Excluding these adjusted EBITDA with $74.5 million and net income was $14.5 million or $0.12 per diluted share.
The Rental Tools segment reported revenues of $89.6 million and gross margin of $40.9 million or $45.6% of revenues.
For our U.S.
rental tools business Quail Tools revenues were down 4% gross margin dollars were down by 1% and gross margin as a percentage of revenues increased to 59.5% from 57.3% for the prior quarter.
Quail Tools continues to face challenging conditions in the U.S.
land drilling market but this is partially counterbalanced by our growing presence in the Gulf of Mexico offshore drilling market.
Our International Rental Tools business ITS contributed $34.3 million to revenues and $8 million in gross margin in the third quarter.
Since the acquisition in April the operation made good progress in both growing its business and raising its profitability.
Including the impact of having less than a full quarter of operating results in the prior period ITS revenues grew by 42%.
On a proforma basis assuming a full period of revenues in the 2013 second quarter ITS revenues grew approximately 7% sequentially.
Since acquisition ITS has been able to participate more fully in the growth of some of its key markets leading to increased revenues and gross margin and raising gross margin as a percentage of revenue to 23.3% from 21.4% in the prior quarter.
Our U.S.
Barge Drilling segment reported third quarter revenues of $33.9 million and gross margin of $15.8 million or 46.6% of revenues.
Barge drilling market conditions tend to soften during the third quarter as some operators elect to defer drilling during what is usually the most intense period for the Gulf of Mexico storm season.
Anticipating this we took three of our barge rig into the shipyard for maintenance overhaul and inspection for short periods during the quarter.
As a result our rig fleet average utilization for the quarter was 88% compared with full utilization in the second quarter.
Our U.S.
Drilling segment achieved an increase in revenues gross margin and gross margin as a percentage of revenues in the 2013 third quarter compared with the prior quarter.
Revenues were $18.7 million gross margin was $3.9 million and gross margin as a percentage of revenue was 20.9%.
The 2013 third quarter was the second full quarter of activity for our two Alaska rigs as well as our O&amp;M contract offshore California.
We are seeing good results from these operation and expect this to continue.
Our International Drilling segment reported third quarter revenues of $88.6 million and gross margin of $23.2 million or 26.3% of revenues.
Compared with the 2013 second quarter segment revenues gross margin and gross margin as a percentage of revenues increased primarily due to the improvement in average utilization.
In the Latin America region our nine rig fleet operated at 78% average utilization compared with 73% in the prior quarter.
In the eastern hemisphere region our 13 rig fleet operated at 65% average utilization compared with 40% in the prior quarter primarily due to the continued operation of three rigs that initiated work late in the prior quarter.
This was the result of our success in contracting rig 257 in Kazakhstan the arrival in Kurdistan of the two rigs mobilized from Kazakhstan and the arrival of rig 270 on Sakhalin Island Russia.
That covers the key operating segments.
Regarding other financial items our third quarter G&amp;A expense of $14.2 million included $4.8 million pretax of cost associated with the acquisition of ITS for post acquisition integration and compliance costs.
Excluding these adjusted G&amp;A expense for the 2013 third quarter was $9.4 million compared with a similarly adjusted $11 million for the 2013 second quarter with a decrease primarily due to a reduction in compensation related expense and lower professional fees.
To-date our financial include $19.2 million of transaction compliance and integration related expenses associated with the acquisition of ITS including $4.8 million in the third quarter.
We believe we are nearly done with the integration and compliance activities that give rise to these costs and expect the cost to complete them will continue to diminish.
We had $5.2 million of one-time debt extinguishment expense during the quarter associated with our July note issuance and refinancing of the $125 million term loan for the ITS acquisition.
Third quarter interest expense was $13.1 million an increase from $10.7 million in the second quarter.
This represents the impact of higher debt level following the ITS acquisition and our July refinancing.
For the third quarter we reported an income tax provision of $9.1 million or 53% of pretax income.
Our third quarter effective tax rate is primarily the result of the level and mix of earnings among our tax jurisdiction and our ability to utilize tax offset in the current period.
We expect our full year effective tax rate to be in the mid to upper 40%.
At the end of the quarter we had $654 million of debt outstanding and a cash balance of $162.5 million for a net debt position of $491.5 million or 44% of net capitalization.
As mentioned earlier we completed a note issuance in July comprised of $225 million of senior unsecured notes at a 7.5% interest rate and maturity of 2020.
The proceeds from the notes were used to refinance the $125 million loan from Goldman Sachs that funded our April acquisition of ITS and to repay an outstanding $45 million term loan under our revolving credit facility.
This refinancing allowed us to secure longer-term lower cost funds and stagger the maturity profile of our debt portfolio.
In summary operating income for the 2013 third quarter was up from the second quarter as a result of higher revenues and gross margins in four of the five business segments and a reduction in ITS acquisition integration expenses.
Net income was about the same as the prior quarter as the increase in operating income was reduced by the debt extinguishing cost associated with our July refinancing and from higher interest expense primarily due to the increase in outstanding borrowing.
A lower effective tax rate also helped the comparison.
That ends the operations and financial review.
I'll turn this back to Gary for comments on the outlook.
Gary? Thanks Chris.
As the quarter shows we are making progress.
We remain focused on the customer on finding ways to help them succeed by providing innovative reliable and efficient solutions to reduce their operating costs and operating risks while also making sure we get fairly compensated for our investments.
I also believe the activities that produce these financial results show we are developing strong durable and competitive operations and a company with growing potential and a sound financial foundation.
Turning to our outlook.
Based on the current activity and recent market trends we expect our overall rental tools business to benefit from rising demand in international markets and growing activity in the Gulf of Mexico offshore drilling market promoted by the capital investments we are making to support this potential.
The U.S.
land drilling market the rental tools remains challenging.
Our Quails Tools team continues to focus on balancing near-term customer retention and financial returns and building long-term value.
We expect this portion of our business to remain a challenge until market conditions improve.
We expect activity in the U.S.
Gulf of Mexico barge drilling market to improve from current levels.
I'm really excited about having 55B in our fleet next year.
It is the kind of rig that can really succeed in this market.
Our two arctic-class drilling rigs located on the North Slope of Alaska and one O&amp;M contract for offshore California operations located in California are projected to produce relatively steady financial results during the terms of their multi-year contracts.
We are encouraged by industry projected trends for E&amp;P spending in our international drilling markets and believe there will be ample opportunities for us to sustain and improve our rig fleet utilization.
In the Latin America region each of our currently contracted rigs comes to the term of its contract between now and the middle of next year including five on a contract for Pemex sourced work in Southern Mexico.
We are actively engaged in the current round of Pemex tenders and are optimistic we will continue to be one of the leading high horsepower drilling contractors in Mexico.
As a conclusion to this report I have the pleasure of acknowledging a major award our employees earned recently.
A few weeks ago Parker Drilling was named Contractor Of The Year by our customer Exxon Neftegas Limited for excellence in safety performance in our work on Sakhalin Island Russia.
We are grateful to ENL for recognizing the efforts of our Sakhalin Island team in such a visible and distinguished way.
This is a tremendous honor.
And another exciting milestone in a year marked by achievement in Sakhalin including getting several records for extended reach drilling.
By application of all the knowledge expertise and hard work of everyone involved 12 700 meters is the current record for extended reach drilling that's nearly 8 miles done safely efficiently and with a sharp focus on environmental care.
I also want to thank Parker employees around the globe for all the hard work and effort they have put into making this past quarter a success.
And their ongoing dedication to strengthening our ability to consistently deliver innovative reliable and efficient products services and performance for our stakeholders.
That concludes my comments.
Operator we are ready to take questions from the audience.
Thank you Mr.
Rich.
(Operator Instructions) Our first question comes from the line of Matthew Marietta with Stephens Incorporated.
Please go ahead.
The margin gains and utilization increases in the international drilling segment is impressive.
Can you elaborate on what's driving success there and may be a little bit more color on what you're seeing in Kurdistan? What's really exciting you there? Is it activity levels or the operating condition in the area? Well one of the things Matthew that we're determined to focus on as we go forward and try to align ourselves to regions is define regions that we feel represents particularly farmers in terms of their long-term growth prospects.
And the Kurdistan market in Northern Iraq we feel is one such market as well as generally within the Middle East.
So when we started looking at some of the idle rigs we had in Kazakhstan that was a natural location for us to move to both because of the growth prospects as I mentioned but is also relatively close by some standards to the Kazakhstan market so that we can effectively leverage some of our existing infrastructure and that that we have there in that market.
And so it was a natural place for us to focus on.
Our marketing team has worked very very hard to go out and secure contracts.
And as I mentioned in my comments it's our intention to work hard to redeploy the two rigs that we have currently sitting in Tunisia that we pulled out of Algeria also in that same market.
It's great color therein.
And as you look at kind of the third quarter and margins in the third quarter on a go forward basis do you think that's applicable to what the segment can do or do you see even further improvements being possible there? Great question.
I think I'm never satisfied with what we did this quarter.
But I think realistically as I mentioned I think on a call almost a year ago when we embarked on this process to reposition some of our international rigs that there would be some lumpiness along the way.
And an example of that is as you move rigs from Kazakhstan to Kurdistan or from Tunisia to Kurdistan you incur some cost.
And that obviously can be somewhat of a drag on your margins.
But saying all that I think that it is realistic to say that the margins we have now are reasonably good margins.
I'd be cautious if I put the model together to expect that they would go much higher in terms of percentage terms relative to where they are today.
But that doesn't mean we're going to give up or we're not going to try to push some buyer.
My intention is to push some buyer but I would be careful modeling around that right now.
And moving over to ITS it seems everything is moving forward as planned and very smoothly.
Can you may be elaborate on the markets there that you see particular strength and where you see that business going during 2014?  Well I just remain very pleased with the ITS acquisition.
The business model or the business justification we had was to try and extend that rental business model that we had already successfully operating here in the U.S.
into an international environment.
ITS represented an organization that we felt like was well-positioned in several key geographic markets that are again similar to what I talked about on the rig side forecast to grow in the long-term.
A substantial portion of their business is located in that Middle East market and so that represents good opportunity.
They also have a pretty good position in the Europe market North Sea and Continental Europe as well as in Asia and some position in Latin America.
We like the exposure across that as we feel bullish about the growth and E&amp;P spending over the next several years in that international environment.
And real quick on the barge fleet and activity there.
Is there any reason why we shouldn't expect all the rigs to have worked once the dry dock work is completed and what are your thoughts there? Well we're very very pleased with the effective 100% utilization that we had on those barge rigs from I think it was probably February through August or so.
And clearly that's always your objective and the rig contracting business is to have 100% utilization.
I'm not sure 100% is a realistic target when you're also trying to balance your pricing and everything else in the context of the market.
Saying that I'm not trying to throw cold water on what I think are great prospects in that barge business.
We know right now that we've got 8 of our 11 rigs that are working today.
And we feel that we've got upside from there as we look into Q4.
And certainly as I mentioned in my comments earlier when we bring 55B into the market say second quarter of next year we're quite optimistic that that will go to work effect.
I'm pretty optimistic that we'll have a contract for that long before we actually bring it out.
That's all I have today.
Thanks for taking my questions and congrats again on a very solid quarter.
And best wishes to you Bobby.
Thank you Matt appreciate it.
(Operator Instructions).
Mr.
Bajenski there are no further questions at this time.
Please continue with any closing remarks.
Great Lilly.
Thank you for conducting this call for us.
This ends our call.
I want to thank everybody in our audience for your time today and for your interest in Parker Drilling.
If you have questions about our announcement our earnings release and this conference call please give me a call contact me by email.
Good bye to you all and have a good day.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes the Parker Drilling third quarter 2013 conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and thank you for standing by.
Welcome to the Parker Drilling Fourth Quarter 2013 Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will be conducting a question-and-answer session and instructions will be given at that time.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the conference over to our host Mr.
Richard Bajenski.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Tiega.
Good morning and thank you all and our audience for joining the Parker Drilling 2013 fourth quarter conference call.
This is Rich Bajenski Director of Investor Relations.
Joining me today are Gary Rich President and CEO; and Chris Weber Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
In the course of our comments today we may make statements regarding management's expectations for the company's future performance we believe will be informative to our shareholders.
These statements are considered forward-looking statements within the meaning of U.S.
Securities Laws.
Each forward-looking statements speaks only as of the date of this call and actual results may differ materially due to various factors we referenced in our public filings and other factors addressed during this call including changes in market conditions affecting our industry.
We will also refer to non-GAAP financial measures such as adjusted EBITDA non-routine items and segment operating gross margin excluding depreciation and amortization expense which we will refer to as segment gross margin in this call.
Please refer to the table in our current press release or on the company's website for a definition of adjusted EBITDA and a reconciliation of this measure to the comparable GAAP measure and for further information regarding non-routine items.
I ask you to take note of this caution of our forward looking statements as we make our comments today.
Our first comments are from Gary Rich.
Gary? Thank you Rich.
Earlier today we reported our 2013 fourth quarter and full year results.
These reflect both the progress we’re making towards higher sustainable levels of performance from our operations and the impact of recent market trends.
Chris Weber will provide a financial detail regarding the fourth quarter in a moment.
But first let’s spend a few minutes reviewing our journey during 2013.
Our part drilling operation had a great year by providing reliable efficient and safe equipment and cruise over many years we believe we’ve cultivated a strong customer preference for our rigs in the inland waters of the Gulf of Mexico.
In 2013 we were able to leverage good commodity prices and cooperative weather into an outstanding performance.
While our 11 marketable rigs account for nearly half of the drilling rigs in the Gulf of Mexico barge market we drilled approximately 60% of the wells that were drilled in that market during 2013.
Our two arctic-class drilling rigs in Alaska also turned in a very good year.
They were commissioned near the beginning of 2013 and have been operational since then.
With these two rigs we drilled 14 wells in 2013 with better than planned efficiency and less than expected downtime.
In addition we also added an O&amp;M contract in February to manage three platforms off for California.
We made significant gains during the year in our international drilling operation with two idle rigs out of Kazakhstan in the Kurdistan region of Iraq.
We’re now positioned in a market where we believe we can build competitive presence and four of our five remaining rigs in Kazakhstan are now under contract today.
These moves another contract in success brought our quarterly internationally rig fleet utilization to 73% at the end of the year up from 42% where we started the year.
we also sold three rigs late in the year in a planned effort to eliminate non-strategic equipment and sharpen our operational focus in areas with the greatest potential for good results.
Together with our client we said new extended-reach well depth world record several times in 2013 in our O&amp;M operations on Sakhalin Island Russia.
Our current record is 12 700 meters nearly 8 miles.
While having claimed to a record as a great achievement what that means is we enabled our customer to reach further into a reservoir to extract more from their drilling program investment.
That’s Parker innovation providing real customer value.
We also had an active and challenging year in our rental tools business.
We acquired ITS in April expanding the geographic scope of our rental tools business.
ITS as a supplier of rental tools and well services in key international markets positions Parker to benefit from the projected international E&amp;P spending growth.
I believe we made a great investment with ITS and that will produce solid value for Parker in the future.
The integration of the business has gone well.
When we moved the acquisition nine months ago we committed to add capital to build a stronger inventory of rental tools and well service equipment.
This equipment doesn’t materialize overnight given manufacturing lead times and shipping logistics to areas such as Kurdistan.
However a growing amount of that capital is now flown into operations for deployment.
In 2013 our U.S.
rental tools operation Quail Tools had to contend with challenges U.S.
land drilling markets throughout the year.
The impact of weak demand and competitive pricing was felt all along particularly in the fourth quarter.
However Quail Tools did continue to generate growth in the U.S.
Gulf of Mexico offshore drilling market that step up in the capital expenditure for equipment to this market help produce revenue growth of approximately 27% during the year.
Also we put a new facility and new operation in Oklahoma given us a location to better serve customers drilling mid [Indiscernible] line.
On the corporate side in 2013 we made some significant changes to our desk structure with further changes in early 2014.
As a result several transactions that have enabled us to lower our borrowing rate and have extended the staggered on maturities.
We remain committed to a conservative balance sheet and expect to continue to work for a lower ratio of debt as a percentage of capital and the lower multiple of depth to EBITDA.
As I believe this report illustrates we were quite busy in 2013 and made a lot of progress on our journey the purpose of which is to achieve the key strategic objectives outlined over a year ago to deliver reliable operating and financial results.
To improve profitability of the organization to strengthen our strategic position and to also develop pass for future revenue growth.
This was not even possible without the dedication hard work and effort of Parker employees around the globe there has been a lot of change within the company recently related to the acquisition and integration of ITS the implementation of a new ERP system the mobilization of international rigs across significant distances and some organizational and operational realignments.
As a result of all this change many of our employees are in different work environments doing new jobs or working in new tools to support systems.
They have done a great responding to the change being smart and efficient and keeping our customers’ needs almost in their minds.
They all deserve much recognition and appreciation.
With their continued support I believe we will make continued progress in 2014 as well.
Those are the key points I want to make at this time.
Chris will provide more details in his fourth quarter financial review and I’ll come back to offer some insights regarding our outlook for 2014.
Chris? Thanks Gary.
For the fourth quarter we reported revenues of $243.3 million adjusted EBITDA of $66.3 million and net income of $10.2 million.
Included in the quarter’s results was $3.3.
million pretax of ITS integration expense.
Excluding these non-routine expenses adjusted EBITDA was $69.6 million and net income was $12.3 million or $0.10 per diluted share.
The rental tool segment reported revenues of $81.3 million down 9% from the third quarter.
Segment gross margin decreased 13% to $35.6 million or 43.8% of revenues from the prior quarters $40.9 million or 45.6% of revenues.
The decreases in revenues and segment gross margin were primarily due to a continuation of competitive conditions in the U.S.
land drilling market lower levels of Gulf of Mexico offshore drilling business a short term business disruption in Southern Iraq and lower sales of lost-in-hole tools.
Our international rental tools business ITS contributed $30.6 million in revenues and $7.6 million in segment gross margin or 25% of revenues in the fourth quarter.
Our U.S.
Barge drilling segment reported fourth quarter revenues of $34.8 million up 3% from the third quarter.
Segment gross margin increased 10% to $17.4 million or 49.9% of revenues from the prior quarters $15.8 million or 46.6% of revenues.
The increase in revenues was primarily due to a 4% increase in average day rate on sustained average utilization.
Lower operating expenses also contributed to the increase in segment gross margin and segment gross margin as a percentage of revenues.
Our U.S.
drilling segment reported fourth quarter revenues at $18.7 million and segment gross margin of $4 million or 21.5% of revenues.
This is similar to last quarter's results.
We continue to achieve good results from our two Alaska rigs and O&amp;M contract offshore California and expect this to continue.
Our international drilling segment reported fourth quarter revenues of $97.6 million an increase of 10% from the prior quarter.
Segment gross margin declined 9% to $21.7 million or 22.2% of revenue from the prior quarters $23.8 million or 26.9% of revenues.
Our 22 rig fleet operated at 73% average utilization compared with 70% in the prior quarter.
The increase in revenues was due to higher reimbursable and higher rig fleet utilization.
Reimbursable increased by approximately $7 million mostly associated with our O&amp;M contracts.
Because reimbursable revenues are a pass through of cost with little margin contribution the increased in reimbursable revenues reduced segment gross margin as a percentage of revenues by about 1 percentage point.
Excluding reimbursable revenues increased approximately 2% this was primarily the result of higher utilization as our two rigs in the Kurdistan region of Iraq began operations in the fourth quarter.
This was partially offset by lower realized day rate in our Latin America region as several rigs were on a standby rate during part of the period.
Decline in segments gross margin is primarily due to a higher operating cost in select locations including start-up of our two rigs in the Kurdistan Region of Iraq.
The construction contract segment reported $4.7 million of segment gross margin resulting from the close-out of the contingency reserve associated with an extended-reach drilling rig construction project cancelled by the customer in 2011.
We closed out the project in the 2013’s fourth quarter due to resolution of all material claims and expiration of applicable statutes of limitation.
That covers the key operating segments.
Regarding other financial items our fourth quarter G&amp;A expense of $18.7 million included $3.3 million pretax of cost associated with the integration of ITS.
We believe we’re close to done with these activities and do not expect any significant further costs for this.
Our ITS integration cost is the only item included as a non-routine expense in the fourth quarter there are several other items that led to higher G&amp;A expenses.
These included $2.5 million of severance expense related to Bobby Parker’s retirement at the end of the year and $3.1 million of expenses related to two other items.
One higher compensation and benefit costs primarily driven by the impact of the fourth quarter share price performance on our long term incented plan.
And two increased cost associated with the implementation of our new ERP system.
We went live with the finance module in October so certain implementation costs that were previously being capitalized during system development were expensed during this go-live phase.
Fourth quarter interest expense was $13.9 million an increase from $13.1 million in the third quarter.
This represents the impact of higher debt levels following our July refinancing.
For the fourth quarter we reported an income provision of $6.8 million or 40% of pretax income bringing our full year tax rate to 48.5%.
Our full year effective tax rate is primarily the result of the level and mix of earnings amongst tax jurisdictions and our ability to utilize tax offsets in the current period.
At the end of the quarter we have $654 million of debt outstanding and a cash balance of $149 million.
For a net debt position $505 million or 44% of net capitalization measured as a multiple of EBITDA total debt was 2.8 times 2013’s reported adjusted EBITDA.
Our total liquidity at the end of the quarter was approximately $264 million including our cash balance and approximately $115 million available under our credit facility.
Our capital spending was approximately $51 million in the fourth quarter and approximately $156 million for all of 2013.
Of the full year amount approximately $78 million was for rental tools $64 million was for drilling operations and $14 million was for corporate purposes primarily our ERP system.
In summary adjusted for non-routine items pretax income for 2013 fourth quarter was $7.1 million left in the third quarter primarily due to lower results from our U.S.
rental tool business reflecting the impact of conditions in U.S.
drilling markets a business disruption in Southern Iraq and lower sales from lost-in-hole tools and increase in international drilling segments startup and operating costs primarily related to our two rigs relocated to the Kurdistan region of Iraq additional G&amp;A items I discussed and higher interest expense.
These are partially offset by the recorded income from the close-out of the contingency reserve for the canceled extended-reach drilling rig construction projects.
The impact on net income was moderated by a lower effective tax rate in the quarter.
Looking ahead I want to note a few items that will impact our 2014 results.
In the first quarter we will have debt extinguishment cost of approximately $30 million related to our January notes issuance and refinancing of 9 and 8 senior notes.
We issued $360 million of 6 and 3 quarter note due 2022 and tendered for the outstanding $425 million of 9 and 8 notes due 2018.
As a result of these transactions we reduced our outstanding debt and lowered our annual interest expense.
Total debt at January 31 was $634 million $19 million lower than December 31st 2013.
We expect our 2014 interest expense to be approximately $46 million including debt issuance costs compared with $48 million for 2013.
Our annualized interest expense will be approximately $13 million lower than it would have been prior to the January transaction.
We estimate our 2014 full year effective tax rate will be in the mid 40% range and we estimate 2014 capital spending will be approximately $190 million with approximately $110 million for rental tools $70 million for drilling and $10 million for corporate items.
That ends the operations and finance review.
I will turn this back to Gary for comments on the outlook.
Gary? Thanks Chris.
As the quarter shows we are making progress and we have opportunities to further improve.
I am encouraged by the industry forecast of expanded drilling activity in the U.S.
and the international markets.
I believe this holds potential for significant growth and then the need for our services.
However based on our recent experience and the current tone of our markets we are expecting our 2014 first quarter results to be less than our recently completed 2013 fourth quarter results.
We expect this to be followed by relatively stronger results as the year progresses.
As conditions in our U.S.
markets on land and in the Gulf of Mexico as our international drilling operations work their way through rig start-up and standby positions as our international rental tools business benefit from the inflow of new capital.
Our U.S.
Barge drilling segment winter conditions and customer delays during the start of the year have reduced the first quarter drilling opportunities in the Gulf of Mexico inland waters.
As a result first quarter average utilization is expected to be around 75% down from 89% in the fourth quarter leading to lower revenues and a segment gross margin percent in the low 40s range.
However we have seen an increase in customer commitment and expect an improve in drilling activity during the year which should lead a higher utilization.
We currently have 8 of our 11 rigs working today and have operator commitments for the remaining three.
As a result we expect this business to pick up momentum in the second quarter producing higher revenues and earnings and leading to an average annual segment gross margin for 2014 in the mid to high 40s percent range.
Contributing to this will also be the addition of rig 55B we are completing the work on this rig and expected to go work in the second quarter at a premium day rate.
We are expecting no significant changes in our U.S.
drilling segment.
Our two arctic-class rigs in Alaska and our O&amp;M contract offshore California are all operating quite efficiently and we expect that to continue.
In our international drilling segment we expect first quarter revenues segment gross margin and segment gross margin as a percent of revenue to be lower than in the 2013 fourth quarter.
Reimbursable revenue as Chris mentioned a moment ago which rose significantly in the fourth quarter from the third are expected to decline to a more normal level in the first quarter.
So this does not significantly impact earnings.
Revenues and segment gross margin will be impacted in the first quarter by expected lower realized average day rate due to the mix of rigs on standby rigs.
In addition the segment will be impacted by increases in start-up and operating cost primarily associated with Kurdistan region of Iraq.
The decline in segment revenues and segment gross margins is expected to lead to our first quarter segment gross margin percent in the high teens.
Current rig utilization is in a good level and is expected to improve further during the year.
This should lead to revenue growth and improve further as the number of days on reduced rigs will decline.
In addition we expect to continue producing solid results from our O&amp;M contracts and as a result the segment's average 2014 gross margin percent is expected to be in the low 20s percent range.
We expect our rental tools segment near term results to reflect the continued competitive conditions in the U.S.
land drilling market and cost increases in our international business as we mobilize the inflow of the new capital.
As a result we expect the segment’s gross margin to decline in the first quarter to approximately 40% on revenues similar to those we produced in the fourth quarter.
The first quarter should be the low point of the year for rental tools segment.
The U.S.
rental tools utilization has been done to pick up as we have been successful of putting more equipment into the field though pricing remains quite competitive.
With time we expect to achieve improvements in our U.S.
rental tools business growth in our U.S.
Gulf of Mexico offshore drilling applications and a meaningful increase in our international rental tools business as the growing inflow of new capital is deployed.
We expect these advances will lead to an annual average gross margin for this segment in the mid 40s percent range for 2014.
To summarize our first quarter outlook we expect revenues for Parker to be in the range of $215 million to $235 million leading to an EBITDA margin in the mid 20s percent.
We believe that projected increase in business activity and improving market conditions will provide a lift to revenues and earnings as the year progress.
As a result we expect Parker’s overall revenues to increase between 15% and 20% in 2014 compared to 2013.
This should lead to have average EBITDA margin in the low 30s percent range for the year higher than the average EBITDA margin for 2013.
As a company our attention remains focused on developing strong durable and competitive operations capable of providing our customers with innovative reliable and efficient business solutions that brings value to them and produce higher returns and continued growth for Parker.
That concludes my comments operator we’re ready to take questions from the audience.
[Operator Instruction] And our first question comes from the line of Daniel Burke with Johnson Rice please go ahead.
Good morning guys.
Gary I appreciate and still digesting that full rundown of the 2014 outlook so thanks for that.
To focus on the international side the international drilling side of the business just a couple of questions.
You mentioned some start-ups as the year progresses was curious what rigs that referring to is that the Algerian rigs or is that that’s rig renewals? Also we’re interested getting update on the position of the outlook in Mexico and wondered if we could get your initial thoughts on the experience in Kurdistan? Daniel I appreciate the questions.
The startup costs that we referred to really pertain to the rigs in Kurdistan we had mentioned that as we moved those from Kazakhstan to Kurdistan we incurred certain cost to do that those were capitalized and then were amortized over the life of the initial contract so they are going to come off in a rather accelerated fashion.
In addition to that we realized opening up in new country one of the things that we felt very important as that we make sure we deploy resources that ensure our operational success very early on.
And consequently the mix of expat resources we have involved in that project are higher than what we feel are necessary in the long run and we have a good plan to bring those expat cost down with more regional labor content and so that’s also part of that startup that we’re referring to.
With respect to Mexico there is a lot of uncertain that still surfing around what’s going to happen in Mexico.
We feel right now that we’ve got pretty comfortable that our rigs will remain utilized for 2014 and beyond that that crystal ball Mexico is pretty hard to see.
We mentioned a couple of times this mix of standby rate that we have and Mexico is an example of where we’re facing that a little bit right now.
There is a little bit of civil unrest in some of the areas where we work down there that have got some roads that access rigs that limit our ability to gain there and so we’ve got a few rigs that are sitting on standby right now because of that civil unrest not something that’s new it’s not something we feel like is going to be a problem for us in the long run so I think we’re okay there.
It was third down at there your question? Yes sir it was.
I think the other piece was you you mentioned a couple of startups in the press release on the international side and utilization has been worked around and pretty high already I was wondering what rigs you were alluding to? Okay.
Well one rig in Kurdistan early we’ve also got the one remaining rig that’s not utilized in Kazakhstan that we continue to have some very good conversations with clients both internal of Kazakhstan as well as the possibility of moving that rig out of Kazakhstan that we anticipate and have planned in our 2014 year.
We also have a rig in Mexico that has been idle for quite some time that has not been working that we have got a letter of intent signed with the customer for it to go to work as well in 2014 so those are the examples.
The two Algeria rigs you mentioned earlier we continue to work on those we do not have a specific contract but I can tell you those rigs have been put forward in tenders for nine different opportunities right now as we speak and we’re confident that one of those will prove out and be good for us.
Okay great.
And then I guess maybe to tackle another segment specifically on the Quail side your rental tool utilization it’s an imperfect but helpful metric it looks like it’s bounced up nicely over the December January period where there has been weather impacts out there in the U.S.
market so I guess nice to see that that trend underway.
Can you just talk a little bit more about what you’re seeing in the onshore U.S.
rental tools market at this point I know you mentioned being successful in terms of placing some incremental equipment out there but how do you see that market unfolding and is there an opportunity this year for pricing to come back into the onshore environment? I would like to feel that there is some pricing opportunity in 2014 but if it is it probably won’t be until later in the year.
The market remains tough we’ve all been kind of waiting for this uptick for a while and so I think people are anxious to get their equipment to work and that’s kind of putting a little bit of a lid on pricing opportunities for the moment.
Saying that we are very very pleased with the progress for making on the utilization as you referred to it we really started utilization reports last night and whether or not perfect in terms of exactly the kind of business they’re indicative that we got more equipments that’s come back to work and I’m pretty comfortable that’s going to continue to show improvement as you see next one after that.
Okay great.
And then last one just real quick for me.
I missed in the numbers what was the full year expectation for revenue growth? We said 15% to 20% off of 2013.
Okay thanks guys thanks a lot.
[Operator Instructions] Our next question comes from the line of Jeff Spittel with Clarkson Capital Markets please go ahead.
Thanks good morning guys.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Maybe just a follow up on Daniel’s question as you look around for Quail around the different basins in which you traffic have you noted any discernible changes in the pricing climate over say the last two-three months and I guess another way to ask it would be are there any areas where the pricing pressure was particularly key or maybe that started to abate as you got into the new year? Jeff that’s a good question.
I don’t want to get too specific in some of those regions because it probably projects a little bit some of our specific tactics and activities and some of those areas but I will just say comeback to again what I mentioned when Daniel asked the question that I think that’s going to be tough to see much real price appreciation or realization until we get to the second half of the year and that will then all may come if these activity levels that are being projected the high single maybe 10% or 11% type activity increases actually materialize.
Okay okay.
And then with regard to the Barge drilling business obviously we’ve seen a pretty significant move in gas prices don’t want to get too carried away here but in your conversations with clients do you anticipate any change in kind of the mix of targets as they get busier again in the spring and summer with the oil versus gas? We actually have seen as we gone throughout the year a little bit of increase on a gas side I don’t know that we’ve got enough I guess intel from the client side to give us a real good feel going forward.
But just knowing what our rigs are working on we’ve seen a slightly increase a slight increase in the percentage of projects for gas versus oil.
All right that’s interesting I appreciate it thanks guys.
I’m showing no further questions at this time please continue.
Great thank you operator.
This will end our call and I want to thank all of you and our audience for your time today and your interest in Parker Drilling.
If you have questions about material covered in our announcement and this conference call please contact me by telephone or by email.
I look forward to hearing from you good bye and have a good day.
Ladies and gentlemen that does conclude our conference for today you may now disconnect.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and thank you for standing by.
Welcome to the Parker Drilling first quarter 2014 conference call.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the conference over to our host Mr.
Richard Bajenski director investor relations.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you operator.
Good morning and thank you for joining the Parker Drilling 2014 first quarter conference call.
This is Richard Bajenski director of investor relations.
Joining me today are Gary Rich chairman president and CEO; and Chris Weber senior vice president and chief financial officer.
In the course of our comments today we may make statements regarding management's expectations for the company's future performance we believe will be informative to our shareholders.
These statements are considered forward-looking statements within the meaning of U.S.
securities laws.
Each forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date of this call and actual results may differ materially due to various factors we referenced in our public filings and other factors addressed during this call including changes in market conditions affecting our industry.
We will also refer to non-GAAP financial measures such as adjusted EBITDA non-routine items and segment operating gross margin excluding depreciation and amortization which we will refer to as segment gross margin in this call.
Please refer to the table in our current press release or on the company's website for a definition of adjusted EBITDA and a reconciliation of this measure to the comparable GAAP measure and for further information regarding non-routine items.
I ask you to take note of this caution about forward looking statements as we make our comments today.
Our first comments are from Gary Rich.
Gary? Thank you Rich.
Before getting into our first quarter results I want to share with you some news on recent awards we have received from our customers recognizing Parker performance.
The crew of Parker rig 221 operating in southern Mexico has been recognized by our customer Slumberger as the best rig in its Mesozoic project for meeting and exceeding key performance indicators for quality health safety and environmental efforts during the third and fourth quarters of 2013.
[unintelligible] an affiliate of Parker Drilling in Indonesia was presented with a best contractor [HSC] award by our customer Energi Mega Persada for the 2012 to 2013 period.
Our Papua New Guinea operation received an [unintelligible] safety award for onshore operations in 2013.
And most recently our O&amp;M crews on the Harmony platform offshore California were honored to be named Rig of the Month by Exxon Mobile for their outstanding record as a spill-free [unintelligible] free and incident-free operation.
We are very proud of these awards.
They tell us our focus on innovative reliable and efficient performance is aligned with our customers’ objectives.
They also tell us our customers value the Parker safety culture that delivers those results.
I congratulate all the Parker employees who work directly in the operation that were recognized and I commend Parker employees everywhere for their continuing commitment to work safely and efficiently.
They have a direct impact on the quality of the results we deliver.
Now let’s review the first quarter.
We expected a challenging start to the year.
We successfully navigated through the quarter and delivered results in line with what we expected.
Here are some of the highlights.
At our U.S.
barge drilling operation our average day rate increased by 7%.
Our average utilization was 74% for the quarter down from the fourth quarter level due to the effects of winter weather conditions.
However we were at full utilization by the end of the quarter and just completed the month of April at 100% utilization.
This business is in great shape and we recently added to is capabilities with the completion of Rig 55B a deep drilling barge.
The rig departs this week after having been surveyed and inspected by the U.S.
Coast Guard and the Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement.
It is the first drilling barge to go to work in federal waters since the Macondo incident in 2010.
We continue to focus on strengthening our international rig fleet utilization which remained at 73% this quarter.
Recently we contracted rig 122 in Mexico for startup in the 2014 third quarter.
This rig has been idle since late 2010.
We are in the process of securing work for several other rigs that will contribute to building utilization in both our Latin America and eastern hemisphere regions.
Our U.S.
drilling operations turned in another solid quarter as the two arctic class rigs on the north slope and an O&amp;M project offshore California continued to perform at high levels.
With a little more than a year’s operating experience the Alaska rigs are performing well delivering the operating performance they were designed for and producing reliable results.
Utilization in our U.S.
rental tools operation increased in each of the last four months.
As a result the first quarter’s utilization was 5 percentage points higher than in the fourth quarter and the March level was the highest it has been since July of 2012.
Though price discounting is still a factor the Quail Tools management team continues to do a great job of securing a strong market position while also providing solid financial results.
We had a difficult first quarter in our international rental tools business.
While we incurred planned cost increases for expanding and relocating facilities and crewing up for new contracts several rental and service jobs ended earlier than expected.
In addition we experienced delays in the receipt and deployment of new capital equipment that along with customer delays negatively impacted operating results.
Nevertheless conditions are improving.
Our facility moves are nearly complete inflows of capital equipment are growing the legwork is expected to restart later this quarter and next and we recently secured several contracts for new business.
On the corporate side we refinanced our 9.0125% notes with 6.75% notes in January.
As a result today we have less debt and our overall debt portfolio carries a lower rate and our maturity schedule has been extended.
This should contribute to moving our leverage metrics to stronger levels this year.
Those are the key points I wanted to make.
Chris will provide more detail in his financial review and then I’ll come back to offer some thoughts regarding our outlook.
Chris? Thanks Gary.
For the first quarter we reported revenues of $229.2 million adjusted EBITDA of $54.1 million or 23.6% of revenues and a net loss of $12.5 million.
Included in the quarter’s results was $29.7 million pretax of debt extinguishment expense associated with the first quarter refinancing.
Excluding this expense net income was $5.5 million or $0.04 per diluted share.
The rental tools segment reported first quarter revenues of $80.5 million down 1% from the 2013 fourth quarter.
Segment gross margin declined 19% to $28.8 million or 35.7% of revenues from the prior quarter’s $35.6 million or 43.8% of revenues.
The decline in segment revenues and gross margins is primarily due to lower activity and higher costs in our international rental tools business.
In several of our international markets we had rental and service jobs that ended earlier than anticipated.
At the same time we experienced delays in the start of new contracts due to the deferral of customer projects and slower than expected receipt and deployment of new capital equipment.
Our costs were higher in the first quarter as we continued to prepare for increased inflows of new capital and due to $2.6 million of cost associated with an increase in our allowance for [doubtful] accounts and a change in our corporate allocation.
As a result international rental tools revenue was down 9% to $27.8 million and gross margin declined to $1.4 million.
In our U.S.
rental tools business revenues were up 4% to $52.7 million due to increased activity while gross margin declined by 2% to $27.4 million due to increased price competition.
Our U.S.
barge drilling segment reported first quarter revenues of $30.5 million 12% lower than the 2013 fourth quarter.
Segment gross margin declined 32% to $11.8 million or 38.8% of revenues from the prior quarter’s $17.4 million or 49.9% of revenues.
The decreases in revenues and earnings were primarily the result of a decline in average utilization 74% in the 2014 first quarter from 89% in the 2013 fourth quarter offset by a 7% increase in average day rate.
Gross margin was further impacted by a $1.7 million increase in our reserve for worker’s compensation expense.
Our U.S.
drilling segment reported first quarter revenues of $19.4 million up 4% from the 2013 fourth quarter.
Segment gross margin rose 38% to $5.6 million or 28.7% of revenues.
The increases in revenues and earnings were primarily due to improved operating performance of our two arctic class rigs on the north slope of Alaska and our recent increase in day rate.
In addition gross margin benefited from a reduction in our allowance for [doubtful] accounts by approximately $1 million.
Our international drilling segment reported first quarter revenue of $85.5 million a decrease of 12% from the prior quarter.
Segment gross margin declined 24% to $16.4 million or 19.2% of revenues from the prior quarter’s $21.7 million or 22.2% of revenues.
A significant portion of the decrease in segment revenues was due to an expected $6.7 million reduction in reimbursables this quarter following an increase of approximately the same amount in the prior quarter.
Excluding reimbursables revenues declined approximately 7%.
The decline in revenues excluding reimbursables and gross margin was primarily the result of lower realized day rates due to an increased number of days on standby and moving rates a change in the mix of active rigs and a full quarter of startup costs for our two rigs in the Kurdistan region of Iraq.
That covers the operating segment.
First quarter G&amp;A expense was $9 million down from $18.7 million for the 2013 fourth quarter primarily due to certain expenses that did not recur in the first quarter.
We expect G&amp;A expenses for the remainder of the year will be approximately $10 million to $12 million per quarter on a normalized basis.
First quarter results include $29.7 million of debt extinguishment costs associated with our January debt refinancing.
We issued $360 million of 6.75% notes due 2022 and used the proceeds along with available cash and a $40 million reborrow of our term loan to tender for $425 million of 9.125% notes due 2018.
98% of the bonds were tendered.
The remaining bonds were called on April 1 this year.
As part of the refinancing we reduced outstanding debt by approximately $25 million from 2013 year-end levels lowered our annual interest expense by approximately $13 million and extended our maturity schedule.
First quarter interest expense was $12 million.
This reflects the benefit from the refinancing.
For the 2014 first quarter we reported an income tax benefit of $8.6 million or 41% of pretax income.
We expect our full year tax rate to be around the mid-40s though variations may occur depending on the mix of earnings among tax jurisdictions and our ability to utilize tax offsets.
At the end of the quarter we had $631 million of debt outstanding and a cash balance of $93 million for a net debt position of $538 million or 46% of net capitalization.
Measured as a multiple of EBITDA total debt was 2.5x the trailing four quarters adjusted EBITDA down from 2.8x at the end of 2013.
Our total liquidity at the end of the quarter was approximately $167 million including our cash balance and approximately $74 million available under our credit facility.
Capital spending in the first quarter was $37.4 million.
We estimate 2014 capital spending will be approximately $190 million.
Before I finish allow me to anticipate what may be a question and outline the extent of our business presence in Russia.
Our only direct activities in Russia are related to operations on Sakhalin Island off the east coast of Russia.
There we provide drilling services for the Sakhalin-1 project led by Exxon Neftegas Ltd.
or ENL.
Our activities there include an O&amp;M project using drilling equipment owned by ENL and operated and maintained by Parker and a separate drilling contract using the Parker-owned Rig 270.
The revenue stream for this work excluding reimbursables accounted for approximately 10% of our consolidated first quarter revenues and segment gross margin.
To date we have had no disruptions in our operations there nor do we anticipate any.
That ends the financial review.
I’ll turn this back to Gary for comments on the outlook.
Gary? Thanks Chris.
As I noted earlier our first quarter consolidated results are in line with our expectations.
In addition we continue to make good progress on delivering reliable operating performance and predictable financial results improving our profitability strengthening our strategic position and developing paths for future growth.
Industry forecasts appear encouraging including expectations for expanded drilling activity in the U.S.
and international markets.
Our recent increases in U.S.
rental tools utilization position us to benefit from this growth in the U.S.
land drilling market expected by the industry forecast for later this year.
We also expect to further expand our rental tools participation in the growing Gulf of Mexico offshore drilling market.
The performance of our international rental tools operation is expected to progressively improve as new work and delayed jobs get started and we benefit from the deployment of new capital equipment.
We expect our U.S.
Gulf of Mexico barge rig fleet will maintain a high utilization and benefit from the addition of Rig 55B.
We expect drilling demand in our key international markets to provide sufficient tender activity and contract renewal opportunities to maintain our international rig fleet utilization near current levels without any significant breaks.
We believe we are on track to achieve our 2014 revenue and earnings projections.
After navigating the expected challenges of the first quarter I believe we will achieve improving results in the upcoming quarters.
For the second quarter we are expecting revenues of between $230 million and $250 million and EBITDA as a percentage of revenue in the upper 20% range.
As a company our attention remains focused on developing strong durable and competitive operations capable of providing our customers with innovative reliable and efficient business solutions to bring value to them and produce higher returns and continued growth for Parker.
I believe all our businesses are very capable of converting the business opportunities this will produce into sustainable profitable results.
That concludes my comments.
Operator we’re ready to take questions from the audience.
[Operator instructions.] Our first question comes from the line of Jeff Spittel with Clarkson Capital Markets.
You mentioned the price competition for Quail in the U.S.
onshore markets during the first quarter and I’m sure an element of that related to the challenging weather conditions.
How have things been toward the exit rate in March and as we progress through April have there been any signs of some stabilization on the pricing front? There’s certainly signs the market is conducive to having more stabilization on price rather than the price pressure we’ve experienced over the last several quarters.
So I think it should start to firm up.
And if we continue to see the improvements in activity that we’ve seen I suspect toward the latter part of this year you might actually get the curve to flip back in the other direction.
And then it sounded like you’re pretty confident about some of the exposure that you have later in the year in Latin America in terms of contract renewals.
For right now fair to say that we would just expect those rigs to continue to work where they’re working with a similar set of customers in Latin America? Certainly the rigs in Mexico that’s the case.
Of course we do have Rig 122 which is a new contract that we’ll be starting up late this quarter into Q3.
And we’re pleased with that because that’s a rig that’s been idle for several years and we’re putting it back onstream.
And so it will be a new addition to revenue.
Colombia things are a little more unsettled.
We see some really good prospects for activity as we go through the remainder of the year.
But there’s some elections going on right now.
I was just down there in Colombia last week visiting with several of the clients just to try to get an assessment of the situation and it sounds like there’s a little bit of a let’s wait and see how these elections turn out.
There’s not too much uncertainty.
They feel pretty good about it but they just want to make sure there’s not a 180 on them in terms of the environment.
And then we’ll see activity pick up as we go throughout the remainder of the year.
Our next question comes from the line of Klayton Kovac with Tudor Pickering Holt.
Pickering Holt</strong> Staying with the international drilling theme what are you guys seeing as far as contract opportunities are concerned for the two rigs in Tunisia? Those two rigs we continue to focus our primary attention on Kurdistan in northern Iraq.
And we remain very optimistic about the activity there.
But similar to Colombia there’s an election process over there that’s causing operators to just make sure that things are going to continue down the path they’ve continued down.
And barring any significant changes in direction as a result of the elections we anticipate some really good contracts for those two rigs that are in Tunisia.
The other rig that’s over there in that area is the Rig 216 that we have in Kazakhstan and I’m very optimistic that in the near future we’ll have some good message on that rig going back to work.
That’s again another one that’s been idle for several years as well.
So we’re excited about that.
Pickering Holt </strong> And then as a follow up any change in outlook for your international rental tools business just given the delays? This is a tough one as we continue to work through that business and get tools deployed and people in the right place and that sort of thing.
But I can tell you that as we look through the remainder of this year we’re very optimistic.
We don’t think that our outlook has changed much with respect to that business.
And that’s a positive outlook.
We had some activity that was delayed on some contracts we expected to start up in Q1 and we think that latter end of Q2 into Q3 we will still see those contracts start up.
Some of them were related to activity in southern Iraq and you know several of the large integrated services have talked about some of the activity in southern Iraq and how that’s been delayed a little bit.
But we expect that to go on.
We’ve got a nice contract that we’ve picked up in Mexico providing BOPs to Pemex.
Pemex’s activity has been a little soft but we feel good about that contract as it kicks in.
And we have some other projects elsewhere that we feel very good about too.
So all in all when we look at it we think that we’ll see a good growing trend in that business as we go throughout the remainder of the year as we have expected it to do.
Our next question comes from the line of Matt Marietta with Stephens.
The first question I wanted to hit on is looking at the barge business obviously 100% utilization is a real positive especially the outlook for that to maintain for some time or remain high.
But could you provide maybe a little more color on what’s driving that market? Is it purely commodity or are your customers indicating that they’re having some success in drilling and what it looks like overall with your competitors as well? Is this a market share capture? Is this just a stronger environment? You know that’s kind of a complex question.
There’s a lot of moving pieces going on but generally that market has been more of a gas-driven market than an oil driven market but with the way commodity prices have been over the last couple of years it’s turned to be more of an oil-directed activity level.
And we haven’t seen much change there even with gas coming back the way that it has.
So for right now it remains an oil-driven market.
As far as our utilization is concerned Q1 was a little softer than we anticipated.
That was largely due to the weather effect of some of the storms coming out of the north that blew the water out of the bays and water depth is a big issue when you’re moving rigs onto location in that shallow environment.
And so that really hindered some of the activity early on in Q1.
But as we go throughout the remainder of the year we feel optimistic about it.
I don’t know if 100% utilization is a realistic projection for every quarter going forward but for right now we feel pretty good about it and we’re really excited about this rig 55B the addition to the fleet going forward too and where that’s at.
Of course as you know that’s already contracted so that looks pretty positive for us as well.
As for the competition I think we obviously have some pretty good competitors in that market and as far as their activity and stuff I’d leave that for you to ask them.
Switching back to the rental tools business specifically Quail as you look at utilization steadily going up now for a handful of quarters.
When do you look to add to inventory and invest more into Quail? And to what degree? And what kind of drives that decision? Is it based on utilization or is there something else going on that may influence that? We’ve continued to invest in Quail through the entire cycle here even when activity was going south and prices were going south.
And that was largely because of mix of some of the business.
We’ve talked for a long time about the progress in the offshore market and the kit that you use to service the land business is not necessarily the same kit that you use to service the offshore business.
So we’ve continued to make investments to feed that offshore piece.
The land business we still see that we’ve got a little excess inventory in some cases but you see our utilization is up as high as it’s been in almost 18 months.
And so we’re quite pleased with the progress we’ve made there and again I think it’s a tribute to the seasoned team that we have over there leading that business.
I’m sorry if I missed this but did you hit on what the O&amp;M component of revenue and margin was in the international drilling business? Not specifically.
Would you mind providing that? That’s not really a number that we’ve shared in that level of detail in the past but we did tell you that as Chris talked about the Russia component that roughly 10% of our business is exposed to that Russia and that’s largely an O&amp;M business so I think you can come reasonably close using those numbers.
Our next question comes from the line of Pike Howard with Johnson Rice.
I wanted to make sure that $2.6 million in doubtful accounts was that allocated to ITS specifically or both ITS and Quail? About $1.6 million of that amount was the increase in doubtful accounts and that was all for ITS.
And then I don’t want to harp too much because there’s been a few questions about it but in regards to the international rental tools business just trying to think here given kind of where the margin fell this quarter do you guys have any more commentary on just helping us understand how we can progress through the remainder of 2014 to getting those margins back up to kind of where we had been before closer to 20%? Q2 it will be an improvement.
Q3 and Q4 you should see margins back in the area that we had seen recently with that business.
And we expect all the margins need to go beyond there.
We won’t be satisfied with those margins.
We feel like there’s still some pretty good upside as we move beyond 2014 into 2015.
And those costs in regard to those rigs in Kurdistan should we expect those to abate here? Just trying to get a feel for how that flows through.
Those are going to be in place for the remainder of 2014 for the most part.
You’ll see a little bit of abatement as we continue to work out some of the expat crews and replace with local nationals but the bigger piece is the net [mobe] expense that we’re amortizing over the initial contract and those will persist through the end of this year.
Mr.
Bajenski there are no further questions at this time.
Please continue with your closing remarks.
I wanted to just take a second here and express appreciation to the employees of the organization for all they do.
You know now I’ve been here a year and a half and I really appreciate the progress that we’ve made as an organization.
Sometimes when we look at these quarter to quarter walks we get so focused on the details of those quarters.
And as I was sitting and preparing things this morning and trying to look at some of the information in that one of the things that really jumped out to me is the fact that our revenue if you go year over year comparison our revenue is up 37% as an organization and EBITDA is up 32% from where we were a year ago at this time.
And I think that’s just representative of the great progress we’re making as an organization.
And yeah there’s some things that maybe in the short term don’t always turn out exactly the way we want although we did anticipate this quarter as it has turned out.
But I just like the progress that we’re making as an organization and all the efforts of the employees I appreciate that.
I appreciate the support of the investment community out there as well.
Thank you Gary.
We will end our call.
Thank you and our audience for spending time with us today.
If you have questions about the material that we covered in the call or about progress at Parker please feel free to contact me by phone or email.
Goodbye and have a good afternoon.
Good day and welcome to the Parker Drilling Second Quarter 2014 Conference Call.
Today's conference is being recorded.
At this time I'd like to turn the conference over to Rich Bajenski.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you operator.
Good morning and thank you for joining the Parker Drilling 2014 second quarter conference call.
This is Richard Bajenski Director of Investor Relations.
Joining me today are Gary Rich Chairman President and CEO and Chris Weber Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
In the course of our comments today we may make statements regarding management's expectations for the Company's future performance we believe will be informative to our shareholders.
These statements are considered forward-looking statements within the meaning of U.S.
securities laws.
Each forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date of this call and actual results may differ materially due to various factors we referenced in our public filings and other factors addressed during this call including changes in market conditions affecting our industry.
We will also refer to non-GAAP financial measures such as adjusted EBITDA non-routine items and operating gross margin excluding depreciation and amortization expense which we will refer to as segment gross margin during this call.
Please refer to the table in our current press release or on the company's website for a definition of adjusted EBITDA and a reconciliation of this measure to the comparable GAAP measure and for further information regarding non-routine items.
I ask you to take note of this caution about forward-looking statements as we make our comments today.
Our next comments are from Gary Rich.
Gary? Thank you Rich.
We made some good progress this quarter as I believe our results demonstrate.
That doesn't mean we don't have further work to do but we are definitely making gains in both our Drilling and Rental Tools operations.
Compared with the previous quarter our combined Drilling operations delivered a 12% increase in revenues and a 35% increase in gross margin.
And our Rental Tools business delivered an 8% increase in revenues and a 16% increase in gross margin.
As I said good progress.
Let me review some of the highlights.
Starting with our U.S.
Barge Drilling segment.
Our barge rig business is in great shape.
Dayrates are up the fleet has grown and our average utilization moved up to 90%.
This quarter the business reported a 53.4% gross margin as a percentage of revenue.
That is the highest quarterly gross margin for this business segment since the second quarter of 2008.
One of the key contributors was another increase in average dayrates.
This quarter marks the 15th time in the last 18 quarters we have achieved an increase in dayrates.
I believe this demonstrates the confidence our customers have in us.
During the quarter Rig 55B went to work at a fleet-leading dayrate after being refurbished and added to the fleet in May.
The rig continues to work on its initial multi-well contract and has performed very successfully for the customer.
Also in May we acquired a competitor's relatively new barge rig only three-years-old at a very attractive price of $12.25 million which we believe is less than half of what a new barge of this class would cost.
The addition of Rig 30B brings our total fleet size to 13 rigs half of the overall industry fleet of 26.
Rig 30B is a highly capable 1 500-horsepower posted* barge rig that is a great complement to our fleet.
After undergoing a thorough mechanical survey being painted and crewed the rig went to work last week on a multi-well contract that should keep it employed until early 2015.
We believe this investment will produce a very attractive return on capital for our shareholders.
Today we have 11 of our 13 barges on contract one of the two rigs not currently working Rig 15B has been pulled from the market for upgrade work including installation of a top drive and new mast.
While we have worked this rig very effectively for many years without a top drive we're putting on a top drive and upgrading other equipment to make the rig even more competitive.
This upgrade is expected to be completed in the fourth quarter.
We already have work tentatively lined up for this rig when it comes in and returns to service work that may keep it utilized through much if not all of 2015.
We have similar upgrade plans for Rig 12B that will take place early in 2015.
Moving on to our International Drilling operations our international rig fleet utilization was 74% in the second quarter an uptick from the prior quarter's 73% utilization.
Contributing to that was putting Rig 122 a rig that has been idle since 2010 to work in Mexico.
Also during the quarter we contracted Rig 216 in Kazakhstan for startup in the fourth quarter.
This rig has been idle since 2010 as well.
In addition we re-contracted our 3 000 horsepower rigs in Mexico on four-year terms at higher day rates.
Turning now to the Rental Tools business.
Our U.S.
Rental Tools business had a notable quarter.
Activity levels rose for the second quarter in a row and we achieved pricing improvements in some markets with good gains in West Texas.
As a result this business delivered high revenues gross margins and gross margin percent in the quarter.
The second quarter was a challenging quarter for our International Rental Tools business due to several factors including civil unrest in Iraq business interruptions affecting operators in Mexico and our refurbishment and relocation of some key facilities.
Although our second quarter did not show financial progress in this business we made some important changes in leadership completed most of our facilities moves and registered some commercial gains during the quarter.
In July we hired a new Global Rental Tools product line business leader Abdou Djendou.
Abdou joined us following a long and successful career at Schlumberger most recently as Vice President of Schlumberger's Drilling Tools and Remedial operations in the Middle East and Asia where he was responsible for developing and implementing the Company's growth strategy in the region.
He is already deeply involved in the business and I expect he will make a big contribution to our success.
In addition we have allocated senior operational leadership from within the Parker organization to our International Rental Tools operations.
These are experienced individuals with strong oilfield services management backgrounds who are working closely with existing operating teams on developing among other things more robust business development sales planning supply chain management and financial analysis capabilities.
We also completed most of our facility moves and refurbishments during the quarter outfitting shops in Iraq Malaysia and Scotland for increased operating capacity and more efficient operations.
All of this should lead to a greater ability to generate the level of activity we expect from the business and to grow it profitably.
Those are the key points I wanted to make.
Chris will provide additional information about the quarter and then I'll return to offer some thoughts regarding our outlook.
Chris? Thanks Gary.
For the second quarter we reported revenues of $254.2 million adjusted EBITDA of $72.5 million or 28.5% of revenues and net income of $15.7 million.
Included in the quarter's results was $1 million pre-tax of income from non-routine items including the receipt of $1.5 million from escrow establishing connection with the ITS acquisition and $500 000 of debt extinguishment expenses associated with the refinancing of our [9.125] senior notes.
Excluding these items net income was $15.1 million or $0.12 per diluted share and adjusted EBITDA was $71 million.
We had a solid contribution to the quarter's results from the Company's combined Drilling business.
Combined Drilling revenues increased 12% to $167.1 million in the 2014 second quarter from $148.7 million in the first quarter.
Gross margin increased 35% to $46.3 million from $34.4 million and Drilling operations gross margin as a percentage of revenues increased to 27.7% from 23.2%.
Here's a review of the individual Drilling operations.
Our U.S.
Barge Drilling segment reported second quarter revenues of $40.3 million 32% higher than the 2014 first quarter's $30.5 million.
Segment gross margin rose 82% to $21.5 million or 53.4% of revenue from the prior quarter's $11.8 million or 38.8% of revenues.
The increases in revenues and earnings were primarily the result of higher utilization and increase in average day rates and the addition of Rig 55B.
The business also benefited from lower workers' compensation expense in the second quarter.
Our U.S.
Drilling segment reported second quarter revenues of $20.3 million up 3% from the 2014 first quarter's $19.4 million.
Segment gross margin declined 10% to $5 million or 24.9% of revenues from the prior quarter's $5.6 million or 28.7% of revenues.
Excluding the beneficial impact in the prior quarter of a reduction in our allowance for doubtful accounts both segment gross margin and gross margin as a percent of revenue increased reflecting continued gains in the operating performance of this business.
Our International Drilling segment reported second quarter revenues of $91.8 million an increase of 7% from the 2014 first quarter's $85.5 million.
Segment gross margin increased 15% to $18.8 million or 20.5% of revenues from the prior quarter's $16.4 million or 19.2% of revenues.
The growth in revenue and gross margin reflects increases in utilization and realized day rates.
Revenues rose further due to a $5 million increase in reimbursables and segment gross margin benefited from lower operating expenses.
Our Technical Services segment reported second quarter revenues of $15 million an increase of 12% from the 2014 first quarter's $13.3 million.
Segment gross margin increased 56% to $1 million or 6.8% of revenues from the prior quarter's $700 000 or 4.9% of revenues.
Revenues and gross margin both benefited from the advanced development of a customer funded engineering and design project.
Now let me turn to Rental Tools.
Rental Tools revenues increased 8% to $87.2 million in the 2014 second quarter from $80.5 million in the first quarter.
Segment gross margin increased 16% to $33.3 million from $28.8 million and segment gross margin as a percentage of revenues increased to 38.2% from 35.7%.
Before I provide details on these results I want to point out a change in the way we will be reviewing this business.
In the past we reviewed our business on a brand name basis Quail Tools and ITS and often likened that to U.S.
and international trends respectively.
Having integrated ITS' activity into Parker's we can now focus the discussion of our Rental Tools business on a geographic basis U.S.
and international regardless of brand.
While I will call out ITS' specific results today I will base my review of business trends events and financial performance on a geographic basis that should provide a more useful depiction of our business results and business potential.
So for our U.S.
Rental Tools business revenues are up 13% to $57 million from $50.4 million and gross margin rose 19% to $29.8 million from $25 million.
These increases are primarily due to rising utilization in the U.S.
land drilling market accompanied by price gains in some areas.
Revenues for our International Rental Tools business increased to $30.2 million from $30.1 million while gross margin declined 8% to $3.5 million from $3.8 million.
Regarding ITS their contribution to the second quarter results includes revenues of $26.9 million and zero gross margin.
International Rental Tools revenues benefited from increased business in Africa offset by the impact of disruptions in Iraq and Mexico that Gary described earlier many of which occurred in the first quarter.
Though we anticipated some continuation of these impacts when we reviewed our first quarter results with you in May the magnitude has been greater than we expected.
Regarding other financial items second quarter G&amp;A expense was $7 million down from $9 million for the 2014 first quarter primarily due to receipt of $1.5 million from an escrow account established in connection with the ITS acquisition to cover certain post-acquisition costs.
We expect G&amp;A expenses for the remainder of the year will be approximately $10 million to $12 million per quarter.
Second quarter results also included $500 000 of debt extinguishment costs associated with our recent debt refinancing specifically related to calling the portion of our [9.125%] notes not tendered in the first quarter.
Second quarter interest expense was $10.6 million down from $12 million in the first quarter and $13.9 million in the 2013 fourth quarter reflecting the benefit of lower debt levels and lower interest rates.
For the 2014 second quarter we reported income tax expense of $11.7 million or 42.5% of pre-tax income.
We expect our full year tax rate to be around the mid-40%s.
At the end of the quarter we had $620 million of debt outstanding $34 million less than at year-end 2013 primarily due to our refinancing.
Including a cash balance of $86 million our net debt position was $534 million or 45% of net capitalization.
Measured as a multiple of EBITDA total debt was 2.4 times the trailing four quarters' adjusted EBITDA down from 2.8 times at the end of 2013.
Our total liquidity at the end of the quarter was approximately $161 million including our cash balance and approximately $75 million available under our credit facility.
Capital spending during the second quarter was $68.7 million including the $12.25 million purchase of barge Rig 30B.
That brings our year-to-date spend to $106.2 million.
We still estimate 2014 capital spending will be approximately $190 million.
Before I finish allow me to anticipate what may be on some listeners' minds and outline the extent of our business presence in Russia and Iraq.
Our activities in Iraq include two drilling rigs operating in the Kurdistan region and two rental tool operations one in the Kurdistan region the other in Southern Iraq.
The revenue stream from these operations excluding rate* reimbursables accounted for approximately 7% of our consolidated second-quarter revenues.
Approximately 80% of this business is in the Kurdistan region.
Our Drilling operations in the Kurdistan region have been unaffected so far by the recent insurgent activity in the country.
We are away from the fighting and other disruptive events and our customers have not curtailed operations.
However we believe the current unsettled state of affairs has hampered our ability to get two rigs in Tunisia on contract for work in this region as potential customers have delayed their near-term plans.
On other hand our Rental Tools operations in both the Northern and Southern areas of Iraq have experienced business disruptions and lost business since late last year as some operators have curtailed activities there.
Our activities in Russia are related to operations on Sakhalin Island off the East Coast of Russia.
There we provide drilling services for the Sakhalin I project that include an O&amp;M project using customer-owned equipment operated and maintained by Parker and a separate drilling contract for Parker owned Rig 270.
The revenue stream from these activities excluding reimbursables accounted for approximately 10% of our consolidated second quarter revenues and segment gross margin.
To-date we have had no disruptions in our operations there.
We are currently evaluating the recently introduced EU and U.S.
economic sanctions and expect controls against Russia.
At the present time we are working with our business partners in Sakhalin to ensure full compliance with these regulations.
However these regulations are quite new and our assessment may change as implementing regulations are formulating.
That is the financial review.
I'll turn this back to Gary for comments on the outlook.
Gary? Thanks Chris.
Looking to the third-quarter we believe revenues will be in the range of $235 million to $255 million and EBITDA as a percent of revenues will be in the high 20%s.
In the third quarter we expect higher revenues from U.S.
and International Rental Tools due to increases in activity levels and a further contribution from our U.S.
barge drilling operations from the inclusion of Rigs 55B for the full period and 30B since late July.
However utilization will be lower in our Latin America rig fleet as drilling programs there have been slow to develop.
In addition we expect reduced project revenues from Technical Services and lower reimbursable revenues both of which have little impact on gross margin levels.
We anticipate a stronger fourth quarter in both our Rental Tools and Drilling Operations.
In Rental Tools we expect to benefit from increases in activity in the U.S.
land drilling market and deployment of Rental Tools already contracted to work on several deepwater projects in the Gulf of Mexico.
We also expect our International Rental Tools business to benefit from contracted jobs coming online.
At our Drilling operations we should benefit from having our recently acquired barge Rig 30B in the fleet for a full quarter and the start-up of operation for Rig 216 in Kazakhstan.
We're also in advanced contract discussions to put one possibly two rigs back to work in Colombia in the fourth quarter.
Turning to the full year outlook we're expecting revenue growth between 12% and 15% for the year compared with 2013 and an EBITDA percentage in the high 20%s.
This is lower than our prior guidance primarily due to the civil unrest in Iraq and lower than expected demand in Latin America.
Looking forward I am encouraged by recent industry trends and that many forecasts are calling for that those trends to continue.
Drilling activity in the U.S.
land market and offshore Gulf of Mexico has been expanding and international E&amp;P spending has been growing.
Recent industry forecast of drilling activity in the U.S.
suggests further increases in the land drilling rig count and surveys of E&amp;P spending plans point to stronger spending in the U.S.
and abroad.
That summarizes our outlook.
As a Company our attention remains focused on developing strong durable and competitive operations capable of providing our customers with innovative reliable and efficient business solutions that bring value to them and produce higher returns and continued growth for Parker and its shareholders.
I believe all our businesses are very capable of converting the business opportunities this will provide into sustainable profitable results.
That concludes my comments.
Operator we're ready to take questions from the audience.
So first question from me is given the improvement in U.S.
Rental Tools utilization and pricing and also drilling contractors continuing to announce new rigs when would you guys consider expanding your budget? Our budget from a CapEx point of view? Yes.
We already have reallocated some of the capital that we had anticipated spending in other areas of the world to the U.S.
market this year and so we're already increasing our capital budget in terms of the allocation trying to keep the total budget consistent with what we've previously communicated but we have shifted some of those funds to the U.S.
market.
Okay.
And then just as a follow-up what's your strategy for managing your cost structure around the International Rental Tools business during this kind of period of interruptions? We're looking at the cost structure there to ensure that it's aligned consistent with the forecasted levels of business activity particularly taking into consideration things like the turmoil that we're experiencing in Iraq right now with that business and I feel the team is on top of going through and managing that cost structure.
My first question is more of a clarification question.
Sorry to go back to this but can we go back to the ITS or now International Rental Tools numbers that were provided? I think I may have caught a couple of different numbers there and I'm just trying to reconcile that to 1Q? You have a specific question or...
What the revenue was for ITS and the gross profit for ITS if you don't mind? Yes.
So go back to that.
So I'll jump in.
So the revenues for ITS in the second quarter were $26.9 million and they had a zero gross margin in the quarter.
And then when you look at the Rental Tools business you guys have talked about the recapitalization there and it's going to take some time to get to a number somewhere between kind of Quail in the low to mid-20% where the business was last year.
Can you maybe walk through that time line again and given the changes and the geopolitical issues? Are we talking about kind of a back half '15 event or is this something that we would expect in 2016 or how can we look at our models in terms of the margin contribution of ITS? That's a great question Matt.
I think that obviously some of this unrest in Iraq is something that we didn't anticipate when we were putting together some of those forecast the things we've communicated.
Nonetheless we feel like that business has enough geographic basis in other areas in that we see still continued growth opportunity in that business.
We still feel optimistic about Iraq working out well.
As far as when we get to those mid-20% margin numbers that we've talked about before it might be closer to the latter half of 2015 but our target is to push it sooner than that.
And one more for me if you don't mind.
Obviously Quail is very well positioned to benefit from North America and you look at kind of where the third quarter of 2011 was at 71% margins versus the 55% in the most recent quarter.
Can you maybe discuss about what it would take to get back to those peak margins if those are even achievable given the higher general inventory levels in the market? Well it's a challenging environment still out there on the competitive situation.
While we've been able to achieve some price improvement in some of the geographies in the U.S.
in this last quarter we still have some pretty strong competitive pressures in others.
And if you get back to that 71% type margins we had before clearly you've got to have an additional uptick in activity quite a significant uptick in activity.
I don't know exactly how much it would take but at this point I think that we're quite a ways away from being able to get back to 71%.
Nonetheless we do feel optimistic and feel like we're going to continue this.
We're building momentum in that direction both on the utilization side as well as on the pricing side.
Perfect.
So directionally we're still moving higher just not quite to prior peaks? Right.
Hey.
So just starting with the Barge segment here are you expecting any impact from the hurricane season over the course of Q3 and maybe early Q4? I don't know maybe you're a better weather forecaster than I am it's hard to tell.
I think that historically we've had some clients that were hesitant to contract a rig during the third-quarter Walt because they obviously didn't want the exposure to the hurricane.
But right now as we're going into the third quarter we feel pretty good about where we're at and feel like activity should hold up.
The contracts on 55B and the new contract on -- and the contract on this new 30B rig that we just brought into service give us some optimism for that Q3 as well on into Q4.
We feel pretty good about it.
Yes.
I guess leading into sort of the follow-up there I was impressed by some of those longer term duration contracts you're talking about.
How is the mix across the fleet trending multi-well versus term versus well-to-well? Have you seen a shift in that recently? I'm hesitant to say there's a shift.
I think it is I guess just anecdotally as we go through and review the business and review the opportunities with respect to some of these rigs that we are talking about some extended periods of work for some of the rigs going forward.
We mentioned the upgrade of the rig that we're going to -- that we've got we've taken out of service now where we're going to put new mast and new top drive on it.
That's being done in conjunction with discussion with a particular client that will suggest we would have work that goes well into 2015 for that rig when it comes out of refurbishment.
So we do have a little more perhaps of that kind of discussion but I'm not sure that we're ready to say that the environment has changed there.
Okay.
Great.
Well certainly directionally at least anecdotally it sounds good.
And just moving to international you mentioned some opportunities four rigs in Colombia.
If those opportunities were to not develop is there an opportunity to maybe move those to Mexico as things start picking up in 2015? How are you thinking across that entire fleet given your potential for some flexibility there? Well we've talked before about how it's our intention to focus our international rigs on regions that we consider to represent good promise.
And when we talk about regions we look at Mexico and Colombia as a combined region where we can move rigs between the two countries as we see appropriate.
So that's always on the table and will certainly be a possibility.
But saying that as mentioned in the comments earlier on my outlook we do have some pretty good – one of the three rigs we've already been awarded the work and we're just in final discussions on the contract.
I don't see anything that's going to hold us back from that.
Second rig we feel very optimistic will go to work before the end the year but that's a little less certainty than the first one.
The third one we've got a little more work to do but we've also got prospects for that one.
So I'm not ready to give up on Colombia.
I was down there not too long ago and visited with the senior leadership in Ecopetrol and some of the other clients and I feel that Colombia still represents a very good opportunity for us long term.
Okay.
Great.
And then just following up there in Mexico has there been any impact to either revenue or margin from some of the activity disruptions in the south? Is that something you expect moving forward? If you can just talk about how we should think about your contract situation there? Well we mentioned that we've just re-contracted the three 3 000-horsepower rigs for a four-year term with a dayrate increase which we're pretty excited about.
That notwithstanding there are some I guess challenging things going on in the environment down there.
It hasn't affected our revenue or margin a whole lot at this point but we just don't know how it's all going to play out.
I think we're all speaking of it from an industry perspective excited about the prospects of Mexico as they continue to make progress on changing some of the regulations that would allow additional operators to come and work in the country.
And so we're excited about that.
What's uncertain is just how quickly that's going to progress and when it's going to actually materialize into some meaningful activity.
I've heard some people suggest that it will be in 2015.
I've heard others just say it's going to be at the very beginning of 2016-type timeframe.
It's hard for me to forecast but we feel very good about our position down there.
I was just curious to know if you could talk a little bit about the gross margin at the International Drilling business.
It has improved over the first quarter.
What needs to I guess sort of happen to sort of get back to some of the levels that you saw in the second and third quarter of last year close to 25% and around 26%? Can you maybe talk about the dynamic of that a little bit please? Yes.
So we came in around 20% in Q2.
Q3 margins will probably be high-teens in International Drilling just because of the some of the lower utilization in Latin America with some of the rigs in Colombia being down.
Q4 looking forward assuming with Rig 216 going to work the likelihood of getting some rigs in Colombia back to work or at least one should help margins.
Plus we have the potential for some additional work in Asia Pacific and PNG and Indonesia.
We think margins will be sort of the low-20%s in Q4.
And one of the things that were still hampered by in our financial results in International Drilling as we've talked about it before is the amortization of our mobilization costs on the two rigs that we have operating in Kurdistan.
We had a net mob expense in there that limits the EBITDA margin on those two rigs.
At the end of this year that will be done and will be kind of more -- those margins will move up.
And at that point assuming we keep the utilization up in the other areas we talked about you could see margins move in kind of a low to mid-20%s areas.
Just a quick clarification real quick.
I apologize to go back to this.
But the International Rental Tools revs and gross margin could you review that real quick? Yes.
So we said revenues for our International Rental Tools business was $30.2 million in the second quarter versus $30.1 million in the first quarter and gross margin was $3.5 million in the second quarter versus $3.8 million in the first quarter.
Okay.
So just thinking about that and what you gave us for ITS clearly there's a little bit of uplift there I guess coming from Quail and relocations in the International Rental side.
Is there any way you can help us think about second half of the year looking at this segment from an international perspective? Yes.
So when we move into this geographic discussion versus brand discussion realize the driver is to be able to talk about the results and better matched business activity with the relevant market drivers.
And so Quail had some revenue and gross margin that it generated internationally and then ITS had a small portion of revenue and gross margin in the U.S.
associated with a whipstock and jars business.
And so you can give Rich a call and he can kind of give you the numbers you might get a real clean reconciliation.
But going forward in the international results that we talked about in Q2 there is about $3.5 million of revenue and associated gross margin that historically has been Quail's business.
And that's pretty stable piece of business and so really looking forward we anticipate changes in results on the international side to be driven by ITS activity effectively.
Does that help? Yes that's helpful.
Great.
Thank you operator.
That ends our call today.
I want to thank you for your time and your interest in Parker Drilling.
If you have questions about the material that was covered in our earnings announcement or in this call today please feel free to contact me by phone or e-mail.
Good-bye and all of you have a good day.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you! Good day and welcome to the Parker Drilling Third Quarter 2014 Conference Call.
Today's conference is being recorded.
At this time I would like to turn the conference over to Richard Bajenski.
Please go ahead.
Thank you operator.
Good morning to everyone and thank you for joining the Parker Drilling 2014 third quarter conference call.
This is Richard Bajenski Director of Investor Relations.
And joining me today are Gary Rich Chairman President and CEO; and Chris Weber Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
In the course of our comments today we may make statements regarding management's expectations for the company's future performance we believe will be informative to our shareholders.
These statements are considered forward-looking statements within the meaning of US securities laws.
Each forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date of this call and actual results may differ materially due to various factors we reference in our public filings and other factors addressed during this call including changes in market conditions affecting our industry.
We will also refer to non-GAAP financial measures such as adjusted EBITDA non-routine items and operating gross margin excluding depreciation and amortization expense which we will refer to as segment gross margin during the call.
Please refer to the table in our recent press release or on the company's website for a definition of adjusted EBITDA and a reconciliation of this measure to the comparable GAAP measure and for further information regarding non-routine items.
I ask you to take note of this caution about forward-looking statements as we make our comments today.
Our next comments are from Gary Rich.
Gary?   Thank you Rich.
Shortly Chris Weber will discuss the third quarter's financial results in detail.
But before he does I'd like to provide some color on the quarter.
Following Chris's comments I'll come back and share with you some of our thoughts on the fourth quarter and the future.
Our third quarter results are largely in line with our expectations while we reported a decline in revenues we also recognized increases in gross margin and gross margin as a percent of revenues.
The revenue declines were primarily the result of the forecasted reduction in reimbursable expenses and technical services project-related vendor services.
Those who follow us will recognize that the margins associated with this type of revenue are fairly low.
As a result we were able to deliver an increase in gross margin dollars and a 220 basis-point increase in gross margin as a percent of revenues.
Our international rig fleet utilization declined as we had expected to 68% in the third quarter compared with 74% in the prior quarter.
All of that decline was experienced in our Latin America region due to slow activity in Mexico and Colombia.
Mexico's ongoing energy reform and Colombia's regulatory changes are expected to have a positive long-term impact on drilling.
However in the short term this has resulted in slower drilling activity.
As a result we have only four of our nine rigs in this region on contract today.
Nevertheless based on recent business activity and current negotiations we expect to have two and possibly three additional Latin America rigs on contract by the end of this quarter and earning operational revenue in Q1 of 2015.
The exact timing of this is dependent on final contract negotiations.
We remain very positive about the long-term growth of the Latin America drilling market and are beginning to see positive movement toward growth and improved utilization.
Our recent contract activity is not limited to the Latin America region.
As many of you know we have been working for some time on repositioning our rigs in regional clusters aimed at improving our operating scale and prospects for more continual work.
One specific objective has been to redeploy two rigs from Tunisia.
Earlier this week we committed one of those rigs for work in our Caspian Middle East market where we received a letter of award for work in the Kurdistan region of Iraq that will engage one of those Tunisian rigs.
This award also includes additional work for one of our two rigs already working in the Kurdistan region of Iraq extending its time under contract.
As a result of these and other potential contracts we have been pursuing we believe we will improve our international rig fleet utilization from the 68% we recorded in the third quarter to around the 80% range by the middle of 2015.
Still on the international rig front we added a new O&amp;M contract to our portfolio.
This is a multi-year contract to provide extended reach drilling and operation and maintenance services for two rigs in the Upper Zakum field in the Arabian Gulf.
The Upper Zakum is one of the largest oil fields in the world.
It is also considered one of the world's most challenging fields due to its size and the number and proximity of wells being drilled.
We are really excited about this contract and expect to begin work later this quarter.
These new drilling and O&amp;M contracts will make good additions to the very solid book of business we have in our drilling operations.
We estimate the contracted worldwide revenue backlog of our collective drilling operations was approximately $660 million at the end of the third quarter.
About two thirds of that estimated backlog was for international operations of the approximately $660 million contracted backlog; approximately 45% of it will be realized in the next four quarters.
I also like the progress we made during the quarter in both the domestic and international rental tools businesses.
The US business delivered revenue and margin improvements while the international rental business delivered a sequential margin gain showing signs that it is headed in the right direction.
I am quite excited about a new contract we also recently secured in Latin America for this business.
It represents approximately a 10% rental revenue growth opportunity for our Latin America rental tools in 2015.
Our presence in Iraq has been on many minds lately due to the turmoil in that country.
While our operations have not been directly threatened by the unrest our third quarter business activity was impacted.
For a period of time in August and September drilling operations by our two rigs in the Kurdistan region were suspended.
Our rental tools business in the area was also impacted.
However our team did a good job of managing risks and costs.
As a result we had only a small negative impact on gross margin dollars despite the lower than expected revenues.
In summary I feel we had a good quarter in line with our expectations.
We made good progress on several key objectives that enhance our future prospects.
And we've managed through the market challenges in Latin America and Iraq by following through on our goals and objectives.
Those are the key points I want to make now.
Chris will provide additional information about the quarter and then I'll return to offer some thoughts regarding our future outlook.
Chris.
Thanks Gary.
For the third quarter we reported revenues of $242 million; adjusted EBITDA of $71.5 million or 29.6% of revenues and net income of $12.6 million.
Included in the quarter's results as a part of general and administrative expense was the receipt of $1.25 million from an escrow account establishing connection with the ITS acquisition.
Excluding this item net income was $11.8 million or $0.10 per diluted share and adjusted EBITDA was $70.3 million.
Combined drilling revenues declined 8% to $154.3 million in the 2014 third quarter from $167.1 million in the second quarter.
Gross margin decreased to $45.5 million from $46.3 million and drilling operations gross margin as a percentage of revenues increased to 29.5% from 27.7%.
The revenue declines were recorded primarily due to items we expected reduced project revenues in our technical services segment; lower reimbursables; and lower rig fleet utilization in Latin America.
Here's a review of the individual drilling operations.
US barge drilling reported third quarter revenues of $39.6 million 2% lower than the 2014 second quarter's $40.3 million.
Segment gross margin declined to $20.7 million from the prior quarter's $21.5 million and gross margin as a percent of revenues decreased to 52.2% from 53.4%.
The decline in revenues and gross margin were due to lower utilization which was 75% in the third quarter down from 90% in the prior quarter.
While this drop in utilization was partly due to typical storm season slowdown we believe the recent drop in crude oil prices was also a contributing factor.
The decline in revenues was partially offset by a 7% increase in our average dayrate compared with the prior quarter.
US drilling reported third quarter revenues of $19.7 million 2% below the second quarter's $20 million.
The decline is entirely due to lower reimbursables.
Segment gross margin increased to $5.3 million from the prior quarter's $5 million and gross margin as a percent of revenues increased to 26.9% from 24.9%.
The increases in segment gross margin and gross margin as a percent of revenues is primarily due to continued efficiency gains in our Alaska operations.
We have achieved earnings contribution growth from these rigs as they have made progressive gains since they started operations approximately 2 years ago.
International drilling reported third quarter revenues of $88.2 million a decrease of 4% from the 2014 second quarter's $91.8 million.
Segment gross margin decreased to $18.5 million from the prior quarter's $18.8 million and gross margin as a percent of revenues increased to 20.9% from 20.5%.
The decrease in revenues is primarily due to the anticipated decline in reimbursable expenses which were down by $1.9 million and the expected reduction in our Latin America rig-fleet utilization.
This is partially offset by higher realized average dayrates.
Lower operating expenses primarily in our operations in the Kurdistan region of Iraq kept gross margins relatively flat.
As Gary mentioned earlier we were able to cut back our expenses there while drilling operations were temporarily suspended.
Technical services reported third quarter revenues of $6.8 million a 55% decrease from the 2014 second quarter's $15 million.
The decline in revenues primarily reflects an anticipated reduction in vendor services associated with customer projects.
Segment gross margin was effectively flat at $1 million where vendor services revenues generally make little contribution to gross margin.
As a result gross margin as a percent of revenues rose to 15.4% from the prior quarter's 6.8%.
Now let me turn to rental tools.
Rental tools revenues increased to $87.7 million in the 2014 third quarter from $87.2 million in the second quarter.
Segment gross margin increased to $35.7 million from $33.3 million.
And segment gross margin as a percentage of revenues increased to 40.7 million I am sorry increased to 40.7% from 38.2%.
Revenues for US rental tools increased 1% to $57.4 million from $57 million.
Gross margin rose to $31.5 million from $29.8 million and gross margin as a percentage of revenue increased to 55% from 52.4%.
These increases are primarily due to increased activity in the deepwater US Gulf of Mexico offshore drilling market which typically generates higher gross margins.
The gains in deepwater were partially offset by lower activity in the US Gulf of Mexico shelf and inland water drilling markets primarily due to the recent decline in commodity prices.
Our rental activity and pricing on US land was generally flat between the second and third quarters.
Revenues for our international rental tools business were $30.3 million compared with $30.2 million while gross margin increased to $4.2 million from $3.5 million and gross margin as a percentage of revenues increased to 13.8% from 11.5%.
Gross margin for the international rental tools business increased on relatively flat revenues primarily due to lower operating costs.
Regarding other financial items third quarter G&amp;A expense was $9.4 million compared with $7 million for the 2014 second quarter.
Included in both periods was the receipt of funds from an escrow account established in connection with the ITS acquisition to cover certain post-acquisition costs Excluding this G&amp;A expense was $10.6 million in the 2014 third quarter and $8.5 million in the prior quarter with the increase primarily from higher professional fees for corporate services.
We expect fourth quarter G&amp;A expense to be in the range of $11 million to $13 million.
Third quarter interest expense was $10.8 million similar to the second quarter's interest expense of $10.6 million.
For the 2014 third quarter we reported an income tax expense of $11 million or 46% of pre-tax income.
For the year we expect our effective tax rate percentage to be in the low to mid-50%s an increase from our prior guidance primarily due to a reduction in our fourth quarter business outlook and a mix of tax jurisdictions where our earnings are generated.
As a result our fourth quarter effective tax rate percentage is expected to be in the upper 60%s.
Year-to-date through September 30 we have paid down $36 million of debt leaving us with an outstanding debt balance of $618 million.
Including a cash balance of $78 million our net debt position was $539 million or 45% of net capitalization.
Measured as a multiple of EBITDA total debt was 2.3 times the trailing four quarters adjusted EBITDA down from 2.8 times at the end of 2013.
Our total liquidity at the end of the quarter was approximately $152 million including our $78 million cash balance and approximately $74 million available under our credit facility.
Capital spending during the third quarter was $45 million which brings our year-to-date spend to $151 million.
We estimate our 2014 capital spending will be approximately $180 million.
That ends the financial reviews.
I will turn this back to Gary for comments on the outlook.
Gary?   Thanks Chris.
Okay for the fourth quarter we are expecting revenues to be in the range of $220 million and $235 million and EBITDA as a percent of revenues to be in the mid-20%s.
This is a reduction from our previous outlook mainly due to the expected impact of lower commodity prices on our US operations.
In recent weeks the drop in the price of crude oil has raised industry concerns about the outlook for E&amp;P spending plans and associated drilling activity.
In particular the industry's outlook for US oil and gas markets has started to shift from an expectation of growth to a possible expectation of decline.
As Chris mentioned in his comments we started seeing some commodity-related pullback in activity in our US drilling and rental tools businesses during the third quarter.
And we expect that trend to continue into the fourth quarter.
For the US drilling business we expect the utilization of our barge fleet will continue to soften and could average between 50% and 60% in the fourth quarter in conjunction with lower than average dayrates.
We do not expect any market impact to our Alaska or California O&amp;M drilling operations as they operate under longer term drilling contracts.
For the US rental tools business we expect the land and US Gulf of Mexico shelf drilling markets will be more challenging and price competitive in the fourth quarter than they were in the third quarter.
In the deeper-water US Gulf of Mexico market we expect relatively steady rental tool revenues and earnings.
But however the start of several new projects previously committed in the – for deepwater rental contracts has been delayed from the fourth quarter to the first quarter.
We believe these delays are due to slower than expected progress in operator drilling programs and not the commodity price environment.
Our international businesses operate in markets where drilling activity is less volatile.
As a result our near term financial expectations for our international businesses are relatively unchanged.
For the international drilling business we expect fourth quarter revenues to be slightly lower again due to lower reimbursables but gross margin to be effectively flat in line with relatively flat rig utilization.
For the international rental tools business we expect a modest increase in revenues and gross margin on increased activity levels.
However the pace of recovery is slower than we hoped as there are still some significant operators who have not resumed operations in Iraq after suspending them in the third quarter.
Looking forward to 2015 I am quite cautious about the outlook for our US businesses.
The continuing decline in oil prices and the uncertainty about E&amp;P spending plans make it difficult to develop a clear view of the US market demand at this time.
However I am bullish on our international market prospects.
Our international markets are not as subject to commodity price volatility and our international drilling business generally operates under multi-well multi-year contracts.
We are close to finalizing several contracts who will redeploy some of our recently idle rigs and also lengthen the work period for others.
Based on contracts we are currently finalizing we have the potential to move our international rig-fleet utilization to around 80% by the middle of next year.
In addition our O&amp;M contract drilling business is growing as mentioned earlier with the recently signed two year – two-rig contract expected to begin in the latter part of the fourth quarter.
I am very pleased at our international rental tools business is also beginning to show improved operating results.
While there is still some remaining uncertainty in Iraq the changes we are making there will bear good fruit.
We are making good progress towards our target of getting gross margins for this business into the mid-20%s in the latter half of 2015.
In summary as I mentioned earlier we expect to make progress on multiple fronts in 2015 while we are managing the developing softness in the US markets.
We are raising our international rig fleet utilization.
We are expanding our O&amp;M business and we are back to growing our international rental tools business.
As current market concerns resolve themselves we expect the long-term needs of the industry will generate growth in demand for the services we provide.
We believe this will produce opportunities to further grow our business enhance our operating performance and deliver strong financial results.
That concludes my comments.
Operator we're ready to take some questions from the audience.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) We will now take our first question from Klayton Kovac from Tudor Pickering Holt.
My first question is related to US rental tools onshore.
So given E&amp;Ps are generally the customers that rent pipe have you seen any instances of them returning pipe to your yards?   No Klayton good question.
But the US land business we really haven't seen an appreciable change at all in the level of activity at the current moment.
But I'm not sure whether that will hold for very long.
Okay.
Then relating to your international rental tools business during Q3 what drove the lower operating costs?  The business unit has been doing a good job of taking the review of their cost structure in light of you know lower growth than expected and have been able to pull some costs out of the business.
I think they also did a good job in managing the situation in Iraq on the cost side too in the quarter.
Responded nicely and with the nature of the way the contracts are with force majeure rates and everything we had relative to the expense reductions we were able to take that helped us nicely as well.
Okay.
And then just final question.
On your Kurdistan rigs realize one was re-contacted as mentioned in the press release.
But the other one that you have there when is that contract up and then what are the prospects for that rate going forward?  The prospects are really good.
We've got several tenders that are outstanding for that as well as the other rig that we still have sitting in Tunisia.
We got one more that's still down there.
So we feel really good about the market.
The specific term of that other rig Rich do you remember one year? So I think we've got a year on that one as yet Klayton.
Okay great.
Thanks guys.
I'll turn it back over.
And we'll now take our next question from Chris Bamman from Sidoti &amp; Company.
Good morning gentlemen.
Hi Chris.
Excuse me.
Just looking at the rental tools' gross profit margin it looks like you guys have done a good job of improving that margin level since the start of the year.
How much can you improve the take out in costs? Is there still room to improve the operations given sort of you know say the environment continues to stay weak particularly on the domestic side? So is there still room to extract costs and improve that margin going forward without improvement in overall operations?   Yes I think there's a little bit.
On the international rental tools side we are – we've got expectations as Gary mentioned that we're going to start to see some modest improvements on the revenue side.
But there are additional opportunities to reduce costs.
It will be kind of a function of how the business shapes up here.
Okay that's helpful.
Thank you.
And we'll now take our next question from Walt Chancellor from Macquarie.
Good morning.
Hello Walt.
So sorry if you mentioned this already but on that rig deploying from Tunisia what is the exact timing on when you expect that rig to begin working?   It should be sometime in late Q1 early Q2.
Okay.
And then on that deployment is that rig going to get mobilization for the move? How is that going to impact costs going forward in the next few quarters?  It will receive mobilization that's going to cover a significant portion of it.
There will be a certain portion that is on us but the majority is – and that will be amortized over the contract life.
But there will be a net portion that’s still paid by us but it's a smaller piece than the whole.
Don't rethink the mobilization costs that we have from Kazakhstan to Kurdistan though because Tunisia to Kurdistan it's going to be a lot less.
Right got it.
Okay.
And then moving to the barge business.
Obviously utilization here has been strong for a good long while.
I understand with the commodity pressures you're seeing utilization potentially coming under pressure here in the fourth quarter.
Do you think that that sort of – that around 50% is what we should expect going forward? Or are there any things specific to Q4 that are weighing on that as well? Just what's the – and what are the big drivers in the Q4 utilization outlook?  I think historically Q4 has always been a quarter that if there was any softness what you get around the holiday season and things like that.
Because of the nature of the types of customers we deal with a lot of times you know they will not start a well that they could have otherwise started.
And the softer it kind of helps make that a little more conducive for them to make that decision.
But I think as you know Walt a lot of the customers we serve in this market tend to be small some of them public some of them private.
And I think they're probably some of the customers that will respond more quickly to the commodities changes that we've seen recently.
And that's why we are seeing the change in utilization.
As far as going forward I think that they also can respond to the favorable side more quickly as soon as things start changing and going back the other way.
In 2015 I don't expect utilization to be below the 50% but I equally don't know that it will be substantially you know it's not going to be back up into the 90% range that we experienced for most of the last several quarters.
Fair enough.
I understand there's a lot of uncertainty out there.
I appreciate the color.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) And we'll now take our next question from Daniel Burke from Johnson Rice.
Good morning guys.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Gary you talked about two possibly three rigs going back to work in Latin America that's a positive.
Can you – obviously that I assume involves Colombia.
Is it both Colombia and Mexico where you're contemplating activating rigs I assume?   Yes Daniel.
Right now we have two idle rigs in Mexico and we have two idle rigs in Colombia.
And actually we have active discussions going on for all four of those rigs.
But I mean as things go and the way that we're trying to be more disciplined in negotiating deals we don't want to put those rigs to work if – I don't feel like I might get a good margin out of them.
So just because I got four negotiations going on I'm not so sure that all four of them will materialize at the end of the day.
But I think the two rigs in Colombia are highly likely to go back to work and one of the two rigs in Mexico.
And possibly even the second rig in Mexico.
But when I talk about two to three I'm more confident more bullish about one of them in Colombia one of them in Mexico then the next likelihood will be the second one in Colombia and then the fourth option will be the final one in Mexico.
Okay that's helpful.
And then Gary in your concluding comments when you were talking about international you mentioned the potential for mid 20% margins in the second half of I think 2015.
I apologize I wasn't clear if you were alluding to the international drilling business or to international rental tools?  Yes sorry about that.
Its international rental tools that I was referencing there.
Okay so do you think in the span of by second half of 2015 you could have that business.
What's the blueprint how do we think about how you get there over the next three or four quarters?   Well yes I do think we can get there.
As far as the blueprint is concerned it's a combination of both cost management which I'm very pleased with the team and the efforts that they put in right now.
We've seen some of that fruit with the improvement in margin that we've experienced in this quarter that we are talking about.
But it's also revenue growth and I feel like there is some good opportunities.
As I mentioned we just picked up this contract that I'm pretty excited about in Latin America as part of that segment which represents a good opportunity for growth in Latin America.
But we also see some good revenue growth over in the eastern hemisphere and most of that is for existing capital.
So you got the depreciation already on your books and so you improve your utilization and you get good leverage on the incrementals.
Okay that's helpful.
And then last one for me maybe just more practically speaking.
I think Chris mentioned a decline in pass-through or reimbursable revenues is expected in Q4.
I'm trying to triangulate around that that overall revenue range.
I would assume that the dip in pass-throughs would be in the magnitude of couple million bucks is that fair?   You're good.
That's about right.
Okay.
All right guys I appreciate the color today.
Thank you Daniel.
And at this time there are no further questions in the queue.
And this concludes our question and answer portion.
I would now like to turn the call back over to Richard Bajenski for any closing comments.
Thank you operator and thank you all those who listened to our call.
That's ends our call for today.
We appreciate your time and your interest in Parker Drilling.
If you have questions about the material that was covered in our announcement and this conference call please contact me by phone or send me an e-mail.
I look forward to hearing from you.
Goodbye and have a good day.
This does conclude our conference.
Thank you for your participation.
Good day and welcome to the Parker Drilling's Fourth Quarter 2014 Earnings Release Conference Call.
Today's conference is being recorded.
At this time I would like to turn the conference over to Richard Bajenski.
Please go ahead.
Thank you operator.
Good morning and thank you for joining the Parker Drilling 2014 fourth quarter conference call.
This is Richard Bajenski Director of Investor Relations.
Joining me today are Gary Rich Chairman President and CEO; and Chris Weber Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
In the course of our comments today we may make statements regarding management's expectations for the company's future performance we believe will be informative to our shareholders.
These statements are considered forward-looking statements within the meaning of U.S.
securities laws.
Each forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date of this call and actual results may differ materially due to various factors we referenced in our public filings and other factors addressed during this call including changes in market conditions affecting our industry.
We will also refer to non-GAAP financial measures such as adjusted EBITDA non-routine items and operating gross margin excluding depreciation and amortization expense which we will refer to as gross margin during the call.
Please refer to the table in our recent press release or on the company's website for a definition of adjusted EBITDA and a reconciliation of this measure to the comparable GAAP measure and for further information regarding non-routine items.
I ask you to take note of this caution about forward-looking statements as we proceed today.
Our next comments are from Gary Rich.
Gary? Thank you Rich.
And thanks everyone for joining us today.
First I'll share some thoughts concerning our fourth quarter activities and our progress in 2014.
Afterwards Chris will discuss the fourth quarter's financial results in detail.
Then I'll come back and share our view on the outlook for our business.
In the 2014 fourth quarter we delivered solid results in a challenging environment.
The growing impact of declining oil prices on our business in the U.S.
was counterbalanced by revenue gains in international markets.
We made some noteworthy progress in the fourth quarter on our transformational journey.
In Rental Tools the utilization index for our U.S.
rental tools tubular goods rose to its highest level of the year in the fourth quarter.
As a result the index average for the year was 91 compared with 80 for 2013.
Fourth quarter rental tools revenues from our U.S.
Gulf of Mexico deepwater activities grew significantly from a year ago as a direct result of the substantial investment we made in 2014.
Fourth quarter revenues and gross margin for our international rental tools business were the highest for the year and benefited from strong growth in the Middle-East Europe and Latin America.
In our Drilling business the average day rate of our U.S.
barge fleet in the fourth quarter was 8% higher than in the prior year's fourth quarter despite a pull back in the third quarter's level and contributed to an overall 16% increase in our average day rate for the year compared with 2013.
Our U.S.
drilling business achieved strong financial results due to operational performance gains by our arctic class drilling rigs in Alaska.
Internationally we secured four drilling contracts in the fourth quarter; two of those put in long idle rigs to work.
All these contracts are scheduled to begin operation in the 2015 first quarter.
This contracting activity closed in the year in which we raised our average utilization for our international fleet to 70% from 60% in the prior year ending 2014 with 18 of our 22 international rigs under contract.
We secured a new two rig operations and maintenance projects in the fourth quarter.
This is additive to the one new project that got underway earlier in the year each of them drawing upon our expertise in record of performance in extended reach drilling.
Our combined drilling operations U.S.
and international including O&amp;M ended the year with an estimated revenue backlog of approximately $670 million.
And during the fourth quarter we also sold to older rigs as we continued the process of removing assets that no longer align with our strategy.
During the year we continue to strengthen our financial position reducing debt by approximately $39 million refinancing $360 million of debt at lower interest rates and extending our maturities.
In addition in January 2015 we amended our credit facility upsizing our revolver and extending its maturity providing greater liquidity and financial flexibility.
The year was not without challenges though.
Geopolitical events in Iraq limited the market growth that had been underway.
This hampered our ability to expand our rig fleet and grow our international rental tools business in the region.
Obligations to regulatory reforms slowed the development of drilling activity in Mexico and Columbia.
This delayed some of the growth in contract drilling and rental tools we had expected in those two countries.
And most recently the steep drop in world oil prices reversed the momentum in our U.S.
barge drilling business and slowed the growth of U.S.
rental tools business.
In summary in the fourth quarter and for the year overall we achieved important operational gains and strengthened our market position in key business areas.
We managed through several market challenges and we enhanced the company's financial condition.
As a result we are in a strong operating position and sound financial condition as we work through this industry cycle.
Chris will provide some additional information about the quarter and then I'll return to offer some thoughts on the outlook for our business and the actions we are taking in response to the declining business conditions.
Chris? Thanks Gary.
For the fourth quarter we reported revenues of $243.2 million adjusted EBITDA of $65.2 million or 26.8% of revenues and net income of $7.8 million or $0.06 per diluted share.
I will start my review with our drilling business.
Combined drilling revenues declined 2% to $150.8 million in the 2014 fourth quarter from a $154.3 million in the third quarter.
Gross margin decreased 21% to $35.9 million from $45.5 million and gross margin as a percentage of revenues decreased to 23.8% from 29.5%.
Revenue from reimbursable expenses increased $5.8 million compared with the third quarter.
Excluding reimbursable revenues combined drilling revenues declined 7% and gross margin as a percentage of revenues declined to 28.6% from 33.7% reflecting the impact of the rapid decline in oil prices on our U.S.
barge drilling business during the quarter.
Revenue gains and improved operating performance in drilling operations outside of the U.S.
Gulf of Mexico offset some of that impact.
Here is a review of the individual drilling operations.
U.S.
barge drilling reported fourth quarter revenues at $26.7 million 33% lower than the 2014 third quarter's $39.6 million.
Gross margin declined to $9.7 million from the prior quarter's $20.7 million and gross margin as a percentage of revenues decreased to 36.3% from 52.2%.
The decline in financial results reflects the impact of the sharp decline in oil prices.
During the quarter operators in the inland waters of the Gulf of Mexico made substantial reductions in drilling activity.
Our fleet utilization declined to 53% for the fourth quarter from 75% of the preceding quarter and our average day rate weakened 7%.
U.S.
drilling reported fourth quarter revenues at $20.8 million 6% higher than the third quarter's $19.7 million.
Segment gross margin increased to $6.4 million from the prior quarter's $5.3 million and gross margin as a percentage of revenues increased to 30.8% from 26.9%.
The increase in revenues and gross margin is primarily due to a higher realized average day-rate and lower operating cost.
International drilling reported fourth quarter revenues at $95.2 million an increase of 8% from the 2014 third quarter's $88.2 million.
Segment gross margin increased 3% to $19 million from the prior quarter's $18.5 million; and gross margin as a percentage of revenues was 19.9% compared with the prior quarter's 20.9%.
Revenues from reimbursable expense increased $5.8 million compared with the third quarter primarily due to our O&amp;M operations on Sakhalin Island Russia.
Excluding the impact of reimbursable operating revenues increased 2% and gross margin as a percentage of revenues increased to 26.2% from 26%.
The increase in operating revenues and gross margin is primarily due to the startup of our long ideal rig 216 in Kazakhstan during the fourth quarter.
Now I'll turn to rental tools.
Rental tools reported revenues of $92.4 million in the 2014 in fourth quarter a 5% increase from $87.7 million in the third quarter.
Segment gross margin increased to $39.3 million from $35.7 million and segment gross margin as a percentage of revenues increased to 42.6% from 40.7%.
These gains are primarily due to significant achievements in our international business and continued growth in our U.S.
Gulf of Mexico deepwater activities.
Revenues for U.S.
rental tools increased 2% to $58.8 million from $57.4 million.
Gross margin rose to $31.8 million from $31.5 million and gross margin as a percentage of revenues decreased to 54.2% from 55%.
The increases in revenue and gross margin are primarily due to our growth in the U.S.
Gulf of Mexico deepwater market.
Gross margins were negatively impacted by increased handing cost for inbound tools from the U.S.
Gulf of Mexico shallow and inland water drilling market and late in the quarter a slowing U.S.
land drilling market.
Revenues for our international rental tools increased 11% to $33.6 million compared with $30.3 million.
Gross margin increased to $7.5 million from $4.2 million and gross margin as a percentage of revenues increased to 22.3% from 13.8%.
We achieved significant revenue gains in several key international markets while holding operating cost flat.
Fourth quarter results were the highest level achieved in 2014 by our international rental business in revenues gross margin and gross margin percent.
Regarding other financial items fourth quarter G&amp;A expense of $9.7 million included a one-time benefit of approximately $2 million due to a change in our employee benefit program.
We expect 2015 first quarter G&amp;A expense to be between $10 million and $11 million due to the incremental expenses associated with the go-live of the next stage of our new ERP system.
Following that we expect G&amp;A expense to trend toward $8 million to $9 million per quarter as we made cost reductions and expense cut backs throughout our support functions.
For the 2014 fourth quarter we reported an income tax expense of $10 million or 55.1% of pretax income lower than expected due to better operating results.
This brought our full year effective tax rate of 49.6%.
Capital spending during 2014 was $176.8 million with approximately $95 million for rental tools $68 million for drilling operation and $14 million for corporate.
During the year we reduced debt by approximately $39 million.
Total outstanding debt at year end was $615 million including a cash balance of $108.5 million our net debt position was $506.5 million or 43% of net capitalization measured as a multiple of EBITDA total debt was 2.3 times 2014 adjusted EBITDA down from 2.8 times at the end of 2013.
In January 2015 we amended and extended our credit facility upsizing our revolver from $80 million to $200 million and paying off our outstanding $30 million term loan with a draw on a new revolver.
Our proforma liquidity at the end of 2014 taking into account the new revolver with $267 million including the $108.5 million cash balance and approximately $158 million available under the new credit facility.
That ends the financial review.
I will turn this back to Gary for comments on the outlook for our business.
Gary? Thanks Chris.
The steep decline in oil prices has already brought about substantial changes in the U.S.
joint activity and we are beginning to see the impacts spread in some of the international markets as well.
Given the uncertainty in market conditions at this time we are not going to provide financial conditions at this time we were not going to provide financial guidance.
However I do want to discuss conditions currently impacting our business and what we are doing to manage through this cycle.
Let's start with the outlook for our drilling business.
Our U.S.
barge drilling business was the first of our operations to feel the impact of lower oil prices leading to low rig fleet utilization beginning in the third quarter and continuing into this year.
During most days in January and February we have had three or fewer barges on contract an effective utilization rate of around 15% to 20% and day rates have also weakened.
At commodity prices we expect continued low utilization in the overall barge market and further declines in day rates.
Our international drilling operations where markets traditionally have been less volatile than the U.S.
land drilling market we expect some weakness in the utilization and day rates to develop.
But we expect the impact of that to be less immediate and significant than in the U.S.
To-date much of the impact has been in the form of delays in planned future drilling.
Some tender request and contract discussion have slowed or been discontinued reducing our expectations for near term gains in our international rig fleet utilization.
Recently we were notified one of our rigs in Mexico for which we have previously secured a four year contract extension will be released due to budget cuts.
Based on current contracts we expect our first quarter rig fleet utilization to be approximately 70%.
After that quarterly utilization could range between 50% and 70% depending on market conditions with some pressure on day rates.
We do not anticipate any significant changes to our major O&amp;M contracts nor to our Arctic-class rigs operating in Alaska.
Turning now to the expected conditions for rental tools for the U.S.
rental tools business we expect our activity in the land drilling market will be impacted by declines in the rig count and continued pressure on pricing.
However we expect to see continued growth in our activities in the Gulf of Mexico deepwater market this year primarily derived from the long term engagements on large committed multi-year programs.
Our international rental tools business was subject to the same conditions as other international drilling service providers.
However we expect our large presence in the Middle East a region which may offer the best market prospects in the current environment and the improving operating performance of our business simply the stronger performance in 2015.
Summarize the outlook we expect 2015 to be a challenging year.
We are taking actions across the company to lower our cost base sustain our utilization manage our cash and liquidity and preserve our ability to respond when conditions improve.
As mentioned earlier our U.S.
barge drilling business has been operating three or fewer rigs during much of January and February with declining day rates.
We expect these conditions to continue and have made significant adjustments in our business.
We have reduced our field work force from the peak by approximately 70%.
We retained a skeleton crew experienced hands in addition to two complete crews currently working on customer projects the experienced hands will be instrumental when activating rigs and will be cycling through each of our idle rigs to ensure they remain in good condition.
The monthly cash cost to maintain each idle rig will be in the $90 000 to $120 000 range per month.
Our U.S.
rental tools business has also experienced slowing demand in land and shelf and shallow water markets.
With the relatively low cost structure our primary focus for this business is on managing the handling cost for inbound tools coming from completed jobs and on reducing overhead expense.
We will be price competitive and continue to leverage our strengths service levels product quality and customer efficiency in order to maintain our business.
In addition as the equipment becomes available in the U.S.
inventory we will use it to meet some of the capital needs over international rental tools and drilling operations and reduce Parker's overall capital spend in 2015.
We also are preparing for slower international drilling activity focusing on sustained utilization as we continue to reduce our operating overhead costs.
We have resizing our operations to expected market levels and reducing overhead structure.
Since the onset of the downturn in our U.S.
barge drilling business we've reduced companywide headcount by 8%.
Including plans we have in place we expect our total headcount reduction will be close to 10% by midyear.
We are closely managing our cash flow and are sharply focused on producing another year of positive free cash flow after capital spending.
We estimate our 2015 capital spending will be approximately $110 million down approximately 40% from 2014 levels.
Our 2015 capital spending plan is focused on supporting rental tools growth opportunities in the U.S.
Gulf of Mexico deepwater markets with equipments were already contracted -- or committed jobs and supporting growth for our international rental tools in select markets and maintaining our rig fleet for efficient and safe operation.
Overall approximately 65% of our planned capital spend is for rental tools 30% is for drilling operations and 5% will be for corporate needs.
Our management team has deep experience in managing through the industry cycles.
We believe customers value our focus on operational execution and on providing innovative reliable and efficient solutions that help them manage their costs and mitigate their risks.
We will continue to employ our experience and our expertise to help customers navigate these challenging times while we also focus on actions to lower our cost base sustain our utilization manage our cash and liquidity and preserve our ability to respond when conditions improve.
I think it is important to keep in mind that Parker Drilling has operated in challenging environments for over 80 years.
We have succeeded because good smart and dedicated people put a lot of effort into the work they do on behalf of the company.
I just talked about changes we are making to manage through the cycle including resizing consolidating rolls and reducing overhead support.
While these are actions we must take in order to sustain our business it doesn’t soften the blow for those of our team members who will be impacted.
This is a leader's most difficult duty: letting good people go.
I want all Parker employees to know how important they are to the success of this company how much the company our shareholders appreciate their hard work and dedication and thank them for their support and ask for their understanding as we take these necessary operational and cost management actions to address these challenging times.
That concludes my comments.
Operator we're ready to take some questions from the audience.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions].
And we'll take our first question from Byron Pope with Tudor Pickering &amp; Holt.
Gary I'm trying to avoid temptation as looking back to the '09 down cycle to try to take through how your rental tools business might stay here in 2015 given that I know there are changes in the mix.
And so maybe as a starting point could you just help frame for us for your U.S.
rental business the rough percentages of revenues from U.S.
land versus Gulf of Mexico? And then second part of that question is just I try to think of it as being a fairly high fixed cost business and so part of what I'm trying to think is how to think about decremental margin associated with top line growth? So I was hoping you could help frame that for us.
Yes well from a split of land versus offshore we've typically been running in the mid 20% of the percentage of the revenue as being offshore derived Byron and I think that obviously we expect land to be going down.
So you can anticipate that that percentage is our overall total will be increased as we go forward.
The second part of the question was? Just I tend to think of it as being a fairly high fixed cost business and so with pricing also moving against you just trying to think -- make sure I'm thinking about decremental margin the right way because it would seem the needs of decremental margins associated with declining revenues would be fairly high is that fair way to think about it? Yes we've been looking quite a bit at the decremental margins and I think that the challenge we're going to happen that because it is somewhat high fixed cost it's probably -- they're probably going to be in the 60% type range possibly for that rental business in the lower 48.
Okay.
And it really just depends on what the level of activity is to how far they go.
I mean I realized the we're trying to resist the temptation to go back and look at 2009 but if you look at the low point we had from a margin percentage in 2009 we got down to a gross margin level Richard I think in 48% was the lowest quarter we had? Yes we just reported about $0.54 now for this quarter.
So I think that that 2009 probably is indicative of the type of the margin that we might see as we walk forward through this year.
Okay.
And then last question for me is you realize it will be a challenging environment even on the international side even though not the same amount of magnitude as we had but international rental tools business I think if you all had previously talked about thinking about mid 20s gross margin has being the target over time.
Anything changed how you think about that margin target for the business as we get out into maybe 2016 and the recovery scenario? We still Byron feel that the mid 20s is a realistic target as we go through this year and 2015 we don’t feel like there is anything that’s given us thoughts for remaining committed to delivering those types of margins as we go through this year.
And as we said before I mean once we get there then obviously our intention is to take them higher into 2016 and beyond.
I still feel pretty good about that business.
Great thanks guys I appreciate it.
[Operator Instructions].
And we will take our next question from Walt Chancellor with Macquarie.
So on the barge business I'm not going to resist the temptation of going back to 2009.
In that instance if my numbers are correct our day rates were ultimately half and utilization I want to say with a little bit of even stronger than what you're seeing now.
So apology if you mentioned it and I missed it but what are you seeing on the day rate front thus far to start the year and how do you see that planning out over the course of the year? Well today is an indication of how this quarter will play out; you are talking just from Q4 to Q1 I'll walked and probably about 15% decline in price somewhere in that range.
I think though as we look at it it's almost and I'm trying to we’re trying to talk the models together and budgets smaller kind of thing for 2015 in the barge business.
I don’t know whether it say impacted by prizes as it is the utilization factor because of the fixed cost you have associated with that business and if we're down in that 15% to 20% utilization range we can take a pretty significant heat on that business on the decremental so.
Okay understood appreciate that.
And I guess talking if you want to think more broadly about the cycle and how you are positioned you have made it some of this improve liquidity ahead of the downturn here.
Just want to get a sense of that's how you are thinking about cash how you use cash is it are you going to be looking for growth opportunities consolidation opportunities reducing leverage keeping liquidity just any color there would be helpful? This is Chris.
Our first and foremost priority is liquidity and ensuring we got the proper liquidity.
We will looking at opportunities as they may arrive be a debt reduction or otherwise but gives me contact to make sure we’re comfortable for liquidity level that we have for the business.
Okay.
And then Chris what have you what are your expectations for potential withdrawal working capital this year do you have any ballpark estimates for how that can be reduced? If with revenue coming down if our DSOs don’t change materially that will be a source of cash for the business if did DSO start to stretch out little bit that's going to be into that.
So it's we are obviously we’re staying very focused on both our receivables and our payables to try and maximize the working capital benefit that comes from our revenue decline.
Okay great.
And then just one housekeeping question just want to make sure I had this right.
On Alaska I believe there is originally a five year term contract so we’re talking a Q4 start-up that takes you all the way through '17.
Is that correct still? Yes.
Okay.
That's it from me.
Thank you.
And Walt there's also a five year extension option as well on those rigs.
Got it.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions].
And we are going to go ahead and turn the call back over to Mr.
Richard Bajenski for any additional or closing remarks.
Great thank you operator and thank you all for joining us today for your time and your interest in Parker Drilling.
If you have questions about material covered in our announcement and in this conference call please contact everybody by phone or by email while look forward to hearing for me.
Good bye and have a good day.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude today's conference.
We thank you for your participation.
Good day everyone and welcome to the Parker Drilling’s First Quarter 2015 Earnings Release Conference Call.
Today’s call is being recorded.
At this time I would like to turn the call over to you Jason Geach Vice President of Investor Relations and Corporate Development.
Please go ahead.
Thank you operator.
Good morning and thank you for joining the Parker Drilling 2015 first quarter conference call.
This is Jason Geach Vice President of Investor Relations and Corporate Development.
Joining me today are Gary Rich Chairman President and CEO; and Chris Weber Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
In the course of our comments today we may make statements regarding management’s expectations for the company’s future performance we believe will be informative to our shareholders.
These statements are considered forward-looking statements within the meaning of U.S.
securities laws.
Each forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date of this call and actual results may differ materially due to various factors we referenced in our public filings and other factors addressed during this call including changes in market conditions affecting our industry.
We will also refer to non-GAAP financial measures such as adjusted EBITDA non-routine items and operating gross margin excluding depreciation and amortization expense which we will refer to as gross margin during this call.
Please refer to the table of our recent press release or on the company’s website for a definition of adjusted EBITDA and a reconciliation of this measure to the comparable GAAP measure and for further information regarding non-routine items.
Please take note of this caution about forward-looking statements as we proceed today.
Our next comments are from Gary Rich.
Gary? Thank you Jason.
And thanks everyone for joining us today for this update on Parker Drilling.
I’ll start with the review of recent activities.
Chris will then discuss the first quarter’s financial results in detail.
After that I’ll come back and share our outlook for the business.
First a few words on the transition in our Investor Relations team.
Rich Bajenski who has led our Investor Relations program for nearly seven years has told us he’s going to retire.
He will be leaving us at the end of this month.
Rich has done an outstanding job leading our Investor Relations function putting his knowledge and experience to use in developing a strong presence for Parker in the investment community.
His professionalism and tireless efforts representing Parker are much appreciated.
We wish him a safe and enjoyable future.
I’m therefore pleased to introduce the new leader of our Investor Relations program Jason Geach who you heard at the beginning of this call.
Jason has been with Parker for over seven years and most recently served as the Vice President of Latin America operations.
Prior to leading our Latin America business Jason supported international rental tools corporate development and operations finance.
He has over 17 years of experience in the energy sector encompassing both upstream and downstream segments.
Please join me in welcoming Jason to this new role.
Welcome Jason.
I also want to take the opportunity to note the change in our segment reporting structure we announced in April.
The new structure aligns our reportable segments with our two core business lines drilling services and rental tools services and reflects our current organizational and management structure.
Our discussions today will be in line with that structure.
Now here are my thoughts concerning the first quarter performance and recent business activity.
While we experienced significant declines in the U.S.
markets for rental tools and barge drilling services in this past quarter we increased our international and Alaska drilling fleet utilization and achieved growth in our international O&amp;M and project management services.
In addition we benefited from cost reductions throughout the business.
Also we generated sufficient cash from operations and working capital to allow us to reduce debt by $30 million while preserving a strong cash balance.
We achieved this by maintaining a clear focus on lowering our cost base sustaining our utilization managing our cash and liquidity and preserving our ability to respond when conditions improve.
We responded quickly and decisively to the severe downturn in the U.S.
drilling activity that began late in the third quarter of 2014.
As the downturn in market activity deepened and spread we continue to make adjustments.
Some of the measures we have taken include significant reductions in our workforce primarily in the affected businesses but across all the areas of the company.
On a consolidated basis we’ve reduced our employee headcount by approximately 10% and we expect it to be down approximately 13% by midyear.
We’ve implemented expense and cash flow management initiatives including vendor concessions a general wage freeze and in select areas wage cuts.
We’ve also made changes to our incentive compensation program focusing individual goals on cost cash flow and liquidity management.
We are prepared to make further changes to address market conditions as well as to take advantage of opportunities as they occur.
The impact of this down turn has not been uniform across our business with some geographies and operations being affected more than others.
This overall balance is reflected in the results we reported this quarter.
In our drilling service business declines in the drilling in the U.S.
Gulf of Mexico inland water market impacted our barge drilling activity while our international and Alaska operations were less affected.
In the U.S.
Lower 48 Drilling segment we’ve experienced a significant reduction in drilling activity in the Gulf of Mexico inland waters.
This market reacted quickly to last year’s drop in oil prices industry utilization remains at low levels and there has been a significant decline in dayrates.
While operators have plans to drill current low oil prices and the uncertainty about future prices have stalled their drilling activity.
As outlined in the prior quarter’s earnings conference call we have responded to the decline in demand with substantial reductions in personnel and operating and overhead expenses.
We reduced our workforce by 70% from its peak in this business.
Also we have clustered our idle rigs and are maintaining them with a skeletal crew at low cost while keeping them fit for an eventual return to service when called upon.
We have continued to bring down our idle rig cost.
Currently our average monthly cash cost per idle rig is approximately $80 000 down from the $90 000 to $120 000 per month when we initiated our current approach to fleet management.
In our international and Alaska operations we’ve benefitted from the start-up of our new two rig extended reach O&amp;M contract in Abu Dhabi late in the fourth quarter a new procurement management services project and cost reductions.
Our utilization heads up slightly as we continue giving three previously idle rigs ready to go work in the second quarter one in Colombia one in Guatemala and one in the Kurdistan region of Iraq.
Our Drilling Services business ended the quarter was a $495 million backlog.
In our rental tools business the continuing decline in U.S.
land drilling left to reduce rental demand and continued price compression.
The utilization index for our U.S.
rental tools tubular goods fell to $75.00 for the 2015 first quarter from $94.6 for the prior quarter.
In response to this downturn in demand we have reduced our field workforce and lowered our overhead expense through cost reductions and general concessions.
We’ve experienced some weakness in overall revenues in our international rental tools business primarily due to reduced operator activity in the Kurdistan Region of Iraq in the North Sea.
However the business produced solid earnings this quarter as a result of our continued efforts to reduce operating costs.
During the quarter we continue to strengthen our financial position.
We generated solid cash flow from operations during the period allowing us to reduce debt by $30 million is still close a quarter with a strong cash position of a $113 million up from the $108 million at the year end.
In addition we have mended our credit facility in January upsizing our revolver and extending this maturity providing increased liquidity and financial flexibility.
Overall the business conditions we experienced in the first quarter were in line with what we had prepared or anticipated.
As a result of our continued focus on managing cost and cash flow we remain in sound financial condition.
Chris will now provide additional information about the quarter and then I will turn to offer some thoughts on the outlook for our business and further actions we are taking the response to the declining business conditions.
Chris.
Thanks Gary.
For the first quarter we reported revenues of $204.1 million adjusted EBITDA of $53.4 million or 26.2% of revenues and net income of $3.2 million or $0.03 per diluted share.
I will start my review with our drilling services business where revenues declined 15% to $128 million in the 2015 first quarter from a $150.8 million in the 2014 fourth quarter.
Gross margin decreased 1% to $35.5 million from $35.9 million and gross margin as a percentage of revenues increased to 27.7% from 23.8%.
Revenue for reimbursable expenses decreased $5.4 million compared with the 2014 fourth quarter.
Excluding revenues for reimbursable expenses drilling services revenues declined 14% and gross margin as a percent of revenues increased to 32.8% from 28.5%.
Regarding our drilling services business segments U.S.
lower 48 drilling reported first quarter revenues of $14.1 million 56% lower than 2014 fourth quarter revenues of $32.1 million.
Gross margin declined to $100 000 from the prior quarter’s $10.8 million.
The decline in financial results reflects the impact of the sharp decline in U.S.
drilling.
During the quarter operators in the inland waters of the Gulf of Mexico made substantial reductions in drilling activity.
Our average fleet utilization declined to 21% for the first quarter from 53% for the preceding quarter and dayrates were lower.
International and Alaska drilling reported first quarter revenues of $113.9 million a decrease of 4% from the 2014 fourth quarter’s $118.7 million.
Gross margin increased 41% to $35.4 million from the prior quarter’s $25.1 million and gross margin as a percentage of revenues increased to 31.1% compared with the prior quarter’s 21.2%.
Revenues from reimbursable expenses decreased $4.6 million compared with the fourth quarter.
Excluding revenues from reimbursable expenses segment revenues were unchanged gross margin increased 41% and gross margin as a percentage of revenues increased to 37.2% from 26.4%.
The increase in gross margin is due to the start up of our two new rig O&amp;M project in Abu Dhabi late in the 2014 fourth quarter the contribution of the new procurement and management services project and reduced operating expenses including foreign exchange benefits in certain locations.
Also contributing to the result to the first quarter where early contract termination and demobilization fees and reserve adjustments.
We estimate these added approximately three percentage points to the segment’s first quarter margin.
Now I will turn to our rental tools business.
Rental tools reported revenues of $76.1 million in the 2015 in first quarter an 18% decrease from $92.4 million in the fourth quarter.
Gross margin decreased to $29.3 million from $39.3 million.
And gross margin as a percentage of revenues declined to 38.5% from 42.6%.
Revenues for U.S.
rental tools decreased 22% to $45.9 million from $58.8 million.
Gross margin declined to $21.3 million from $31.8 million and gross margin as a percentage of revenues decreased to 46.4% from 54.2%.
The decrease in revenues and gross margin reflect the impact of the sharp decline in the U.S.
land drilling market on rental tools demand and pricing.
Revenues for our international rental tools decreased 10% to $30.2 million compared with $33.6 million in the prior quarter.
Gross margin increased to $8 million from $7.5 million and gross margin as a percentage of revenues rose to 26.6% from 22.3%.
Our international rental tools overall revenues declined primarily due to reduced operator activity in the Kurdistan Region of Iraq and the North Sea further progress in operating cost management allowed to raise the gross margin level of this business.
Regarding other financial items first quarter G&amp;A expense was $10.8 million.
This includes the incremental expense associated with the implementation of the latest phase of our new ERP system.
We expect G&amp;A expense in the second quarter to be approximately $10 million and to range between $38 million and $40 million for the full year.
For the 2015 first quarter we reported an income tax benefit of $200 000 primarily due to discrete items in the quarter.
We expect our full year cash rate to be approximately 30%.
Capital spending year-to-date was $33.5 million and approximately $24 million for rental tools primarily for deepwater equipment to service contracts currently underway or soon to start $8million for drilling operations and the remainder for corporate purposes.
Total debt outstanding at quarter-end was $585 million $30 million lower than at year-end.
Including a cash balance of a $113 million our net debt position was $472 million or 41% of net capitalization.
Measured as the multiple of EBITDA total debt was 2.2 times the prior four quarters adjusted EBITDA down from 2.3 times at the end of 2014.
In January we amended and extended our credit facility upsizing our revolver from $80 million to $200 million extending its term to 2020 and paying off our outstanding $30 million term loan with a $30 million draw on the revolver.
Since then we paid off the $30 million revolver loan.
Our liquidity at the end of the quarter was $301 million including the $113 million cash balance and approximately $188 million available under our revolver.
That ends the financial review.
I’ll turn this back to Gary for comments on the outlook.
Gary? Thanks Chris.
Given the continuing uncertainty in market conditions I’ll offer operational guidance and comment on conditions that may affect our business but in most cases without specific financial estimates.
In overview we believe energy market conditions will continue to remain weak.
We expect ongoing changes in market conditions and the effect of our responses to continue to impact our results from operations in upcoming quarters.
Let’s start with the outlook for our Drilling Services business.
In our U.S.
lower 48 drilling segment our U.S.
Barge Drilling operation was the first to feel the impact of lower oil prices beginning in the 2014 third quarter.
This has continued into this year with a further drop in utilization and dayrates.
At current commodity prices we expect average utilization and dayrates will decline from 2015 first quarter levels with quarterly utilization averaging around 15% to 20%.
We are managing the barge rig fleet in the segment’s operating personnel and overhead costs with the expectation that the activity will remain at low levels for a while now.
Under these conditions we expect a small loss in the second quarter for this segment of between $2 million and $4 million.
Our international and Alaska drilling operations are in markets traditionally less volatile than the U.S.
land drilling market.
So they are not immune to this industry wide decline.
In our Latin America region we currently have two previously contracted rigs without work in Mexico.
One was reported in our last conference call.
A second is awaiting potential well assignment so may be released this summer.
But we also have two rigs due to begin drilling in the next few months one in Guatemala the other in Colombia.
There are few opportunities to re-engage rigs as they come up contract later this year.
In our Eastern Hemisphere fleet we have several rigs rolling up contract in the coming months including two of our rigs in the Kurdistan Region of Iraq.
Due to the recent sharp decline and drilling in the Kurdistan Region we anticipate some utilization gaps may develop in that market.
Meanwhile we expect our arctic-class rigs operating in Alaska and our major O&amp;M contracts to remain reliable sources of revenues earnings and cash flow.
Based on current activity and contracts in place we expect rig fleet utilization for our International and Alaska drilling operations to be approximately 60% in the second quarter and to be between 50% and 60% during the second half of the year.
In addition we may experience some further pressure on dayrates.
With lower utilization and the absence of the first quarter’s contributions for all determination and the mobilization fees and reserve adjustments we expect revenues for the International and Alaska drilling segment to be approximately 15% to 20% lower in a second quarter than in the first and for gross margin as a percentage of revenues to be in the low-to-mid 20% range.
Turning now to expected conditions for rental tools for the U.S.
rental tools operations our activity in the land drilling market will continue to be affected by declines in the rig count.
Our U.S.
rental tools utilization index is expected to continue to follow the trend in rig count and we expect continued pressure on pricing.
First quarter gross margins for this business are near where they were in the 2008 2009 downturn.
While we will strive to limit further erosion of gross margin we are focused on maintaining our presence in the market by leveraging in our strengths service levels product quality and customer efficiency and by being competitive on price is necessary.
Our international rental tools business is subject to the same conditions as other international drilling service providers.
However we expect our large presence in the Middle East and the improving operating performance of our business to lead the better results in 2015 when compared with 2014.
We are closely managing our cash flow and expect another year of positive free cash flow after capital spending.
Our 2015 capital spending plan is unchanged at approximately $110 million primarily focused on supporting growth opportunities in our rental tools business and for maintaining our rig fleet pretty efficient and safe operation.
Our management team has deep experience in managing through the industry cycles and is prepared to meet the challenges ahead.
We will continue to employ our experience and our expertise to help customers safely manage cost and mitigate operational risks.
We believe customers now more than ever will value our focus on operational execution and on providing innovative reliable and efficient solutions that enhance their abilities to meet their business objectives.
That concludes my comments.
Operator we’re going to take a few questions from the audience.
[Operator Instructions] We will take our first question from Walt Chancellor from Macquarie.
Hey good morning.
Good morning Walt.
I wanted to start with cash flows as we move forward in 2015.
Certainly encouraging to see the debt reduction.
As you produce free cash flows moving forward is that going to be the target as well to further reduce debt or do you plan to maintain some cash balances or hold those free cash flows for some optionality moving forward? Just like to get your philosophy as we move through 2015.
This is Chris.
With regards to cash flow we’re likely to let that build on the balance sheet just for buffer purposes and optionality.
Okay great.
And then Chris while I have you here it looks like you enjoyed some benefit from a reduction in working capital in Q1.
Do you expect those benefits to roll off here as we move through 2015? Or do you expect to see a little bit more help there? We could see a little bit more help in the second quarter but then I think it’s going to flatten out.
Okay great.
And moving to the rentals business 61% decrementals as I measure it in Q1.
That’s pretty similar.
It’s almost spot-on with what you experienced in Q1 2009.
It looks like you ended that year – and I realize it was just a U.S.
business at that time at about 75% decrementals for the full year.
I guess how do you see the remainder of the year playing out? I know you said you’d hope to stem those margin declines but any guideposts there would be helpful for us.
Yes well this is Gary.
The margins on the U.S.
sides are still going to show some decrementals as we walk forward and I think it will pretty tough to hold them to that 60% range.
I think the biggest change will happen in Q2 after that we anticipate it’ll probably stabilize a little bit but the 60% you’re quoting is a average between the International and the U.S.
domestic market right.
That’s correct yes.
And so we actually had a – our margins actually increased in the international tools business in Q4.
Is the hope to further drive those margins up or is that a level you’d be happy with at this point? We remain committed as we’ve done before – said before to get in the mid-30% range for that international rental tools business by the end of the year.
Great.
And I guess that certainly adds a little bit of credibility with the first-quarter performance strong performance there.
And certainly one more for me.
On the international drilling outlook in the Eastern Hemisphere you mentioned some potential utilization gaps from the Kurdistan rigs.
So I presume then that you feel pretty good about the contracting outlook for the rigs in Kazakhstan at this point? And do you think you’ll be able to keep those fully utilized through 2015? Yes we feel pretty confident about the rigs in Kazakhstan.
In Kurdistan I mean it’s – is there a just a lot of other challenges there for our customer community; it’s not a reservoir issue it was other factors that were influencing activity in Kurdistan.
Okay great.
I will hop back in the queue.
Thank you.
Thank you Walt.
We’ll go next to Taylor Zurcher from Tudor Pickering and Holt.
Hi good morning guys.
Good morning.
So first question have to do with just trying to delve into early terminations a little bit.
So I know terminations impacted margins a little bit here in the quarter and just wondering what provisions in your contracts are there as it pertains to early terminations? And particularly for the rig you mentioned in Mexico that’s supposed to go on contract in the coming months or maybe next month you said.
Will that rig recoup any kind of payment? And for all your rigs internationally just in general what kind of provisions do you have in place on the early termination side? Great question.
Difficult to answer because every contract is negotiated separately.
We try as much as possible to get early term commitments in each of these contracts and the two in Mexico happen to have those and I’m glad they did.
The rigs in other markets – it depends on how long they’ve been in those markets.
Sometimes you don’t get early term agreements when they’ve been in there for sustained periods of time.
I’m not sure if I’m answering your question.
Yes that’s great.
Thanks a lot that’s some good color.
And then secondly kind of unrelated but I think last quarter you mentioned with the skeleton crews you are keeping on your barge rigs in the GoM you were expecting somewhere between $90 000 and $120 000 per month cash costs and now you’re looking at $80 000.
Is there any more room to cut there? That seems like a pretty low level already but given that utilization looks pretty bleak moving forward any more costs to cut there? We are kind of in that conundrum where any further cuts will put at risk the condition of the rigs when they are called back into service and the amount of CapEx that we would have to spend to get them ready to go to work again.
And so yes we could technically but you are starting to talk about costs of do we take the insurance off the rigs? Do we totally de-man them and not do any upkeep that keeps them from deteriorating and those sorts of things.
And right now we feel that with the way we’ve worked it down to the $80 000 is a good balance looking at where we think the market is going to go in the future.
Awesome.
Thanks a lot.
Well that’s real helpful.
I’ll turn it back.
[Operator Instructions] We’ll go next to Daniel Burke from Johnson Rice.
Hi guys.
Hi Daniel.
Gary just back on the domestic side of the rental tools business I guess one thing that at least we perceive as a little different now for you guys versus 2008-2009 is a little bit more participation on the Gulf of Mexico front.
Could you update us on your prospects there? And then also I guess curious we saw that the Gulf of Mexico is maybe helping prop margin on the US rental tools side.
So what does that – what can we infer if that’s the case? If it is the case about where US land rental margins are now versus 2008-2009? That’s a great question and there are multiple facets to it.
I’ve never experienced a downturn that was as significant or as abrupt as the one that we’re going through now in U.S.
land.
And that’s really created a competitive environment that’s brutal.
Fortunately we do have some of that offshore activity that you referred to particularly on the deepwater side and for all intents and purposes that business is staying relatively steady.
We’ve had to agree to some price concessions in that segment but pretty nominal relative to those that we’re having to live with on the land side.
So if we didn’t have that mix that we have today or that favorable mix on the deepwater side you would see our margins on the US side dip lower than I think what we had experienced in that previous cycle.
Okay.
That’s helpful.
Then maybe a couple on actually O&amp;M side.
You mentioned a new procurement contract.
Any more color you can share there? And then secondly I was curious on the drill service backlog can you give a rough split of what portion of that resides on the rig site and what portion on the O&amp;M side? The second part of that question I will let these guys think about I answer – try to answer the first part of because I’m not sure what that split is.
Now saying that I forgot – what was the other part of your question.
Dan.
Yes sure.
It was a simpler part – I thought you had mentioned a new procurement contract on the – I didn’t know if it was a one-time thing or if that’s a part of the model going forward.
Probably pretty nominal value but since you guys mentioned it I wanted to see if I could get some more color there.
Yes it’s not going to be a big mover in terms of our financial performance in the short term but it’s a continued evidence of the business model or strategy that we’re pursuing where we utilize the technical services capability we have internal to the organization to work with clients and very project-specific situations where they need to have rig equipment that is optimized for those specific applications.
Similar to what we’ve been doing before in Russia and also to some extent up in Alaska it’s a continuation of that which then ultimately leads to good opportunities for us when it comes to actually assigning O&amp;M contracts down the road.
Okay well great.
That’s helpful.
I appreciate the answers.
Daniel the O&amp;M question about $200 million of the backlog is associated with O&amp;M work.
Thanks Chris.
I appreciate it.
We’ll take a follow up from Walt Chancellor from Macquarie.
Just one bit of housekeeping in the Q2 guidance.
Gary you mentioned the $2 million to $4 million loss in the lower 48 business if I recall correctly.
Was that gross margin or are we talking EBIT after depreciation? Gross margin.
Okay.
All right.
That’s it for me.
Thank you.
All right.
Thanks Walt.
And this concludes the question-and-answer session.
I would like to turn the call back over to Jason Geach for any additional or closing remarks.
That ends our call.
I would like to thank you for your time today and for your interest in Parker Drilling.
If you have any questions about material covered in our announcement and this conference call please contact by telephone or email.
Goodbye and have a great day.
Thanks.
This does conclude today’s conference.
We thank you for your participation.
Good day everyone and welcome to the Parker Drilling’s Second Quarter 2015 Earnings Release Conference Call.
Today’s conference is being recorded.
At this time I would like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Jason Geach.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you operator.
Good morning and thank you for joining the Parker Drilling 2015 second quarter conference call.
This is Jason Geach Vice President of Investor Relations and Corporate Development.
Joining me today are Gary Rich Chairman President and CEO; and Chris Weber Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
In the course of our comments today we may make statements regarding management’s expectations for the company’s future performance we believe will be informative to our shareholders.
These statements are considered forward-looking statements within the meaning of U.S.
securities laws.
Each forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date of this call and actual results may differ materially due to various factors we referenced in our public filings and other factors addressed during this call including changes in market conditions affecting our industry.
We will also refer to non-GAAP financial measures such as adjusted EBITDA adjusted loss per share non-routine items and operating gross margin excluding depreciation and amortization expense which we will refer to as gross margin during this call.
Please refer to the tables in our recent press release or on the company’s website for definitions of adjusted EBITDA and adjusted loss per share and a reconciliation of each measure to the comparable GAAP measure and for further information regarding non-routine items.
Please take note of this caution about forward-looking statements as we proceed today.
Our next comments are from Gary Rich.
Gary? Thank you Jason.
And thanks everyone for joining us today for this update on Parker Drilling.
I’ll start with the review of recent activities; Chris will then discuss the second quarter’s financial results in detail.
After that I’ll come back and share our outlook for our business.
As expected results in the second quarter were lower than the first quarter.
Demand for drilling services and rental tool services were impacted in the U.S.
market as a result of the steep decline in the rig counts.
While our international businesses were lower sequentially and remain less impacted relative to our U.S.
businesses.
Overall we remain focused on strong cost management and maintaining positive free cash flow while continuing to seek long-term growth opportunities that may arise in this environment.
We continue to reduce operational and capital cost without sacrificing operational and asset quality safety and efficiency.
We reduced our consolidated employee headcount by 15% from the end of 2014 up from 10% at the end of the first quarter.
We believe these measures will help us achieve positive free cash flow and provide greater financial flexibility.
We were free cash flow positive in the second quarter and the first half of 2015.
During the second quarter we acquired two 2M-TEK a manufacturer of equivalent for tubular running and related well services.
This fits very well with our tubular running services or TRS offering.
We were already a significant customer of this business and our acquisition secured access to a proprietary [indiscernible] running tool while minimizing the total capital cost of TRS equivalent going forward.
Regarding the overall market our visibility is no better or different than what you’ve already have heard this earning season.
I think those continue to be mix from the market with respect to when rig counts and commodity prices will reach the bottom.
As a result we are reluctant to describe the market as reaching the absolute bottom of the cycle just yet.
We continue to manage our business as if the existing conditions will persist.
We are prepared to make further changes to address market conditions and to take advantage of opportunities as they occur.
Liquidity and flexibility are keys to navigating the current environment and I believe we have both.
Now I would like to discuss our business segment performance.
In our drilling services business declines in market activity impacted both domestic and international results.
In the U.S.
Lower 48 Drilling segment a significant reduction in demand for drilling in the Gulf of Mexico inland waters as resulted in lower utilization for our drilling barges.
While operators have indicated they have plans to drill current low commodity prices and the uncertainty about future prices have delayed their activity.
We are reducing cost and lowering operating and overhead expenses in our U.S.
barge business.
We continue to lower the maintenance cost of our idle barge rigs which were approximately $67 500 per rig in the second quarter as compared with $80 000 in the first quarter and down from approximately $100 000 in the fourth quarter of 2014.
In our International and Alaska drilling segment second quarter results were lower the Q1 due impart to lower international rig utilization.
We have five rigs roll off contracts late in the first quarter and early in the second quarter.
Partially offset by three rigs that went back to work for new customers late in the second quarter.
In addition first quarter results were higher due to fees associated with early terminations that did not repeat this quarter and higher demobilization fees in the first versus second quarter.
Our O&amp;M business in Alaska rigs continue to deliver stable results.
Our drilling services business ended the quarter with a $438 million revenue backlog.
In our rental tool segment a continuing decline in U.S.
land drilling led to reduced rental tools demand and continued price compression.
The utilization index for our U.S.
rental tools tubular goods fell to 51.7% for the 2015 second quarter from 75% for the prior quarter.
Despite a 35% decline in the U.S.
rig counts our U.S.
rental tools revenue was only 23% lower sequentially a sign that we continue to maintain market share in this difficult environment.
We were able to partially offset steep declines in the U.S.
land market with additional rentals in the deep water Gulf of Mexico.
We experience some weakness in overall revenues in our international rental tools business primarily due to reduced customer activity and pricing in certain markets.
However we continue to see opportunities to grow the business and return greater gross margin year-on-year.
Addressing the state-of-art international rental tools business we’ve made great strides in improving the operating results as compared to last year in the phase of challenging market backdrop.
In the first half of 2015 our gross margin percentages improved to 24% from 12% in the first half of 2014 with slightly lower revenue.
In addition the product technology acquisition I discussed earlier helps fill out our plans in an existing product line.
With international spending on oil field services expected to be down 15% this year and our exposure to difficult markets like Mexico and Kurdistan I think our performance and improvements are actually quite solid.
Overall the business conditions we experienced during the second quarter were in line with what we have prepared for.
I would like to acknowledge the efforts of our entire team as they continue to execute on our strategic initiatives in the phase of this difficult market.
In the U.S.
our rental tools business continue to maintain market share.
While the barge rig business we are minimizing cost and focused on increasing utilization.
Internationally rigs in Guatemala Colombia and Kurdistan started earning day rates during the period.
Across the organization our teams are focused on controlling cost pursuing market opportunities and negotiating contract extensions.
Overall I’m extremely proud of their efforts and their continued commitment towards innovative reliable and efficient organization.
Chris will now provide additional information about the quarter and then I’ll return to offer some thoughts on the outlook for our business and further actions we are taking in response to the declining business conditions.
Thanks Gary.
For the second quarter we reported revenues of $185.9 million adjusted EBITDA of $32.8 million or 17.6% of revenues and a net loss of $14 million or $0.11 per diluted share.
The results include a $2.3 million pre-tax provision for the reduction in carrying value of certain assets related to our international rental tools and drilling rigs.
Excluding this charge the adjusted loss per share was $0.10.
I will start my review with our drilling services business where revenues declined 4.8% to $121.8 million in the 2015 second quarter from $128 million in the 2015 first quarter.
Gross margin decreased 41.8% to $20.7 million from $35.5 million and gross margin as a percentage of revenues decreased to 17% from 27.7%.
Revenues for reimbursable expenses increased $8.1million compared with the 2015 first quarter.
Excluding revenues for reimbursable expenses gross margin as a percentage of revenues decreased to 22% from 32.8%.
Regarding our drilling services business segments U.S.
Lower 48 Drilling reported second quarter revenues of $6.8 million 51.4% lower than 2015 first quarter revenues of $14.1 million.
Gross margin declined to a loss of $2 million from the prior quarter’s $100 000 of income.
Our average fleet utilization remains at low level due to the lower demand for inland water drilling in the current commodity price environment.
Utilization declined to 14.2% in the second quarter from 21% for the preceding quarter and day rates moved lower.
We were able to partially offset the lower activity levels with ongoing cost reductions including the reduction in our idle rig cash cost that Gary discussed.
International and Alaska drilling reported second quarter revenues of $115 million an increase of 1% from the 2015’s first quarter $113.9 million.
Gross margin decreased to 36% to $22.6 million from the prior quarter’s $35.4 million and gross margin as the percentage of revenues decreased to 19.7% compared with the prior quarter’s 31.1%.
The increase in revenue is attributable to a $8.7 million increase in reimbursable expenses.
Partially offset by decrease in utilization.
The change in growth margin as a percentage of revenue is due impart to lower utilization and higher revenue from reimbursable expenses.
Utilization decreased to 61% from 70% primarily in the Eastern Hemisphere region.
In addition first quarter revenues and gross margin benefited from early contract termination fees that did not repeat and higher demobilization fees in the first versus second quarter.
Excluding revenues for reimbursable expenses gross margin as the percentage or revenues decreased to 25.9% from 37.2%.
Now I’ll turn to our rental tools business.
Rental tools reported revenues of $64.1 million in the 2015 second quarter a 15.7% decrease from $76.1 million in the first quarter.
Gross margin decreased to $21.7 million from $29.3 million and gross margin as a percentage of revenues declined to 33.9% from 38.5%.
Revenues for U.S.
rental tools decreased 22.8% to $35.4 million from $45.9 million.
Gross margin decline to $15.5 million from $21.3 million and gross margin as a percentage of revenues decreased to 43.9% from 46.4%.
The decline in revenue and gross margin percentage is primarily due to lower drilling activity in the U.S.
slated markets partially offset by an increase in Gulf of Mexico revenue and lower operating cost.
Revenues for international rental tools decreased 4.8% to $28.7 million compared with $30.2 million in the prior quarter.
Gross margin decreased to $6.2 million from $8 million and gross margin as a percentage of revenues decline to 21.5% from 26.6%.
The primary drivers of the decline in international rental tools revenue were reduce customer activity and price erosion in select markets.
Regarding other financial items second quarter G&amp;A expense was $9.5 million.
We expect G&amp;A expense in the third quarter to be between $9 million and $10 million and to range between $38 and $40 million for the full year.
For the 2015 second quarter we reported an income tax benefit of $6.9 million or 33.2% of our pre-tax loss.
We expect our effective tax rate to be about 30% for the second half of the year.
Capital spending in the second quarter was $21.1 million.
Our 2015 capital spending plan should be in the range of $100 million to $110 million.
In addition we paid $10.4 million in cash during the quarter for the 2M-TEK acquisition Gary discussed earlier.
We are closely managing our cash flow and expected another year of positive free cash flow after capital spending.
Total debt outstanding at quarter end was $585 million.
Including a cash balance of $116.9 million our net debt position was $468.1 million or 41.6% of net capitalization measured as a multiple of EBITDA total debt was 2.6 times the prior four’s quarter adjusted EBITDA up from 2.3 times at the end of the first quarter.
Our liquidity at the end of the quarter was $304 million including the $116 million cash balance and approximately $187 million available under our revolver.
The revolver remained unused aside from letter of credit.
That ends the financial review.
I’ll turn this back to Gary for comments on the outlook.
Gary? Thanks Chris.
From an outlook standpoint I will give you my thoughts across our three segments.
Let’s start with the outlook for our drilling services business.
For our U.S.
Lower 48 Drilling segment in the current commodity price environment we do not anticipate any material changes to activity levels.
As a result I anticipate gross margin for this segment will most likely show a loss of between $2 million and $4 million in the third quarter.
In our international and Alaska drilling segment we would expect rig utilization to range between 55% and 60% during the third quarter.
We anticipate lower utilization in Eastern Hemisphere as our rig in the Caspian Sea is expected to come off contract during the quarter.
We expect activity associated with our arctic-class operating in Alaska and our O&amp;M work to remain stable.
Turning now to expected conditions for rental tools.
For the U.S.
rental tools operations activity will move directionally with the rig count.
Our U.S.
rental tools utilization index is slightly higher in July at 54.1% as compared with 51.7% for the second quarter as certain basins have shown some increases in demand in the recent weeks.
The index is close to the April level and increase for the first time in eight months.
However we continue to view the market is still finding the bottom and the environment for pricing remained very difficult.
For our international rental tools business we continue to expect margin will be better than last year despite increasing market headwinds.
We’ll remain proactive in managing cost and being efficient in this uncertain market.
In addition managing for the short-term we are focused on long-term growth and acceptable returns and continue to see ways to grow.
In our drilling business we seek to be innovative as we discussed with customers some of their long-term opportunities for deploying our rigs or operating rigs on their behalf in various markets.
In rental tools the deepwater Gulf of Mexico and international expansion are moving forward.
Internationally we are in the early stages of testing new markets in our core regions and looking to leverage our experience and reputation on the drilling side of the business to open new opportunities for our rental tools and services.
That concludes my comments.
Operator we are ready to take questions from the audience.
[Operator Instructions] We will take our first question from Kevin Stone [ph] of Sea Port Global.
Hi it’s Ken Stone [ph].
Good morning guy.
I was wondering if you could talk a little bit on the Caspian rig is that just a seasonal roll off for the contract or is that one-off contract now.
It’s still on contract today Ken.
But at this point the visibility is through the end of August as possible as it could continue for short-term past that.
That rig has been almost referred to as a standby contract for quite some time now and as a contingency in case there were problems with the rig it was actually drilling a well for them from a land based operation.
And that projects coming to an end.
Okay.
So that one is just going to for modeling purpose that one just going idle? It is we have taken steps.
We take steps to move in so that we significantly reduce the amount of cost associated with keeping that rig ready to go.
And what are the prospects over the next year or so for putting that one back to work? We do have some prospects for putting them back to work but I wouldn’t say that it’s a short-term as activity in that market is one that takes a while to develop but we do have some customers we’re talking to.
And then could you comment just kind of in general what you are seeing internationally particularly in Eastern Hemisphere on pricing and demand for rigs? And I’ll let somebody else go.
In many of the markets demand seems to be rather stable the pricing and those customers that are coming to us on a regular basis wanting to renegotiate pricing.
So there is some pressure there they are taking the advantage of the opportunities despite the fact that activity might be stable to push on price.
But there is probably more weakness in some of the Asia markets than there are in the Middle East market.
That’s what we see at this point.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions].
We will now go to Walt Chancellor with Macquarie Capital.
Hey good morning.
Good morning Walt.
Gary on international margin expectations.
Just for a little clarity there when you're looking at an improvement year-over-year are you talking on the full year margin or the second half year-on-year just a little clarity there would be helpful? Yeah so when we think about it I mean as Gary mentioned in his comments if you look at H1 ‘15 versus H1 ‘14 we saw seeing year-on-year margin improvement and we expect on a full year basis to see that as well to0.
Okay that’s helpful.
And then Chris well I got you on cash flow you had about $7 million tax benefit you recognized here.
How are cash taxes going to play out if we stay in this range? Is that a benefit that will be flowing through to cash flow or you all going to still be paying cash taxes? Just trying to calibrate that as we move forward and you look to remain free cash flow positive.
Yeah we still pay cash taxes in some of our international jurisdictions that we operate in.
So we’ll - cash taxes particularly run around $15 million a year or so.
Okay.
So that would be the expectation more or less I guess? Generally in the range yeah.
Okay.
And then Gary you talk about long-term growth opportunities there has been some recent movement in the space with JVs private equity opportunities emerging.
If - as you look at opportunities certainly one of the scale of $10 million that you did in this quarter you probably not going to need too much outside help.
But what sort of structures or options are you open to as you look forward to grow in this environment if any? Well I wish I could predict the environment what it was going to look like Walt there is a lot of uncertainty out there.
But I guess what I would say is that we’re certainly open to a variety of different structures and approaches to getting the whole industry calibrated for the environmental we’re probably going to see for quite some time in the future.
I have long been a proponent of that I think there needs to be some further consolidation within the industry and that’s where we are going not saying we have anything going on but just from the scenario perspective I think you are asking about.
And then I think that if there were some particular opportunities that Parker could facilitate that I certainly be willing to talk to anybody who will work with someone on that.
Okay appreciate the color.
I’ll turn it back thank you.
Currently there are no other questions at this time.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Mrs.
Jason Geach for any additional or closing remarks.
Thank you very much.
That ends our call I’d like to thank everybody for their time today and your interest in Parker Drilling.
If you have any questions about material covered in our announcement and this conference call please contact us by telephone or email.
Appreciate it thanks and goodbye.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude today’s conference.
We thank you for your participation.
Good day and welcome to the Parker Drilling Third Quarter 2015 Earnings Release Conference Call.
Today’s conference is being recorded.
At this time I would like to turn the conference over to Jason Geach.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you operator.
Good morning and thank you for joining today’s conference call.
Joining me today are Gary Rich Chairman President and CEO of Parker Drilling; and Chief Financial Officer Chris Weber.
Let me remind everyone that during this conference call management may make statements regarding future expectations about the company's business management plans for future operations or similar matters.
These statements are considered forward-looking statements within the meaning of United States Securities Laws and speaks only as of the date of this call.
The Company's actual results could differ materially due to several important factors including those including those described in the company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
During this call management will refer to non-GAAP financial measures and in accordance with Regulation G the company provides a reconciliation of these measures in its earnings release.
With that I will now turn the call over to Gary Rich.
Thank you Jason.
And thanks everyone for joining us today for this update on Parker Drilling.
I’ll start with the review of recent activities; Chris will then discuss the third quarter’s financial results in detail.
After that I’ll come back and share our outlook for our businesses.
Our third quarter operating results were slightly better than the second quarter despite a 7% decline in revenues.
Our International and Alaska drilling segment drove the improvements as a result of higher utilization in Latin America lower operating expenses and increased revenues from project service activities.
This offset lower Rental Tools margins.
During the quarter we took additional steps to manage costs through this downturn primarily through additional headcount reductions.
Year-to-date our headcount is about 20% lower up from 15% at the end of the second quarter and includes an additional 16% reduction in our corporate workforce taken in the third quarter.
This reflects reductions in businesses most impacted by the downturn as well as significant cuts in our corporate office.
Parting ways with talented employees is not a pleasant aspect of my job but it is imperative we align our resources with the market environment.
Now I would like to discuss our business segment performance.
In our drilling services business we experienced solid improvements in our gross margins relative to the second quarter.
In the U.S.
lower 48 drilling segment our results were in line with our guidance as we experienced a small uptick in the Gulf of Mexico barge utilization.
This was offset by lower revenues from our O&amp;M business in California.
In our International and Alaska drilling segment our gross margin increased despite lower revenues.
The higher utilization in Latin America was offset by lower utilization in the Eastern Hemisphere due it to I full quarter of idle time for certain rigs that went off contract in Kurdistan and Papua New Guinea.
Also a rig in Kazakhstan was on standby before being released at the end of August.
The O&amp;M business in Alaska rigs continued to deliver stable results.
Our drilling services business ended of the quarter with a $378 million revenue backlog.
In our Rental Tool segment the continuing decline in U.S.
land drilling led to reduced Rental Tools demand and further price compression.
The utilization index for our U.S.
Rental Tools tubular goods fell to 48.1% for the 2015 third quarter down from 51.7% from the prior quarter.
We were able to partially offset steep declines in the U.S.
land market with additional rentals in the deep water Gulf of Mexico.
International Rental Tools revenues were lower primarily due to business mix lower pricing and project delays in certain market areas.
In addition two deep water drill ships utilize willing our premium tubulars in international markets were repositioned to the Gulf of Mexico.
We maintained the rentals on those drill ships and the associated revenue shifted to our US Rental Tools business.
Overall the business conditions we experienced during the third quarter were in line with what we had prepared for.
During the course of the year and continuing through the third quarter we have been proactive in taking steps to preserve cash to preserve cash and generate free cash flow without compromising our focus on efficient and safe operations.
I think our product and geographic profile which is a bit different than many of the small cap oil field services names has served us well.
We have a backlog associated with our drilling service business our Rental Tools business continues to generate relatively high margins company-wide more than half of our revenue comes from international markets and as Chris will discuss shortly our balance sheet is solid.
Although we are not able to predict the duration of this downturn we believe we are well-positioned to navigate through it successfully.
One of our key management objectives for 2015 and 2016 is to remain free cash flow positive and at this point in time I'm still confident we will achieve that goal.
Chris will now provide additional information about the quarter and then I will return to offer some thoughts on the outlook for our business.
Thanks Gary.
For the third quarter we reported revenues of $173.4 million adjusted EBITDA of $35.4 million or 20.4% of revenues and a net loss of $48.6 million or $0.40 per diluted share.
Of this amount $36.6 million or $0.30 per diluted share is income tax expense we recognize as a results of recording a valuation allowance primarily on U.S.
foreign tax credits and certain foreign net operating losses.
Excluding this charge the adjusted loss per share was $0.10 We established the valuation allowance based on among other things results of recent and current operation and our estimates of future taxable income or losses by jurisdiction.
While the carry-forwards have been reserved on the company's financial statements they have not expired and remain available to offset future cash taxes.
I will start my review with our drilling services business where revenues declined 4.3% to a $116.6 million in the 2015 third quarter from a $121.8 million in the second quarter.
Gross margin increased 31.4% to $27.2 million from $20.7 million and gross margin as a percentage of revenues increased to 23.3% from 17%.
Revenues for reimbursable expenses decreased $7 million compared with the second quarter.
Excluding revenues for reimbursable expenses gross margin as a percentage of revenues increased to 28.4% from 22%.
Regarding our drilling services business segments U.S.
Lower 48 Drilling reported third quarter revenues of $6 million 11.8% lower than second quarter revenues of $6.8 million.
Gross margin improved slightly to loss of $1.9 million from the prior quarters $2 million loss driven by higher utilization and lower operating costs in the Gulf of Mexico drilling barge business.
Our average fleet utilization increased slightly to 16% in the third quarter from 14% in the preceding quarter.
International and Alaska drilling reported third quarter revenues of $110.7 million a decrease of 3.7% from the second quarter’s $115 million.
Gross margin increased 28.8% to $29.1 million from the prior quarters $22.6 million and gross margin as a percentage of revenues increased to 26.3% compared with the prior quarters 19.7%.
The margin increase is partially attributable to a $7.1 million decrease and low margin revenues for reimbursable expenses.
Excluding reimbursable revenues gross margin as a percentage of revenue increased to 32.3% from 25.9%.
Other drivers of the improved margin performance include higher utilization at Latin America lower operating expenses and increased project services activity.
Utilization declined to 57% from 61% with the increase in Latin America utilization partially offsetting a decrease in Eastern Hemisphere activity.
Arctic utilization remained at a 100%.
Now I’ll turn to our Rental Tools business.
Rental Tools reported revenues of $56.8 million in the third quarter and 11.4% decrease from $64.1 million in the second quarter.
Gross margin decreased to $17.2 million from $21.7 million and gross margin as a percentage of revenues declined to 30.3% from 33.9%.
Revenues for U.S.
Rental Tools decreased 9.9% to $31.9 million from $35.4 million.
Gross margin declined at $14.9 million from $15.5 million and gross margin as a percentage of revenues increased to 46.7% from 43.8%.
A decline in revenue is primarily due to lower drilling activity and pricing in the U.S.
land markets.
The margin percentage increase was due to lower operating costs and an increase in deep water Gulf of Mexico rentals which tend to carry higher margins.
Revenues for our international Rental Tools decreased 13.2% % to $24.9 million compared with $28.7 million in the prior quarter.
Gross margin decreased to $2.3 million from $6.2 million and gross margin as a percentage of revenues declined to 9.2% from 21.6%.
International revenues and margins were lower due to lower pricing and activity in select markets and a shift in business mix as we rented less higher margin pressure control equipment.
We also had a shift in geographic mix as certain equipment moved from international markets to our U.S.
operations and Gary mentioned earlier.
Regarding other financial items third quarter G&amp;A expense was $8.9 million.
We expect G&amp;A expense in the fourth quarter to be between $8 million and $9 million.
We reported an income tax expense of $31.9 million as a result of the valuation allowance I discussed earlier.
We expect our effective tax rate to be about 20% in the fourth quarter.
This is lower than our prior guidance because it includes the expected impact of reserves on U.S.
foreign tax credits and certain foreign net operating losses.
Going forward we anticipate our effective tax rate will reflect reserves for these items as long as we maintain the valuation allowance.
Capital spending in the third quarter was $17.9 million.
Our 2015 capital spending should be in the range of $90 million to $100 million.
This is lower than our prior guidance as we continue to align our spending plan with market conditions in an effort to preserve cash.
Total debt outstanding at quarter end was $585 million including a cash balance of $104.7 million our net debt position was $480.3 million or 44% of net capitalization.
Measured as a multiple of EBITDA total debt was 3.1 times the prior four quarters adjusted EBITDA up from 2.6 times at the end of the second quarter.
We remain well below our current maximum leverage ratio of four times.
Our liquidity at the end of the quarter was $291 million including the $104.7 million cash balance and approximately $186 million available under our revolver.
The revolver remains unused aside from letters of credit.
As we previously disclosed on September 29 we amended our credit agreement which among other things gradually increases our consolidated leverage ratio from a maximum of 4 times to 5.75 times of our last three quarters of 2015 before returning to 4 times for the fourth quarter of 2017.
The amendment also reduces consolidated interest coverage ratio from 2.5times to 2.25 times for each quarter of 2016.
We were able to secure this amendment without decreasing the size of our $200 million revolver.
We believe these changes couples with our cost control efforts provide us financial flexibility through this downturn.
That ends the financial review.
I’ll turn this back to Gary for comments on the outlook.
Gary? Thanks Chris.
In closing I would like to give you our thoughts regarding the outlook for each of our three segments.
For our US Lower 48 Drilling segment we do not anticipate any material changes to activity levels.
Barge utilization levels and day rates should remain low.
As a result I anticipate gross margin for this segment will most likely show a loss of between $2 million and $4 million in the fourth quarter.
In our international and Alaska drilling segment we expect fourth quarter regularization to be about 50% down from 57% in the third quarter.
We anticipate lower utilization in both Latin America and the Eastern Hemisphere.
We expect activity associated with our arctic class rigs operating in Alaska and our O&amp;M work to remain stable.
We do not anticipate project services activity to repeat at the same levels experienced in the third quarter due to the timing of certain project milestones.
As a result we expect revenues for this segment will most likely be between $85 million and $90 million with EBITDA margins near 20%.
In the Rental Tools segment our U.S.
Rental Tools business will likely be adversely impacted by a lower rig count as operators continue to curtail their drilling activity.
Our U.S.
Rental Tools utilization index for October is at 40 which is the lowest level we have experienced during this downturn.
In addition pricing in this environment remains very difficult.
For our international Rental Tools business certain markets abroad are not immune to this downturn but we could see some additional softening during the quarter.
Overall we believe the next couple of quarters will see lower activity levels and results relative to the third quarter.
Customers in the U.S.
are cutting back significantly toward the tail end of the year and it's difficult for us to envision many of them restarting activity on the first day of January in 2016.
We feel like we have taken the appropriate measures to manage this downturn.
In addition to the portfolio characteristics I discussed earlier we have worked hard to keep our cost base down and to protect our cash in this decelerating environment.
On our next earnings call we will discuss our 2016 capital expenditures plan which will be lower than this year's and we will be primarily focused on maintenance capital items.
As a result even as we enter what appears to be the deepest challenges of this cycle we feel good about the mix of businesses we have both from a product line standpoint and a geographic perspective and we remain focused on capital discipline and cash management.
That concludes my comments.
Operator we are ready to take questions from the audience.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] And we will take our first question from Byron Pope with Tudo Pickering Holt.
Morning guys.
Good morning.
Gary I was wondering if you could touch on your Gulf of Mexico Rentals business.
It's been a targeted growth market for you guys and clearly given what's going on with deepwater rig count yet you guys have improved margin and it sounds like topline a little bit.
It feels like you guys have taken a little bit of market share there.
So just wondering if you could give your thoughts on the Gulf of Mexico outlook as it relates to your Rentals business an maybe frame the U.S.
Rentals mix land versus Gulf of Mexico if you could? Well Byron we really are proud of what our Rental Tools team is done in the Gulf of Mexico and developing that business as a good revenue stream and margin generators will force.
As far as the go forward basis I think that we need to be cautious about or looking at that growth as being too substantial just because I think that there's more stability in that market than there is growth because there have been some absolute increases in activity in addition to some market share that we think we picked up in that segment in the past.
I'm not saying that I think it's necessarily going to go the other direction but I wouldn't anticipate the same levels of growth that we have been able to enjoy up to this point.
As far as the land piece is concerned you know that's pretty much anybody's get now that's looking pretty challenging and customers are not very clear on what they're going to be doing at this point but all in all I feel really proud of what the overall U.S.
Rental Tools team is done and maintaining the margins they have been able to maintain despite the level of activity declines and stuff that have occurred in the market.
Okay.
And then just with regard to the U.S.
Land Rentals business just given that you guys have a number of locations around the country I would envision that you want to be there for the next up cycle.
So I would think of that as being a labor intensive business and so is it fair to think that you return to the extent that you can but wouldn't expect any dramatic changes in terms of your Rental Tools infrastructure in U.S.
land? No there's not going to be a lot of significant change but the team has worked hard to look at what infrastructure costs they do have and maintaining some of these locations and we have done some scaling back a little bit not necessarily closing facilities per se but changing the way we he operate so that we can be a little more cost efficient.
Okay.
Thanks guys.
And we will take our next question from James West with Evercore.
Hey good morning everyone.
This is Alex on for James.
Good morning.
Good morning.
On the international and Alaska drilling what was effect of the project services revenues is this quarter? Yes.
We don't normally split that out separately but it was you know relatively meaningful component of the change and we on that business it’s very much driven by the project plan of the customer and certain quarters will have more project milestones achieved than not and so it was a good quarter just from the level of activity on the project the key project that we're working on right now.
Okay.
And then on U.S.
rentals is there a theoretical bottom in margins just from like the attrition with the drill pipe and I guess the cannibalization or I guess at least price point you guys would be unwilling to go below? Well I would like to say that that bottom occurred a long time ago but there continues to be some pressure out there in the market.
Look we’re trying really hard to keep prices from going any further down from where they’re at right now and it’s difficult for me to project.
But I feel pretty good about the position we have as we’ve said before our emphasis is on the quality of the product that we offer the service that we provide the client the mix of inventory that we have and ultimately translating into reduced risk for the customer when they execute their projects an I think when you have that kind of the model it allows you to push back a little bit on some of the price initiatives.
Doesn't eliminate them and I would hope we don't see a whole lot of slippage from where we're at right now.
Have you seen a shift in the mix of your customer base to the upside or downside on the U.S.
side? I don't know that we have really seen that much of a shift.
We’ve clearly picked up some customers as an activity in some areas that we didn't necessarily have it before.
We’re also challenged with you know competitors are trying to take away some of the customers that have.
But thanks to the resilience of the relationships we build over a long period of time and executing that business model that I talked about a second ago.
I think we’ve done pretty good holding on.
If you look at our overall U.S.
Rental Tools business I think you'll find that our revenue is down less than the average rig count is down and therefore you could probably infer that we picked up market share in this environment.
Okay.
Thank you.
That's it for me.
Sorry about the Cougars.
And we’ll take our next question from Walt Chancellor with Macquarie.
Hi.
Good morning.
Hi Walt.
So I guess I want to start on the International Drilling side and in Kazakhstan.
I guess first where are your rigs working right now in-country? Are any of them in the Tengiz Field? Have you all worked there previously and with the potential for the expansion of that field going through do you see any opportunity there maybe you know even with some model rigs elsewhere in that region? We worked in Tengiz in the past I think that Kazakhstan in general let me just say that we feel pretty positive about the circumstances that are there the environment that's there Walt and with the exception of one rig that’s just recently been laid down we think that we’re probably going to stay pretty active there.
Just generating a lot of good cash for us right now and we have real good relationships with the clients that we are working for.
Just following up could you see the potential to move some of your idled Kurdistan rigs back there but I guess what's the outlook for those rigs in Kurdistan if they're not moving? Yes.
I don't really anticipate us moving rigs from Kurdistan back into Kazakhstan at this point.
We remain optimistic about Kurdistan.
That doesn’t mean we’re not looking for other opportunities outside of Kurdistan to potentially deploy those rigs as they go through a little bit of turmoil internal to the country beyond the economic environment we’re in.
We’re still we have one of those rigs it’s still working today and we’re pretty optimistic about that.
And we got some good conversations with customers going forward.
But they are not certain so we are looking elsewhere see what we can do but I do not anticipate those going back to Kazakhstan.
Okay.
Appreciate that color.
And then I guess for Chris just trying to really tighten up on cash flow here as we look into 2016.
I guess simplistically as long as you all are in a sort of pre-tax income loss position is the way we should think about your cash flow from operations essentially EBITDA less your interest and you know the about $15 million $16 million of cash taxes you have referenced in the past? Yes.
I think that's fair.
I mean may be a little less than that just based on activity levels in certain international jurisdictions but yes sort of that $10 million to $15 million in cash taxes is fair.
Okay.
And then I guess working capital you expect that to be pretty neutral from here on out or have any scenarios where you see I guess with the lay of the happened as you see it today.
We might see a little benefit in the fourth quarter but not I don't think a lot and we may get a little bit of benefit next year.
Just depends on how the market evolves but from a planning perspective we're not looking to that as a lever.
So when we think about achieving our goal of being free cash flow positive it's about what do we do on the CapEx side.
We're not looking to working capital to be a benefit.
Got it.
Great.
It was but we're not planning for it be.
Got it.
Okay.
And then I guess just finally on the revolver side there you're undrawn currently but as you move forward you know if things were to deteriorate further do you think you would have the flexibility for potentially a little bit looser on the covenant side there? I think so.
In terms of actually going back an getting it more release you're saying.
Yes.
Yes.
I mean a key objective of ours was open keeping the full $200 million in place and hopefully putting something in place that didn't require that and that's why we back into those the 5.75 times and just given the uncertainties of how 2016 is going to unfold and so but I think having that full $200 million of capacity gives us flexibility you know both from a backstop perspective and just to be opportunistic if we can but it also you know if the banks are looking for a trade if you will for additional covenant relief we have got capacity to trade if you will.
Okay.
Great.
I'll leave it there.
Thanks guys.
And we’ll take our next question from Ken Sill with Seaport Global Securities.
Hi.
Morning guys.
First just kind of a housekeeping question.
I haven't seen you know an operating statistics update since August.
Are you guys still going to be providing those or are you like the rest of the world that's coming to an end? Yes.
That will be issued today.
Oh today.
Okay.
Great.
And that will give us a little bit more insight into rates and utilization on the rigs.
That's good.
So you guys are doing a pretty good job of staying cash break even and it's a pretty crummy market out there but you're saving your liquidity.
So what kind of help us figure out what kind of opportunity do you see in general come willing available? International is slowing down; U.S.
is pretty bad and going to get worse in the fourth quarter.
I mean what would be a catalyst for some opportunity coming up for you guys? Well Ken I appreciate the question.
I'm going to have a difficult time giving you much specificity in answering it other than to just say look we think it is prudent for us to maintain the option if something were it materialize and we're keeping our eyes open and being prepared for it whether it be organic or inorganic opportunities going forward and we just feel that we got ourselves in a pretty good position to be able to make those types of choices.
And then just kind of a little bit off topic there but Schlumberger saying that they're going to get into the rig building business and kind of going back to their 1970's model of owning hard assets.
Have you seen that impact or do you guys see yourself working with them on rigs or is that just at this stage you're not quite sure how that's going to play out? Well Schlumberger's you got a bunch of smart individuals over there and I am sure that they have thought through long and hard jumping in to the hard asset ownership side of the equation.
Schlumberger is already a big customer of ours and we work very closely with them and we will continue to work very closely.
I don't see this as a threat to our business in any way.
Alright.
That's all I had thank you.
And we will take our next question from Matt Marietta with Stephens.
Good morning guys.
Thanks for taking the questions.
Hi Matt.
You all talk about being focused on managing the business for this operating environment to extend through 2016 focus on cash flow breakeven.
I wanted to dig into the rentals inventory balance a little bit more the number that's reported on the operational update.
You guys are coming offer a period where you recapped the International Rentals businesses invested more into diversifying offshore but what can we expect those balances will look like going forward as you match kind of CapEx to cash flows an are there any write-down risks associated with that inventory balance? Well great question.
I don't at this point time see that we'll be taking any I would expect write-downs to come from that business.
We look at that on a regular basis an we will continue to look at that and if it's necessary in the future obviously we will make some adjustment but I think that overall from the balance point of view.
As Chris mentioned that we intend to remain cash flow positive in 2016 and the biggest lever we're going to pull on that is on the CapEx side and so theoretically if the market were not to increase from where it's at right no we probably have more inventory than we need for that size of market and consequently we won't be spending the CapEx that would sustain the levels of inventory that you see in our reports.
However what we do think that we will still have even in a reduced CapEx environment is money to make investments in organic growth opportunity that may come either on the deepwater side as we continue to focus on that as well as in the some of the international markets where there might be some opportunities for growth.
That's helpful.
I'm just trying to get a sense for if we can see the utilization or start working the right way as the balance comes down which obviously could lead so some favorable pricing dynamics but maybe I'm a little too far often that thought process.
Well I think that is the dynamic that you will see at the right time and I would love to see that happen tomorrow but if you can tell me what rig count going be I could probably give you a little better indication of what is our utilization was going to be but at this point what we're doing is trying to be conservative and if we got stuff in inventory we're obviously not spending new CapEx for it and as that gets consumed our total inventory will come down.
Therefore in a flat rig environment relative today you will start seeing utilization improve.
I appreciate the color and congrats on a good quarter here.
Thank you.
And we will take our next question from Mike Profiley with Nomura Asset Management.
Hi.
Thanks for taking my questions today.
First I'm just curious if I look at 3Q consolidated revenue can you ballpark the exposure oil versus gas? We really don’t sit down and spend much time Mike looking at oil versus gas for us our products and services are equally applicable to one versus the other and it really varies from one region you know one basin to another in the U.S.
or even one country to another outside the U.S.
So I really don't have that information for you.
Okay.
And then my second question is regarding the August operational update on the joint services side in the international market.
Just curious I'm looking forward to seeing the ones you post today but from 4Q 2015 to 1Q 2016 I think two commitments go away in the Eastern Hemisphere segment and then it drops from four to one in Latin America.
Could just talk about that a little bit? Do you expect any of those commitments that are dropping off to be renewed? Has that changed at all on your latest operational status report that you're going to post today? Well I mean if customers are very astute in this environment and when they see that there are rigs that are nearing the end of their contracts they're going to push to the very end in terms of the way that they negotiate or re-negotiate any renewals of those contracts what not to try and extract the price declines and stuff that they feel like that are out there available to them.
So it's not a surprise to me in this current environment that you're seeing things where we might normally have re-contracted and extended terms and that sort of thing not yet re-contracted.
Therefore it's also difficult for me to forecast exactly how it's going to play out in Q4 and Q1 and Q2 of next year in terms of how these things are done.
Generally I remain fairly optimistic about the international market being a lot more resilient than the market here in the U.S.
There's other catalysts for that for most of the operators to continue to work on the international side that aren't necessarily present in a lot of U.S.
operators and therefore I think it will be in pretty good shape with a lot of those rigs as we go forward.
We did suggest that our forecast for international and Alaska rig activity in Q4 utilization will be somewhere in the around 50% and which is a slight from the 57% we reported for the third quarter.
Okay.
Okay.
So it's fair to assume that the rigs that aren't contracted through or contracts come to end in 4Q it's going to come down to the wire as it about gets closer to the term to see if they are renewing and under what kind of terms they are renewed at? Yes.
I think that's just typically of the environment we are in.
You're going to see it pushed to the very end of course we're pushing it too I mean we're not exactly excited about giving any huge concession for extension either so.
Sure.
Okay.
Thank you for taking my questions today.
[Operator Instructions] And we’ll take our next question from Chris Bamman with Sidoti Incorporated.
Good morning gentlemen.
Hi Chris.
More of like a bigger picture here.
Through your experience through the ups and downs of this business how would you when we do gets an upturn how would you expect the business to perform like which one is going to be like the early indicator that things have started to turn and how it would flow from there? Great question.
You know I was visiting with a fairly large customer not too log ago that was talking to us about a potential project on our project services side and they were thinking about when they ought to initiate this project so that the costs of their project could be minimized and we were telling them that we thought they ought not wait very long because what happens is as soon as people see some stability the psyche will change significantly on the service side and people will become much much less willing to give discounts in that and even start getting some confident so we can raise prices and go back to the other direction.
I don’t think it necessarily requires a huge change in commodity prices and that sort of thing for that psyche to change.
As to when it's going to happen and how significant I don't know but we cautioned the customer in that discussion they better not wait too long because I think that you are start seeing some significant declines and production in the U.S.
and even outside the U.S.
but I think that cycle will change pretty quickly.
Okay.
That's helpful.
Thank you.
And we will take our next question from Ian Gazard with BlueMountain Capital.
Yes.
Good morning guys.
Hi Ian.
So if I annualize your third quarter CapEx I'm at about $70 million $72 million for next year.
Is that a reasonable estimation of where you might be? Yes we hadn’t given any guidance yet we know we’re going to be lower than this year.
What we do say is that our maintenance CapEx we guide sort of to be between $70 million to $90 million in a kind of relatively normal environment so we’d definitely be at the low end at that range and hopefully a little lower.
Okay.
Thanks.
That's helpful.
And on the international and Alaska drilling side I think I heard you say that you expect revenues in the fourth quarter of $85 million to $90 million in international and Alaska.
Was that correct? Yes.
Okay.
So your you're coming down were $110.6 million down to $85 million $90 million in the fourth quarter because of the lower utilization? Yes Ian.
There will be less project services activity in the fourth quarter as well too just based on kind of the cadence of project milestones.
Rights.
Okay.
Thanks a lot.
That's helpful.
End of Q&amp;A And we have no further questions and I would now like to turn the conference back over to Jason Geach for any additional or closing remarks.
Appreciate the questions.
That ends our call today.
Thank you for your time and your interest in Parker Drilling.
If you have any questions about material covered in our announcement and this conference call please contact us by telephone or email.
Goodbye and have a great day.
And this concludes today’s conference.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Ladies and gentlemen welcome to the Parker Drilling fourth quarter 2015 earnings release conference call.
As a reminder today's call is being recorded.
And at this time I'd like to turn the call over to Jason Geach.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you operator.
Good morning and thank you for joining today's conference call.
Joining me today are Gary Rich Chairman President and CEO of Parker Drilling; and Chief Financial Officer Chris Weber.
Let me remind everyone that during this conference call management may make statements regarding future expectations about the company's business management's plans for future operations or similar matters.
These statements are considered forward-looking statements within the meaning of U.S.
Securities Laws and speak only as of the date of this call.
The company's actual results could differ materially due to several important factors including those described in the company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
During this call management will refer to non-GAAP financial measures and in accordance with Regulation G the company provides a reconciliation of these measures in its earnings release.
With that I will now turn the call over to Gary Rich.
Thank you Jason and thanks to everyone for joining us today for this update on Parker Drilling.
I'll start with a review of recent activities Chris will then discuss the fourth quarter's financial results in detail after that I'll come back and share our outlook for our businesses.
Even though this continues to be a very tough environment our fourth quarter operating results were slightly better than what we had anticipated despite a 14% decline in revenues.
Although the revenues were lower across all of our segments decrementals on our gross margins were better than expected due to lower operating expenses.
Now I would like to discuss our business segment performance.
In our drilling service business we experienced lower utilization across all geographic market areas.
In the U.S.
Lower 48 Drilling segment our results were in line with our guidance as we were able to more than offset a small decline in utilization with lower operating expenses.
In our International and Alaska drilling segment our gross margin percentage was down about 250 basis points as revenue declined 14%.
Utilization decreased from 57% in the third quarter to 48% due to rigs and rolled off contracts during the prior quarter in Latin America and in the Eastern Hemisphere.
We also had lower project services revenues.
We were able to partially offset these declines with lower operating expenses in the Eastern Hemisphere.
Our O&amp;M contracts in Alaska rigs continued to deliver stable results.
During the period we made the decision to exit the Columbian drilling market.
We have not been generating acceptable return to that market as drilling in Columbia has slowed significantly in recent years.
Operators face relatively high finding and development cost in an extremely lengthy permitting process.
We had three rigs deployed in that market.
We will utilize some of the equipment from two of the rigs and we are bidding for work outside the country with the third rig.
Our decision to not participate in the Columbia drilling market does not impact our Rental Tools business in Columbia.
Our drilling services backlog at December 31 2015 was $291 million.
In our Rental Tool segment the continuing decline in U.S.
land drilling led to further reductions in demand and more price compression.
The utilization index for our U.S.
Rental Tools tubular goods fell to 42.8% for the 2015 fourth quarter down from 48.1% for the prior quarter.
We were also able to partially offset steep declines in the U.S.
land market with additional rentals in the Gulf of Mexico which also helped minimize decremental margins in this segment.
International Rental Tools revenues were lower primarily due to lower activities in Middle East driven by the reduced demand and project delays.
While 2015 was a challenging year for our industry we successfully accomplished several initiatives aimed at navigating this difficult operating environment including reducing costs improving performance in our international Rental Tools business and generating free cash flow.
The key takeaway is we are doing the right thing to manage through this market and our balance sheet remains strong with our yearend cash position of $134 million and liquidity of $322 million.
By comparison at the end of 2014 we had $178 million of liquidity.
Chris will now provide additional information about quarter and then I'll return to offer some thoughts on the outlook for our business.
Thanks Gary.
For the fourth quarter we reported revenues of $148.7 million adjusted EBITDA of $28.6 million or 19.2% of revenues and a net loss of $35.6 million or $0.29 per diluted share.
Of this amount $12.3 million or $0.10 per diluted share is related to various after-tax charges we outlined in our earnings release.
Excluding these charges the adjusted loss per share was $0.19.
I will start by segment review with our drilling services business where revenues declined 15.1% to $99 million in 2015 fourth quarter from $116.6 million in the third quarter.
Gross margin decreased 24.6% to $20.5 million from $27.2 million and gross margin as a percentage of revenues decreased to 20.7% from 23.3%.
Revenues for reimbursable expenses decreased $1.7 million compared with the third quarter.
Regarding our drilling service as a business segment U.S.
Lower 48 Drilling reported fourth quarter revenues of $3.5 million 41.7% lower than third quarter revenues of $6 million.
This was due to lower activity as our average fleet utilization decreased to 11% from 16% in the preceding quarter.
We had a gross margin loss of $2.2 million as compared with a $1.9 million loss in the prior quarter.
Despite the decline in revenues decremental margins were helped by lower operating expenses.
International and Alaska Drilling reported fourth quarter revenues of $95.5 million a decrease of 13.7% from the third quarter's $110.7 million.
Gross margin decreased 22.3% to $22.6 million from the prior quarter's $29.1 million.
And gross margin as a percentage of revenues decreased to 23.7% compared with the prior quarter's 26.3%.
Excluding reimbursable revenues our gross margin as a percentage of revenue was 29.7% as compared with 32.3% in the third quarter.
The revenue decline is attributable to lower utilization in Colombia Mexico and Kazakhstan.
In addition revenue from project services activities was lower due to the timing of certain project milestones.
Latin America utilization was 27% as compared with 44% in the third quarter.
During the quarter two rigs rolled off contract one in Colombia and one in Mexico and both were stack.
Also in Latin America operating expenses were negatively impacted by $1.3 million in inventory write-downs associated with our decision to exit the Colombia drilling services market.
In the Eastern Hemisphere utilization was 54% as compared with 59% in the third quarter as we had a full quarter impact at a rig that rolled off contracts in Kazakhstan in the third quarter.
The lower revenue was partially offset by lower operating cost in Kazakhstan.
Now I'll return to our Rental Tools business.
Rental Tools reported revenues of $49.8 million in the fourth quarter a 12.3% decrease from $56.8 million in the third quarter.
Gross margin decreased to $13.8 million from $17.2 million.
And gross margin as a percentage of revenues decline to 27.7% from 30.3%.
Revenues for U.S.
Rental Tools decreased 10% to $28.7 million from $31.9 million.
Gross margin declined to $13.1 million from $14.9 million.
And gross margin as a percentage of revenues decreased to 45.6% from 46.7%.
The decline in revenue and margin are primarily due to lower drilling activity and pricing in the U.S.
land markets.
We did experience an increase in Gulf of Mexico Rental and this increase along with lower operating expenses helped keep our gross margins relatively flat.
Revenues for international Rental Tools decreased 15.7% to $21 million compared with $24.9 million in the prior quarter.
Gross margin decreased to $641 000 from $2.3 million.
And gross margin as a percentage of revenues declined to 3.1% from 9.2%.
Revenue declines were partially offset by lower operating expenses.
As Gary discussed international revenues and margins were lower primarily due to reduced demand and project delays in the Middle East.
Regarding other financial items.
Fourth quarter G&amp;A expense was $6.9 million which is about $2 million lower than third quarter G&amp;A of $8.9 million.
The decrease was related to lower professional fees and employee benefit costs most of which is not expected to repeat.
As a result we expect G&amp;A expense in the first quarter of 2016 to be between $8.5 million and $9.5 million.
Our effective tax rate in the fourth quarter was 7% which is lower than our 20% guidance due to discreet items as well as receiving no tax benefit from certain charges incurred during the quarter.
Capital spending in the fourth quarter was $15.7 million.
Our full year capital expenditures came in at $88.2 million as we focused on minimizing our capital spend.
Our capital expenditures in 2016 are expected to be about $50 million.
About 65% of our planned capital spend is for Rental Tools and about 30% is for drilling operations with the remainder going toward corporate needs.
Most of the CapEx is for maintenance purposes with some capital allocated for select investments in our Rentals business.
We ended the quarter with $134 million in cash up from $104 million at the end of the third quarter and we generated free cash flow during the period.
Total debt outstanding at quarter end was $585 million and our net debt position was $451 million or 51% of net capitalization.
Measured as a multiple of EBITDA total debt was 3.9x to prior four quarters adjusted EBITDA up from 3.1x at the end of third quarter.
Our liquidity at the end of the quarter was $322 million including the $134 million cash balance and approximately $187 million available under our revolver.
The revolver remains unused aside from letters of credit.
Due to the decline in commodity prices we like many in our industry have sought covenant relief on our revolver over the past year.
We amended our credit agreement in September 2015 to allow for covenant relief through 2017.
But the degree of covenant relief negotiated last year may not be enough later this year as the commodity price environment and the E&amp;P spending outlook has continued to worsen.
Thus we have begun preliminary discussions with our lead bank regarding further covenant relief and flexibility.
That ends the financial review.
I'll turn this back to Gary for comments on the outlook.
Gary? Thanks Chris.
In closing I would like to give you our thoughts regarding the first quarter outlook for each of our three segments.
Before I do that let me say that we expect higher decremental margins in the first quarter as some of the anticipated reduction in revenue comes from the lower day rates for drillings rigs in Eastern Hemisphere and lower rentals in the Gulf of Mexico as well as the increase in G&amp;A Chris discussed.
For our U.S.
Lower 48 Drilling segment we do not anticipate any material changes to activity levels at current commodity prices.
And consequently low barge utilization levels and day rates should persist.
We anticipate gross margin for this segment will most likely show a loss of between $2 million and $4 million in the first quarter.
In our International and Alaska drilling segment we expect first quarter rig utilization to be about 45% down from 48% in the fourth quarter with much of the utilization decline coming from the Eastern Hemisphere.
Please note we have two fewer rigs in our fleet after removing the two rigs in Columbia from the count.
We anticipate a rig in Kazakhstan will be stacked and as a result we will have three out of our five rigs working in the country.
We are in discussions with our customer in Kazakhstan to extend contract terms for these rigs at potentially lower day rates.
Also we anticipate a rig in Kazakhstan will be stacked.
Kazakhstan remains a challenging environment with low market utilization for rigs due to the macro and geopolitical factors.
We expect activity associated with our arctic class rigs operating in Alaska and our O&amp;M work to remain stable in the first quarter.
As a result of the anticipated lower utilization in pricing we expect revenues for this segment will most likely be between $80 million and $85 million with EBITDA margins near 20%.
In the Rental Tools segment revenue and margins are expected to be lower as the U.S.
fleet count continues to track lower during the quarter.
In addition we expect our Gulf of Mexico activity which typically generates higher margin revenue to be lower as customers release rigs or postpone drilling programs resulting in fewer rentals of premium tubulars.
Given these factors first quarter Rental Tool margins are not expected to be as robust as the fourth quarter.
As Chris mentioned we are budgeting for a $50 million capital expenditures program in 2016.
This is a 40% reduction from our 2015 capital spending as cash flow management remains our top priority.
We have the flexibility to lower CapEx even further based on market conditions.
I'd like to acknowledge the continued effort of our Parker Drilling employees who remain committed to delivering value to all of our stakeholders whether it's cutting cost operating safely or winning work during these difficult times our team is meeting the challenges head on and will continue to do so in 2016.
Their efforts are being commended.
That concludes my comments.
Operator we are ready to take questions from the audience.
[Operator Instructions] And we'll take our first caller from Byron Pope with Tudor Pickering Holt.
You guys have grown your presence in the Gulf of Mexico rentals business quite nicely so far this decade.
I appreciate the Q1 guidance as it relates to the Gulf of Mexico rental revenues.
I guess what I'm curious about Gary is could you frame for us as we see deepwater rigs [ph] negotiates is that best metric to watch in terms of gauging the order of magnitude of the impact on your premium rentals business in the Gulf or just curious as to how to potentially frame it and think about that business as we progress through 2016? One of those rigs and now that they're sold.
You there? I missed the first part of yours I think -- So as you acknowledged we get pretty high revenues for rig on those and now that there are so few rigs that are operating in the Gulf of Mexico it's hard to say you can just use the change in rig count and extrapolate that because it depends on whether its one of our rigs or a rig that one of our competitors might be on.
So you can get disproportionate mix in the effect of revenue that is coming down from quarter-to-quarter.
I don't know how to describe it or give you a better indication but I think that's a challenge that we'll all face.
We still feel pretty good about our position though.
And I don't want to send a message that we're any way concerned about the position we have there.
We think we'll do well and maintain our market share.
And is it fair to think that even if rigs aren't -- deepwater rigs in the Gulf are turning to the right as long as your tubulars are on them you're still getting compensated is that fair? That's often the case not always the case.
And of course operators are very astute as to what's driving continued expenses on their part.
So they are not afraid to send -- get back into shore if rigs aren't turning to the right.
And then for the international rental business second question for me just how do you think about the prospects for bore well construction related rental items as opposed to surface and tubulars again on the international rental side? Well fortunately we are in a position that there is lots of customers that are welcoming our attention.
I think that probably is because they are liking to have more competitors right now rather than fewer.
And so that's given us some opportunities on well bore construction site that we're quite enthused about.
And I feel pretty optimistic we picked up not a huge contract but a fairly sizable contract not too long ago in the Middle East that we're quite excited about we will soon begin executing on.
And we'll go next to James West with Evercore ISI.
This is Alex on for James.
So I guess starting with the liquidity position why not use some of that cash on hand to buyback some of the notes and then use the credit facility just to run the business? When we did our amendment on the credit facility back in the fall part of the amendment has a restriction on buying back our bonds in the other market.
And then I guess same with liquidity are you guys seeing any interesting opportunities in the international market to go and potentially spend some of their [indiscernible]? Well we certainly see from an organic point of view opportunities on the rental business even at the $50 million CapEx number that we put up there as a marker.
And we actually anticipate there's still some component of that as growth CapEx on international rental tools so there's that opportunity.
The things beyond that we'll just have to wait and see how the market plays out.
We're not opposed to it but I think a lot has to be -- a lot of people have to get their minds together before something other than that happens.
And is there I guess on international rentals any change that long-term plus-20% margin target? Well no.
My objective still is there but I think the challenge is forecasting how the international market is going to play out over the next several quarters.
But long-term I remain very optimistic and I shouldn't even say long-term medium-term I still feel very optimistic that that's achievable for us on the international rental business.
We'll go next to Walt Chancellor with Macquarie.
I guess to just to start with Chris at that $50 million CapEx and apologies if you hit on this in the prepared remarks I missed it but would you expect to be free cash flow positive or around free cash flow positive as you all see the world this year? We're not giving guidance on the free cash flow number for the year.
But we're working hard to put ourselves in the best position to try to achieve that.
We still have this management objective we've given to ourselves of doing everything we can to be free cash flow positive.
It's going to be tough in 2016 now.
And then I guess shifting to the backlog and if you mention this and I missed it apologies.
How much of that drilling backlog is falling into 2016? I know previously it had been about 58% of a bigger backlog.
But if you had any update there that would be helpful.
Good question.
We're kind of looking at each other.
I think it's around 59% I seem to recall from the latest figures that I saw but -- 68%.
68%.
And we'll go to Ken Sill with Seaport Global Securities.
I was wondering if you could on the rental business you gave us an idea on what you're expecting in the Gulf of Mexico which is going to be a tough market could you give us an idea of what the split in the U.S.
is between on and offshore? And how you guys see the onshore segment doing? Well offshore is roughly somewhere around at 25%-ish kind of a number of our U.S.
rental business.
And as far as forecast for U.S.
land we're still seeking that.
I wish I'd knew what that forecast was.
Things are changing so rapidly.
Clearly there's lot of downward pressure on the U.S.
land activity right now.
So I guess going back to one of the prior questions we just assume that the U.S.
rental business is going to attract the overall rig count? I think our land business is very logical to use the rig count as an indicator activity for the rentals business on land.
As Byron was asking earlier that offshore can kind of skew that one way or the other and it really depends on whether we're on the rig that goes down or we're not.
And I guess some of these markets like Kazakhstan I can understand been difficult.
It seems like the former Soviet Unions doing relatively well with low oil prices.
What would you kind of gauge the probability of able to get those idle rigs in Kazakhstan back to work over the next year or is that really dependent on our oil prices? It's a very difficult question.
A good question but difficult for me to give you specifics in terms of answer.
I think that commodity prices if they were to change let's say move back into the $50-ish barrel range and I think it's the high likelihood that those rigs would go back to work.
But not knowing for sure what oil is going to be at in the year I don't know.
We do remain very positive about the business that we have in Russia as well as the activity in Alaska.
Those seem to be fairly stable.
And it ongoing there are streams of revenue for us.
Well if you guys figure out what oil prices are going to be tomorrow let me know? And we'll take a follow up from James West with Evercore ISI.
Two more starting with the Latin America drilling.
I guess now that you guys have exited Columbia I assume that should lead to a lower cost base and potentially the margin impact isn't terrible with the rigs rolling offs as you're only in Mexico now? I mean we're definitely obviously with the winding down our drilling operations there we're reducing obviously variable cost component just with the rig count that did come down there in the quarter and then we're going to be obviously addressing our kind of our local office cost in the country.
We're still maintaining our rails presence there so it's not like we exited Columbia completely but on the drilling side we'll definitely be adjusting our cost structure there accordingly.
We have already made quite a few adjustments in Columbia leading up to this decision just because of the market environment and everything else so I think that we're already well down the road in terms of making cost adjustments in Columbia.
Year-on-year there is significantly lower cost in Columbia projected for this year.
And then on U.S.
rentals clearly utilization was up I guess for the past two months in the fourth quarter.
Are you guys just dealing market share as a function of your reputation or is there anything else going on in the landscape? Well there is no doubt that our reputation and the quality that the team pushed out for the customer marches right down the road with the value proposition that we offer and we try to focus on here in the U.S.
I think that we're very pleased with the utilization we have seen but I don't know that we're going to be able to avoid the further declines in rig activity we're seeing right now.
Again I go back as to couple of other questions earlier asked about activity indicators I think rig activity is going to be a reasonable indicator for U.S.
rental business.
And then finally on the barge business is there a point where you guys just say enough is enough and the business as a whole isn't really worth the headache? No not really.
You don't have to go back in the too far past to see the types of margins and cash flow that that business generated is capable of generating.
We have done some studies to try and understand really customer situation there in that shallow water Gulf of Mexico and based on that analysis that we've done we feel like there is still some very good prospects for our customers and consequently for us as well.
So we've taken the approach of absolutely minimizing our expenses as much as we possibly can.
I think the team has done a pretty good job at that.
And we're also trying to make sure that the rigs are put to sleep in a way that they're able to bring -- we can bring them back online without an extraordinary amount of cost.
And again I think the team has done a very good job of that as well.
So we're very excited to continue to support that business.
And we've got it very close to cash flow breakeven right now.
And it's a business at around $70 million of EBITDA in 2014 so there is a lot of ups and downs in it.
Again ladies and gentlemen that does conclude the Q&amp;A portion of today's conference call.
At this time I'd like to turn it back over to Jason Geach for comments and closing remarks.
End of Q&amp;A Thank you.
That ends our call for today.
I'd like to thank you for your time and your interest in Parker Drilling.
If you have any questions about material covered in our announcement and this conference call please contact us by telephone or email.
Goodbye and have a great day.
Ladies and gentlemen that does conclude today's conference call.
We thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.