Good day and welcome to the Atwood Oceanics First Quarter Results for Fiscal Year 2011 Teleconference Call.
All lines are currently in listen-only mode.
Later there will be an opportunity to ask questions.
(Operator Instructions) It is now my pleasure to hand off the conference to Rob Saltiel President and CEO and Mark Mey Senior Vice President and CFO of Atwood Oceanics.
Please go ahead gentlemen.
Good morning and welcome to Atwood Oceanics conference call and web cast to review the company’s operating results for the quarter ended December 31 2010.
The speakers today will be Rob Saltiel President and CEO; and myself Mark Mey Senior Vice President and CFO.
Before we begin let me remind everyone that during the course of this conference call we may make forward-looking statements based upon management’s current plans expectations estimates assumptions and beliefs concerning future events impacting us and therefore involve a number of risks and uncertainties.
We caution that forward-looking statements are not guarantees and that actual results could differ materially from those expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements.
The words believe estimate impact intend anticipate or predict convey the uncertainty of future events or outcomes.
Undue reliance should not be placed on these forward-looking statements which are applicable only on the date hereof.
Now let me turn the call over to Rob.
Thank you Mark.
Good morning and welcome to all of you joining today’s call.
We had another busy and largely successful quarter to begin fiscal year 2011.
I will offer comments on our financial and operational results discuss a number of key developments since our last earnings call and share some color on the market and current rig operations before turning it back to Mark for the financial details.
Let me start by saying that we were generally pleased with the financial &amp; operational results for the fourth quarter.
Despite an extended out of service period on the Atwood Eagle due to regulatory inspections and associated maintenance that we discussed on our last call and a short regulatory inspection outage on the Vicksburg our revenue recognition was generally good for this quarter.
We also continued our trend of continuing safe operations and we finished calendar year 2010 with a total recordable incident rate that was less than 0.7.
This week we welcome Mac Polhamus as our new Vice President of Operations.
Mac brings to Atwood his extensive leadership experience in U.S.
and International offshore markets and in deep water and shallow water drilling operations.
Importantly Mac has managed some of the most technically advanced ultra-deepwater rigs that are working today.
And this experience will be extremely beneficial to Atwood as we construct commission and operate a fleet of ultra-deepwater drilling rigs in the coming years.
Perhaps our biggest news since the last call was our announcement on Monday to construct Atwood’s first drillship which we have named The Atwood Advantage at the Daewoo shipyard in South Korea.
This is a very significant development for us as it marks a further expansion of our high specification floater fleet with an ultra-deepwater rig that will offer truly outstanding performance.
The drilling package well control system cranes and other features of the Atwood Advantage will offer tremendous capabilities and efficiencies to operators for both exploration and development drilling.
The Advantage will be built under a full turnkey contract and is slated for delivery at the end of September 2013.
We also retained two separate options to purchase identical drillships that must be exercised before November of this year.
Earlier in January we exercised our option to build a third high specification jackup at the PPL shipyard in Singapore on similar terms and conditions as the previous two rigs that we announced in October and with this one having a scheduled delivery date of June 30 2013.
This decision was driven largely by our continued confidence in the high specification segment of the jackup market and our continuing perception that customers’ appetite for these high capability rigs will remain strong.
Our own discussions with operators suggest that we have selected a very marketable and cost effective design.
We still retain two additional options to construct identical jackups.
Turning now to our market outlook.
Despite some continuing uncertainties we believe we are seeing a continuation of the improvement in market conditions that we discussed during our last call.
With high oil prices now becoming the norm again we are seeing more optimism from the operator community generally.
In the floater segment ultra-deepwater day rates and utilization remain solid despite continuing frustrations across our industry relating to the lack of drilling in the Gulf of Mexico.
In the jackup segment we continue to see the high specification jackups enjoy high utilization rates while the lower specification rigs and older jackups struggle with utilization rates in the 70% to 80% range.
In both floaters and jackups we are seeing more of our competitors stack older rigs and this should accelerate a recovery in marketed utilization and hence day rates.
Confirming the general up trend in market outlook at Atwood we have seen an increase in bidding activity for both floater and jackup work in the most recent quarter compared to the prior one.
I’ll now make a few comments on recent and current rig operations.
The Atwood Hunter completed its mobilization from Equatorial Guinea to Ghana in December and it’s currently drilling for Kosmos Energy in Ghana.
The Atwood Falcon remains drilling for Shell in Malaysia while the Atwood Eagle continues its work for Chevron in Australia.
The Vicksburg continues its program with New Coastal in Thailand while the Atwood Beacon has drilled its first well for Murphy Oil in Surinam as part of a four well program for a consortium led by Murphy.
The Atwood Aurora is in the Mediterranean Sea off the coast of Egypt.
As outlined in our recent 8-K filing we received notice that our client RWE was declaring a force majeure effective January 29th.
We are currently reviewing this claim.
Fortunately we have been able to safely evacuate immediate family members of our shore-based teams in Egypt back to their home countries.
On the construction front our two ultra-deepwater semi-submersible being constructed at Jurong Shipyard continue to make excellent progress.
The Atwood Osprey remains on schedule for completion later this quarter while the Atwood Condor is still expected by the middle of calendar year 2012.
Our previous guidance of the $625 million construction cost for the Osprey and the $750 million cost for the Condor remains unchanged.
While it is early days construction on the PPL jackups the Atwood Mako Atwood Manta and Atwood Orca is making good progress towards their scheduled delivery dates.
And with that I will conclude my prepared remarks and turn it back to Mark to provide more details on our financial results and outlook.
Mark? Thanks Rob.
Let me now walk you through our financial results for the first quarter ended December 31 2010.
I will then look out to the remainder of fiscal 2011.
Our diluted earnings for the first quarter ended December 31 2010 were $0.81 on revenues of approximately $146 million as compared to the earnings of $1.04 on revenues of $164 million for the same period in 2009.
Revenues and earnings were lower than the same period in 2009 due to 221 less operating days.
The number of operating days were negatively impacted with the Seahawk and the Richmond also stacked during this quarter and the zero rate days is due to regulatory inspections on the Atwood Eagle and Vicksburg as mentioned by Rob earlier and as discussed in our prior earnings conference call.
Contract drilling costs totaled $58 million for the quarter as compared to 61 for the same period last year as these costs are incurred in full during the regulatory inspections despite the aforementioned reduction in operating days.
Operating margins decreased from 50% in the same period last year to 43.5% this quarter and net margins decreased from 40.8% to just over 36% this quarter.
These margin reductions were entirely due to the reduced revenues caused primarily by the aforementioned zero rate days without a corresponding reduction in operating costs.
Interesting to note though that the average day rates increased from 223 000 a day in the same quarter in 2009 to 284 000 for the December 31 quarter.
We ended the fiscal first-quarter with $200 million in cash and $300 million drawn under our two credit facilities resulting in a net debt of 4%.
I will now comment on certain items that could impact the results for the remainder of fiscal 2011.
Firstly as discussed in December 2010 conference call we expect to incur zero rate days on our rig fleet due to regulatory inspections as follows: the Atwood Hunter approximately 20 days in the fiscal fourth quarter and the Atwood Beacon approximately five days in the fiscal third quarter.
We expect total drilling costs for the fiscal second quarter 2011 to approximate 56 million and total drilling costs for the full year to be between $245 and $255 million.
Any cost increases from the prior year 2010 are attributed mainly to the number of scheduled regulatory inspections being completed in operating fleets and the startup of the Atwood Osprey in Australia a high operating cost environment.
Partially offsetting these cost increases are the reduced costs on the three idled rigs.
We begin to see modest inflation affecting rig operating costs and expect year-on-year inflation cost increases approximating 4%.
We expect G&amp;A expenses in fiscal 2011 to approximate $42 million or about $9 million for the remaining quarters in 2011.
The depreciation expense is expected to be flat through the second fiscal quarter and then increase in fiscal third and fourth quarters when the Atwood Osprey begins operations.
I will now comment on expected total capital expenditures for fiscal 2011.
For the first quarter 2011 we incurred capital spend of $140 million as follows.
The Atwood Osprey about $53 million; the Atwood Condor just over $18 million; and down payments on the Atwood Mako and Atwood Manta of $69 million.
For the remainder of 2011 we expect to incur $90 million completing the Atwood Osprey $155 million on the Atwood Condor and $34 million which was spent recently in January on the down payment for the Atwood Orca and $160 million as a down payment on the Atwood Advantage.
Total capital expenditures including project management maintenance CapEx and space is estimated to be $471 million for the remainder of fiscal 2011.
These capital requirements are being adequately funded by cash cash flow from operations and debt from our two credit facilities.
Our current revenue contract backlog of $1.2 billion is expected to provide approximately $600 million in future after tax cash flows.
Finally a comment on tax rate which we expect to be between 16% and 18% for the remaining of three quarters in fiscal 2011.
That completes our prepared comments today.
I will now turn the call over to Colin for questions.
Colin?  Thank you sir.
(Operator Instructions) And it appears our first comment is from Collin Gerry with Raymond James.
Please go ahead.
Your line is open.
Hey guys I hear shipyard costs are down are you all thinking about building any new rigs? I’m just kidding.
Busy quarter though I mean high grading the fleet pretty fast here I got to ask the question when I look at my model it seems like you all still have some financial capacity here are we done? Well Collin thanks for your question and I’m glad you’re on the right conference call because we have had a busy quarter and we have continued to execute our strategy that we’ve talked about before of growing our fleet and increasing our focus on high specification assets.
We’re very excited about what we’ve been able to do now in both the shallow water and in the ultra-deepwater markets in terms of lining up additional capacity to grow our revenue and earnings well into the next decade.
As you well know both with the jackups and with this recent announcement on the Atwood Advantage we do retain options within both of those agreements with shipyards to exercise further options and to grow the fleet further.
And we will continue to study those opportunities for us as and when they come due.
We do have another roughly six months before the next decision process needs to be executed but we have some built in flexibility to grow if we decide that we want to do that here in 2011.
Yeah it’s interesting.
You mentioned the $750 million cost on the last rig ordered a couple years ago.
And I mean it’s still – the drillship you just built is just over 600 if I recall.
So there’s still – it seems like pricing or the asset costs are still relatively attractive.
What further analysis in your study in other words what factors are you looking at now that may be different than what led you to the prior few decisions on the jackups and the drillship? Well we’ve obviously made quite a few decisions here on expanding the fleet that we now need to get contracts on.
And that’s a real focus of our team here is to make sure that we continue our ongoing discussions with customers and look to increase our contract cover as we go forward.
We feel very good about the decisions that we’ve made but it is going to be time for us to focus on the marketing efforts and to gain some more backlog and confidence in the contracting environment.
So I think that’s a key focus for us.
That said one of the things that gives you a lot of confidence in this market is if you build at the right time in the cycle and your comment about the relative construction costs of the Atwood Advantage relative to what we saw in the last cycle is spot on.
And that’s why we took the decision on both the jackups and the floaters to construct right now.
But we’ll continue to study this through the first half of this year as I say as we get close to decision points on both the jackups and the drillship.
Great.
I appreciate the color on that.
Mark question for you.
You mentioned – my math – your – the revolver and your cash flow and everything you can cover 2011 CapEx with all the new activity.
But as these rigs come to deliver – again I’m more asking – I have your debt-to-cap you might need to take on some more debt and debt to cap might go into the high 30s range I guess question number one is is my math right? And number two what debt to cap level are you all comfortable with? Collin let me first respond by saying you’re absolutely right we can meet any kind of capital spend requirements in fiscal 2011 quite comfortably with the cushion.
Obviously we do have two credit facilities currently.
One which expires in November of next year.
So we will be looking at redoing our credit facilities this year later this year to take advantage of current markets and also prepare for spend that’s going to be coming down the pike in 2012 2013 and 2014.
I think if we look at our model and obviously using reasonably conservative day rates we don’t see ourselves getting much above 30% on debt to cap level.
We’re quite comfortable with that level and depending on our contractual backlog and our visibility from future day rates we may go above that somewhat.
But I think that gets analyzed in the context of the opportunity together with where we are in the cycle as well.
Okay.
And so and that 30% level you mentioned that’s going forward into 20 kind of 13 2012.
And I’m not trying to get guidance from you I’m just kind of thinking....
2013 2014.
Okay.
Great that’s it from me I’ll re-queue if I have more.
Thanks a bunch guys.
You’re welcome.
Thanks Collin.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from us from Dave Wilson with Howard Weil.
Go ahead please.
Good morning gentlemen.
Rob with all the new builds that have been announced recently industry-wide where are you on the scale of being concerned that too much capacity may have been added to the market? And where do you get the comfort from a demand perspective for those new builds? Yeah good question.
Thank you.
We like everybody we’re watching the market and a seeing that a number of people have taken advantage of this lull in the build cycle to add capacity.
I think there’s a confidence and conviction by those of us in this business that there is a need to develop new capacity and bring new technology to the market and that we’re going to see over this decade we’re going to see a significant amount of substitution of older rigs less capable rigs both on the jackup and the floater side on top of what we anticipate as top line growth certainly in floater demand and a recovery in jackup demand.
And I think it’s that confidence that we’re going to see that substitution side that gives us a lot of insulation on the risk of just doing the simple math of saying well we’ve got this many rigs out there now.
If you add this much capacity where’s the demand going to come from? Just as an example about 25% of the active floater fleet is going to be 35 or plus years old three years from now.
And so I think you just have to ask yourself the question at what rate is that capacity going to exit the market? And I think if you see what some of our competitors are doing even competitors who haven’t had a tradition of stacking rigs you’re seeing more recently a willingness to take some capacity off the market both on jackups and floaters and I think that’s very supportive of this expectation we’ve got for substitution that will take place over the coming years.
So at this point we’re not concerned we believe that the demand is growing.
I mean you’ve seen the spending forecasts and the trends there where we’re dealing with a market right now that’s got basically no activity virtually no activity in the Gulf of Mexico.
And we still have very exciting drilling to do in West Africa and you’ve got new plays like the Pre-Salt in Angola on top of the developments in more traditional markets in East Africa.
And then clearly Brazil in our view hasn’t spoken up yet and taken all the deepwater rigs that they can take.
So all those factors together make us relatively sanguine on the market and confident that building right now makes sense for Atwood.
Okay.
Thanks for the insight there.
And just one quick follow-up a little unrelated but and apologize if you covered it in your prepared remarks.
The near-term outlook for the Aurora the opportunities there within the region or moving it out somewhere else.
Could you talk a little bit about that? Both.
I’ll tell you we’ve with the contract coming due at the end of April we’ve been in discussion for some time about where to put that next and I will say that we’re looking both in the region and in the West Africa area as the primary focal points.
Okay.
That’s it for me.
Thanks a lot Rob.
You’re welcome.
(Operator Instructions) We next go to Janice Rudd with Pritchard Capital.
Go ahead please.
Good morning.
I just wanted to check looks like you had another big increase in your G&amp;A for the December quarter as which happened last year as well.
Could you give us guide as should we build that in again for 2011? Yes Janice.
Typically if you follow Atwood you’ll notice that first quarter of each year is a spike in G&amp;A and that’s typically as it relates to the executive compensation.
This spike this year was even larger because you had retirements of the previous CEO CFO VP of Operations and one or two others.
So you will see this scaling down as I said to about $9 million per quarter for the remaining three quarters.
We’re looking at around about $42 million for the year.
So we should go ahead and probably build not as big an increase for the next December quarter is that? Because you assume you won’t have the retirements? That’s correct yes.
Okay okay.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from Arun Jayaram with Credit Suisse.
Go ahead please.
Good morning gentlemen.
Good morning Arun.
Hey Rob can you give us a sense of what you’re seeing in the ultra-high spec jackup market? That market was white red hot for a while but we have seen a few rigs come off contract or with a little bit of idle time.
I just wanted to see if what you’re seeing in that market? Yeah.
I think you may be referring to some of our competitors who’ve come off and taken a little gap before they’ve gotten contracts.
Exactly.
I think that the market is flattish versus where we were last quarter.
I think we said the market was kind in the 120 to 140 range for the general high spec jackups.
And I would say that that’s been the case.
As I say we’ve been marketing the Aurora for the last few months.
And we see some good opportunities for the rig which is obviously our primary focus.
So we’re really not too concerned about finding additional work for it.
But I think you’re right that there have been a couple of gaps quoted but all things considered I think those rigs have found reasonable follow-on work after the short gaps.
Okay.
And just turning to the Falcon Hunter Eagle.
Rob how do you think about I mean you guys I’m sure are working on follow-on work for those rigs as you think of a couple of those rolling off in ‘12.
Can you give us a sense of today of your confidence in the ability to maintain high levels of utilization and just some thoughts on pricing perhaps? Sure.
Really the Falcon and the Eagle actually the Eagle first and then the Falcon are the ones that come available this year.
The Eagle contract is linked to the arrival of the Osprey with Chevron.
And so if you add six months to a roughly April delivery that should come off around October timeframe or the contract should run out.
And then the Falcon really runs toward late calendar year this year and perhaps into early next year.
So those are definitely focus areas for us over the next few months.
I think with the Eagle having such a strong reputation in Australia we feel very good about follow-on work there.
And we’ve seen a number of jobs in Australia or in that region that we think are great candidate jobs for the Eagle.
So we feel very good about our opportunities to keep that rig busy.
On the Falcon it’s no secret that rig’s been working with Shell for 10 to 15 years consistently in Malaysia and in surrounding areas.
So we certainly would hope to be able to keep that string of work running with Shell or with others in that area.
Again we feel very good about the ability to keep that rig busy.
The Hunter doesn’t roll off until October of 2012 from its current agreement that’s split as you know between Noble Energy and Kosmos.
So that’s probably a little bit further out to discuss right now.
But the Eagle and Falcon being closer in we’ve got some good visibility on follow-on work.
And then Shell just did announce a rig swap with one of your peers where they’re no longer going to be using the Phoenix.
So would you think that that increases the likelihood of keeping that rig at with Shell? Well the Phoenix is a similar water depth rig to the Falcon and it’s leaving the region.
So directionally that’s probably a good sign for us.
All right.
Thanks a lot guys.
Thank you.
Our next question comes to us from Judson Bailey with Jefferies and Company Investment Banking.
Go ahead please.
Thank you.
Good morning.
Actually a follow-up to Arun’s question on the Falcon well two things actually.
Is there any reason the Falcon cannot go to Australia? Could you remind me I don’t know I can’t remember if that rig has worked there in the past.
It has worked there in Australia before.
And there’s really no reason why it can’t go back there.
Okay.
And in terms of pricing with activity picking up here the last fixture on that rig was around 300.
Is that a decent number to use with outside Australia and what are you seeing in terms of opportunities I guess in Australia since that’s usually a bit higher? Yeah.
I mean Australia typically will trade about $50 000 or so premium to areas Southeast Asia outside of Australia.
I will say that the rate on the Falcon was a short-term renewal that we did to finish up some existing work with Shell on their development there in Malaysia.
That deal was negotiated really at a difficult time in the market with Macondo.
And so we’d like to think that rates could be a bit higher than that going forward.
Obviously it’s all subject to negotiation and we’ll have to see where we come out.
Okay.
That’s good color.
One other question and following on to your commentary which I appreciate on your outlook for the floater market and the need to potentially bring new technology into the market.
How do you that being said I mean you obviously have some older moored floaters in your fleet.
How do you see your better deep-water rigs faring over the next three to five years? You’ve had a lot of work put into them they’re very good units.
Are you concerned at all about seeing some pricing pressure from the new supply coming in on those rigs or do you still feel pretty good about the prospects beyond the next two to three years? Yeah the answer’s both.
Obviously new rigs coming in always creates supply pressure.
But these three rigs are three of the best maintained rigs in their class largely due to the fact that Atwood maintaining a small fleet for many years had no choice other than to continue to invest in these rigs and maintain them at a very high level so that they could have a long useful life.
The fact that we continue to work for the clients that we do very name brand clients I think is very supportive of the business that we’re running and the condition those rigs are in.
That said in light of the events of 2010 we are taking extra efforts to make sure that our well control systems are absolutely in a very tip-top condition and that they’ll operate reliably and safely if and when needed.
And we are looking at smaller enhancements to these rigs as well so that we can increase their marketability and useful life over the next few years.
But with those few exceptions we feel very good about what we’ve got right now and feel confident that we can keep them working for the foreseeable future.
Okay.
Great.
Thank you very much.
You’re welcome.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) We’ll next go to Stewart Glickman with Standard &amp; Poors.
Go ahead please.
Hi.
Good morning guys.
Just a couple I guess one more follow-up question on the Falcon and the Hunter or excuse me the Eagle and the Hunter.
Given that you guys have a pretty full plate of new builds coming on stream fiscal ‘12 fiscal ‘13 mostly.
Is there any inclination on your part to try to focus more on term perhaps at the expense of day rate or do you think the market’s strong enough that you could get reasonably sufficient term as well as reasonably strong day rates to help continue to fund the new build projects? Yeah.
Thank you.
I don’t think we’re in a position right now to dictate let’s say the term of the jobs that are available to us.
And as a practical matter I think we’re seeing terms kind of in the – let’s say in the deep-water realm – of the six month to call it two year timeframe.
So I don’t know what kind of a particular trade off you’d be thinking about in terms of term for day rate.
We do think though that the market is potentially strengthening on the back of the rise in oil prices and some renewed optimism in the market.
But I’m not sure that we’ll be facing a conscious trade off of term for rate.
We’re going to try to keep these rigs active in their current spheres of work because we don’t want to if we can avoid moving the rigs around too much we would certainly like to do that.
We believe in continuity of operations but I think that the terms you ought to be thinking about for renewals are in the kind of the six month to two year timeframe.
Okay.
Thanks.
That’s helpful.
And then I guess secondly on just on new builds generally given how many there are are you guys planning on doing anything differently or have you done anything differently in terms of kind of internal project management to make sure that everything stays on schedule? We’re doing quite a few things differently to be honest.
We’ve enhanced our project management team significantly.
We’ve brought some talent in from some of our competitors folks who have been involved in managing large projects ultra-deepwater drillships for example.
And that’s certainly given us a lot more confidence of our ability to manage these projects.
But in terms of how we contract for these rigs we’re very much moving toward 100% turnkey contracts and that’s what we’ve done on both the three jackups that we’ve got with PPL Shipyard in Singapore and with this first drillship that we have with DSME in Korea.
In the past we’ve taken additional risk and work on ourselves in terms of providing some owner furnished equipment.
And going forward we’re moving much more toward 100% build or furnished equipment or BFE turnkey arrangement.
And that certainly mitigates our risk and it also minimizes the cost of project management and the number of resources we need to take these projects through the yard.
Okay.
Great.
And then last question if you could just remind me the remaining options you have the two for the floaters and the two on the jackups.
Are these fixed price options? They have fixed price elements to them with some indexation in all cases.
Okay.
Thanks a lot guys.
You’re welcome.
Thank you.
We will now go to the site of Matt Beeby with Global Hunter Securities.
Go ahead please.
Good morning.
Good morning.
With respect to the three new build jackups and kind looking at modeling two years out the start-up time there.
Do you see Southeast Asia as a probable market for those rig or are there other markets out there that might be suitable more suitable? Yeah we certainly see Southeast Asia as a potential market but certainly not the only market for those rigs.
And more traditional markets where we’ve worked before like West Africa for example certainly need to be considered as well.
And we’re looking at some markets where we haven’t worked before as potential markets in addition to those two.
So we’re really casting a fairly wide net given the capability of these rigs to drill in virtually any environment other than what I would call kind of harsh environment North Sea other than that we really feel like we could drill anywhere and we want to make sure we get the right commercial opportunity for these rigs.
And follow-up to that with newer rig quality becoming so important in the market today looking at the like the Vicksburg a 300 foot rig and potentially Southeast Asia being a big market how do you perceive that being competitive as that rolls off contract? Maybe talk about rate expectations and any downtime with that rig prior to finding work? Yeah.
The Vicksburg’s been working for some time in Thailand and really similar to the deepwater rigs we referenced before it’s a rig that has gone through upgrades and does have some capabilities that if you look a little beneath the water decks you’ll see that it has additional capabilities that a number 300 foot rigs don’t have with regard to mud pumping capability and cantilever and quarters for example.
So as we continue to drill with our current client there we think that maybe opportunities to extend within Thailand but we certainly are looking at opportunities outside of Thailand as well and we feel good about our renewal opportunities.
Okay.
Thank you.
You’re welcome.
And we’ll make one last check for questions ladies and gentlemen.
(Operator Instructions) And we’ll now go to site of (inaudible) with Stifel Nicolaus.
Go ahead please.
Good morning.
We’ve pretty much covered everything I was wondering if you offer some comments on the rigs that are currently stack possibilities for contracts in the distant future or do you intend to ultimately just dispose of them? Yeah.
Thanks for the question Thad.
At this point I would say it’s fair to say that we don’t have plans to reactivate those during fiscal year 2011.
We have had requests on really all of the rigs to look at projects but we’re going to be very selective about considering reactivation.
You’ve got to make sure in this business that you don’t reactivate rigs unless you really see a sustainable market strengthening and/or a significant term that you can leg into to bring the rig out of the stack and devote the resources to doing that safely and reliably.
In terms of selling the rigs we certainly are not hanging the for sale sign on any of our rigs including those but to the extent that there was interest in those by others we would look at it but right now we just don’t see them being active in 2011.
Thank you.
Welcome.
And I’m showing no further questions at this time so I’ll hand it back off to Robert Saltiel and Mark Mey for closing comments.
Go ahead please.
Great.
Thank you Colin.
Just in closing thanking everybody for your interest in Atwood Oceanics and look forward to talking to all of you on our Second Quarter Fiscal Year 2011 Conference Call in early May.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude today’s teleconference.
You may disconnect at this time.
Good day and welcome to the Atwood Oceanics Second Quarter Results for Fiscal Year 2011.
[Operator Instructions] And please note the call is being recorded.
It is now my pleasure to introduce today's speakers Mark Mey Senior Vice President and CFO; and Rob Saltiel President and CEO.
Mr.
Mey please go ahead.
Thanks Tasha.
Good morning and welcome to Atwood Oceanics Conference Call and Webcast to review the company's operating results for the quarter ended March 31 2011.
The speakers today will be Rob Saltiel President and CEO; and I Mark Mey Senior Vice President and CFO.
Before we begin let me remind everyone that during the course of this conference call we may make forward-looking statements which are not historical facts and are based upon management's current plans expectations estimates assumptions and beliefs concerning future events impacting us.
These statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties including the risks which are described in the company's most recent Form 10-K and other filings with the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission.
We caution that forward-looking statements are not guarantees and that actual results could differ materially from those expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements if one of these risks or uncertainties would occur or our assumptions prove incorrect.
Undue reliance should not be placed on these forward-looking statements which are applicable only as of the date hereof.
Now let me turn the call over to Rob with his opening remarks.
Thank you Mark.
Good morning and welcome to all of you joining today's call.
I will make a few comments on our operations highlights and our market outlook before passing it back to Mark to discuss the financial results.
Overall we had an excellent second quarter operationally that resulted in strong revenue recognition and earnings performance.
For our 6 active rigs our zero-rate downtime was less than 1% a testament to the consistent reliability focus of our rig teams.
This performance is valued highly by our clients and the operators I meet with repeatedly cite our reliability and consistency as key reasons for entrusting Atwood with their drilling programs.
The second quarter's performance was also aided by the fact that we did not have any planned regulatory surveys or major projects that resulted in out-of-service time.
Looking to the current quarter's operations we are planning a shipyard stay of approximately 6 weeks for the Atwood Aurora.
This work is expected to begin later this month immediately after the conclusion of our drilling program in Egypt and we'll incorporate improvements in operations capability and safety.
These enhancements will aid the Aurora's performance for envisioned follow-on work that is under advanced discussions.
Besides the Aurora work we do not anticipate any zero-rate downtime attributable to maintenance or regulatory projects in the current quarter for our 5 other working rigs.
Perhaps the most significant development for Atwood has been the recent completion of the shipyard phase at the Atwood Osprey project.
The Osprey departed Singapore on April 29 and is currently on tow to Australia with an expected arrival by the middle of this month.
Once the Osprey arrives in Australia it will undergo a series of deepwater integration tests as part of the rig's final acceptance.
We expect that these tests will last a total of 8 to 10 days after which the Osprey will commence its 3-year drilling program for Chevron on Greater Gorgon.
Mark will comment on the expected financial impacts of the Osprey's activities on our current quarter's results.
The 5 other newbuild rigs that we are constructing remain on track with their schedules and budgets unchanged from our previous guidance.
Turning now to our market outlook.
We are seeing a continuation of the trend highlighted on our last call of a general improvement in market conditions.
Our marketing team has now seen 4 quarters of sequential increases in bid and inquiry activity.
Geographic areas that are seeing increased activity include Mexico West Africa the Middle East India Southeast Asia and Australia.
High oil prices and growing optimism from the operator community typically go hand in hand and this is clearly a big driver.
The resumption of deepwater permitting in the Gulf of Mexico is an overdue but very welcome development for our industry and for Atwood Oceanics as is the growing expectation of a Gulf of Mexico lease sale either later this year or by early 2012.
This progress has most operators believing that we may finally be turning the corner on getting our industry back to work in the Gulf in a meaningful way.
However some operators I speak with remain cautious as to whether the pace of permitting approvals will be sustained once we get through the wells that were already underway at the time of the moratorium.
It is clear based on statements made this week by the BOEM Director that our industry will still face some regulatory uncertainty in the days ahead.
Worldwide ultra-deepwater day rates remain relatively strong.
While we have seen only a few fixtures in the last quarter they have typically been at healthy rates.
Looking forward we expect to see more fixtures of uncontracted newbuilds that are scheduled for delivery in 2011 announced in the near term.
Two other potential catalysts for ultra-deepwater rate improvement include resumption of drilling tenders and awards by Petrobras and the continued resumption of deepwater activity in the Gulf of Mexico.
Turning to the jack-up segment.
We are seeing a general market improvement in all geographies where we were working or are considering work with the exception of the Mediterranean.
The continuous political and civil disruptions in Libya Egypt and Tunisia coupled with the environmental limitations imposed on further drilling in Italy have dampened near-term prospects and delayed or canceled a number of planned programs in the Med.
These issues have negatively impacted the Atwood Aurora and we are expecting to relocate the rig out of the Mediterranean after its shipyard stay.
The Atwood Beacon's program in South America is now expected to continue through the end of calendar year '11 and we are marketing it for follow-on work currently.
The recently announced 6-month extension of the Vicksburg in Thailand with our current client NuCoastal was agreed after considering other available opportunities for the rig in Southeast Asia.
We remain bullish on the future prospects for our 3 deepwater rigs the Atwood Eagle Atwood Falcon and Atwood Hunter.
Each of our current clients for these 3 rigs has potential follow-on work and a general improvement in market conditions has presented new opportunities for each of these rigs as well.
We anticipate announcing extensions on 1 or more of these 3 rigs before our next earnings call.
We continue our marketing of the Atwood Condor scheduled for delivery in mid-2012.
The clients we are meeting with concur that the Condor's drilling package and BOP configuration are particularly well-suited for technically challenging ultra-deepwater drilling in a post-Macondo environment.
The continued absorption of previously uncontracted ultra-deepwater newbuilds scheduled for delivery before the Condor has improved our prospects for securing an attractive contract.
And finally we have begun preliminary marketing for our 3 newbuild high-spec jack-ups and our drillship the Atwood Advantage.
It is still early days but we are encouraged by the client responses to the designs we have selected.
That concludes my prepared comments so I'll now turn it back to Mark to provide more details on our financial results and outlook.
Mark? Thanks Rob.
Let me now walk you through our financial results for the second quarter ended March 31 2011.
I will then compare this quarter to the quarter ended March 31 2010 and also to the previous fiscal quarter.
Finally I will discuss our expectations for the remainder of fiscal 2011.
Our diluted earnings for the quarter ended March 31 2011 were $1.08 on revenues of approximately $159 million as compared to earnings of $1.03 on similar revenues for the same period in 2010.
This was achieved with 180 fuel operating days during the quarter as the Seahawk and the Richmond were cold stacked the entire quarter but working during the quarter ended March 31 2010.
This outperformance was driven by: One an increase in our average day rate of $74 000 totaling $295 000 this quarter versus $221 000 during the same period in 2010 and improved revenue utilization of 96.3% during the 2011 quarter as compared to 93.2% for the same period in 2010.
Contract drilling costs totaled $50 million for the quarter as compared to $63 million for the same period last year which include operating costs for the cold stacked rigs previously mentioned.
Operating margins increased from 49% in the same period last year to 57% this quarter and net margins increased from 42% to 44%.
These excellent operating results driving margin improvements are attributed to both strict cost control and higher revenue utilization.
This is despite an increase in our effective tax rate of 22% from our previous guidance of 16% to 18%.
This increase in rate for the quarter is due to upward adjustment that reserves for uncertain tax positions as a result of tax assessments received during the quarter in 2 jurisdictions concerning operations in 2005 through 2009.
I'll next discuss our quarter-on-quarter trend by comparing this quarter to the first fiscal quarter ended December 31 2010.
Revenues increased $13 million or 9% and earnings per share increased $0.27 or 33%.
This strong performance is attributed to 25 more operating days as the Eagle did not work for approximately 29 days in October 2010 resulting in higher revenue utilization across the fleet 96.3% versus 87.8% and lower operating costs.
This once again is despite the 550-basis point increase in our effective tax rate this quarter as compared to the previous quarter.
Now let's take a look at the balance sheet.
As a result of making $284 million in capital expenditure investments on the Atwood Orca Atwood Advantage Atwood Osprey and Atwood Condor during the quarter we increased our long-term debt balances from $300 million to $455 million.
Consequently cash also decreased from $200 million to $162 million during this quarter.
As a result our net debt to cap has increased from 4% to 17% during the quarter.
I will now comment on certain items that could impact results for the remainder of fiscal 2011.
Firstly as noted on our fleet status report on Monday the Atwood Osprey went on mobilization rate on Wednesday evening April 28 2011.
Although we'll be capitalized in the mobe [mobilization] revenue and associated mobe costs the mobilization day rate is 60% of the operating rate.
As Rob mentioned the rig departed via West Africa for Australia in April 29 and is expected to arrive in mid-May.
Upon arrival the rig will complete final Chevron acceptance testing which will take approximately 10 days before commencing its multiyear contract.
Noted upon Chevron's acceptance of the Atwood Osprey the Atwood Eagle's 6-month extension begins at the new day rate of $390 000 per day.
Secondly as discussed in previous conference calls and as noted in our fleet status reports we expect to incur 0 rate days on our rig fleet due to rig upgrades or regulatory inspections as follows: the Atwood Aurora as Rob mentioned have 43 days in this quarter; the Atwood Hunter approximately 20 days in the fiscal fourth quarter; and the Atwood Beacon approximately 5 days in fiscal fourth quarter.
We currently expect total drilling costs for the fiscal third quarter 2011 to approximate $65 million and total drilling costs for the full fiscal year to be between $245 million and $255 million.
Any cost increases from the prior quarter or year in 2010 are attributed mainly to the number of scheduled regulatory inspections being completed on an operating fleet and the startup of the Atwood Osprey in Australia.
Partially offsetting these cost increases are reduced costs in the 3 cold stacked rigs.
We expect G&amp;A expenses for the fiscal 2011 to range between $40 million and $44 million and about $10 million per quarter for the remaining 2 quarters in 2011.
Depreciation expense is expected to increase by approximately $2 million per month in the fiscal third and fourth quarters when the Atwood Osprey begins operations in Australia.
Our fiscal year-to-date effective tax rate is 20% and 22% for the quarter.
I reiterate however our effective tax rate guidance for the fiscal year 2011 of 16% and 18% emphasizing the higher end of that range.
I will now comment on expected total capital expenditures for fiscal 2011.
For the first 2 quarters of 2011 we incurred capital expenditures of $420 million as follows: Atwood Osprey $78 million; Atwood Condor $78 million; then down payments on the Atwood Mako Atwood Manta Atwood Orca and Atwood Advantage of $262 million.
For the remaining 2 quarters of 2011 we expect to incur $53 million from fleet in Atwood Osprey $93 million on progress payments on the Atwood Condor and maintenance and other CapEx of about $30 million.
The other CapEx includes project management and OSP on newbuild rigs.
These capital expenditures are being financed by cash balances cash flow from operations and from our 3 credit facilities.
We are however finalizing a new $1.1 billion secured credit facility to refinance the 2 existing credit facilities fully fund any remaining capital expenditures on the aforementioned newbuild rigs and provide additional liquidity opportunistic purposes.
Our current revenue contract backlog remains at $1.1 billion and is expected to provide approximately $600 million in future after-tax cash flows.
That concludes my prepared remarks today.
I will now turn the call over to Tasha for any questions.
Tasha? [Operator Instructions] We'll take our first question from Dave Wilson with Howard Weil.
Rob just a quick question on the Condor.
You're considering all the deepwater rigs that have been ordered recently and considering the delivery dates out in 2013 2014 do you feel your position around the Condor and its delivery date which is sooner is more advantage now? I guess another way to ask it would be has the outlook for the Condor improved because of the delivery ahead of all these other newbuilds? Thanks Dave.
I think there's actually a couple of things that are helping the Condor's prospects.
The first is the general improvement in the overall macro picture for ultra-deepwater drilling.
The commodity price certainly has played a role in that as has the improved prospects for the Gulf of Mexico.
So generally speaking I think all the rigs that are in the queue are probably feeling a bit more confident about contracting than let's say they and their companies would have been 6 months ago.
But in addition to that because of the enhancements we've made to the Condor around the drilling package and the BOP configuration specifically and these decisions were executed post-Macondo we really believe that the Condor is particularly well-positioned both in terms of its technical capabilities and as you point out the timing with the mid-2012 delivery mid-calendar year 2012 delivery roughly June of 2012.
So we are feeling that the prospects for the rig have improved and the opportunity as I said to get an attractive contract has improved as well.
We are also seeing these other rigs that proceed us in our arrival to create a bit more of a perceived scarcity and a lack of availability in the ultra-deepwater for the operator group and again I think that will work toward helping the Condor get the right contract when it comes out of the yard.
And just kind of reading between the lines given the enhancements you mentioned particularly to the BOP.
Does that mean it's probably destined for the Gulf of Mexico? Well it certainly is well-suited for the Gulf of Mexico but I think wherever you have ultra-deepwater and deep drilling which certainly the rig itself and the drilling packages is well-suited as well as if you're drilling for major operators who want that additional operational integrity and that's not just reserved to the Gulf of Mexico.
I think the Condor is particularly well outfitted.
Sure.
And then just one more on another rig the Aurora and based on previous comments and then some of your prepared remarks around what's going on in the Med.
The other I think prospect in the past had been mentioned West Africa is that still most likely the case where that rig ends up after its shipyard time? Well West Africa is certainly a strong candidate for follow-on work for the rig.
Outside of the Med it's the most approximate locale for drilling and we don't have anything to announce yet but that's certainly one of the areas we're focusing on.
All right great.
Thanks for that Rob.
That's it for me.
I'll turn it over.
Thanks Dave.
We'll take our next question from Chris Butschek with Raymond James.
I wanted to look at the jack-up market for a moment.
Great quarter of course.
The high spec jack-up market that's been in an upswing for quite some time now.
But we're starting to see a little movement on the standard side as well.
I mean this booked at 90k for a while now.
Do you think the market's kind of caught up with that rate? Would you say that's leading edge or is that kind of a special one-off situation especially with special operators? The Vicksburg rig compares very well with rates in Southeast Asia for similarly equipped rigs and rigs of a similar vintage in terms of their construction.
As we said before the Vicksburg has some particular attributes in terms of its design and outfitting that we think could distinguish it from the rest of certainly many of the 300-footers in that area.
And so we have felt for a while that the $90 000 rate was a good rate.
I take your point that we do think that the general market is moving upward and so as we look to renew the Vicksburg in the days ahead we'll have to consider opportunities both inside and outside of Thailand.
But right now we feel very good about the extension very good about the relationship with our current client and just happy to be able to continue a program without any loss of continuity in operations.
Perfect perfect.
I'm going to follow-up.
A couple of 5 000 ft.
deepwater rigs the Eagle and the Falcon repriced in kind of early 2012.
Do either of those rigs need any sort of upgrade in between contracts? And could we see a mobile of the region or are we kind of looking at Southeast Asia India for those rigs? At this point there are no plans to mobilize those rigs outside of the areas where they work.
Let me just talk about each one.
The Eagle is in Australia which as most people know is seeing quite a bit of activity now.
There's a lot of the interest around further gas developments there that's driving a lot of the drilling.
So we feel good about the Eagle's prospects in Australia.
The Falcon has worked out for Shell for we'd say about 13 to 14 years now.
It's got a good position there in Malaysia.
In fact that position has improved with the loss of a competitor rig from the region and we know that Shell and others have got a lot of prospects to drill in that area.
So at this point in time we're not planning to mobilize those rigs outside of their current locales for follow-on work.
Okay.
Well focusing on the Falcon real quick.
I seem to remember a while back considering taking that rig to the yard quite a while to upgrade it.
Is that something you would consider like you said it's with Shell for quite a while? Would that be something Shell would want you to do? Or would that be something you would consider if you were moving on to another operator? Yes there was at one point in time plans for some extended upgrade of the rig that we had basically put back on the shelf about a year ago.
As we go forward whenever we get into a discussion with a client about an extension especially an extension with some duration there's typically discussions about potential upgrades or enhancements you can make to the rig not always but typically that's not uncommon.
So we're not in a position now to say anything specific about potential upgrades to the Falcon or any other rig but those would be parts of any discussion to extend the rig.
Perfect.
I'll turn it back.
Great.
Thanks.
We'll take our next question from Scott Burk with Canaccord.
I wanted to -- I appreciate the comments about the contract deal on the Falcon but I also wanted to ask about the debt financing for the newbuilds.
It's actually about the new $1.1 billion credit facility would you need anything beyond that or does that cover expected debt or does that cover all the newbuild commitment that you have for the next 2 years? Scott that $1.1 billion new credit facility more than covers the current 5 rigs that are in the yard and the CapEx programs.
And the fact is there's sufficient additional liquidity in that as I mentioned earlier to provide opportunities for further growth for the company.
If you look at from 2012 to 2014 the CapEx we're going to need is around $1.2 billion only about $350 million of that to expect to be debt-financed.
The rest is going to be cash flow from operations or cash on hand.
Okay.
That kind of leads me to my next question.
So plenty of room to fund the 2 options left to declare by the summer.
Can you talk about the options for additional newbuilds and what you're thinking about those? Yes I'll be happy to take that Scott.
We have 2 options remaining on the high specification jack-ups we're building at the PPL Shipyard and then 2 options remaining as well for identical drillships to be constructed at DSME.
And the first of the options that will be coming due is on the first of the 2 jack-up options that we have to make a decision at the end of June.
At this point we haven't made a decision how we're going to go forward on that.
Clearly we've been happy to have exercised the first of the 3 options so we now have the 3 jack-ups under construction.
And as we come up to the decision point later next month we'll be taking a look at a number of factors including the pricing because there are some reset mechanisms in the pricing and the pricing for those options.
The latter 2 jack-up options are different than what we had on the first 3 rigs so we will have to consider some pricing implications and again there's some indexation on that pricing so we need to actually determine what that will be.
And then at the same time we want to take a look at the jack-up market and how we're feeling about our position there and the desire to bring another rig on which will be delivered down the road.
So that's something that I'll just ask the group to stay tuned on but something that we'll be turning our attention to in the next few weeks.
Okay.
And regarding that are they still hinged[ph] at all on the ability to get some additional contract coverage perhaps for the Eagle or the Falcon or the Aurora? Well it's really hard to link the decision to any specific event but there's no question that the more confidence we have in the market the more likely we are to enhance our position.
And I think it's fair to say that the more contract cover you've got the more confidence you have in the market.
So there is definitely a linkage but I don't want to make it a direct linkage to any particular rigs or duration.
I think we've already showed our colors in that.
We're certainly confident in the market that's why we stepped out and already made the decision to build 5 speculative rigs without contract.
And so the question about doing more is something that we will seriously consider.
All right.
Let me ask you one more question.
It's about where your rigs are located.
I know there's a lot of activity in Brazil obviously with all the tenders coming out of there.
Does it make sense to start looking to get some rigs in that basin maybe some of your newbuilds or perhaps maybe the Southern Cross could go to work in Brazil? Can you talk about that? Yes I mean Brazil is one of those markets that ultimately we're going to find ourselves working in.
I've got a high degree of confidence of that as our fleet grows especially as we grow our ultra-deepwater high-spec floater fleet.
I think there's going to be a real attraction to having 1 or more rigs in Brazil.
Up to now it's just been a question of having located the right opportunity either in Brazil or elsewhere and so far that just hasn't happened.
But I think as we think about the Condor the Advantage and any future rigs we might build in the ultra-deepwater space.
Brazil is certainly a likely candidate market.
[Operator Instructions] Our next question comes from Matt Conlan with Wells Fargo.
LLC</strong> Mark could you clarify on the Condor? Are you going to be recognizing any real-time revenues during the mobe for that rig? Do you mean the Osprey Matt? LLC</strong> Yes I'm sorry.
Yes.
No.
We're going to be capitalizing both the costs and the revenues during the mobilization period and then amortizing that over the length of the drilling contract.
LLC</strong> Okay.
So you'd expect to have the full day rate and the proportion of amortization of mobe starting late May or early June when it begins operations? I'd say that's right yes.
LLC</strong> Okay terrific.
And also on the Eagle and the Hunter and the Beacon you had on all 3 of those rigs very good cost reductions from last quarter to this quarter about $15 000 a day.
Is the lower cost level sustainable? Is there any reason that it came down so dramatically? I think if you look at my guidance for the rest of the year for the next quarter Matt and if you compare that to what we've been trying to communicate over the last 2 quarters we still believe that a lot of the cost that we anticipated for the year as it relates to our present maintenance is going to occur throughout the remaining 2 quarters.
Typically as you know during the first quarter you start planning your work for the year and then you start getting the parts delivered then you start doing the work in the second third and fourth quarters.
So I would not expect to see a dollar per dollar repeat of what we saw in the second quarter but we certainly are focused on cost control every day.
LLC</strong> Okay.
All right that will do it for me.
Thank you.
We'll take our next question from Janice Rudd with Pritchard Capital.
I just want to check and find out when Chevron deadline is for extending the Osprey's contract.
Is that tomorrow or Friday? Janice this is Rob.
It's after commencement.
It's within a week of commencement of operations of the Osprey in Australia.
And keep in mind that right now we're on the tow to Australia and we expect to arrive by middle of May.
As I mentioned in my comments we've got about 8 to 10 days of further integration tests.
So after the rig actually has completed all those tests and undergoes final acceptance that becomes the commencement date and then there's that short period of time after the commencement date that they have to exercise that option.
Okay.
And just how big is the mobilization fee that you're getting cost? It's in the form of a day rate Janice.
So it's 60% of the day rate which we disclosed in the fleet status for the number days that it moves which is going to be around 14 days.
And cost is about equal to that? No.
Cost should be substantially less than that.
Obviously as it gets capitalized and amortized the impact on a per day basis is negligible.
Okay.
And are you seeing any wage inflation from the other contractors that complained about? We're seeing modest increases in wages.
I'd say it's certainly below 5% at this stage.
On an annualized basis certainly a half of that.
But we could see modest in the future especially as it relates to certain areas Brazil being one because of the local content regulations that you could see the requirement to get access to more local Brazilians which as a result of that could create a bottleneck and cost inflation.
Any other areas in particular? Not where we're currently operating no.
And we'll take our next question from Matt Beeby with Global Hunter Securities.
LLC</strong> I want to follow up on a couple of other questions as it relates to the Osprey.
Is there any operator pay downtime in the contract as you all potentially work through some startup issues in the first couple of months at the startup for that rig? No it's a standard 24 hours per month that we have for that rig.
LLC</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then also Rob you had mentioned that you're pretty confident about the existing deepwater fleet staying put.
Is there a longer-term market that might be potentially more attractive or at least as attractive that would give other opportunities for those rigs? You mean other than where we currently are? LLC</strong> Yes.
Outside of Australia Southeast Asia.
Yes I mean there are other markets out there that we could take a look at.
But frankly we feel well-positioned where we are and if you want to say okay Australia is pretty much a market onto itself but Southeast Asia there are other markets in Southeast Asia outside of Malaysia including Indonesia.
So that's a potential area.
But right now our focus is really on staying in the markets where we are.
The Hunter of course has been working between Ghana and Equatorial Guinea and again there's any number of West African areas where we could drill.
So those might be different countries but really in the same geographic area.
It appears that we have no further questions at this time.
Okay.
Well we want to thank everybody for joining in on our call and we look forward to picking it up next quarter.
This concludes today's teleconference.
You may now disconnect your lines and have a wonderful day.
Good day and welcome to the Atwood Oceanics' Third Quarter Fiscal Year 2011 Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Please note this call will be recorded and I am standing by if you need any assistance.
It's now my pleasure to introduce today's speakers Mark Mey Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; and Rob Saltiel President and Chief Executive Officer.
Mr.
Mey please go ahead.
Thanks Natasha.
Good morning and welcome to Atwood Oceanics' conference call and webcast to review the company's operating results for the quarter ended June 30 2011.
The speakers today will be Rob Saltiel President and CEO; and I Mark Mey Senior Vice President and CFO.
Before we begin let me remind everyone that during the course of this conference call we may make forward-looking statements which are not historical facts and are based upon management’s current plans expectations estimates assumptions and beliefs concerning future events impacting us.
These statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties including the risks which are described in the company's most recent Form 10-K and other filings with the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission.
We caution that forward-looking statements are not guarantees that actual results could differ materially from those expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements if one of these risks or uncertainties were to occur or our assumptions prove incorrect.
Undue reliance should not be placed on these forward-looking statements which are applicable only at the date hereof.
Now let me turn the call over to Rob for his opening comments.
Thanks Mark and thank you for joining today's earnings call on our fiscal third year -- third quarter results.
As usual I will make a few comments on the past quarter's highlights and refresh our market outlook before handing it back to Mark to discuss the financial results.
Let me start by saying that overall we had another solid quarter of financial performance.
Our net income of approximately $75 million represented the second-best quarter in our company's history while our earnings per share of $1.15 was our third best ever.
We are pleased with these results and they are due in large part to 2 objectives that have the Atwood team's full focus and attention: delivering reliable service and managing our costs wisely.
Mark will provide additional context on our quarter's numbers during his discussion.
Operationally we fulfilled our primary objective of delivering a very strong startup for the Atwood Osprey.
The Osprey commenced its 3-year contract with Chevron on May 27 and the rig achieved approximately 95% revenue efficiency in the 35 days it operated during the last quarter once you exclude the contractually agreed 0 rate time for commissioning and testing.
The Osprey's reliability has continued to remain strong into this quarter as we achieved approximately 95% revenue efficiency for the month of July.
These excellent results are due to a combination of factors: strong collaboration with the Jurong Shipyard team selective recruitment and extensive training of our offshore personnel thorough testing of the Osprey systems and equipment and the adoption of a common vision with Chevron around competency assurance and performance excellence.
I want to take a moment to commend our entire operations and project organization and especially the Osprey team for their hard work in achieving these fine early results.
In so doing they have enhanced Atwood's reputation for operations excellence and established a blueprint for the trouble-free delivery and startup of our other newbuild rigs.
Outside of the Osprey the rest of our active fleet had a generally good quarter with operations performance.
The third quarter would have even been stronger but for some unplanned downtime that we experienced on the Atwood Hunter owing to a series of unrelated operational incidences that have since been corrected.
For the month of July the Hunter achieved approximately 99% revenue efficiency.
While we are on the subject of the Hunter you will have seen on our fleet status report that we issued on Monday that the regulatory-driven out-of-service time for the Hunter occurs this quarter.
We have been planning this work which includes some maintenance-related projects since the first fiscal quarter.
We anticipate approximately 20 days of 0 rate time from this out-of-service period.
There are also 2 other short-term out-of-service periods planned for this quarter for the Vicksburg and the Atwood Beacon.
The 5 newbuild rigs that we are constructing in Singapore and Korea remain on track with no changes to note from our previous guidance on budgets and schedules.
I will remind the listeners that we have 2 remaining options with the DSME shipyard to build drillships identical to the Atwood Advantage.
These options expire in late October.
We also retained 2 options with the PPL Shipyard to build jack-ups identical to the Mako Manta and Orca.
These options expire at the end of December.
The decisions on whether or not to exercise these options will be made in consultation with our board as the exercise dates get closer so we don't plan to disclose any definitive plans on this call.
Turning now to our general market outlook.
We have seen further improvement in both the jack-up and floater segments of the offshore drilling market since our last earnings call.
The number of bids and inquiries that our marketing team is responding to continues to trend up quarter-to-quarter.
Starting with the jack-up segment we have seen an increase in overall utilization of the worldwide fleet on the back of increasing demand.
Markets that are showing the most demand momentum include Southeast Asia the Middle East West Africa and Mexico.
As a result of increasing activity rates are strengthening for both high-spec and low-spec jack-ups versus where we were last quarter.
Turning to floaters we see a similar story of general improvement.
Rates for the ultradeepwater segment are trending toward $500 000 per day while demand visibility is increasing for both ultradeepwater and deepwater rigs.
A number of previously uncontracted newbuilds have found work since our last call and we now count only 4 uncontracted newbuilds scheduled for delivery before year-end.
I spoke on our last call about the key catalysts for the ultradeepwater market being the Gulf of Mexico and Petrobras.
And since then developments have trended favorably on both fronts.
In the Gulf of Mexico well permitting has picked up in the second quarter versus the first quarter and we hear from operators that the process has greater clarity than it did a quarter ago.
However the pace is still too slow for our industry and the lingering uncertainty does hamper the ability of some operators to make longer-term rig commitments.
Turning to Petrobras they had contracted 3 ultradeepwater rigs since our last call and have 2 contract -- 2 tenders currently active for deepwater rigs.
The continued absorption of available deepwater or ultradeepwater capacity by Petrobras remains a key factor for our business.
On the marketing front we extended 2 of our jack-ups and secured a short extension on one of our floaters since the last call.
Yesterday we announced that Vicksburg will continue drilling for NuCoastal in Thailand through at least December of 2012 with our client's exercise of a 6-month option coupled with an additional 6-month extension at a slightly increased day rate.
The Vicksburg continues to perform very well and this extension is testament to that.
We also had signed the Atwood Aurora to a firm 8-month deal in June with Noble Energy for work in Cameroon and Equatorial Guinea.
The rig has completed its shipyard upgrades and we'll mobilize from the Mediterranean to West Africa in September for an expected contract start in early October.
We also signed a 45-day 1-well program on the Atwood Eagle with BHP in early May.
We continue to work on additional fixtures for both the Eagle and the Atwood Falcon as both become available in early calendar year 2012.
Discussions around these 2 rigs have been ongoing for some time so we won't be able to provide any more details at this time.
The Atwood Beacon also available in the March 2012 time frame is being marketed to a number of suitable high-spec programs.
Our marketing of the Atwood Condor has heated up considerably since our last earnings call.
We are now seeing multiple tenders and inquiries that dovetail well with the Condor's expected delivery date in late June of 2012.
A quarter ago operators we were speaking with were concerned primarily with filling 2011 demand slots.
The same increase in marketing activity is true for the Atwood Mako our first Pacific Class jack-up slated for delivery in late September 2012.
We are actively courting a number of drilling programs scheduled for that time frame.
This concludes my opening remarks so I'll hand it back to Mark to provide some more detail on our financial results and outlook.
Mark? Thanks Rob.
Let me now walk you through our financial results for the fiscal third quarter ended June 30 2011.
I will then compare this quarter to the quarter ended June 30 2010 and also to the previous fiscal quarter.
Finally I will discuss our expectations for the remainder of fiscal 2011.
Our diluted earnings for the quarter ended June 30 2011 were $1.15 on revenues of approximately $162 million as compared to earnings of $0.91 on similar revenues for the same period in 2010.
This 26% year-on-year improvement was achieved with 186 fewer operating days during this quarter as the Seahawk Richmond and Southern Cross were cold stacked the entire quarter while only the Southern Cross was stacked during the corresponding quarter in 2010.
This was partially offset by the Atwood Osprey beginning operations in late May 2011.
Financial highlights achieved during the quarter include the successful delivery of Atwood Osprey from the Jurong Shipyard on April 27 and the startup operations with Chevron in Australia on May 27.
Although revenue efficiency was 91% for the quarter 4% of these 0 rate days were contractually driven.
For example after successfully running the first 8 anchors we went under 0 rate while we ran the remaining 4 anchors for the contract.
Secondly average day rates of $303 000 per day as compared to $231 000 per day during the same period in 2010 and also up $8 000 per day from the prior quarter.
Despite the Atwood Hunter incurring 17 days of 0 rate due to unplanned maintenance revenue efficiency of 93% was achieved during the quarter as compared to 97% for the same period in 2010.
The Atwood Aurora fulfilled its contract with RWE in Egypt on May 16.
Thereafter the rig mobilized to a shipyard in Palermo Italy to complete minor enhancements.
It is currently waiting to begin an 8-month contract with Noble Energy in Cameroon NAG.
And then finally good operating and G&amp;A cost control for the third consecutive quarter.
Contract drilling costs totaled $53 million for the quarter as compared to $63 million for the same period last year which included operating costs for the 3 cold-stacked rigs previously mentioned.
Operating margins increased from 51% in the same period last year to 55% this quarter and net margins increased from 35% to 46%.
These improvements in operating performance are attributable to both cost control and high revenue utilization.
Note that due to the smooth startup on the Atwood Osprey certain previously forecasted startup costs were not incurred during the quarter.
Finally interest expense of $1.9 million includes $100 000 write-off of unamortized debt issue expenses associated with the refinancing of our 2 credit facilities in May of this year.
Let's discuss quarter-on-quarter trends by comparing this quarter to the second fiscal quarter ended March 31 2011.
Revenues increased $3 million or 2% and earnings per share increased $0.07 or 7%.
This improvement is due to the increase in average day rates and lower operating costs as we worked 4 less days during this quarter.
Looking at the balance sheet capital expenditures totaled $79 million during the quarter and consisted primarily of final payments on the Atwood Osprey and progress payments on the Atwood Condor.
During the quarter we reduced our long-term debt balance from $455 million to $400 million and consequently cash also decreased from $162 million to $113 million during the quarter.
As a result our net-debt-to-capital remained at 15% quarter-on-quarter.
As I previously mentioned we refinanced our 2 credit facilities with a $1.1 billion revolving credit facility due 2016.
Subsequent to the end of the quarter we proactively hedged a portion of our interest rate risk on a month outstanding on the credit facility.
I will now comment on certain items that could impact results for the remainder of fiscal 2011.
Firstly as noted in our fleet status report on Monday and as discussed in previous conference calls we expect to incur 0 rate days on our rigs fleet due to rig upgrades or regulatory inspections as follows: the Atwood Hunter 20 days in September; the Atwood Beacon 5 days; and the Vicksburg approximately 5 days during the quarter.
We currently expect total drilling costs for the fiscal fourth quarter 2011 to approximate $70 million to $72 million.
The increased quarter-on-quarter costs are attributed mainly to some O&amp;M projects planned for the fiscal third quarter which will be performed in the fiscal fourth quarter; the number of scheduled regulatory inspections and plant upgrades being completed during the quarter; and the Atwood Osprey operating for the entire quarter in Australia.
We expect general and administrative expenses for the fiscal 2011 to range between $43 million and $45 million and that's about $10 million for the fourth quarter.
Depreciation is expected to increase by approximately $4 million in the fiscal fourth quarter due to the Atwood Osprey's fourth quarter operations as mentioned above.
Our effective tax rate for the quarter was 14% reducing our year-to-date effective tax rate to 17.5%.
If you recall the prior quarter tax rate was 22% and that included certain FIN 48 adjustments.
I fully expect our fiscal 2011 effective tax rate to range between 16% and 18%.
Capital expenditures year-to-date 2011 totaled $499 million of which $262 million represents down payments on the newbuilds ordered this fiscal year and $237 million in final and progress payments on the Atwood Osprey and Atwood Condor and other maintenance CapEx.
For the remainder of fiscal 2011 we expect to incur $85 million representing progress and other payments on the Atwood Condor of $75 million and maintenance and other CapEx of $10 million.
Other CapEx includes project management and OSP [ph] on the rigs under construction.
Our current revenue contract backlog approximates $1 billion and is expected to provide approximately $600 million in future after-tax cash flows.
That concludes my prepared comments today.
I'll now turn the call over to Natasha for questions.
Natasha? [Operator Instructions] The first question comes from the side of David Wilson with Howard Weil.
Rob you mentioned in your prepared comments about Petrobras and the couple tenders they had there and one of them -- there was 2 different requests for more semis.
Were those already kind of in your contemplation for demand for the moored semi-rigs over the next couple of years? And also would that be something that you guys are taking a look at for the Falcon and Eagle? Thanks Dave.
We certainly are taking a look at that tender because they have opened it up to a moored rig as well and we know that it's going to be a competitive tender.
I think a number of our competitors have commented about that tender as well.
We're going to take a look at that in context with other opportunities we have for our 5 000-foot moored rigs.
And to the extent that we find it interesting and technically well suited to our rigs we'll move forward on it.
Okay.
And then kind of a follow-on to that you mentioned technically suited.
Do you envision any kind of sizable capital upgrades or modifications required to work off Brazil? Well we're just in the process now of going through that tender and thinking about how to respond to it and so some of the questions about technical capabilities typically result through that process.
From my previous experience down there a lot of these things can be negotiated but some are going to be firmer.
And you really don't understand exactly what's going to be the technical ask until you go through the process.
But there isn't anything specific to that tender that we'd say is a showstopper at this point for considering our 5 000-foot moored rigs.
Okay.
And then if you've got some time I would like to ask another one on the operational efficiency.
I guess with the Osprey it was very good getting that one out the door.
But as your fleet gets bigger do you think Atwood can maintain kind of this level of good operational efficiency? Or is there something inherent with a larger fleet that prevents kind of these levels of efficiency from being achieved? Well there's nothing inherent with a larger fleet that prevents these things from being achieved.
We are undertaking a very careful and organic growth process here and in doing so we're making sure that the standards that we've set for how we run our rigs are absolutely replicated on each rig that's added to our fleet.
Again I think the Osprey is an excellent example of our ability to deliver a rig from the shipyard get it out for a very demanding client as Chevron should be given the importance of their program and then perform extremely well coming out of the gate.
So that's the blueprint for success at Atwood and we're going to continue to maintain that as we grow our fleet in the future.
Okay great.
And one final one kind of a little longer-term.
In the past you discussed how the Osprey's has been outfitted to operate in most areas of the world with specific mention to the Gulf of Mexico.
Do you see the potential for some of your other floater rigs to have to go through some kind of modifications even if they're not likely to do any work in the Gulf of Mexico but maybe it's operator-driven as requiring to come to kind of the Gulf of Mexico standard? Is that something that you guys have been taking a look at? Well we've absolutely been taking a look at it and we participate in the industry forums as well as I have a number of discussions with our clients about this.
I will tell you that it's an evolving picture.
It's developing.
I know a number of folks have written about the opportunity or perhaps the requirement down the road for enhanced BOP capabilities in terms of the number of shear rams or the total number of rams on the BOP stack for additional redundancy.
Those are the kinds of things we look at and we are contemplating as part of our overall potential plans for investment in our rigs.
But I will tell you that a lot of this is still very client-specific.
We haven't seen any blanket requirements along these lines anywhere outside of the Gulf of Mexico in terms of the geographic location so it really is something that we have to kind of watch and wait and then do our homework technically so that we're ready for it.
Okay.
And it just kind of -- it just sounds like -- if you could put a ballpark guess on the time frame.
I mean this doesn't sound like anything kind of near-term impactful at all maybe 2 or 3 years out.
Is that kind of the way to think about it or maybe even longer than that? I think a 2- to 3-year time frame is a pretty fair guess yes.
Our next question comes from the side of Scott Burk with Canaccord.
I wanted to ask you about potential downtime going into 2012.
You've obviously in your fleet status of the days for the next few quarters.
But going in 2012 can you give us idea of how many rigs might be down? What kind of off-hire days you might have then? We're just in the process now of going through our budget for 2012.
And as that process is being undergone right now it's a bit premature to give specifics as to the downtime that we expect.
I will say that we have seen over the last year a lot of the [indiscernible] take place on our big rigs.
So going forward directionally the planned out-of-service time that's required for regulatory inspections should be relatively good versus where we were let's say over the last 12 to 18 months.
But I don't want to be too definitive about that now as we're still developing our budget.
And in future fleet status reports we'll be able to provide more clarity to the market about potential out-of-service periods.
Okay good.
And then I just had kind of one broader question.
There's been a lot of discussion about this whole debt default crisis or discussion in the U.S.
Congress and got the deal done this week but the stock market's been pretty weak since then.
Have you guys seen any kind of hesitation on the part of your clients as a result of that kind of negative economic macro? We haven't seen any of that Scott.
I mean our clients are driven by the oil price and the prospectivity for the areas where they're drilling.
And we continue to get a very bullish picture from operators generally as they look toward 2012.
Our next question comes from the side of John Lawrence with Tudor Pickering.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</strong> Just a quick question on the Eagle.
You talked about opportunity in Brazil.
Now that you have the Osprey down in Australia is there enough work down there you think to keep the Eagle there? Yes we're actually seeing a real increase in potential demand in Australia over the last 6 to 12 months.
I think it's driven by a number of factors.
The first is that Australia is a place that provides open access so a lot of operators who are looking for opportunities to enhance their portfolio or to prosecute what they already have look at Australia very attractively.
It's done quite well as a prolific gas basin.
And with the opportunity to serve Southeast Asian and Chinese markets especially with the potential for natural gas to displace coal and perhaps nuclear in that region I think the prospects for Australia have never been better.
So we certainly will look at opportunities closer to home when it comes to extending the Eagle as well as looking outside the region if the economics warrant that.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then just on the stacked rigs anything worth talking about or just sort of status quo there? I would say status quo there.
[Operator Instructions] The next question comes from the side of Matt Beeby with Global Hunter Securities.
LLC</strong> The 2011 OpEx now is going to be well below the previous guidance.
Can you quantify how much of that original guidance was related to the Osprey startup and maybe some portion that might actually be pushed back into now fiscal 2012? Yes Matt.
I think last quarter I gave you guidance around $245 million to $255 million.
And I think given where we are right now and in spite of having to move some of the O&amp;M spend that we anticipated in the third quarter to the fourth quarter and having a full quarter on the Atwood Osprey I think that guidance for the year should come in at somewhere around a $235 million to $238 million range.
LLC</strong> Anything that was deferred being pushed into 2012 now? I think if you look at the overall year because if we go back to the first quarter the guidance was slightly higher than that.
Obviously given drilling programs planned moves that have been postponed drilling wells faster or slower than anticipated some of that has moved.
And I will expect that you will see some of that flow into next year yes.
But as we all previously mentioned we're going through out budgeting process right now and we'll have better visibility by the end of this month.
LLC</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then in terms of staffing given the fleet additions you're making in coming years you having any difficulty now as you look forward in finding employees to work on the new rigs? Are there any particular challenges that you're seeing? Well we're being real selective about who we hire and as I mentioned in my opening comments we think that has played a part in why the Osprey has come out of the gate so successfully.
I think we've got a great story here at Atwood Oceanics and people we talk to outside this company are attracted to our growth story and our reputation as a safe and reliable operator.
So we feel like we are as advantaged as anybody in terms of finding the right people outside our organization to augment what we have inside our organization to properly staff these rigs with competent folks.
There's no question that there is a human resource challenge in our industry.
I think we're all up against that and so we have to react accordingly and make sure that we're competitive.
We're better than that to get the people that we want but right now we think we're in a good place to find the people that we need to grow our company.
LLC</strong> Okay good.
One more quick one if I can.
Can you talk about your marketing strategy on the Beacon? Are you taking more of an international very high-level global strategy there marketing in multiple areas? Yes I think you have to I mean the Beacon is in South America right now.
As you know the Americas is really not the hottest place for high-specification jack-ups.
There is some opportunities in the Americas that we are looking at that are close to home obviously would have a shorter mode [ph].
But we are seeing a lot of opportunities on the other side of the Atlantic as well so we're going to take a broad look at the market for Beacon follow-on opportunities.
[Operator Instructions] It appears we have no further questions at this time.
Okay.
If there are no further questions I thank everybody for joining our call and we'll look forward to picking it up next quarter on our earnings call.
This concludes today's conference.
You may now disconnect and have a wonderful day.
And welcome to today's program.
[Operator Instructions] Please note today's call is being recorded.
It's now my pleasure to turn the program over to Mark Mey Senior Vice President and CFO of Atwood Oceanics.
Please begin sir.
Thanks Kevin and good morning.
Welcome to Atwood Oceanics' conference call and webcast to review the company's operating results for the year ended September 30 2011.
The speakers today will be Rob Saltiel President and CEO; and myself Mark Mey Senior Vice President and CFO.
Before we begin let me remind everyone that during the course of this conference call we may make forward-looking statements which are not historical facts and are based upon management’s current plans expectations estimates assumptions and beliefs concerning future events impacting us.
These statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties including the risks which are described in the company's most recent Form 10-K and other filings with the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission.
We caution that forward-looking statements are not guarantees and that actual results could differ materially from those expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements if one of these risks or uncertainties would occur or our assumptions are proved incorrect.
Undue reliance should not be placed on these forward-looking statements which are applicable only as of the date hereof.
Now let me turn the call over to Rob for opening remarks.
Thank you Mark and good morning to all of you joining today's call.
I will make a few comments on the highlights from the fourth quarter and the key developments for Atwood and our industry since our last earnings call.
Mark will then provide the details on the quarter's numbers and offer cost guidance for the fiscal year ahead.
I'm pleased to report that our company enjoyed another solid quarter of financial results.
In fact our quarterly revenue of nearly $178 million was the best in our company's 43-year history.
Earnings were very strong as well at just under $73 million or $1.12 per diluted share.
These results allowed us to achieve record high earnings for the 2011 fiscal year of $272 million or $4.15 per diluted share.
Our fiscal year revenue of $645 million was just shy of last year's record of $651 million.
These excellent results are once again due to delivering reliable drilling services to our clients while managing our costs prudently.
Our rig operations teams continue to drill our wells maintain our equipment and respond to our clients' needs in accordance with our expectations as a top-performing drilling company.
This is how we achieved a fleet-wide reliability factor of 97% for the fourth quarter.
I will add that the Atwood Osprey concluded its first complete quarter of operation with a 94% uptime.
Our asset management team in Houston is spending significant time with our rig teams to identify and scope maintenance projects well in advance of their due dates to ensure that potential supply chain issues do not jeopardize our fleet reliability down the road.
Reliability and revenue recognition depend on solid execution and our people continue to execute very well.
On the cost side we are working to manage both onshore and offshore costs even as we expand the Atwood team to accommodate our rig fleet growth over the next few years.
We are adding some very talented people to Atwood who bring skills experience and fresh ideas to our organization however we are very protective of our efficient structure and streamlined decision-making processes and this is helping us to keep the costs in line.
Turning to our fleet operations for the quarter.
We completed our planned regulatory work and associated maintenance on the Atwood Hunter in less than our expected out-of-service time prior to the rig's move from Ghana to Equatorial Guinea.
We also completed maintenance work on the Vicksburg without incurring any lost revenue due to some good planning by the rig and our Houston technical team.
The regulatory work that we anticipated completing on the Atwood Beacon in the fourth quarter has now been delayed until at least this current quarter owing to the extended duration of the drilling program in Suriname.
This past quarter and the month of October we're very busy for our marketing team as we achieve 3 significant fixtures which I will discuss in more detail.
Altogether these 3 agreements added more than $890 million to our contract backlog.
Our revenue backlog stands at approximately $1.8 billion as of November 1 which is approximately 50% higher than it was on this date a year ago.
The first 2 significant fixtures were for the Atwood Eagle and Atwood Falcon as both rigs committed to drill for Apache offshore in northwest Australia.
The Eagle's program is for 18 months and will commence upon conclusion of our 6-month contract with Chevron next year.
We anticipate this to occur around September of 2012 meaning the Eagle will be busy with Apache until March 2014.
The Falcon's drilling program is for 30 months and begins once the rig has completed planned maintenance and contract prep work required for compliance with Australia's National Offshore Petroleum Safety Authority regulations.
We expect the Falcon to mobilize to Singapore our shipyard to complete this work once its current program is completed in early calendar 2012.
I will add that the Falcon has been under contract with Shell in Southeast Asia since 1998 and was recently awarded Shell's Floater Rig of the Year based on its excellent safety and operational performance.
We are very pleased to have received this honor and commend the Falcon rig team for their fine results.
Our third notable fixture was for the Atwood Condor our 10 000-foot water depth semi-submersible under construction at Jurong Shipyard in Singapore.
The Condor's inaugural contract is with Hess Corporation for a 21-month campaign in the Gulf of Mexico.
We are very enthusiastic about returning to the Gulf and to be working with a client with whom we have an established relationship and a lot of good drilling history.
The Atwood and Hess teams are now working together to achieve a safe and reliable delivery of the Condor by late June of 2012.
Once delivered the Condor will mobilize to the Gulf to complete its final field test prior to commencing drilling.
Last month we exercised our option to build the Atwood Achiever an identical drillship to the Atwood Advantage at the DSME shipyard in South Korea.
This latest expansion of our high specification ultradeepwater fleet makes sense economically and it allows us to leverage synergies around its construction operation and maintenance with the Advantage.
The Achiever is expected to be delivered by June 30 2014 at a total cost of approximately $600 million including project management drilling and handling tools and spares.
We have one remaining option with DSME to build an additional identical drillship if we exercise by July 31 2012.
We also retained 2 options with the PPL Shipyard to build high specification jack-ups identical to the Atwood Mako Atwood Manta and Atwood Orca.
These options expire at the end of December this year and we will be meeting with our Board in early December to discuss our next steps.
To close on the subject of our new builds all rigs that we are constructing remain on track with no schedules to note from our previous guidance on budgets and schedules.
Turning now to our market outlook.
Both the jack-up and floater segments continue to see improving activity and demand visibility.
As I have mentioned on previous calls we keep a tally of our in-house quarterly bid and inquiry activity and we are on pace for this to be our sixth consecutive quarter of sequential increases.
Starting with the jack-up segment we have seen an increase in overall demand and utilization of the worldwide fleet and marketed utilization is now at 90% overall and better than 95% for the high spec rigs.
This has led to positive day rate momentum as we are finally seeing rates break out of the $120 000 to $140 000 per day range for high spec assets.
In the deepwater and ultradeepwater floater segments the story is similar.
In recent weeks we have seen the number of data points above $500 000 per day on ultradeep rigs including our own Atwood Condor while deepwater rigs are trending toward the high $300 000s.
New build rigs are being absorbed at an increasing clip into multiple regions and 2012 newbuild deliveries are virtually sold out.
As an anecdote all 3 of the semi-submersible new builds being completed at Jurong including the Condor were contracted since the last earnings call.
On the marketing front with the contracting of the Condor our focus has shifted to the newbuild jack-ups and the renewal of our existing rig fleet.
We are actively bidding the Atwood Mako and the Atwood Manta on programs in multiple regions.
We continue to receive positive feedback from our customers on the technical aspects of these rigs so we feel quite good about their prospects.
Our other 2 high spec jack-ups with calendar 2012 availability the Atwood Beacon and Atwood Aurora are also pursuing follow-on work that looks promising.
With the Atwood Eagle and Atwood Falcon under long-term contracts the Atwood Hunter is the focus floater for renewal after it completes its program in Ghana in October 2012.
We are currently assessing drilling opportunities both in West Africa and outside the region.
My final prepared comment relates to Atwood being named once again to Forbes' list of best companies with less than $1 billion in revenue.
We came in at #18 on their 2011 list and we're the top-rated company in Houston.
On a practical level this recognition affirms our consistent performance to our stakeholders and assists our recruiting efforts for the growing Atwood team.
This concludes my opening remarks so I will turn it back to Mark to provide more details on our quarterly results and elements of our financial outlook for fiscal year 2012.
Mark? Thanks Rob.
Let me now walk you through our financial results for the fiscal fourth quarter and the year ended September 30 2011.
I will then compare this quarter to the quarter ended September 30 2010 and also to the previous fiscal quarter.
Finally I will discuss our expectations for fiscal year 2012.
Our diluted earnings per share for the quarter ended September 30 2011 were $1.12 on revenues of approximately $178 million.
This compared to earnings of $0.99 on revenues of $161 million for the same period in 2010.
This 13% year-on-year improvement in diluted earnings per share was achieved despite 161 fewer operating days during the quarter as the 3 cold stacked rigs contributed an aggregate 200 days in the fourth quarter of 2010 partially offset by our full quarter of operations from the Atwood Osprey in 2011.
Note also that the Atwood Aurora operated for only 3 days during this past quarter.
Financial highlights achieved during the quarter include average day rates of $331 000 as compared to $230 000 during the same period in 2010 and also up $28 000 from the previous quarter.
Excluding the Atwood Hunter's planned newbuild [ph] and maintenance project resulting in 12 days of 0 rate we achieved a revenue efficiency of 97% for the fleet during the quarter and also up 4% from the previous quarter.
Revenue efficiency of 96% was achieved for the fiscal year 2011 and then finally good operating and G&amp;A cost control for the fourth consecutive quarter.
Note that included in other expenses net for the fourth quarter is a $5 million impairment charge on our cold stacked rigs.
Contract drilling costs totaled $52 million for the quarter as compared to $65 million for the same period in 2010.
Operating and net margins remained at 48% and 41% respectively for the current quarter and marginally higher than the margins achieved during the same period last year.
Margin gains from the Atwood Osprey's full quarter of operations were offset by the Atwood Hunter's 0 rate days and the Atwood Aurora being between contracts almost the entire quarter.
Let's compare this quarter to the third fiscal quarter ended June 30 2011.
Revenues increased $15 million or 10% but net income declined by $2 million due to the Atwood Hunter's 12 days at 0 rate due to the planned newbuild [ph] maintenance project.
Looking at the balance sheet capital expenditures totaled $16 million during the quarter and consisted primarily of progress payments on the Atwood Condor and project management and other payments on the other rigs under construction.
During the quarter long-term debt increased from $400 million to $520 million while cash also increased $113 million to $295 million during the quarter in preparation of large CapEx payments in early October.
Note that we target a cash balance of $75 million to $100 million on an ongoing basis.
Our resulting end-of-year net debt to cap was 10%.
I will now look towards fiscal 2012 and discuss our expectations for the year.
First is the Atwood Condor is expected to be delivered by the Jurong Shipyard on June 30 2012.
We anticipate an 85-day mobilization to the U.S.
Gulf of Mexico during which we receive 90% of operating debt as compensation.
The drilling contract will commence immediately upon acceptance of the rig by Hess in Singapore so we will recognize the mobilization of revenue as earned during the mobilization period.
Operating costs will approximate about 70% of the steady run rate during the mobilization period.
Note also that fuel in tanks are for the account of our customer.
Secondly as noted in our November fleet status report we expect to incur 5 0-rate days on the Atwood Beacon during the first quarter related to regulatory inspections.
In addition the Atwood Falcon will undergo contract-specific upgrades after completing its contract with Shell and prior to reporting for its 30-month contract with Apache in Australia.
We expect to spend approximately 95 days on tow too and completing the work in the shipyard in Singapore.
We then expect a 20-day mobilization to Australia at 95% of operating day rate.
Thirdly we totally expect total drilling costs for fiscal year 2012 to be between $315 million and $335 million and around $74 million for the first quarter of 2012.
The year-on-year increase is due primarily to planned maintenance projects budgeted for but not performed in 2011 not projected to occur during the first 2 quarters of 2012; the Atwood Osprey operating for a full year in Australia; expensing approximately 40% for the Atwood Falcon's upgrade and then operating from May 2012 in Australia a higher cost jurisdiction; the Atwood Aurora operating for a full year in 2012; drilling expenses of one month of operating costs on the Atwood Condor during its mobilization to the U.S.
Gulf of Mexico; and finally we expect the annual inflationary impacts on operating costs to approximate 4%.
We currently expect that our G&amp;A expenses for fiscal 2012 and the first quarter of 2012 to approximate $49 million and $17 million respectively.
As you are aware the first quarter is typically a higher cost quarter for us as compared to our subsequent quarters due to short-term and long-term compensation disbursements occurring during that time period.
Depreciation expense averaged approximately $14 million per quarter increasing upon the initiation of the Atwood Condor's move to the U.S.
Gulf of Mexico in the fourth quarter of 2012.
We expect our tax rate for 2012 to remain around 16% which approximates our actual tax rate for fiscal 2011.
Turning to capital expenditures for 2012 we expect to incur approximately $750 million for the year excluding any capitalized interest.
This includes a down payment on the Atwood Achiever which was paid in October 2011 and the final payments on the Atwood Condor and Atwood Mako.
Finally our current contract backlog of $1.8 billion is expected to provide approximately $1 billion in future asset tax cash flows which in addition to our forecast of uncontracted cash flows and the availability under our credit facility plus the $250 million upside accordion we believe we can fund our new book construction program through fiscal year 2013.
The requirements for any additional debt is reviewed in conjunction with our ongoing growth initiative on a regular basis and any further decision with regard to capital structure adjustments will be made at that time.
That conclude my prepared remarks today.
I will now turn the call over to Kevin for questions.
[Operator Instructions] With that we'll take our first question from the side of Dave Wilson with Howard Weil.
Research Division</strong> Rob on the cost front and the 0-rate days do you guys feel you're doing something differently as far as schedule maintenance on the BOP subsystems and the like versus some of your peers where you've been able to have better cost controls and overall utilization? It's hard for me to know exactly what our competitors are doing as a comparison but I will say that we've really gotten ahead of this issue ever since these regulations were becoming clear and the requirements of our customers were being communicated around expectations for BOP maintenance.
I think we've done a good job historically of maintaining our BOPs so we didn't have a large number then that were coming out of compliance.
I think we've done a good job of maintaining spares and I think we've also done a good job of working with our suppliers and vendors to be in compliance.
All of our BOPs are NTL-05 certified and we're going to continue to stay ahead of it.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then kind of switching gears a little bit.
Mark you mentioned the impairment but I wanted to know yes and just to kind of remind us how much the cost drag is on the company of the noncore fleet.
I know we've talked from time to time about the [Southern] Cross the Richmond and the Seahawk but is the option value -- is there still some option value there for those rigs going back to work? On the cost drag as you put it Dave it's about $12 000 a day for all 3 rigs.
So obviously that's de minimis in the grand scheme.
So we believe there is option value there and we are seeing inquiry on those rigs on a irregular basis.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then finally Rob regarding the outstanding new build options I think you know you're going to get a question on these so I'll go ahead and ask it.
After the one that was exercised in October I wanted to get kind of your current take in heading into the board meeting in December on those and if you could frame those in terms of current shipyard costs and your capacity to increase leverage on the balance sheet.
Well Dave we didn't give much away on the last call and we exercise an option so you shouldn't expect anything differently on this call.
I will say that when we entered into these agreements initially with the shipyards we built in that optionality with the hope that we would be able to exercise one or more options and we've been fortunate on the jack-up side to have exercised one option and now we've done the same on the drillship.
There's obviously value in having multiple copies of a similar designed vessel and that's one of the challenges I think our industry has had is having too many one-off designs and now we've got 3 jack-ups and at least 2 drillships.
And we feel very good about where we are today in terms of having achieved the initial goal and entering into these contracts with that optionality with the shipyard.
Looking forward we really have to take a view at when do we feel we've got enough on our plate and versus the opportunities that we've got embedded in those contracts for optionality.
I will say that we want to guard against overcommitting ourselves biting off more than we can chew and in any way degrading the quality of our performance which I made a big deal about in our prepared comments.
So those factors all go into that decision process and you'll just have to stay tuned.
Research Division</strong> Sure sure.
And then one final one on the possible extension of the option on the jack-ups beyond year end.
Do you imagine you have to pay the shipyard or equipment providers to hold those or do you think those will be somewhat free options for the extensions? Yes I think we'll have to see where that all comes out.
We'll go next to the side of Scott Burk with Canaccord.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to ask you about the rates that you're looking at for next year.
You kind of talked about favorable rate trends for both jack-ups and the high end drillships and floaters.
What kind of term structures are you seeing now? Are you starting to see more kind of 2- and 3-year terms for jack-ups maybe 5-year terms for floaters maybe you could get something like that for the Hunter what do you see for term structure? Well I think you're seeing a spectrum of terms out there from one-year deals on ultradeep up to 5-year deals.
I think you've seen the spectrum there.
Our deal is kind of in the middle with 2 years on the Atwood Condor 21 months 2 years with the mobilization.
I think on the jack-up side it's a similar story but definitely the term lengths are growing.
So we're definitely seeing some multiyear opportunities on the jack-up side and as well as some short term stuff.
Clearly when you bring out new build rigs there's a benefit in continuity in having a contracted stum [ph] duration in order to get the rig through a breaking in period and then a period of steady state operations.
It also demonstrates a bit of commitment on the client side to work with us on a longer-term basis and even though we've got 21 months committed with our client in the Gulf of Mexico based on our long history with them and some of their future plans we would hope that that program extends beyond that.
We definitely have a bias toward longer-term programs for the new builds to the extent that the rate structure makes sense and we also have a bias I will add for working with clients that we've got good working history with.
And again I think in the case of what we were able to do on the Condor we were right in the middle of a fairway.
We've got a great relationship with Hess Corp and we think we've got a reasonably good rate structure there as well as a good term.
So that's what we're shooting for in marketing our new builds.
When you mentioned the Hunter in particular again I think we'll have to take a look at what opportunities are available to us.
We're looking obviously in West Africa because that's where we are and where we had been floating between Ghana and Equatorial Guinea but we're also looking outside the region to see what makes sense for that rig.
Research Division</strong> Okay terrific.
And do you see a big discount as you're going from say a 2.5-year term a 2-year term to a 5-year term do you see a big discount in rates when you make that kind of change? Or is it -- you're able to maintain a pretty decent rate level? Well I think it depends on the client and the particular negotiation.
I think some clients have an expectation that if you're entering into a longer-term contract that there should be some volume discount and I think generally speaking the industry has accommodated that.
I think you have to take those case-by-case.
Research Division</strong> Yes okay.
I wanted to ask kind of a follow-up on the charge in those and other expenses what exactly was that charge for again Mark? Yes we've got 3 cold-stacked rigs and as part of our regular accounting treatment we have to assess the value of those relative to book.
And we took the view that the value on the books was higher relative to where they would be on a kind of a fair market value basis and we took the write-down in this quarter.
Research Division</strong> Right I see.
So that's just kind of a sum of all 3 of those not one particular ship? Or one particular...
It was an adjustment that we felt was necessary for given the fact that these rigs have been out of service for about a year's time.
Research Division</strong> Right.
And speaking of that there have been several mid-water contracts we've seen at pretty decent rates kind of in the $200 000 day range in $200 000 to $300 000 a day which kind of seems favorable for the Southern Cross specifically.
You mentioned a couple of opportunities you're seeing for that rig are you seeing an opportunity in that same kind of range or how are things looking for the Southern Cross? Well let me be clear that we're not actively marketing the Southern Cross.
The rig is cold-stacked and demanned but I will also say that as Mark has indicated as well we've gotten some inquiries about reactivating the rig.
And what I will say about that is that when you reactivate a rig that's a pretty significant event getting that rig ready to go especially in a post-Macondo environment remanning it with competent and full crews and so we're not going to do that lightly.
It's going to require a significant contract both term and rate to justify the work that's going to be required to reactivate.
But I will agree with you that the trend in mid-water is very positive.
We are seeing trending up both in the North Sea and outside the North Sea in the mid-water market day rates and clearly that increases the probability that we'll reactivate the rig but I still wouldn't put it in your models.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
All right.
Very good.
And then one final small question here.
Regarding the timing of the delivery on the Condor can you just walk me through -- you mentioned some dates but walk me through when it actually starts making revenue when the expenses starts to hit just so we can kind of model that out kind of on a month-by-month basis.
Yes Scott.
Couple things over there.
Obviously we can capitalize most of the costs associated with the new build but training costs for the crews are going to be expensed so probably starting around about 6 months when the rig been delivered.
It's expected to be delivered by June 30 of next year so as soon as it gets accepted by Hess in Singapore the way we structure the contract we can recognize the day rate and resulting operating costs during the mobilization from Singapore to the U.S.
Gulf of Mexico.
So if that rig leaves July 1 of next year you'll start seeing both the revenue and the costs been hitting the books from that day.
We'll move next to the side of Rhett Carter with Tudor Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Just recently you've seen some signings in the Gulf of Mexico with for example the Condor.
I just wanted to -- it feels like operators are getting more willing to make commitments there and wanted to get a feel for what your sense on the region was and if you saw any other opportunities for your other new builds there.
Well there's no question that the permitting activity has increased in the Gulf of Mexico and is approaching pre-Macondo levels for ultradeepwater deepwater drilling and that's obviously been long overdue but very welcome for our industry.
And the fact that our client has been willing to sign up for a long-term program for the Condor this far in advance knowing that they have to navigate the permitting process I think is a sign of confidence that that's manageable now for deepwater E&amp;P operators.
So you're seeing other rigs as well coming to the Gulf of Mexico that haven't been here before for new programs so there's really a sense in the industry now that the deepwater Gulf is back in business.
Obviously if you look at the rigs that we're building at the DSME shipyard the Atwood Advantage and the Atwood Achiever 12 000-foot highly capable rigs both in terms of drilling and in terms of completions for subsea tree deployment.
Those are great assets for considering deployment into the Gulf of Mexico and we will continue to look down the road as we market those rigs at opportunities to bring them to the Gulf because with that kind of drilling capability the Gulf of Mexico lower tertiary a lot of drilling through salt those rigs are particularly well-suited for that.
Okay.
And then just on the technical front everybody's putting a lot of emphasis on 2 million-pound plus circular jack-ups.
I know you guys kind of have some different thoughts around that and wanted to just hear your thoughts on why you think the 1.5 million-pound hook load is kind of the sweet spot there right now.
Well I could tell you that based on what we're seeing in terms of market inquiries and the opportunities we're looking at for both our existing high spec jack-ups and the new build jack ups specifically the Mako and the Manta we're very comfortable with the design that we've picked.
There are plenty of opportunities out there for those rigs and our view is that the extra hook load is reserved for a very small segment of the market just like we're not in the harsh environment segment of deepwater drilling where we chose to not be in that 2.5 million-pound segment for jack-ups because we feel it's a niche market and we weren't confident that we'd get return on the additional capital.
We'll go next to the side of Matt Beeby with Global Hunter Securities.
LLC Research Division</strong> Rob I had a question you discussed the jack-up market and utilization rates obviously looking better and better.
That might lend itself to potential reactivation of cold-stacked jack-ups.
Could you maybe discuss your expectations or quantify that and then how that additional competition could potentially affect your decision to exercise your options at the end of the year? Well there's no question that the lower end of the market has picked up and obviously the rising tide tends to raise all boats so that's actually been directionally favorable I think even for the higher end.
And most of the rigs that are stacked tend to be lower-end rigs so there is obviously an opportunity for some reactivation of those rigs.
I think that there's always going to be a segment a customer segment and a technical capability segment in terms of the wells for those rigs but we see that as a shrinking segment.
And we see our customers both requesting due to the assurance that they get with the higher spec rigs as well as requiring because of the technical aspects of the wells that they're drilling these higher spec assets.
So there is no question that we may see some reactivation but we don't see it as a significant threat to the progress that we've seen in the high spec space.
Going forward we think a lot of these rigs that are in the stack are going to be frankly uneconomic to reactivate.
The longer they sit the longer the maintenance has been deferred the higher the cost of reactivation.
And again you couple that with customer preferences and requirements.
Again I think it's going to be a small set that make their way back.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
A quick follow-up there what kind of lead time are you expecting as far as finding a contract ahead of the delivery of these new builds? Could you give any color on that? Yes.
We'd like to get as much lead time as we can is the short answer.
We were saying for a long time on the Condor that we would like 6 to 9 months and we basically closed it about 8 months in advance of the delivery of that rig.
With regard to the jack-ups I don't think we need quite the lead time we do on an ultradeepwater floater but we would certainly like to get contracts in the early part of calendar 2012 certainly for the Mako which is scheduled for September and then you can add 3 months to that if you want to think about what our target would be for the Manta.
The Atwood Advantage I'll remind comes out in September at the end of September in 2013 so we've got a bit of time on that one.
We're just a little bit less than 2 years out.
I will also say though that we've had inquiries about the Advantage already and I think that's in contrast to where we were on the Condor because the market has strengthened and people are looking further out now as they think about their ultradeepwater rig needs.
So that's a positive development because we certainly would like to get in early with any client that we're working with on a new build.
We'll go next to the side of Stewart Glickman with S&amp;P Capital IQ.
I'm going to take another stab at the new build option question.
When you look at your fleet say 4 or 5 years out do you have any kind of target if you will for either revenue exposure to floaters versus jack-ups or perhaps operating income floaters versus jack-ups that you're aiming for? Well I've said before that we're going to put more of our capital into the ultradeepwater space than we will in the jack-up space.
Now given that one ultradeepwater rig equals about 3 jack-ups that may not be saying that much in terms of tipping our hand but frankly we feel good about both segments and we think that as we grow our company we definitely want to have a significant presence in high spec segments for both floaters and for jack-ups.
But unfortunately given your additional effort I'm not sure I'm going to tell you much more than that.
Okay fair enough.
Second question you alluded early on in the call today to supply chain I guess trying to stay ahead of the curve on that.
Can you speak to what aspects of supply chain you're thinking the most about whether it's long lead-time items or building out onshore bases things like that? Yes I think it's a combination of long lead items but as importantly or more so it's getting equipment into shops that are required for certification of BOP.
So to get OEM certification which we're now doing across our fleet for BOPs there's just a limited number of shops and you have to get in early and you have to manage the process and you also have to be able to verify the records of previous maintenance so that you don't run into a problem with the OEM saying "Well I can't really verify all that's happened before now and therefore I'm going to ask you to start over on this piece of the BOP." So it's those sorts of things that we're really spending a lot of our time on to make sure that they don't impact our ability to deploy and operate our rigs in the future.
Okay.
And then just kind of one quick follow-up on the long lead time stuff.
Are you seeing those aspects of your operations getting any better any worse than say last quarter? I'm not sure we're seeing much of a trend I think that at least over the last quarter I think we've been seeing this really for the last 6 to 9 months and we've been focused on it.
And so far we've done a very good job of executing against it.
The next question from the side of Judd Bailey with Jefferies &amp; Company.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> A couple of quick questions.
First on the drillship option did you disclose this? I apologize if you did but is that one as attractively priced as the one that you just exercised in terms of pricing at the yard? Are you talking about the remaining option Judd? Inc.
Research Division</strong> I'm sorry yes the remaining option.
Yes the remaining option is similarly priced to what we just exercised.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay all right.
And then next question is one of your competitors this morning announced a 4-year contract for ultradeepwater rig starting in late '13 and I was just curious if you could provide any color with the dialogue you're having with customers for jobs now starting in 2013 and maybe how that compares to what the dialogue was like maybe 3 or 4 months ago.
It seems like it's stepping up quite a bit but I'd just be curious to get your perspective.
Yes I mean as markets strengthened the lead time to fixing contracts lengthens as well and that's what you're seeing is that as the ultradeepwater has increased in terms of demand and utilization our customers are coming to us earlier to have these discussions.
As I mentioned a little earlier on the call we are having discussions around the Atwood Advantage.
The Atwood Advantage is going to be delivered in just less than 2 years' time so we're also having discussions about our rig delivery in 2013.
And again as the market continues to strengthen you can expect that lead times and contract durations will increase.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I assume day rates perhaps too.
They tend to follow along as well.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then if I could slip in one more on the Hunter you mentioned where it may work.
In terms of the potential contract length are you looking at a range of options short term long-term? Can you maybe talk about that a little bit more? We are.
We are looking at a range of options.
We'll go next to the side of Darren Gacicia with Vertical Research Partners.
First a couple things kind of on the broader market side.
It strikes me that if you have a lot of the sort of deepwater rigs tied up in kind of certified BOPs not just you but the industry in general there may be sort of a premium that can be found possibly on day rates for BOPs and deepwater rigs that have BOPs that have been certified.
Is there anything that's kind of skewing supply and demand on that kind of a set basis on the deepwater side that may drive rates above kind of the high $300 000s? I'm not sure I can tie the certification of the BOPs directly to day rates.
I think the focus for those of us in the industry and particularly Atwood is making sure that the rigs that we've got within our fleet are ready to run at all times.
And so our focus is on making sure we're out ahead of the BOP maintenance programs again working with the supply chain making sure we're keeping careful records of BOP maintenance in the past and going forward and working with our clients to make sure they understand what our plan is for for that required maintenance because we certainly want to avoid any out-of-service time because it impacts our clients as well.
But that's about as far as I can go in terms of time our focus on that aspect and how it relates to the market.
Sure.
And then kind of second if you look at -- obviously day rates are moving higher in the ultradeepwater side as people have seen the scarcity of rigs for 2012.
It also strikes me that you have sort of an increase in duration starting to kind of creep in the market as well.
Are people starting to now -- operators now and customers now starting to think about having the rig market being tight in '13 and '14 even with deliveries or is that something that's a little bit further off? Well there's no question there are more deliveries in 2013 than there are in 2012 and I think the focus on 2013 is due in part because 2012 is getting sold out.
I think as we go forward our view is that the talk is going to be about 2013 and the more fixtures that we start to see and discussions that we have about 2013 the more that additional number of new builds that are scheduled is going to get contracted and tightened up.
Keep in mind we still haven't heard anything in a real way from Petrobras about what they're going to do with their rig needs and there's no question anybody's analysis says that if they're going to hit their production targets of over 5 million barrels a day they are going to have to have a lot more ultradeepwater floaters than they've got currently and that their indigenous build program won't be enough and won't be on time to achieve those objectives.
So we expect that Petrobras will enter this market and they will take some of that rig supply.
Keep in mind that we've been adding a lot of ultradeepwater rigs over the last 5 or 6 years.
If you go back to 2005 2006 there were 25 or so ultradeepwater rigs we're over 100 today in the current fleet and of course we're building 65 or so more over the next 3 or 4 years.
So we believe that as this market continues to grow it'll absorb the capacity and we'll be in a good position when the Atwood Advantage comes out in September 2013.
Sure.
And I mean with that if you think that people are starting to get more concerned is it more likely you'll try to kind of hold out on contracting that trying to see if you catch a bigger part of that updraft? Or are you still sort of looking to put it in the contract early as possible? Well we're not very good at holding out when we have good opportunities ahead of us and so we're going to continue dialogue with the potential clients and as and when we've seen the right opportunity the combination of rate and term then we'll enter into that deal.
Keeping in mind that there is an advantage to getting these things signed up.
You have time to work with your client before the rig's delivered.
We'll go next to the side of Truls Olsen from Fearnley.
Research Division</strong> Just a few quick housekeeping items really.
First on the remaining new build CapEx can you just go through that status as of in this quarter? As I've said Truls for the year we have $750 million of CapEx for the first quarter of 2012.
As I've mentioned we've made the down payment on the Achiever which was $155 million.
We also have about $170 million of CapEx payments on the Condor during this quarter and then there's about another $10 million which is project management and some other costs on the remaining rigs under construction.
Research Division</strong> I was thinking about total remaining CapEx including what's to come in 2013.
2013 and 2014? That's going to total about $1.6 billion $1.7 billion.
Research Division</strong> And I think on the Falcon you said that there would be some of the upgrade yards cost that would be expensed could you give us some color on how much that is? The total cost for the upgrades that's about $35 million and about 40% of that we intend to expense with the remainder being capitalized to the rig.
Research Division</strong> Excellent.
And then lastly I just noticed a big increase in accounts payable for the quarter.
I guess that is just related to some yard issues and stuff like that and that's going to get dropped down to the sort of normal run rate levels in the next quarter.
That's correct Truls.
The Atwood Condor is the last we'd actually had progress payments so there's a progress payment that was made in early October that's included in the accounts payable at the end of the quarter.
And we'll go next to the side of Andreas Stubsrud with Pareto.
Research Division</strong> I just have a quick question about the jack-up market.
What do you see out there? Because we get some indication that in the jack-up market the demand is kind of maybe starting to be a little bit flat because the smaller E&amp;P companies the smaller independent e-companies are dependent on financing.
And as you know the bank and the bond market is pretty difficult these days.
Do you see any of that yet or are you afraid of a flat or decreasing demand in the jack-up market? We're not seeing it for the rigs that we're marketing.
We've got the Atwood Aurora and the Atwood Beacon both looking actively at a number of opportunities.
And then as I mentioned before the Atwood Mako and Atwood Manta are also bidding on opportunities right out of the yard for 2012 starts.
So we're not seeing that for the high spec rigs that we're marketing.
Research Division</strong> Okay good.
And with your experience you have some experience here.
Are you afraid of what I'm asking about in terms of the smaller independent oil companies or do you think the total demand based on the commodity prices is good enough? Well there's no question when capital markets were loosened up a lot of people entered the space on the E&amp;P side so directionally the lack of credit does impact demand on the margin.
But again for the clients that we're working with it hasn't been an issue and the ones that we're talking to it won't be an issue.
And we'll go next to the side of David Smith from Johnson Rice.
L.L.C.
Research Division</strong> Sorry if you addressed this and I missed it but what was your depreciation guidance for next year? $14 million per quarter.
L.L.C.
Research Division</strong> And could you please help me understand just kind of how we're walking down from $15.6 million in the fourth quarter and in conjunction with the Condor coming on in the last quarter? The Condor comes on as we said earlier it starts getting depreciated once the rig's accepted by Hess in Singapore.
So we expect that to be at the end of June beginning of July of next year and the Condor should add just about between $2 million and $2.2 million per quarter in depreciation.
L.L.C.
Research Division</strong> And going from $15.6 million this quarter to a $14 million run rate what accounts for that decline? Yes the fourth quarter had some adjustments on the Osprey that we included in the quarter.
That shouldn't be recurring next quarter.
We'll go next to the side of Matt Conlan with Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> This is Chris Wicklund filling in for Matt Conlan.
Question on your most recent I guess contracts have you been able to work in more favorable I guess verbiage or clauses to shield your revenue efficiency against unplanned maintenance downtime that may be incurred on site? Or have there been any changes? I would say there haven't been material changes.
I think that the contracts that we're signing both overseas and here in the Gulf are representative of standard contracts for the industry.
We'll go next to the side of Doug Garber from Dahlman Rose &amp; Company.
LLC Research Division</strong> My first question is on the reactivation cost for your various rigs.
Do you have an estimate for how much it would cost each rig to be reactivated at this point? Yes we do.
LLC Research Division</strong> Is that something you would share at this point? I would say just to give you rough numbers between $5 million and $15 million for each rig some lower than others.
So we think the Richmond would probably be around $5 million Seahawk might be little on the higher end between $10 million and $15 million and kind of shoot for the Southern Cross right there in the middle.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And would you guys need a full pay back on that upgrade cost in order to reactivate it? We would need more than a full payback so we want to make sure that we would be fully covered for obviously all the costs of reactivation and operation.
And we want to make sure that in the event that we didn't find follow-on work if we were reactivating for a particular job that calls for potentially restacking the rig we'd be fully covered.
And then there has to be a significant enough profit component on top of that to justify the effort.
So we're not going to do this lightly.
We're not going to do it on a breakeven basis or because we think the market is turning and we can catch another piece of work later.
We want to make sure that any reactivation is fully justified on its own basis in the event that that's the only work that we get.
And I'm showing no further questions in queue at this time.
Okay.
If there are no further questions Kevin thank you very much for your help on the call and thanks to all who joined.
We'll pick it up next quarter.
And this concludes today's program.
Have a great day.
You may disconnect at this time.
And welcome to today's First Quarter Results for Fiscal Year 2012 Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Please note today's call is being recorded.
Today's program will be presented by Robert Saltiel President and CEO; and Mark Mey Senior Vice President and CFO.
It is now my pleasure to turn the program over to Mark Mey.
Please begin sir.
Thanks Kevin.
Good morning and welcome to Atwood Oceanic's conference call and webcast to review its company's operating results for the first quarter ended December 31 2011.
The speakers today will be Rob Saltiel President and CEO; and myself Mark Mey Senior Vice President and CFO.
Before we begin let me remind everyone that during the course of this conference call we may make forward-looking statements which are not historical facts and are based upon management’s current plans expectations estimates assumptions and beliefs concerning future events impacting us.
These statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties including the risks which are described in the company's most recent Form 10-K and other filings with the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission.
We caution that forward-looking statements are not guarantees and that actual results could differ materially from those expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements if one of these risks or uncertainties were to occur or assumptions prove incorrect.
Undue reliance should not be placed on these forward-looking statements which are applicable only as of the date hereof.
Now let me turn the call over to Rob for opening comments.
Thank you Mark.
Good day to all of you joining us for our discussion of Atwood's fiscal 2012 first quarter results.
I will make a few comments on the significant developments since our last call and then provide some color on Atwood's market outlook and contracting activities before turning it back to Mark for the financial details.
The first quarter saw our company achieved another record for quarterly revenue at $184.7 million which resulted in earnings of $65.5 million or $1 per diluted share.
Because we experienced higher than normal downtime on 2 of our highest revenue rigs the Atwood Hunter and the Atwood Osprey our revenue recognition was significantly lower than we are used to achieving.
In addition our quarterly drilling costs were impacted negatively by certain repair and maintenance items that were more concentrated in this quarter.
The net effect of these 2 factors which I will discuss further was to reduce our earnings below what we had expected for the quarter.
The issuing of our first public debt offering in early January $450 million of 8-year 6.5% coupon bonds was a major milestone for Atwood Oceanics in diversifying our debt profile and enhancing our financial flexibility.
We are very pleased to have completed this offering during the prevailing market uncertainty especially in Europe.
With this initial bond issue behind us Atwood now has the capability to access the public debt markets in the future on an expedited basis should we decide to do so.
The downtime that occurred last quarter on the Osprey and the Hunter was related primarily to subsea equipment maintenance and testing.
The root causes of these incidents have been addressed through equipment modifications and/or refinement of our BOP maintenance and testing procedures.
While many of our competitors have commented extensively on their issues with BOP reliability Atwood has largely avoided significant BOP performance issues.
As part of our operations' integrity initiative we've been working continuously since the Macondo incident to bring greater transparency and consistency to our BOP maintenance and testing.
Three things are worth sharing in this regard.
First all maintenance performed on Atwood BOPs is planned well in advance by the collaboration between our headquarters subsea specialists and our rigs subsea engineering teams.
The work scope parts requirements and testing protocols are all agreed upfront.
Second execution of all agreed tests occurs under continuous supervision that follows a prescribed plan.
There are no decisions about work scope that are left to the authority of an individual subsea engineer.
Also there is no pressure to work fast only to do it thoroughly and according to the plan.
And third the BOP stack is not approved for deployment on a well until both our headquarters' team and our rigs offshore and onshore management teams have given the go ahead.
Like all of our major competitors we assess competency of our subsea personnel and invest significantly in training.
But we believe the rigor of our management process will provide a key differentiation in our performance.
I mentioned at the outset of the call that our drilling services for the quarter were higher than expected.
This is primarily a timing issue as we expected drilling costs for the full fiscal year will come in at the low end of the guidance that we provided on the last earnings call.
Mark will provide further color on our cost outlook in his remarks.
Turning now to operations most of our active rigs experienced little or no change in their drilling programs from our last call.
I will point out that the Atwood Beacon's regulatory work has been delayed further due to extended drilling time in Guyana.
We now expect that the Beacon will undergo approximately 5 days of out-of-service time in the fourth fiscal quarter after the current well is completed.
All 6 of our newbuild projects remain on schedule or ahead of schedule with no changes in budgetary guidance.
This calendar year will be a busy one as we expect the Atwood Condor to be delivered by the end of June and we anticipate that the Atwood Mako and Atwood Manta may be delivered slightly earlier than their end September and end December scheduled dates.
I am pleased to report as well that the crewing for all 3 of these rigs is proceeding according to schedule.
Continuing on the topic of newbuild construction we did allow our 2 remaining newbuild jack-up options to lapse at the end of December believing that we had achieved our objectives already with our 3 high-spec jack-ups already committed.
We do retain one drillship option with the DSME shipyard that must be exercised by July 31 of this year and we have not made a decision yet on this option.
Turning now to our market outlook we are residing a familiar refrain that both the jack-up and floater segments continue to strengthen.
Day rates term lengths and fixture lead times are all moving in a very favorable direction.
With leading-edge day rates for ultra-deepwater rigs approaching $550 000 per day consistently and premium jack-ups in benign environments consistently exceeding $130 000 per day we are very optimistic about our marketing efforts for both our newbuild rigs and our active rigs with near-term availability.
I'll provide a brief summary of our marketing efforts starting with the jack-ups.
The Atwood Beacon is our next available jack-up with a scheduled free day in May after completion of the program in Guyana.
We are pursuing a number of potential jobs for this rig both in the Americas and across the Atlantic and we do not currently expect to incur much if any idle time between programs.
Since our last call we extended the Atwood Aurora for a 120-day program in Cameroon which will commence after completing the current job for Noble Energy.
The Aurora is now expected to be busy until at least October.
We continue to field strong operator interest in both the Atwood Mako and the Atwood Manta as these rigs have favorable delivery windows before the end of this calendar year.
We currently anticipate securing a contract for at least one of these rigs before the end of this quarter.
Moving on to the floaters the Atwood Hunter is being marketed for follow-on work after it finishes its drilling program in Ghana scheduled for October of this year.
Both existing clients Noble Energy and Kosmos Energy have additional work in West Africa that may be suitable but we are also investigating other opportunities as well.
And finally the Atwood Advantage is garnering very serious interest from operators as ultra-deepwater rig time in 2012 is increasingly consumed and more operators turn their site to 2013 rig availabilities.
Based on the discussions we are having and the market outlook that we hold we feel very good about our chances to announce the contract a year or more in advance at the Advantage's delivery in September 2013.
This concludes my prepared remarks.
I'll now turn it back to Mark to provide more details on our quarterly results and financial outlook.
Mark? Thanks Rob.
I'm going to walk you through our financial results for the fiscal first quarter ended December 31 2011.
I will then compare this quarter to the quarter ended December 31 2010 and also to the previous fiscal quarter.
Finally I will update our guidance for the remainder of fiscal 2012.
As Rob mentioned our diluted earnings per share for the quarter ended December 31 2011 were $1 on revenues of approximately $185 million as compared to earnings of $0.81 on revenues of $146 million for the same period in 2010.
This 23% year-on-year improvement in diluted earnings per share was a result of 128 additional operating days for a total of 644 operating days during the quarter.
This was mainly due to the Atwood Osprey operating for the entire quarter in 2012.
Financial highlights that key during the quarter include average day rates of 287 000 as compared to 284 000 during the same period in fiscal 2011.
Revenue efficiency of 92% which is down 5% from the previous quarter drilling margins of 58% and net margins of 35% as compared to 60% and 36% for the same quarter in fiscal 2011.
Contract drilling costs totaled $78 million for the quarter as compared to $58 million for the same period in 2010 with the increase attributed to a full quarter of operations for the Atwood Osprey and the timing of maintenance projects in several of the other rigs during the quarter.
As maintenance costs on these rigs were incurred in the fiscal first quarter while being budgeted throughout the fiscal year we anticipate drilling maintenance cost levels on these rigs in the following 3 quarters of fiscal 2012.
Depreciation totaled $15 million as compared to $9 million for the same quarter in fiscal 2011 with the increase attributed to the Atwood Osprey addition to the operating fleet in May of 2011.
Now let's compare this quarter to fiscal fourth quarter ended September 30 2011.
Revenues increased $7 million or 4% due to the Atwood Aurora operating throughout fiscal first quarter 2012 offset by lower revenues on the Atwood Falcon due to a step-down in day rate was shown from October 24 2011 and lower revenue efficiency on the Atwood Osprey.
Net income declined $7 million due to higher maintenance costs in the Atwood Eagle and the Atwood Aurora's increased cost while operating in a higher cost jurisdiction in West Africa as compared to previously operating in the Mediterranean plus the amortization of its mobilization costs over initial shorter-term contract.
Looking at the balance sheet capital expenditures totaled $257 million during the quarter which consisted mainly of a down payment on the Atwood Achiever progress payments on the Atwood Condor and project maintenance and other payments on the remaining 4 rigs under construction.
Long-term debt remained constant $520 million.
Our cash declined by $205 million to $90 million partially funding the aforementioned capital expenditures incurred during the quarter.
We ended the quarter with a 23% debt to cap down from 24% at September 30 2011.
We will now provide an update to our outlook for the rest of fiscal year 2012.
Firstly the Atwood Condor is expected to be delivered from the Jurong Shipyard around June 30 2012.
We anticipate an 85-day mobilization to the U.S.
Gulf of Mexico during which we received 70% of operating rate as revenue compensation.
The drilling contract will commence immediately upon acceptance of the rig by Hess Corporation in Singapore.
So we will recognize the mobilization of revenue as earned during the mobilization period.
Operating costs should approximate 70% of the steady run rate operating costs during mobilization and some margin as a percentage should remain intact throughout the mobilization in operating periods.
Additionally fuel and tank costs are borne by our customer during mobilization.
Secondly as noted in our previous fleet status report we incurred -- we expect to incur 50 rate days on the Atwood Beacon in the fiscal fourth quarter related to regulatory inspections.
In addition Atwood Falcon will undergo contract specific upgrades after completing its contract with Shell and prior to departing for its 30th-month contract with Apache in Australia.
Currently we anticipate the Falcon completing its Shell contract in early February.
Thereafter it will spend 5 days mobilizing to Jurong Shipyard before beginnings its 90-day contract specific upgrade project.
Before completing this project in May 2012 we then expect a 20-day mobilization to Australia where after the rig will be given its drilling contract with Apache.
The mobilization rate to Australia is 95% of the operating day rate.
Thirdly and referencing contract drilling costs we reiterate our prior fiscal year 2012 guidance of $315 million to $335 million with an emphasis on the lower end of this guidance range.
For the second fiscal quarter of 2012 we anticipate contract drilling costs of approximately $82 million which includes an approximately $4 million in additional cost when expensed on the Atwood Falcon during its previously mentioned shipyard project.
Overall the inflationary impact on contract drilling costs remains in the 4% to 5% range.
Turning to G&amp;A expenses we expect the remaining 3 quarters of fiscal 2012 to approximate $11 million to $12 million per quarter.
Depreciation expense should average approximately $50 million per quarter increasing upon the initiation of the Atwood Condor's mobilization to the U.S.
Gulf of Mexico in the fiscal fourth quarter.
Atwood Condor's depreciation will approximate $2.3 million per month.
We expect our tax rate for 2012 to remain around 16% as it was for the quarter and similar to actual tax rate for fiscal 2011.
Having spent $257 million in capital expenditures during the first quarter we estimate additional fiscal year 2012 CapEx to total $520 million.
Atwood Condor and Atwood Mako represent about 75% of this amount with project management costs capital spares maintenance costs and capitalized interest on the remaining 4 rigs under construction accounting for the remaining 25%.
Of the $520 million we estimate $140 million being spent during fiscal second quarter of 2012.
Finally as Rob mentioned on the January 12 Atwood prices in overall senior unsecured notes raising $450 million.
The net proceeds from this public debt offering will reduce our outstanding revolving credit facility balance providing us with ample liquidity to fund the newbuild program into mid-fiscal 2014.
That concludes my prepared remarks.
I will now turn the call over to Kevin for questions.
[Operator Instructions] We'll take our first question from the side of Colin Jerry with Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I got a quick one.
Just -- it seems that there is some nuance to the kind of the new operating environment kind of in the post-Macondo world as it relates to getting paid for downtime from the BOPs and similar-type efforts.
Could you maybe talk to is there any kind of new language been written in the contracts or newer contracts by definition do they need to be much different than legacy contracts as it relates to getting compensated properly for the downtime as it relates to the new BOP regulations? Yes.
Obviously what you're getting contracts is case-specific depending on each opportunity.
But generally speaking the operators as a group understand that in this environment that we're in proper time has to be allocated to BOP maintenance and that time is extended because of the additional checks and inspections that are being done that were generally not always being done prior to Macondo.
Everybody's risk tolerance is much lower now in the post-Macondo environment than we had in the pre-Macondo environment as it should be.
The other thing that goes on is that a number of our customers are also looking to outside groups to have a third party inspect the work that we do and that all for contract drillers do on the BOP for maintenance and testing.
So they have an extra set of eyes to make sure that everything is being done thoroughly and correctly.
So because of all that there's no question the time required to do what we would have called routine maintenance on BOPs between wells has increased.
Now what we're -- what we are doing as a company is ensuring that each of our contracts that we signed factors that in where we have subsea BOPs so that would be our ultra-deepwater floaters and deepwater floaters.
So that's certainly part of what we're working into our contracts.
And that's certainly becoming the norm for Atwood Oceanics.
We'll go next to the side of Dave Wilson with Howard Weil.
Research Division</strong> Based upon how much you have left on your new build commitments in your cash backlog it looks like you'd have to add at least by my math another $500 million to the backlog before getting in to position to add another new build assuming you want to keep that 60:40 split of funding to through cash flow versus debt.
First I want to know if it's kind of the way right way to look at it; and second if it is would you willing to migrate maybe to a 50:50 split or some other type of funding ratio to exercise that remaining option on that drillship? So I'm going to go ahead and let Mark comment on that when -- as it relates to our financing.
Mark? Yes David that's an interesting way of looking at it we don't typically look at this as a percentage of newbuild CapEx to be spend from cash flows versus what's going to be spend on debt.
We look at it more from a credit metrics perspective how much are we willing to put on the balance sheet with regard to our credit-rating and how much we need to get financial cash flow from operations.
It just so happens that if you look back over the last 6 years from 2009 through 2014 although our $3.3 billion in newbuild CapEx about 2/3 of that will come from cash flow from operations.
I think where you're going with this question is towards the remaining source of option which we have expiring in July of this year.
Obviously at that time management will take a view as to where we are and present that to the board and depending where we are with regard to back contract backlog at the time the board will make a decision as to whether we're going to go ahead and increase our exposure to the ultra-deepwater market by exercising those options.
Research Division</strong> And then one final one for me.
Rob you maybe touched on this on some of your prepared remarks but given the recent contract activity in the jack-up market are you guys still expecting kind of a 130 to 150 per day range depending upon the region of course for the Mako and the other newbuild jack-ups? I think that's a generally a fair mark for day rates in benign environments.
I think those numbers are still good.
Research Division</strong> And Rob given that you guys have already kind of starting to crew up for that rig at one point -- I know we're still more than 6 months out but at what point should we get nervous about contract for that one? Well I don't think you're going to get to the point of being nervous.
I mentioned in my prepared comments that we've expected between the Mako and the Manta we certainly expected that we could see a contract before the end of this quarter which would be 6 months before the Mako and 8 or 9 months before the Manta.
So we're feeling very good about the activity right now.
I mean you can look at utilization rates on the very high-spec jack-ups they're about 99%.
And we're seeing rigs come out of the yard and go right to work.
So there's a lot of interest out there for these high-spec jack-ups.
I would suggest that maybe 1 or 2 calls from now we can have the discussion if it's still relevant.
But we're feeling very good about getting contracts to the Mako and the Manta.
We'll go next to the side of Scott Burk with Canaccord.
Research Division</strong> The other -- actually I was actually going to ask about the exercising the option.
You discussed that a bit already.
One thing I want to clarify the sort of the DD&amp;A guidance for the Condor when that comes online.
Is that $2.3 million per month or per quarter? Per month Scott.
Research Division</strong> Okay and then...
It's just like the cost of the rig and so about a 28-year amortization based upon our analysis.
Research Division</strong> All right.
Okay.
And then one other question just kind of more broadly.
You had a couple of settlement -- or not settlements but court filings or court rulings regarding the dispute over the indemnity clause for both transition of Halliburton over the last couple of weeks.
And it seems to protect -- to broadly support the language of the indemnity clause but it looks like there's still some potential that these companies will have some exposure under the Clean Water Act.
Is there any kind of driver -- do you think that will lead to a change in the contracts where you actually specify you're indemnified from clean water act find as well? So let me first comment on the rulings because we got a lot of questions about this as we are going through our bond offering and have gotten questions from a number of investor conferences.
We were absolutely very positive about the ruling with regard to upholding the general indemnity around pollution.
And we had believed and continue to believe that that's going to be a nonissue for our industry.
I think in the wake of these rulings we will certainly factor those into our thinking going forward and investigate whether there needs to be some additional language introduced or considered but I will tell you at this point that we're still digesting that.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then one question on the Atwood Hunter.
When you look at the rate that you're expecting you had this gradually improving rate environment and -- but you're obviously rolling off of a very high-rate environment from the last contract.
Can we expect something better than what you've received recently for the Eagle and the Falcon or kind of in that same range? Well keep in mind the Eagle and the Falcon were signed for Australia which tend to be a higher-cost area.
But I would you that 350 to 400 for rigs in the Hunter's water depth capability are probably the going rate.
So if that gives you any indication that may be some guidance for you.
Research Division</strong> Perfect.
And what kind of term length would that be associated with 2 years? Well I think it depends on the opportunities that we pursue.
I mentioned in my comments that we've got existing customers who've got some existing follow-on work that we're looking at and then we're going to be looking at other opportunities as well.
So I think you can see varying term lengths.
We have seen some multi-year term lengths for 5 000-foot floaters in the West Africa area.
So it remains to be seen.
It's something we'll be working through over the next few months given that we've got until October for that contract to run.
But certainly we'd like to get some additional term on the renewal of the Hunter.
We'll go next to the side of Brian Uhlmer with Global Hunter.
LLC Research Division</strong> The level of confidence about having over a year in advance to contract on the Advantage seems as if you're fairly far along in the process right now.
Can you kind of get to us a little bit more detail on what's your advantage is for there no pun Intended? Would that rig to get a contract potentially that far in advance for what you're thinking? Well just to remind you Brian I mean we're just here at the beginning of February and that contract scheduled -- that rig is scheduled for delivery at the end of September 2013.
So we're still projecting 6 7 months out in our view that we can get a contract by then.
But I think what's really driving it is the perspective that ultra-deepwater capacity in 2012 and then 2013 is starting to get consumed.
I think a lot of programs are starting to get formed for that timeframe.
And I think there's also a realization that it works best for both the operator and for the drilling contractor when you do sign these rigs up well in advance because there's issues of third-party equipment issues of potential modification for the rigs working through the operating protocols that make it advantageous for both parties to have an early commitment.
So based on where the market is going today in terms of activity and operator interest we actually don't think it's too bold of a prediction to say we'll have it a year in advance but we'll certainly shoot for that.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And based off of that it seems like the confidence level would go up as you get real close to signing that -- to exercise the third option.
Kind of as we look at your cash balance and forecast based on CapEx and what you've given us here would you be willing to tap a little bit further into the revolver ability or absent debt in order to make that initial down payment on the third rig if you did have that contract pretty well locked up? Yes I'll let Mark comment on the financial aspects but just to give some color on how we consider the option we certainly are happy to have already exercised the first option to get the Atwood Achiever so we have 2 identical drillships.
We do have until July on this next option.
And the considerations that will go into -- whether or not to exercise that option will be largely around the market and our contract backlog.
We've got 5 rigs that are under construction that don't have contracts and we clearly want to be able to put up some attractive backlog on those rigs and as well be able to renew our existing rigs.
So backlog is going to be a big part of the calculus for the decision we'll make around the exercise or not of that remaining drillship option.
The other thing of course will be very important just will be our outlook for the market in general.
We'll want to continue to have confidence in the ultra-deepwater the momentum for discoveries and rates and operator interest.
That will also be factored in but discounted somewhat given the fact that we will be looking at a 2015 delivery.
So we are going to be projecting about 2.5 to 3 years out on the decision to exercise that option.
But those are the factors that will go in from a market perspective.
Mark you want to comment a little bit on the question as it relates to the revolver? Yes Brian part of the reason we went optimistically and raised the unsecured senior notes in the first quarter of this year was to give us financial flexibility.
We did not need to do it.
At the time we could have done it at any time between now and middle of next year.
So in the event that the board decides to agree to exercise the option of the drillship we could use the available capacity on the revolver and not need to go to the market again until late 2013 to either upsize the credit facility or increase our senior notes offering in the public markets.
So we have a lot of flexibility a lot of flexibility sources of capital on a go-forward basis and time is our friend at this stage.
LLC Research Division</strong> Right and we're still in the 20% on that option is that correct? Well the drillships have always been 30%.
So that drill will be 30% as well yes.
The jack-up's 20%.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
So 30% so we're looking at 180-ish is what will be required.
It's actually 30% of the turnkey price which is in the 155 range.
We'll go next to the side of Rhett Carter with Tudor Pickering Holt.
Just a question on the Southern Cross.
Is there still potential to destock that rig and are you seeing an opportunity where you can potentially upgrade it to a 4gen? We talked about Southern Cross before -- the Southern Cross is not a rig that we're actively marketing but we have had some interest in the rig especially as we've seen the mid-water markets recover generally.
At this point I think it's too early to make a prediction about any immediate destacking of that rig.
And going forward what percentage of interest expense do you expect to capitalize for us to 2012? Well I think for the first quarter Rhett we capitalize about $4.8 million so around $5 million.
We should see that number increasing somewhat due to the fact that we're replacing variable LIBOR base debt with the 6.5% coupon senior notes.
So that number should increase by that differential over the remaining part of this year.
But for 2012 100% of our interest costs are capitalized.
We'll go next to the side of Anders Bergland with Platou Markets.
Research Division</strong> I just want to go a little bit back on the jack-up market.
And with the current state of 95% of all the premium jack-ups you have let's say it's 95%; on the conventional side 91%.
What's holding the market back for let's say day rates moving above $150 000 $160 000 level? I guess today we saw 1 rig fixed in Columbia for $170 000 a day.
Yes I think rates are definitely moving up.
And our anticipation is that the fixtures we get on our jack-ups are going to continue to proceed northward.
The most recent deal that we did on the Atwood Aurora involve $134 000 with an option at $139 000.
So we are already starting to see momentum toward $140 000 and that's certainly where we're offering our rigs going forward is in that north of $140 000 range.
So that's a -- that justification -- that basis is really what we're using to justify the range of $130 000 to $150 000.
But the question is can we breakthrough $150 000? We could certainly envision that happening.
Research Division</strong> And on the ultra-deepwater side you mentioned yourself it was -- I mean it's sold out for 2012 more or less I guess we'll see the market starting to tap into the 2013 supply as well.
Are you -- or do you see in let's say the negotiations that you are involved in are we talking rates from $550 000 plus or is it $530 000 $540 000 level? Is that where the market is at the moment? Yes I don't want to say too much about discussions we would have underway.
I think it's clear that the market based on recent fixtures is consistently moving towards $550 000.
We've seen some higher rates for shorter terms around the world.
So it's pretty safe to say that $550 000 is where the current market is heading.
And we'll certainly negotiate to get the best rate we can.
We think we've got the best rigs that anybody's building with the Advantage and the Achiever and that we think we'll do well with those.
[Operator Instructions] With that we'll go to the side of David Smith with Johnson Rice.
L.L.C.
Research Division</strong> Most of my questions were answered and I thought I pressed star 2 but I'll throw this one out there.
There's a theory in the market that as deepwater availability gets snapped up and the contractors start getting term contracts on their 2013 maybe 2014 to build drillships that they'll turn right back around to the shipyard with more orders.
And it sounds like your decision on the third drillship option will be influenced by new contract backlog at the time.
Do you expect your competitors will act likewise and just continue ordering new drillships once they're expecting newbuilds are contracted? Well I can't really speak for our competitors.
I will just say that we've got an ambitious newbuild program underway.
Most of those rigs that we're building even though we're in discussions for many of those most of those rigs we're building don't have contracts.
And so for financial prudency we want to demonstrate that we've got additional backlog before we consider exercising the options especially given that the option doesn't come due until the end of July.
But as for our competitors I think it's hard to say from an Atwood perspective what they might do.
L.L.C.
Research Division</strong> Appreciate it.
And if that does happen and we start to see the 2013 newbuilds and then the '14 newbuilds being snapped up what stops the industry from just ordering 20 or 25 drillships a year until funding dries out or the deepwater market is oversupplied? Well I guess the answer to that will be whatever stop the industry from doing that.
This industry has a history of building together or not building together.
And I guess if your question is if there was just an extreme bullishness across the whole space the industry would we see more orders? The answer is absolutely yes.
But predicting the magnitude of that is not something that I think we're prepared to do.
There's no question though the ultra-deepwater space is an aggressive growth phase.
We're very confident that the rigs that have already been announced will be well absorbed into the market because of the growing demand the continued demonstration of the prospectivity in the ultra-deepwater and the fact that even as we sit today the ultra-deepwater is lightly explored.
These are early days for ultra-deepwater drilling in the big scheme of things if we look back 20 years from now.
So we're very bullish on ultra-deepwater and I think that our customers are as well.
And we have a follow-up question from the side of Scott Burk with Canaccord.
Research Division</strong> One quick follow-up.
Where do you -- what do you think the value of that option is at this point in terms of being in the money? Yes I think that's something Scott that we're working through.
Obviously if we exercise the option we want to make sure that it's in the money.
We certainly feel like we've -- we're getting a lot of rigs for the money already and already -- and we're starting to see some inflation creep in.
To be honest I'm not prepared on this call to talk about what -- how much of that is but it will be a factor that goes into our decision to exercise.
When we go to the board and have the discussion one of the factors will be what are we potentially giving up if we don't exercise? And to the extent that a few months from now when we decide to exercise or not that option is more in the money well that clearly gives us more impetus to exercise.
But what's relevant is not so much whether it's in the money now but as we get closer to the exercise date how that option looks.
And we have no further questions at this time.
Okay.
Well if there are no further questions I appreciate everybody's interest in Atwood and we look forward to having our second quarter call in May.
This concludes today's program.
Have a great day.
You may disconnect at this time.
Good day and welcome to the second quarter results for fiscal year 2012.
[Operator Instructions] Please note this call may be recorded.
I would now like to introduce our speakers: Mr.
Rob Saltiel President and CEO; and Mark Mey Senior Vice President and CFO.
Please go ahead Mr.
Mey.
Thanks Clint.
Good morning and welcome to Atwood Oceanics conference call and webcast to review the company's updated results for the second quarter ended March 31 2012.
As Clint mentioned the speakers today would be Rob Saltiel President and CEO; and me Mark Mey Senior Vice President and CFO.
Before we begin let me remind everyone that during the course of this conference call we may make forward-looking statements which are not historical facts and are based upon management's current plans expectations estimates assumptions and beliefs concerning future events impacting us.
These statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties including the risks which are described in the company's most recent Form 10-K and other filings with the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission.
We caution that forward-looking statements are not guarantees and that actual results could differ materially from those expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements if one of these risks or uncertainties were to occur or assumptions prove incorrect.
Undue reliance should not be placed on these forward-looking statements which are applicable only as of the date hereof.
Now let me turn the call over to Rob for opening remarks.
Thank you Mark.
Good morning to all of you joining our call today to discuss Atwood Oceanics' fiscal year 2012 second quarter results.
I will make a few brief comments on our second quarter performance provide an update on our rig projects and discuss our recent contracting success and our market outlook.
For the second quarter we achieved revenue of $171.6 million resulting in earnings of $59.5 million or $0.90 per diluted share.
Our results were driven by 3 positive factors that Mark will cover in greater detail: better revenue efficiency this quarter than the previous quarter operating expenses that were marginally lower than our previous guidance and resolution of a foreign jurisdiction tax examination that lowered our effective tax rate for the quarter significantly.
These positives were offset to some degree by our planned Atwood Falcon upgrade project that commenced in mid-February and is still ongoing which resulted in no revenues and higher OpEx for the Falcon for approximately half of the second quarter.
All in all we were pleased with the quarter's results and the more reliable operating performance versus our first quarter.
Turning now to current operations we've had some changes in rig operation since our last earnings call.
As mentioned the Atwood Falcon is undergoing an upgrade project in Singapore and I'm happy to report that the project remains on schedule.
We expect the Falcon to depart the shipyard by the middle of this month for Australia and the inception of our 2.5-year drilling program with Apache.
The Atwood Eagle has concluded its short program with BHP and has now commenced the 6-month campaign with Chevron also in Australia.
Following this the Eagle will undergo regulatory maintenance work for a period of approximately 25 days prior to commencing its 18-month contract with Apache again in Australia.
The Atwood Hunter has moved from Equatorial Guinea to Ghana and is now drilling for Kosmos Energy there.
The Hunter will remain in Ghana until it concludes its current contract in October after which it will undergo approximately 30 days of 0-rate time for regulatory and maintenance work before commencing a new 3-well program for Noble Energy in Cameroon and Equatorial Guinea.
The Atwood Aurora is nearing completion of its current drilling program also for Noble Energy and will be moving to its next program in West Africa later this month.
There's been no change in drilling status for the Atwood Osprey Atwood Beacon or the Vicksburg since our last call.
Our 6 new build projects continue to make excellent progress.
Our near-term focus is squarely on the Atwood Condor.
We are commissioning the rig's major systems and advancing our crew's familiarity with the rig its equipment and our safety and operations protocols.
Barring any adverse developments we now expect the Condor to be delivered within a month of its original June 30 delivery date.
The Atwood Mako continues to proceed ahead of schedule so we should be ready for operations approximately 2 weeks earlier than our original September 30 delivery date.
The Atwood Manta originally scheduled for delivery by year end is also trending toward an earlier delivery.
And while it is early days for the Atwood Advantage and the Atwood Achiever both drillships are making good progress in the DSME shipyard.
On the subject of new builds I'll remind that we retain one drillship option with the DSME shipyard that expires July 31 of this year.
Although I fully expect that some of you will try to get us to divulge our thinking on this we haven't made a decision yet so we won't have much to add on today's call.
Shifting to marketing since our last call we announced a number of attractive new contracts for both our existing rigs and our earliest delivery newbuild jack-up.
We secured a 3-year extension on the Atwood Osprey with Chevron in Australia that will keep that rig busy until May of 2017.
With the Osprey having less than a year's worth of operating history and being Atwood's first ultra-deepwater floater this significant extension signifies that the quality of our people our assets and our commitment to operational excellence makes a real difference.
As I alluded to earlier the Atwood Hunter gained a 3-well commitment from Noble Energy that will commence after the current contract ends and the 30-day out-of-service period is complete expected to begin in December of this year.
We are pleased to continue our working relationship with Noble on the Atwood Hunter.
The Atwood Beacon secured 6 months of follow-on work that will have it moved to Israel after it completes its current program in Guyana.
And finally we secured our inaugural contract on the Atwood Mako in Thailand a market that is relatively low cost and one in which Atwood has extensive operating experience.
In aggregate these 4 fixtures represent approximately $650 million of potential revenue bringing Atwood's total revenue backlog to a company record $2.2 billion.
Looking forward our market outlook remains very positive for both floaters and jack-ups.
Oil prices remain very healthy.
The world economy appears to be stabilizing and the Gulf of Mexico continues to attract further interest in future drilling activity.
At Atwood we have seen more bid and inquiry activity in March and April than in any 2-month period over the past 3 years.
In the deepwater and ultra-deepwater segment the combination of recent discoveries that will lead to expansion of existing plays and the opening up of new plays over the next few years combined with expanding inquiries for uncontracted newbuild rigs for deliveries in 2013 and beyond confirms our bullishness.
In the jack-up segment the absorption of newbuild rigs continues in an orderly fashion and we are seeing higher day rate contracts being secured for both existing and new jack-ups.
With the success of this past quarter's marketing efforts we've concentrated our future marketing efforts on the Atwood Advantage.
We are very encouraged by the large number of visible suitable drilling programs that are calling for a calendar year 2013 start.
As a result we are discussing opportunities for the Advantage with multiple operators.
We are also actively marketing the Atwood Manta which will be available before the end of this year; and the Atwood Aurora which becomes available in the October time frame.
The Manta and the Aurora are the only 2 rigs in the marketed Atwood fleet with calendar year 2012 availability and we expect that the strengthening market bodes well for securing favorable contracts.
With that I'll conclude my prepared remarks and hand it back to Mark before we open it up for questions.
Mark? Thanks Rob.
Let me now walk you through our financial results for the fiscal second quarter ended March 31 2012.
I will then compare this quarter to the quarter ended March 31 2011 also to the previous fiscal quarter.
Finally I will update you on our guidance for the remainder of fiscal 2012.
Our diluted earnings per share for this quarter were $0.90 on revenues of approximately $172 million as compared to earnings of $1.08 on revenues of $159 million for the same period in 2011.
The increase in revenues is due to 43.5 additional operating days during the most recent quarter while the reduction in earnings per share is a result of the Atwood Falcon's 53.5 0-rate days as the rig continues to prepare for a 50-month [ph] contract with Apache in Australia.
The additional operating days during the quarter were due to the Atwood Osprey operating during the entire quarter in 2012.
Note also that our tax rate for the quarter was unusually low at 6% due to a favorable foreign jurisdiction tax settlement during the quarter.
Financial highlights achieved during the quarter include average day rates of $294 000 per day identical to the average day rate achieved during the same period in fiscal 2011 and up $7 000 a day from the previous quarter.
As Rob mentioned revenue efficiency of 94% up 2% from the previous quarter and contract drilling margins of 54% and net margins of 35% as compared to 58% and 35% for the fiscal first quarter of 2012.
Contract drilling costs totaled approximately $79 million for the quarter as compared to $50 million for the same period in 2011.
The increase is attributed to a full quarter of operations for the Atwood Osprey.
The Atwood Falcon in Korea increased repair and maintenance costs whilst in the shipyard and certain maintenance projects being accelerated on the Atwood Hunter during the quarter.
Depreciation totaled $15 million as compared to $9 million for the same quarter in fiscal 2011 the increase attributed to the Atwood Osprey addition to the operating fleet in May of 2011.
Now let's compare the quarter to the fiscal first quarter ended December 31 2011.
Revenues decreased $13 million or 7% primarily to the Atwood Falcon only working 37.5 days during the quarter due to the rig entering the shipyard in early February as discussed above.
Net income declined by $6 million or 9% due mainly to Falcon's revenue reduction discussed above offset by a lower quarterly tax rate of 6% also previously mentioned.
In addition the Atwood Eagle incurred $3.6 million less in operating costs offset by the Atwood Falcon's increased costs of about $3.9 million during the quarter.
Looking at the balance sheet capital expenditures totaled $140 million during the quarter which consisted mainly of progress payments on the Atwood Condor and project management and other payments on the other 5 rigs under construction.
Long-term debt increased by $80 million to $600 million partially funding the aforementioned capital expenditures incurred during the quarter.
Cash on hand increased $32 million to $132 million.
And we ended the quarter with a 25% debt to cap up 2% from the previous quarter.
Let me now provide an update to our outlook for the rest of fiscal 2012.
Firstly the Atwood Condor is expected to be delivered from Jurong Shipyard around June 30 2012.
We currently anticipate the rig will complete acceptance testing and mobilization preparation activities during July and depart in this 3-month mobilization to the Gulf of Mexico around August 1.
As previously discussed we will then begin earning and recognizing both day rate as well as operating costs during the mobilization period.
As a reminder day rate is 70% of operating day rates and we estimate operating costs also at about 70% of the steady run rate operating costs during the mobilization period.
Finally fuel and tank [ph] costs are borne by our customer during mobilization.
As Rob mentioned the Atwood Mako is anticipated to be delivered about 2 weeks early and to start its contract with Salamander in mid-September in Thailand.
Turning next to other service days we expect the following projects through the remainder of calendar 2012.
The Atwood Falcon's ongoing shipyard projects should be completed within the next 2 weeks followed by a 20-day mobilization to Australia where after the rig will begin its drilling contract with Apache.
The mobilization rate to Australia is 95% of operating day rate.
We expect to incur 5 0-rate days in Atwood Beacon in the fiscal fourth quarter related to regulatory inspections.
The Atwood Eagle is anticipated to incur approximately 25 0-rate days for regulatory inspections and planned maintenance and this in on October of 2012 so fiscal 2013.
Also in fiscal 2013 the Atwood Hunter is expected to incur a 30-day out-of-service after its completion of its current contract with Kosmos in Ghana in late October 2012.
Whilst in the shipyard the rig will complete its regulatory inspections and perform planned maintenance activities.
As to contract drilling costs we reiterate last quarter's guidance subject to mobilization and contract start dates of the Atwood Condor and Atwood Mako.
If you recall we are guiding to fiscal 2012 contract drilling costs of $315 million to $325 million.
For the fiscal third quarter of 2012 we anticipate contract drilling costs of approximately $88 million which includes approximately $10 million in shipyard-related costs and expense on the Atwood Falcon project.
Overall the inflationary impact of contract drilling costs remains in the 4% to 5% on an annual basis.
Turning to G&amp;A expenses.
We expect the remaining 2 quarters of fiscal 2012 to approximate $11 million to $12 million per quarter.
Depreciation expense should average approximately $15 million per quarter increasing upon the initiation of the Atwood Condor's mobilization to the U.S.
Gulf of Mexico and the Atwood Mako's contract start in September.
The Atwood Condor's depreciation should approximate at about $2.3 million per month while the Atwood Mako would add an additional $500 000 per month.
We expect our tax rate for 2012 to revert back to around 15% for the remaining 2 quarters and average 13% for fiscal 2012.
Having spent $297 [ph]  million in capital expenditures during the first half of 2012 we estimate additional fiscal year 2012 CapEx to total $384 million for the remaining 2 quarters.
The Atwood Condor and Atwood Mako represent about 80% of this amount with project management costs capital spares maintenance costs and capitalized interest and the other 4 rigs under construction accounting for the remaining 20%.
Of that $384 million we estimate $194 million being spent during the fiscal third quarter of 2012.
I should also mention we now anticipate recognizing some interest expense later in the year given the timing of the delivery of the Condor and the Mako.
At this time I would guide you to approximately $2.5 million in the fiscal fourth quarter of 2012.
Finally we expect to fund this capital expenditures with cash flow from operations cash on hand and by increase in the amounts drawn under our revolving credit facility to approximately $350 million by the end of fiscal 2012.
That concludes my prepared remarks comments.
I will now turn the call over to Clint for questions.
Clint? [Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Collin Gerry with Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> When I look at your story it's obviously one of pretty big transformation over the next couple of years in quality of the fleet and also just size of the fleet.
Rob help us understand how challenging it's going to be? I just imagine there's a lot of back office and hiring and rig personnel operational staff just preparing the organization for that change how nervous are you about that? How far along in that process are you? And maybe describe some of the challenges and maybe some of the victories you had in getting there.
Well you're right that the process we're undergoing here at Atwood is a transformation in terms of the quality and the size of our fleet and obviously requisite with that is the need to hire people from outside the company who bring in skills and experience that we can leverage right away because we're very much in the midst of this on a day-to-day basis in terms of getting our rigs out ratably over the next 2.5 years.
One of the things that I think has helped us is the way we've staggered the delivery of our big rigs.
So a key hallmark of our organic growth strategy is not to try to do too much too fast.
So we've been committed to delivering one of our ultra-deepwater floaters each year starting with the Osprey in 2011.
We'll have the Condor this year and then we have the Advantage and the Achiever in 2013 and 2014.
So pacing the addition of the large rigs to our fleet gives us some allowance for being able to both train internal people from Atwood to migrate to the newer rigs as well as bring new people in from outside the company.
I will say that because of the exciting things that are happening here at Atwood I think we really have become an employer of choice.
We've had a number of people from outside Atwood but who are in the industry approach us.
I think they're excited about our addition of new high-spec modern rigs and what that bodes for the future in terms of employment opportunities and career opportunities.
And I also think that the success of the company as being a safe and reliable and efficient operator and our relationships with clients also has served us well in attracting new talent to the company.
So we fully take on board and agree with the comment that it's a challenge for a company like ours even though we've been in business for over 40 years.
What we're doing now is very ambitious and exciting.
But we feel very good about where we are in terms of our progress and obviously the results we've gotten on the Atwood Osprey and our clients' commitment to us for an additional 3 years gives good support for the fact that we know how to do this and we'll continue to do it with our future newbuilds.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Absolutely.
Kind of in the conversation of quality of the fleet you guys are building some new stuff.
How should we think -- do you -- is there a market a to maybe monetize some of your older assets; and b is that something that you would look to do over the next couple of years? Well we have 3 idle assets as you know.
And if you looked at our recent fleet status report we have entered into a definitive agreement to sell the Richmond.
It's not finalized yet.
It's conditional on a couple of things but we expect that the sale is likely to go through.
So we do have 2 other idle assets that will either return to work if the market allows but we don't see that happening any time in the near term or potentially will divest those rigs.
When you look at the rigs in our active fleet that are a bit older and you look at our 3 5 000-foot [indiscernible] rigs they all have healthy backlog on them.
In fact we just got a renewal on the Atwood Hunter.
Of course the Eagle and the Falcon are booked in Australia well into calendar year 2014.
The Vicksburg has a great niche in Thailand and we see good opportunities to keep that rig busy.
So at this point in time we don't have any intentions to divesting of our active older rigs.
Because we've always had a small fleet at Atwood these rigs have been extremely well maintained.
And as a result our clients continue to commit to those rigs for renewals.
So no near-term plans to divest of the revenue-producing assets even as we grow our fleet with the new assets we are adding here over the next couple of years.
The next question comes from the side of John Lawrence with Tudor Pickering Holt.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just a question on the Advantage a lot of optimism there.
Would you say 550 is a [indiscernible] an asset? Well as I mentioned in our opening comments we are in discussions with a number of operators and I really don't want to say too much about what to expect on a day rate.
I think you can look to a number of recent markers in the ultra-deepwater market to get a sense of where fixtures have been.
Clearly they're trending northward and they're well above the levels that we anticipated when we made our decision to invest in the rig.
We do feel very good about our opportunities to market the rig and get a contract well in advance of delivery.
So at this point in time that's probably all we're prepared to say about that.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay fair enough.
And then with the Falcon going to Australia you will have 3 rigs in the region.
Could you talk about labor availability down there and wage inflation? I think for the most part you have cost escalators in those contracts is that correct? We do.
We feel very good about Australia.
Atwood has been operating in Australia since 1974.
It's been a core market for our company.
And we had a lot of success there.
And of course now we'll have 3 deepwater floaters there: 2 of the 5 000-foot rigs and the Atwood Osprey.
So we're very excited about our position there.
We think it's a great market.
As I was mentioning in a previous -- to the previous question about our ability to attract talent obviously we've had to bring on some Australian personnel to crew that rig the Atwood Falcon.
And again we've done quite well in being able to supplement the existing team with people from Australia who have been in the industry maybe with some of our competitors but who wanted to join the Atwood team.
So we feel good about our ability there to attract personnel to work on all 3 of those rigs and we're hoping for a long run on all 3 rigs in Australia.
John let me just add for a second here.
The costs in Australia are high but they aren't very high inflationary-wise.
So if you look at our average cost per year they've been going up about 3%.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I guess just one more on the Osprey real quick.
On the extension with Chevron that was part of the original contract right? The 470 extension? The original contract had a provision for an extension at that rate.
And -- but we elected to renew with Chevron because we really want to do again continuity with that client.
We felt like we were getting a fair rate.
We also did modify some of the terms and conditions in the contract as it relates to equipment maintenance and time allowances.
So all in all we felt like it was a good deal for the company.
[Operator Instructions] The next question comes from the side of David Wilson with Howard Weil.
Research Division</strong> Thinking about the ultra-deepwater rigs coming in the market the Advantage and the Achiever I know we're still a ways out on delivery in both.
But was wondering if you had a preferred region to place those rigs I know at the end of the day they're going to go where they are going to go but if you could control it what region would you prefer they were from a cost side? And then I guess I mean access to labor there and then maybe from a more beneficial tax regime? Well a good question David.
You're right we'll ultimately go where the opportunities present themselves.
But we're excited about returning to the Gulf of Mexico with the Atwood Condor.
We've been in this market before.
We hadn't been in the market recently in the deepwater.
And so bringing the Atwood Condor over here establishes the nice position for us here.
Obviously with our headquarters here in Houston a lot of our technical support here that's an area from which we can relatively easily support our rigs.
So as we look at the ultra-deepwater rigs that we're building behind the Condor the Advantage and the Achiever certainly one place that we'll look to place those rigs will be the Gulf of Mexico.
We're obviously very encouraged about the rebirth of the Gulf the ultra-deepwater gulf in terms of the issuing of permits and the continuing prospectivity and excitement I think that operators are showing for this market.
I think you'll see a lot of interest in the Center Gulf lease sale later this summer which will confirm the interest in the Gulf.
So we think that the Gulf of Mexico is certainly a good target area for us to think about for one or both of those rigs.
But clearly you have to include the entire golden triangle.
West Africa has got a number of new areas that are being pursued.
Obviously we're active in -- have been active in Ghana and Equatorial Guinea in terms of deepwater drilling but there's a number of new areas that are being opened up along the Atlantic transfer margin and in areas as far north as Mauritania and then around the Horn there to East Africa as well.
So we'll certainly look at West Africa and at [indiscernible] Brazil certainly an area that we'll continue to look at.
And then over in the east as you know Indonesia Malaysia those are ultra-deepwater markets as well.
So I don't want to be too definitive but I will say that having put a rig into the Gulf of Mexico with the Condor I think gives us some optimism that we can have another rig to join it over the next couple of years.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just kind as a follow-on on that is -- I might have missed it in some of your prepared remarks.
But you mentioned discussion with several operators on the opportunities around the Advantage.
Is it safe to assume that there are some new customers in those discussions beyond kind of your current customer base? Absolutely absolutely.
Yes.
We've got a pretty long list here.
And right now we've got a pretty small fleet.
So we're definitely talking to folks outside of our current client base.
We'll go next to the side of Matt Conlan with Wells Fargo Securities.
LLC Research Division</strong> I realize you're focused on marketing the Advantage at this point since it's due out 9 months earlier than the Achiever.
But are you having significant discussions to get on the Achiever? And aside from little less urgency are there any noticeable differences in the discussions you're having on the Achiever compared to the Advantage? I would say that our discussions around the Advantage typically include the Achiever because they are identical rigs and because the number of the clients that we are talking to have multiple rig needs that will go beyond 2013 starts and into 2014 and beyond.
But the more serious discussions about getting a fixture here over the next few months have centered around the Advantage.
But I do think a number of clients out there are excited about the fact that we're not just building one ultra-deepwater drillship but we're really starting to build a fleet of ultra-deepwater rigs and we can be more of a full-service provider and maybe even a core supplier -- somebody in the ultra-deep and we certainly haven't had that capability before.
So that's really where the discussion of the Achiever at this point tends to come into the play.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And a question about the option trying to not ask anything that I know you won't answer.
But is there a lot of value in the option? Well we think that there's certainly some value in the option.
We've seen our competitors announce some additional drillships that we think don't quite meet up to our technical standards and at rates that are higher than where we think we will renew our option if we decide to do that or extend our option.
So we feel pretty good about where we are in terms of the rate.
I wouldn't tell you that there's a lot of inflation involved there versus the exercise price.
But we do definitely think that there is some.
But what we've said at the outset about our potential to exercise the option is that we wanted to make sure that we still had confidence in the market.
We wanted to demonstrate that we were growing our backlog on our existing rigs and that we still felt very confident in the technical merits and marketability of the previous drillships the Advantage and the Achiever.
And I'd say that on all those dimensions we're feeling pretty good.
We certainly see the market trending up.
We feel very good about the backlog that we've grown on our existing fleet.
And again a lot of interest in the Advantage in particular and as well as the Achiever.
So we are feeling pretty good about where we are there.
But these decisions to exercise an option their board and management joint decisions and it's something that we just won't entertain until later on in the coming couple of months before we make a definitive decision.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
Would you classify the signing of the Advantage to a contract prior to exercising it? Is that just a strong preference? Or is that a hard prerequisite? Yes.
I wouldn't say we have any hard prerequisite just more of a preponderance of that evidence that we would look at to make the decision.
But there's no question that the signing of the contract on the Advantage would be a pretty compelling step toward demonstrating the marketability of the design and of course taking one more speculative rig off our roster.
So from that perspective it would certainly be a welcome addition to solidify a decision if we did decide to exercise the option.
But I won't say it's a hard and fast requirement at this point.
[Operator Instructions] We'll go next to the side of Nigel Browne with Macquarie.
Just wanted to ask piggybacking on that location question.
Just wanted to ask whether you guys view your operating location footprint as a competitive advantage.
Given geopolitical risk and client mix do you see that as being a sustainable advantage versus some of your peers? When you say operating location what...
Particularly just disproportionate not really exposed to Brazil or some of the other higher political risk regions.
Yes.
I think that we certainly are active in a number of the world's markets.
And I think you are right that some areas that have gotten maybe more challenging recently are areas that we're not currently active.
But that's not to say that we don't look at all the markets where we are and where we could be with our expanding fleet.
Obviously as we expand our fleet we're going to have to be more open to look at markets other than those in which we currently are active.
But we do feel good about the Australian market.
I mean we have 3 rigs there.
Southeast Asia has been a good market for us and we're going to have 2 rigs working in Thailand.
And of course where we're working in West Africa Ghana and Equatorial Guinea Cameroon we really haven't had any significant issues there that make us get concerned about those markets.
We're not in Brazil.
And so when you look at it in an aggregate I do feel pretty good about the geopolitical risk at least that our current fleet is facing.
But again as we add to this fleet as we expand our capabilities we're likely to find ourselves in some of these markets going forward.
And it's just something that we'll have to consider as we market our rigs making sure that we balance the risk against the potential rewards.
And Nigel from my side I know political risk is a key part of your question there but if you look at some of the higher inflationary environments right now Brazil Angola Nigeria we aren't in those 3 markets.
So from a cost guidance and inflation guidance we've been giving over the last few quarters we've remained at 4% to 5% with some of the competitors are seeing double-digit increases in costs.
So I think it's a big benefit to us as well in trying to retain margins over the longer term.
That's very helpful.
And just wanted to see whether you guys are observing any pricing trends in terms of all-in costs from newbuilds? What -- could you comment on what you're seeing now versus -- for delivery in the outer years versus what you've seen in perhaps this cycle and the last cycle in terms of all-in costs on -- especially on the floating side of the business? Yes.
As I mentioned in a previous answer from your previous question we haven't seen a lot of inflation.
Certainly in the yards where the drillships are being built those yards and we've been focusing on Korea those yards depend quite a bit on the worldwide shipping and container industry.
And as a result of some of the challenges of the world economy slowing down in that industry there has been a fairly well available capacity in those yards and it remains available to construct additional drillships.
And as a result that's really kept the inflation quite low.
We don't normally see the kind of disconnect that we currently have between rising day rates and relatively flat build costs.
In the last cycle as day rates were moving up to the levels that we've got today the cost of building rigs was moving up to $750 million $800 million.
So as a result of that the opportunity to build rigs of $600 million in a market that's arguably north of $500 000 a day or more on the ultra-deepwater side is something that's a fairly unusual occurrence again based on previous cycles.
And it is one of the driving forces I think for some of the newbuild programs that our industry is undertaking here today.
There are no more questions at this time.
Okay.
Well if there are no more questions I want to thank everybody for their interest in Atwood Oceanics and we'll join for the third -- we do have a question? Okay.
It looks like Clint there is a question that came in.
Yes one just came in from Mike Breard with Hodges Capital.
Just one quick question.
If by some chance you were to exercise that new option is it possible that rig delivery time might be shorter than expected? I think that as you build multiple rigs within the same yard with the same design which is what we would certainly aim to do because the Achiever is identical to the Advantage.
And if we decided to build a third drillship we would basically freeze the design.
I do think there's a learning curve effect.
We've seen it on the semi-submersible that we're building in Singapore because it's a late copy in a long series.
And so we do expect that there's certainly an opportunity for those rigs to come out earlier basis the experience factors that the shipyards work together keeping in mind though that there's a lot of major equipment provided by vendors that is key to constructing these rigs that is oftentimes outside of the control of the shipyards.
So when you talk about the drilling package when you talk about the BOP or the riser those are major components that come from OEMs.
And to the extent that the OEMs have issues themselves in meeting their commitments those kind of things can delay future deliveries.
So I think you have those 2 effects potentially working against each other the shipyard getting more experience and capability maybe to produce quicker but potentially having the OEM's challenge to keep up because their orders have grown as we've gone through this newbuild cycle.
So I think it's one of those things that we will have to watch and have a better view on it when and if we decide to exercise our option.
And it looks like that was the last one.
Okay.
At the risk of another false start I'll thank everybody for joining our first quarter call and look forward to picking it up in 3 months as we review our third quarter call.
Thank you.
This concludes today's conference.
You may disconnect at any time.
Good day.
[Operator Instructions] Please note this call is being recorded.
At this time I would like to turn the call over to our moderator Mark Mey.
Go ahead please.
Thanks Ty.
Good Morning and welcome to Atwood Oceanics Conference Call and Webcast to review the  company's operating results for the third quarter ended June 30 2012.
The speakers today will be Rob Saltiel President and CEO; and me Mark Mey Senior Vice President and CFO.
Before we begin let me remind everyone that during the course of this conference call we may make forward-looking statements which are not historical facts and are based upon management's current plans expectations estimates assumptions and beliefs concerning future events impacting us.
These statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties including the risks which are described in the company's most recent Form 10-K and the filings with the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission.
We caution that forward-looking statements are not guarantees and that actual results could differ materially from those expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements if one of these risks and uncertainties were to occur or assumptions prove incorrect.
Undue reliance should not be placed on these forward-looking statements which are applicable only as of the date hereof.
Now let me turn the call over to Rob for his opening remarks.
Thanks Mark and good morning to all of you joining on this morning's call.
I'll discuss Atwood's principal accomplishments in the third quarter which was indeed a good one for us and provide an overview of the offshore drilling market and our marketing priorities.
We definitely had a strong third quarter financially and operationally as we achieved revenue of $178.6 million and earnings of $51.7 million or $0.79 per diluted share.
The revenue result was our third highest quarter ever despite the fact that the Atwood Falcon missed 43 operating days due to completion of a shipyard project and experienced a further 29 days at a reduced standby rate after the work was completed.
Much of the credit for our good performance goes to our rig operations teams as we improve our overall fleet revenue efficiency by 100 basis points versus the second quarter to nearly 95%.
It is worth noting that the Atwood Osprey achieved nearly 97% revenue efficiency while our 3 jack-ups were at a collective 98%.
I also want to comment on the fine performance of our project teams.
As we transform and expand Atwood's rig fleet delivering new build rigs on time and on budget is critical to our success.
At the same time we must also maintain our legacy fleet to a high standard sometimes with extensive shipyard projects to maintain our quality service and achieve higher revenue recognition on our contracts.
In the third quarter we demonstrated that our project planning and execution remains outstanding for both new build rigs and our existing fleet and is definitely a core competency for our company.
Let me start with a discussion of our new build projects.
Clearly our most significant project achievement in the third quarter was the delivery of the Atwood Condor our 10 000-foot water depth Dynamically Positioned Semisubmersible a full 2 days ahead of schedule on June 28.
Our project management team did a fantastic job in delivering the Condor early without compromising on the thoroughness of system commissioning or the quality of the finishing work.
Excellent collaboration between our projects and operations teams the Jurong Shipyard and our client Hess Corporation made this milestone possible.
Our success in delivering the Atwood Osprey in 2011 was leveraged as we replicated our crew indoctrination process for the Condor team to ensure full understanding of and commitment to safety and operations excellence.
With each new build rig that Atwood delivers our project team applies the lessons learned to improve our future rig deliveries.
Our first 2 new build Pacific Class 400 jack ups the Atwood Mako and Atwood Manta continue to trend  approximately 1 month ahead of their original project schedules.
Our crewing of these 2 rigs is keeping pace with the expected earlier rig deliveries so we should go to work with each rig earlier as well.
Although not due until June 2013 the Atwood Orca is also ahead of its construction schedule.
The Atwood Advantage and Atwood Achiever drillships continue to make excellent progress in the DSME shipyard in South Korea with no changes in schedule or budget from our previous guidance.
Since our last earnings call we have extended our 1 remaining drillship option with the DSME shipyard by 2 months until the end of September.
The construction cost and delivery schedule associated with this option expansion remain unchanged.
We remain hopeful that we will exercise this option and add a third drillship to our fleet.
Now let me discuss the key projects impacting our existing fleet.
As I touched on previously the Atwood Falcon completed a major upgrade project last quarter and did so on time and under budget.
The work scope was quite extensive as we rebuilt and upgraded the living quarters painted the entire exterior of the hull and overhauled the major equipment.
The Falcon looks great and is now operating for Apache in Australia under a 30-month contract that commenced in mid-May.
Mark will elaborate further but we have successfully deferred the previously scheduled 30 days of Atwood Hunter out-of-service time scheduled for the first quarter of fiscal 2013.
Our team will now complete the required regulatory work while the Hunter remains in service resulting in no planned out-of-service time for the rest of calendar 2012.
We are currently assessing a potential out-of-service period for the Hunter that may occur in late calendar year 2013 or early calendar year 2014 after the rig completes its contracted drilling program.
The Atwood Eagle's planned upgrade and maintenance work for compliance with Australian regulatory standards remains on target for November of this year.
We still expect approximately 25 0 rate days for completion of this work.
And finally the Atwood Beacon has finished drilling in Guyana and is now in Trinidad finishing up some regulatory inspections there before departing for Israel in about a week's time.
Shifting now to the markets.
Since our last earnings call we announced new contracts for the Atwood Aurora and the Vicksburg.
On the Aurora we secured 3 shorter-term extensions at rates exceeding $150 000 per day that will keep that rig busy in West Africa through August of 2013.
We also signed a 1-year extension on the Vicksburg at an improved rate schedule that will see it drilling offshore Thailand through the end of calendar year 2013.
As of August 1 our revenue backlog stands at $2.1 billion.
Looking forward the outlook for ultra-deepwater deepwater and jack up segments continues to improve.
The ultra-deepwater space in particular has been red-hot resulting in numerous fixtures at rates in the high 500s and low 600s amid increasing term lengths.
Operators are very focused on securing their 2013 ultra-deepwater rig requirements as the market heats up and available capacity is absorbed.
These developments bode very well for our marketing of the Atwood Advantage which is scheduled for delivery in September 2013.
Although we don't have a contract to announce on this call there are a number of ultra-deepwater drilling programs with a late calendar year 2013 start up that are well-suited for the Advantage's capabilities.
We feel good about where the ultra-deepwater market is today and our ability to secure an attractive initial contract for the Advantage.
Shifting to the high specification jack-up space we see rates moving up nicely there as well as operators continue to show a preference for newer more capable assets.
We are actively marketing the Atwood Manta and remain optimistic that this rate will land a solid initial contract for commencement in the December timeframe.
For calendar year 2013 the Atwood Beacon and Atwood Orca both have availability in the first half of the year.
We see a significant number of attractive prospects in Southeast Asia Australia the Middle East the Med and West Africa that line up nicely with these rigs' availability windows.
I want to close my prepared comments by saying that our company has made considerable progress since we announced the building of our first 2 Pacific Class jack-ups in October of 2010.
Since that time we have delivered our first 2 ultra-deepwater semisubmersibles from the shipyard within budget and operated the first for over a year safely and reliably.
We have committed to build a further high specification jack-up as well as our first 2 ultra-deepwater drill ships.
And we have enhanced our financing sources to make this possible.
Our onshore and offshore organizations have expanded in capability and size as energetic and experienced people have joined the Atwood team.
The execution of our company's growth strategy has been excellent thus far and we owe our early success to the dedication and hard work of our people worldwide.
They are the reason we are positioned for a very bright future.
On this positive note I'll hand it back to Mark who will do his best to maintain the momentum before we open it up for questions.
Mark? Thanks Rob.
I will spend my time this morning by providing a little color on this quarter's operating results explaining variance between this quarter and the previous quarter and update guidance for the fiscal fourth quarter 2012.
Our diluted earnings per share for the quarter ended June 30 2012 with $0.79 on revenues of approximately $179 million as compared to earnings of $1.15 on revenues of $162 million for the same period in 2011.
The increase in revenues is due mainly to 58 additional operating days during the most recent quarter.
The increase in operating days is driven by the Atwood Osprey operating the entire quarter in 2012 as compared to 35 days in 2011.
And the Atwood Aurora operating an additional 46 days as compared to the same quarter in 2011.
This was partially offset by the Atwood Falcon's 43 0 rate days whilst in the shipyard in Singapore operating for a steady month contract with Apache in Australia.
The reduction in earnings per share is a result of a loss of revenue and increased maintenance costs for the Falcon during its aforementioned shipyard stay.
Highlights from the third quarter includes: Average day rates increased almost $6 000 per day to $301 000 per day revenue efficiency increased almost 1% to 95% revenues increased $7 million or 4% due to improved revenue efficiency on the Atwood Osprey the Atwood Falcon working additional 4 days versus the prior quarter and a higher day rate in Australia and the Aurora operating its current day rate of $167 000 or 49 days in Cameroon during this quarter.
Net income declined by $7.8 million or 13% due mainly to the Falcon's increased maintenance costs during its 97-day shipyard stay.
Note also that the Falcon spent 29 days on standby rate waiting on environmental permits before beginning operations in Australia a reminder of the reexhibited good revenue efficiency and tight cost control during the quarter.
Focusing on our fleet transformation and growth initiatives capital expenditures totaled $197 million during the quarter which consisted mainly of final payments on the Atwood Condor.
Long-term debt increased by $55 million to $655 million partially funding the aforementioned capital expenditures incurred during the quarter.
As a result of partially funding these capital expenditures cash on hand decreased by $53 million to $79 million and we ended the quarter with a debt to cap of 26%.
Let me now provide an update to our outlook for the rest of fiscal year 2012.
Firstly as Rob mentioned earlier the Atwood Condor was delivered on time and on budget on June 28 and began its mobilization to the U.S.
Gulf of Mexico on July 2.
We expect the rig to arrive and begin operations in the U.S.
Gulf of Mexico in mid-October.
As previously discussed we are currently earning and recognizing both day rates as well as operating expenses during the mobilization period.
As a reminder mobilization day rate is 70% of our operating day rate and we estimate operating cost of approximately $125 000 per day during the mobilization period plus reimbursable costs.
Secondly the Atwood Mako is now anticipated to be delivered approximately to 4 weeks early and to start its contract with Salamander in early September in Thailand.
Other operating costs may run a little higher during the first few weeks as we intend to have several service personnel available to assist with any potential equipment shakedown issues.
Turning next to other service days we expect the following projects for the remainder of calendar year 2012.
We expect to incur 508 days on the Atwood Beacon in early August related to these regulatory inspections prior the rig mobilizing to Israel for its 6-month contract to Shemen Oil and Gas.
We plan to report Trinidad on August 8 and anticipate a 20-day mobilization period through the Mediterranean.
The Atwood Eagle is expected to incur approximately 25 0 rate days for regulatory inspections and planned maintenance in December 2012.
During the previous earnings call and as noted in our July fleet status report we anticipated that the Atwood Hunter would incur 30 days out of service after the completion of its current contract with Cosmos in October 2012.
We've concluded that we can perform these planned maintenance activities whilst operating.
So we no longer expect that we have any out-of-service time for the remainder of this calendar year.
Note that the majority of these maintenance activities would occur during the fourth quarter.
Maintenance cost for the Hunter should be $2 million to $3 million higher than as typical quarterly run rate.
To summarize for the fiscal fourth quarter of 2012 we anticipate contract drilling cost for the 7 operating rigs as of the fiscal third quarter to remain flat quarter-on-quarter adjusted for the Hunter's maintenance activities mentioned above and the Beacon's mobilization to Israel.
In addition we need to factor in 3 months of mobilization costs for the Atwood Condor and 4 weeks of operating costs for the Atwood Mako.
Turning to G&amp;A expenses.
We expect the fourth quarter to approximate the third quarter at around $11.5 million to $12 million.
Depreciation expense should increase from the current level upon the initiation of the Atwood Condor's mobilization on July 2 and the Atwood Mako's contracts start in September 2012.
Atwood Condor's depreciation will approximate $2.5 million per month while the Atwood Mako will add an additional $500 000 per month.
We expect our tax rate for 2012 to average 14% with the fiscal fourth quarter averaging around 14.5%.
Capital expenditures year-to-date totaled $594 million.
We estimate additional fourth quarter CapEx to total $190 million with the Atwood Mako's final ship log time into August representing the vast majority of this amount.
The remainder comprised of project management costs crude costs capital spares and maintenance costs and capitalized interest on our mainly 4 rigs under construction plus the capitalization of our SAP software implementation.
Finally we anticipate recognizing some interest expense in the fourth quarter as a result of delivery of the Condor and the prospective delivery of the Atwood Mako in late August.
At this time I would guide you to between $3 million to $4 million in the fiscal fourth quarter.
Regarding our capital structure we anticipate ending the year with a long-term debt balance of around $800 million.
Recognizing the need to exercise our $350 million accordion option included in our $1.1 billion revolving credit facility we remain fully financed for all future capital expenditures through the delivery of the Atwood Achiever in 2014.
That concludes my prepared remarks.
I will now turn the call back to Ty for questions.
[Operator Instructions] And our first question comes from Todd Scholl with Clarkson Capital.
Research Division</strong> I was wondering if you guys could maybe talk a little bit about how you guys are handicapping the decision when it comes to contracting the Advantage versus your desire to go -- return to the shipyard.
Obviously as the market tightens I think you have a little more strength in arguing day rates but at the same time you have the option that now expires in September.
So does that make you a little more anxious in terms of getting the Advantage to work? Thanks Todd.
No I wouldn't describe us as anxious to get the Advantage to work.
We've been saying for a while that we want to make sure we get the right contract for the rig the right combination of both term and day rate.
And with what we've seen in the market recently as I discussed in my prepared comments the ultra-deepwater space is really heated up over the past few months.
So this has really strengthened our view of where we will end up in terms of our initial contract with the Advantage.
So rather than anxious I think we're quite encouraged by the market developments and the opportunities for getting a contract for the Advantage.
Clearly the reason we have extended the option with the DSME shipyard is because we have a hope of exercising that option.
We think adding a third highly-capable drillship to our fleet makes sense for Atwood and for continuation of our growth strategy so obviously we want to do everything we can to preserve that.
At this point we haven't made a decision about whether to exercise that option.
Again we hope that we'll be able to do that but at the same time we also want to work on getting our contract for the Atwood Advantage.
So I hope that gives you some color on our thinking around our desire to increase our fleet size but at the same time our optimism about where we are with the Atwood Advantage.
Research Division</strong> Sure.
Yes that's helpful.
And then also could you maybe remind us of the terms on the option that you have in terms of what is the delivery date and what is the cost for that option again? Yes.
The cost for the option is similar to the cost for what we have on the Advantage and the Achiever approximately $600 million plus or minus and the delivery is early 2015.
And our your next question comes from Dave Wilson with Howard Weil.
Research Division</strong> Real quick kind of following up on the option question just on your answer from the last question.
Basically the market getting hotter kind of -- did it change your mind about the option or did this -- say okay we need to give it a few more months to see if we really want to exercise this? I think really where we are with the option is that we want to make sure that we're confident as the management team that's exercising the option that we've got our backlog where we want it and we have our contracts where we want them in terms of our new builds.
We still have 2 jack-ups in both drillships that don't have contracts so clearly we're looking to build backlog and to secure some firm contracts on those rigs.
The fact that we have the opportunity to extend the option with no cost to us or change in conditions made it compelling to do that at this time but that doesn't change our desire to want to extend that option -- sorry to exercise that option and to add a third drillship to our fleet.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then another one kind of given the strength in the market have the discussions around the Achiever gotten more serious given the contracting activity over the past 3 months? I know the delivery is a little farther out but just wanted to know if discussions around that one have increased.
Yes.
Things have definitely increased and we are seeing more programs become visible for the 2014 timeframe.
I will tell you though that our focus is really on the Advantage at this point.
But obviously the strength that we're seeing for the 2013 market I think bodes well for the 2014 market as well and our prospects for the Achiever have certainly improved as this market has strengthened.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Great.
And then one more if I could sneak one in here.
Any update on the Southern Cross from a marketing perspective either going back to work or actually selling the rig? Yes.
As you know we're not actively marketing the Southern Cross.
We continue to field inquiries for potential reactivation opportunities.
As we said before we want to be very particular about any decision to reactivate an idle rig given the challenges and opportunities we have on our plate with our new build program.
But we certainly have seen a number of opportunities come to us.
At the same time we've had some inquiries about potentially purchasing the rig.
And given that we just sold the Richmond this past quarter we would certainly look if we got the right number to entertain those thoughts on our idle rigs.
But at this point we don't have anything to announce that's firm.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So basically status quo on that rig? Status quo with the exception of the marketing opportunities I think have improved a bit as the market has strengthened.
But as I say our posturing on returning that rig to service hasn't changed.
And our your next question comes from Ian Macpherson with Simmons.
Research Division</strong> It strikes me that when we've seen some of the recent ultra-deepwater contract signings that there almost appears to be an arbitrage in the cash margin associated with different theaters of operation in terms of what the expected operating cost differentials are relative to the day rate differences.
Do you agree with that? Do you think that there are markets for your drillships that are clearly more economically advantaged where you're focusing? There's no question Ian.
We certainly look to maximize our after-tax cash flow when we bid our rigs and so you have to take into account operating cost tax regimes and the like when you look at different geographies.
Clearly some geographies are more expensive than others and more recently we've seen different rates of inflation in some markets than others.
Just as an example we have a heavy concentration of rigs in the Australia market 3 floaters now working there.
And we're seeing very modest inflation in that market in terms of wage rates.
Whereas if you look at Brazil or some of the other markets you've seen much greater inflation rates.
So we certainly factor that in.
And I think where you've seen recent announcements for rates in one part of the world versus another within the same contract and you see one higher than the other it's trying to account for these cost differences between markets.
Research Division</strong> Having said that have you identified a small list of places where you think you're likely to contract? Well we're really looking to get the best contract for the Advantage so we haven't eliminated any theaters of operation.
We are certainly focused on the Golden Triangle.
I think it's fair to say that that's where the bulk of the ultra-deepwater demand has been and will continue to be going forward.
But we're going to look at all opportunities and assess them accordingly.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Is the Hunter in play for a new contract within mid-2013 rollover at this point? Yes.
The Hunter is actually booked through about September of 2013 based on estimates for the well programs that we have in finishing up our current program and as well as for the follow-on work with Noble that was extended.
We actually think that could go longer.
But we're showing on our fleet status September '13 with any kind of delays or exercise of an option it could go further than that.
So we're into late '13 for Hunter availability but I will tell you that we've already had some inquiries on follow-on work for that rig so we feel very good about its position in West Africa and opportunities to keep that rig fully employed into 2014.
And our next question comes from Waqar Syed with Goldman Sachs.
On the next drillship that you may consider ordering would you go with the dual BOP or would you stick with a single BOP on the rig? Waqar at this point we are not committing to a second BOP in terms of our offerings.
But I will tell you that we are seeing a lot of interest from clients in having a 2 BOP system.
A number of our competitors have employed that.
And I think with the focus on BOP reliability and the desire for redundancy of BOP systems to perform maintenance and repair work off-line and to eliminate nonproductive time the 2 BOP system is pretty compelling.
So we continue to be flexible in our ability to offer that and obviously if we do that we want to get compensated for it.
So it's definitely part of our thinking.
Now on the rigs that are under construction already is there a way to retrofit them with the 2 BOPs or no it's the 2 advancement [ph] designs now? So the Atwood Advantage and the Atwood Achiever are both designed to handle 2 BOP systems.
So we have that capability built into the design.
Okay.
But did you order 2 BOPs or not yet for those 2? We're in the process of assessing that.
Okay.
And then just on inflation you touched about on that briefly but what are you seeing now in terms of labor cost inflation and also material and supply? Waqar this is Mark.
As we've been guiding on the previous conference calls we've seen inflation in that 4% to 5% range.
We've been seeing increases in labor costs in a 3% to 5% range.
And on some of the capital equipment closer to 5%.
But overall it's still around 4% to 5%.
And our next question comes from Brian Uhlmer with Global Hunter.
LLC Research Division</strong> I've got a couple of real easy rig-specific questions.
I just wanted to double check on this.
You made a comment about the -- I'm scribbling so was it Eagle or the Hunter on not having to go out of service and into the yard? It was the Hunter.
LLC Research Division</strong> So the Hunter is going to have 0 down days.
Can you dig into that a little bit more and just kind of explain what happened and what type of work you're doing that you could figure out how to not have to go into the yard and save a bunch of money there? Yes.
We had a class inspection that was coming up for the rig.
We had thought that as part of that inspection we might have some maintenance work that required out of service.
As it turns out we've been able to do that maintenance while we've been in service so we're getting through our class inspection without a need to idle the rig.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And now the Eagle is expected to be out of service as well.
Is there something similar that can happen with that or is that still going to be out of service? No Brian.
As we indicated on the prepared comments that those 25 days we're going to have to do.
Due to the nature of work we're going to have to take it out of service to perform those activities.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
Great great.
That's what I thought I just wanted to double check.
And then on Falcon can you update what percent of the quarter do you think it will end up working in 4Q? Should we see a pre -- or beyond day rate not necessarily working? Can you give an update on that? Yes the Falcon came on the shipyard in early May and started work -- started its contract with Apache in mid-May.
So it's anticipated to work the entire quarter at the current $385 000 per day in Australia.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
Actually I was trying to rectify versus last -- the current quarter because that's where ...
That's 43 0 [ph] rate days in there.
LLC Research Division</strong> 43? Okay.
Cool.
Outstanding.
So I can get the out cost [ph] lined up.
And our next question comes from John Lawrence with Tudor Pickering Holt.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just a follow-up on the BOP questioning if you guys were to order a spare BOP for maybe Advantage what would the lead time be on that and could you get 1 by delivery date? The lead times on spare BOPs are fairly extensive.
Obviously given the fact that we've already committed to 2 new build drillships with the same manufacturer for the BOP equipment we feel like we've got pretty good access to understanding those delivery schedules.
At this point we believe we can get BOPs -- second BOPs potentially for both rigs in time for the delivery based on their current schedule.
So we're certainly within a window to be able to offer 2 BOPs on both of those rigs if we decide to do that.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Great.
And then just question on the new build jack-ups.
All those look like they're coming out ahead of schedule does that mean anything at all from a cost-savings perspective? No there's no cost savings there John.
As you know that contract was structured with a 20-80 payment terms.
So upon delivery we paid 80% and maybe saved a little bit in capitalized interest but that's really de minimis.
[Operator Instructions] And our next question comes from Nigel Browne with Macquarie.
Just had -- wanted to follow-up on the cost inflation question.
You guys quoted a 4% to 5% blended.
Any additional color on that? Is there any specific part of the workforce where you're seeing the main driver of that number or any particular geography? Nigel let me give you a little color on that.
Our labor increases in Australia are tied to our political [ph] bargaining agreement and that's tied to the Australian CPI.
So in the spring of this year the increase that was passed through was about 3%.
Currently CPI is running at 1.9% in Australia.
So if it stays around that level you're going to see a sub-2% increase for 3 of our floating rigs down in Australia.
Elsewhere labor rate increases have been at 3% to 5% range and as it currently stands we'll be projecting for the remainder of this year.
We've just started up budgeting for fiscal 2013 and as we work through that we may have additional guidance later.
But at this stage we're going to see inflation much above 5%.
All right.
Well I guess you answered my second question which is looking at 2013 in terms of your maintenance CapEx any initial thoughts on what that number would look like versus what the 2012 looks like? Nigel it's going to be higher obviously because we're going to have the Condor working the Mako is coming out the Mantra is coming out.
So on a per rig basis I don't expect to see any dramatic changes.
But it's all premature now for us to be able to give you a good guidance as to what the number will be for the full year.
[Operator Instructions] And our next question comes from Collin Gerry with Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I just had a quick one.
It seems you all have a pretty strong track record of putting up really exceptional kind of revenue efficiency numbers.
And I don't know if we all calculate that on the same basis but either way that's out in your revenue numbers.
I was just curious how are you guys doing this? And is this something that's cultural within Atwood? Is it something that's operational? Is familiarity with the rigs? And how do you keep that momentum going as we look to a very stout growth plan? Well good question Collin.
I think the short answer is execution matters a lot here at Atwood Oceanics.
We've put a lot of emphasis on delivering a quality consistent drilling service and what's very important to our clients is making sure that our rigs are reliable and available to drill their programs so they're not incurring lost time drilling their wells waiting on us to get our equipment to work.
I think we've done a very good job over the years and continue to do a good job of maintaining our equipment to a high standard.
The example that we've cited on this call is the investment we made in the Atwood Falcon putting that in the shipyard for over 90 days and getting it ready for a 2.5-year program.
That rig looks fantastic even though it has been operating for quite some time and it will continue now with a high revenue recognition because it's in great shape for its follow-on program.
So this is a real part of our story.
I think it's a point of differentiation relative to a number of our competitors who struggle with high revenue efficiency.
And I think the fact that you see that so many of our contracts are extensions by existing clients that are direct negotiated is a sign of their appreciation for what we offer in the way of differentiated drilling services.
So I'm glad that you've noticed the work that we're doing.
Again the credit goes to our rig operations teams around the world.
They really bust their tails to provide the best service.
And obviously when they do that it translates to the bottom line.
So again thanks for bringing that up.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Well yes no problem I mean but it shows up on the numbers.
And just to dig a little deeper I think you're right that it is turning into a differentiator just from a numbers perspective you versus your peers.
I guess maybe a little bit more specifically do you think that Atwood does things differently at the rig level than some of those peers? And maybe what would some examples of that be? Is it maintenance? Is it taking care of the rigs better? Is it an answer as simple as that? I think it's a number of things.
I think the culture that permeates our company is outstanding in terms of our focus on the client and focus on quality drilling services.
Obviously safety is a huge focus for us as well and we continue to perform well in that area as well.
And then of course maintaining the rigs to a high standard is a requirement.
I can't speak for the whole industry but I could just tell you from having worked for 2 offshore drillers we do do things differently here and I think that our clients notice that.
[Operator Instructions] And our next question comes from Matt Beeby with Williams Financial.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Rob a quick question some talk about the Southern Cross reactivation.
Can you talk about the cost associated with getting that in working condition? And then do you expect to recoup that entire cost in the initial contract? Yes we would estimate the cost of reactivation of Southern Cross to be $10 million to $15 million and we certainly wouldn't come out of the cold stack mode without a full recovery of that amount and then some in an initial contract.
So when I say that we're particular about reactivating that rig it's around making sure that we have a contract that sufficiently covers us for the cost and effort of reactivating that rig and then significantly brings money to the bottom line after we fulfill the initial contract.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And Mark I think I missed the OpEx guidance for next quarter.
Could you go over that again? Yes sure Matt.
My guidance for the rigs that we're operating as of the third quarter remains flat quarter-on-quarter right.
Because we are bringing on the Condor and so mobilizing for the majority of the quarter you have to add the mobilization costs which I've estimated at about $125 000 per day plus reimbursables and also add a month operating cost with the Mako that should start up in early September.
And in addition to that I indicated that we have about $2 million to $3 million of additional costs on the Atwood Hunter which is associated with the maintenance work that's being done in lieu of the 0 rate days.
And then finally there's going to be some costs associated with Beacon's move from Trinidad to the Med.
And it appears we have no more questions at this time.
I'll turn it back for closing remarks.
Okay.
We want to just to thank everybody for your interest in Atwood Oceanics.
We look forward to talking again in November as we discuss our fourth quarter results and full fiscal year 2012 results.
Thanks again.
This does conclude our teleconference.
You may disconnect at any time.
And welcome to today's fiscal 2012 fourth quarter and year end results program.
Your speakers for today will be Rob Saltiel President and Chief Executive Officer; and Mark Mey Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
[Operator Instructions] Please note today's call is being recorded.
It's now my pleasure to turn the program over to Mark Mey.
Please begin sir.
Thanks Kevin and good morning and welcome to Atwood Oceanics conference call and webcast to review the company's operating results for the year ended September 30 2012.
As Kevin mentioned the speakers today will be Rob Saltiel President and CEO; and myself Mark Mey Senior Vice President and CFO.
Before we begin let me remind everyone that during the course of this conference call we may make forward-looking statements which are not historical facts and are based upon management's current plans expectations estimates and assumptions and beliefs concerning future events impacting us.
These statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties including the risks which are described in the company's most recent Form 10-K and the filings with the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission.
We caution that forward-looking statements are not guarantees and that actual results could differ materially from those expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements if one of these risks and uncertainties were to occur or our assumptions prove incorrect.
Undue reliance should not be placed on these forward-looking statements which are applicable only as of the date hereof.
Now let me turn the call over to Rob for opening remarks.
Thanks Mark and good morning to all of you as we discuss Atwood's Fourth Quarter and Full Fiscal Year 2012 Results.
The fourth quarter was clearly one of the busiest and most successful quarters in Atwood's 44-year history.
Before discussing the results I want to commend our operations and technical teams around the world and at our Houston headquarters for their continued excellent performance.
Their efforts are distinguishing our company as the leading provider of safe and reliable offshore drilling services and as the preferred drilling contractor for our clients.
Turning now to our financial results.
We achieved company records for revenues and net income both in the fourth quarter and for the full fiscal year.
For the quarter revenues of $252.5 million were more than 35% higher than any other quarter in our history and more than a 45% improvement on our third quarter revenue.
Similarly our fourth quarter net income of $95.5 million was easily a quarterly record and was nearly 85% higher than our third quarter net income.
Mark will provide more color on our numbers in his section.
Our fourth quarter financial results would not have been possible without stellar operations performance.
In fact we achieved close to 99% revenue efficiency over our entire rig fleet.
This means that all Atwood rigs and all operations teams were performing at the top of their game for the entire quarter.
As I've said on previous calls consistent reliability performance is a real difference maker for Atwood and more importantly for our clients.
The fourth quarter results were aided significantly by the on-time delivery of the Atwood Condor and its mobilization revenue while transiting to the Gulf of Mexico as well as the early delivery and commencement of drilling of the Atwood Mako the first of our 3 Pacific Class 400 jack-ups.
I should add that both of these rigs were off to excellent starts in terms of their safety and operational performance.
The Condor has been averaging approximately 94% revenue efficiency since its start in early October while the Mako has experienced no loss of revenues since its startup in September.
Our new rigs and their operating teams are clearly coming out of the gate with an Atwood standard of performance.
Our newbuild project teams also deserve major kudos as they continue to deliver our newbuild rigs on time and client-ready.
The early delivery of the Mako allowed us to start our 1-year drilling program with Salamander Energy offshore Thailand ahead of schedule.
Just yesterday the Atwood Manta was delivered by the PPL Shipyard to Atwood.
We are now undergoing final commissioning of the rig before it mobilizes to its first location in Thailand expected to occur in early December.
Our third newbuild jack up the Atwood Orca remains well ahead of its June 2013 scheduled delivery date.
The Atwood Advantage the first of our 3 ultra-deepwater drillships is making great progress in the DSME shipyard in South Korea.
I visited the shipyard last month and toured the Advantage which is now floating key side and undergoing final outfitting of its major equipment.
In September we committed to build our third ultra-deepwater drillship the Atwood Admiral at the same shipyard with a scheduled delivery in early 2015.
This latest commitment reflects our confidence in DSME's work and the excellent marketability of these highly capable drilling machines.
We also obtained an option for a fourth drillship that has an exercise date of June 30 2013.
On the contracting front our most exciting fixture since our last earnings call was our 3-year agreement on the Atwood Advantage with Noble Energy for their program in the eastern Mediterranean Sea.
We are very pleased to be working with a long-standing client like Noble with the first of our 3 drillships.
As many of you know the Atwood Hunter has worked for Noble since late 2008 and our companies have developed a close alignment in our focus on safety and operations integrity.
We look forward to a very successful inaugural campaign once the Advantage is delivered next autumn.
Also since our last call we secured our first contract for the Atwood Manta which I referred to earlier a 1-year program with Coastal Energy in Thailand.
The Vicksburg has been drilling for Coastal in Thailand since 2009 and our companies have enjoyed a similar excellent working relationship.
With the signing of these contracts as of November 1 our revenue backlog stood at $2.6 billion.
Now updating on our current operations the Atwood Eagle is expected to conclude its drilling program with Chevron in Australia later this month.
The rig will then undergo planned upgrade work for compliance with Australian regulations that will require approximately 25 zero rate days to complete.
Afterwards the Eagle will commence an 18-month program that will now be shared between Apache and Woodside.
Since our last call the Atwood Beacon is mobilized from Trinidad to the Mediterranean Sea to prepare for a short-term drilling program in Israel.
The Beacon is currently in Cyprus on a standby rate awaiting our client's receipt of their drilling permits.
We understand the final approvals are likely to be received within the next 2 weeks upon which the Beacon will mobilize to Israel to commence drilling.
And coming back to the Atwood Hunter we concluded our 4-year program with Kosmos Energy and Noble Energy in October and are now drilling solely for Noble under a separate multi-well program in Equatorial Guinea.
This job is expected to last until at least next September.
The Atwood Osprey Atwood Falcon Atwood Aurora and Vicksburg have had no notable changes in their operations since the last earnings call.
Turning now to our market outlook.
We remain positive on future rig demand and the day rate environment.
Red [ph] oil prices continue to stay strong despite worldwide economic uncertainty.
Specific to Atwood the contracts we've secured for the Atwood Advantage and Atwood Manta confirm that our newbuild designs are highly marketable and bode well for the marketing of sister rigs Atwood Achiever and the Atwood Orca over the coming months.
In the ultra-deepwater segment we continue to see strong day rate fixtures and general operator optimism.
At the same time we have seen some moderation of day rate increases relative to the large quarter-to-quarter increases of the last 12 months.
The deepwater and jack-up segments also have significant demand visibility across regions that may increase day rates from current levels.
We remain positive on the rig supply demand balance and the market segments and regions where Atwood has active rigs or rigs under construction.
Specific to Atwood's marketing efforts with the Advantage fixture now complete our near-term marketing focus has shifted to the Atwood Orca and to our other active rigs that have availability in fiscal year 2013.
The Orca is being marketed for its initial contract in traditional shallow water markets in Southeast Asia and elsewhere.
We see a number of suitable jobs that line up well with the rig's technical capabilities and delivery schedule.
For the Atwood Beacon and the Atwood Aurora we are pursuing opportunities primarily in the Mediterranean Sea and West Africa that will best utilize their high spec capabilities.
And finally as we are now in the first quarter of our fiscal 2013 we look forward to another exciting year of significant milestones for Atwood Oceanics.
With our expanded rig fleet we are well-positioned to grow our revenue and earnings from our record 2012 levels.
This year we anticipate the deliveries and startups of the Atwood Manta and Atwood Orca and the final preparations for delivery and operation of the Atwood Advantage.
And even as we focus significant resources and efforts on our growth initiatives we will maintain our focus on delivering outstanding safety and operational performance for our clients.
This concludes my prepared comments so I'll now turn it back over to Mark to discuss the financials.
Mark? Thanks Rob.
Let me now walk you through our financial results for the fiscal fourth quarter and year ended September 30 2012.
I will then compare this quarter to the quarter ended September 30 2011 also to our previous fiscal quarter.
I will close by discussing our expectations for fiscal year 2013.
Our diluted earnings per share for the quarter ended September 30 2012 were $1.45 on revenues of approximately $253 million as compared to earnings of $1.12 on revenues of $178 million for the same period in 2011.
This 29% year-on-year improvement in diluted earnings per share was primarily due to 129 additional operating days during the quarter as the Atwood Condor mobilized the U.S.
Gulf of Mexico at 70% of its operating rate and Atwood Mako started its contract in Thailand on September 2 2012.
Note also that the Atwood Hunter operated for only 74 days during the 2011 quarter.
Financial highlights achieved during the quarter and year ended September 30 2012 includes as Rob mentioned record revenue and net income for the quarter and for the year ended September 30 2012 record diluted earnings per share for the fourth quarter average day rates of $334 000 as compared to $284 000 during the same period in 2011 and also up $34 000 per day from the previous quarter.
Average day rates for the fiscal year were $306 000.
Revenue efficiency of 98.7% for the quarter an increase of almost 4% from the previous quarter.
Revenue efficiency of 95.1% was achieved for fiscal year 2012.
Contract drilling price totaled $102 million for the quarter as compared to $62 million for the same period in 2011 on 129 additional operating days.
For the year contract drilling expenses totaled $347 million for fiscal 2012 as compared to $224 million for the prior year on 359 additional fleet operating days.
Note that the Atwood Condor was delivered on July 2 and mobilized the U.S.
Gulf of Mexico for the remainder of the quarter.
Including contract drilling cost for the Condor during the quarter were mobilization cost of $2.2 million and reimbursable cost of $2.5 million.
These costs will offset the $36 million of associated mobilization revenue.
Atwood Mako earned $2.4 million of its revenue for the quarter from mobilization or standby rates which were contractually set at 95% of operating day rate.
Note also that Atwood Beacon is expected to commence drilling operations with Shemen Oil and Gas in Israel later in November.
This is almost 80 days better than anticipated due to delays in our customer obtaining the necessary drilling permits.
We took the opportunity during this idle time to perform certain rig preservation activities including painting the hull and other parts of the rig.
These preventive maintenance activities together with the [indiscernible] hull performed in early August increased the rig's contract drilling cost by approximately $2.1 million during the quarter.
Additionally we experienced mobilization cost of $1.5 million during the quarter.
Operating and net margins decreased 3% each from the same quarter in 2011 to 45% and 38% respectively.
This is driven mainly by the Atwood Condor the Atwood Mako and Atwood Beacon operating at mobilization rates for an aggregate over 156 days during the fourth quarter of 2012.
Now let's compare this quarter to the fiscal third quarter ended June 30 2012.
Revenues increased $74 million and net income increased $44 million due to the increased operating days discussed above and recognizing Atwood Beacon's mobilization payments upon the conclusion of its prior contract in South America and this expense totaled $4.8 million reflecting the tax in our construction in progress balance due to the early delivery of the Condor and Mako during the quarter.
Our tax rate was down from 16.6% to 13% due to several discrete events occurring during the quarter.
Turning to the balance sheet.
Capital expenditures totaled $190 million during the quarter and consisted primarily of final payments on the Atwood Mako and project management and other payments on the remaining rigs under construction.
During the quarter long-term debt increased from $655 million to $830 million while cash decreased to $78 million funding our capital expenditures.
Note that we target constant cash balance of $75 million to $100 million.
Our resulting year end net debt to cap was 27% which is up from 23% in the prior quarter.
I will now provide guidance for fiscal 2013.
Firstly the Atwood Mako was delivered to the PPL Shipyard yesterday and we expect the rig to mobilize its first location in Thailand in early December note that this is 1 month ahead of its scheduled delivery.
Similarly the Atwood Orca is expected to be delivered 30 to 60 days ahead of schedule next year.
Secondly and as noted in our November fleet status report we expect to incur 25 zero rate days in Atwood Eagle in December 2012 related to its regulatory work.
We do not anticipate any additional out of service time for the remainder of the rig fleet for fiscal 2013.
Thirdly we expect contract drilling cost for fiscal year 2013 to be between $440 million and $460 million and $115 million for the first quarter 2013.
This year-on-year increase is due primarily to the following: the Atwood Condor Atwood Mako operating for a full year; Atwood Manta and Atwood Orca beginning operations during fiscal 2013; the Atwood Falcon operating in Australia a higher cost environment for the entire fiscal year and expensing approximately 70% of the Atwood Eagle's regulatory work later this month.
Finally regarding inflationary cost pressures.
We recognize the industrywide challenge to find qualified personnel to crew the ultra-deepwater rigs being delivered over the next several years.
However given our geographical presence and staggered newbuild delivery schedule we expect the annual inflationary impact on contract drilling cost to approximately 5% for fiscal 2013.
We currently expect that our G&amp;A expenses for fiscal '13 and the first quarter of 2013 to approximate $53 million and $60 million respectively.
As you are aware the first quarter is typically higher than subsequent quarters due to the fiscal 2012 short-term and long-term compensation disbursements.
In short looking at gross margins we expect them to be flat year-on-year at 55%.
Depreciation expense should range between $27 million and $29 million per quarter increasing upon the delivery of the 2  PPL jack-ups we delivered during the year.
We expect to recognize interest expense of between $7 million and $9 million per quarter.
Our tax rate should remain in the 13% to 15% range very similar to what -- our actual tax rate for fiscal 2012.
Turning to capital expenditures for fiscal 2013.
We expect to incur approximately $620 million for the year including capitalized interest.
This includes downpayment in Atwood Admiral which is paid in October 2012; the final payment in Atwood Manta which was paid yesterday; and the Atwood Orca's final payment due in the fiscal third quarter.
In addition including [indiscernible] our additions to our capital expense inventory are $52 million and fleet maintenance expenditures of $14 million.
Capitalized interest is expected to total $26 million as part of the $620 million for the year.
Finally our covenant contract backlog of $2.6 million is expected to provide approximately $1.6 billion in future after tax cash flows with 29% earned in '13 28% in 2014 and the remainder thereafter.
These cash flows together with our forecast of uncontracted cash flows and our revolving credit facility should provide sufficient capacity to fund our newbuild construction program.
To get a little more granular gross debt peaked to about $1.7 billion on the delivery of Atwood Admiral in early 2015.
Therefore with exercise of the credit accordion -- credit facility accordion of $550 million we are fully financed for the remaining rigs under construction.
That concludes my prepared remarks today.
I will now turn the call back to Kevin for the questions.
[Operator Instructions] We'll go first to the side of Dave Wilson with Howard Weil.
Research Division</strong> Rob regarding the jack-up market.
How concerned are you or really to the next couple of years with all the new capacity coming into the market? And how do you think about your rigs competing in that market? As I said in my prepared comments we're really not concerned about the supply and demand balances.
We look forward -- we recognize that there are a number of rigs that are coming into the market over the next couple of years but as we've said before we think that the absorption of these rigs into the market is likely to be orderly.
Our clients continue to demand higher spec rigs for a number of factors whether it's reliability capability safety and general maintenance concerns.
And as well if you look across the jack-up fleet around the world a large number of rigs that are in the current supply stack will be over 30 years old either there already or getting there over the next couple of years.
So we think that a lot of what's happening in the jack-up space is going to be a natural replacement of the supply stack that's there today.
So the combination of the needs and desires of current clients for this technology coupled with the replacement of an aging jack-up fleet gives us comfort that we're not going to see any major dislocations in the market from where it is today.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Great.
And then kind of switching gears the Condor the operation is 94% revenue efficiency for the first month that's pretty impressive but is that a level that we can expect going forward is all the shakedown done? Is that what we should like I said expect going forward for that -- from that rig? Well we would certainly like to see it going forward.
As you know when you operate high specification float or coming out of the shipyard it does take a little while to get through all of the testing and activation of the equipment to the point where you can declare victory on the shakeout of the rig.
I will say that we're off to an outstanding start with that rig we feel very confident in the quality of the rig that we got from the Jurong Shipyard and the team that we've got onboard the rig today.
But I think it's too early to declare that this is going to be something that we'll get for the entire year.
We certainly believe we can do that but we'll have to wait and see.
Research Division</strong> Do you think that you'll know by say the end of the year that -- with all the shakedown stuff or is that going to last more than a couple of months? Well you're getting really specific now Dave.
We're going to continue to remain diligent vigilant and diligent that we can operate this rig at a high revenue efficiency.
And we would certainly hope that over the first 6 months we're going to shake out any issues that may materialize for the rig.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Great.
And then one more specific one Mark on the Beacon.
I don't know if you mentioned it but the standby rate can you tell us what that is what it's at right now? Yes.
It's 90% of operating day rate.
We'll take our next question from the side of Collin Gerry with Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I only really have one question and it relates to that we're looking ahead to -- in the next 12 or 18 months with a very heavy delivery schedule and really a transformation of the company in terms of delivering new rigs.
How confident are you that you can maintain this level of operating performance? Should we assume or maybe risk the numbers a little bit for cost overruns or hiring personnel or just beefing up the company as you expand to have this larger fleet? Or do you think that similar operating margins can be expected? Well we're going to continue to focus on operational excellence here and obviously a big part of that will we making sure that the new rigs that we deliver continue to have the kind of performance we've seen with the Osprey and now the Condor and then also on the jack-ups with the Mako and then followed by the Manta and the Orca.
So that's certainly something that we are very focused on.
There's no question that as we see delivery of further rigs into the offshore drilling industry some of the challenges for labor and training and competency grow across the industry but I think we feel very good about our position.
I think Atwood has really distinguished itself in terms of the systems that we've got in place safety management systems operating systems our standards how we work with our employees to get them trained to achieve their career potential.
There's a number of things that we're doing as a company that we think distinguish us from our competitors.
So we believe that we're going to continue to have access to strong personnel which is really what is the foundation of a great company.
So we feel very good about where we are today and we recognize that it will continue to be challenging going forward but just as we've done here in the recent quarters our aim is to maintain a very high level of reliability and performance on our existing fleet even as we bring the new rigs into operation to join the fleet we have.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> It's certainly showing up on the numbers.
We'll take our next question from the side of Rhett Carter with Tudor Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> You guys have placed a big emphasis on working in favorable operating environments just from a cost and regulatory perspective.
Is the broader ultra-deepwater market getting tight enough or you're seeing operators or NOCs being more accommodating with their concessions at least enough to entice you guys to maybe go into some markets you're not currently in? Well we haven't eliminated any markets from consideration for where we can place our rigs.
One of the luxuries I think we've had as a company with a relatively small rig fleet is we've been able to be a bit more selective about where we work and we've tended to work in jurisdictions that are less challenging overall.
I think that's a fair statement.
But those of us who are here at the company myself included who've worked elsewhere we have experience in some of these more challenging markets that we bring to bear.
And if the opportunities present themselves and they compare well to opportunities we have in let's say easier jurisdictions we're not afraid of working in any market that's out there.
So I think it's just been a case of the size of our rig fleet and some of the opportunities that have presented themselves.
We certainly have got experience as a company here at Atwood with working with NOCs albeit not an extensive experience and clearly when you go to some of these markets the NOCs oftentimes have a greater say in how that business is conducted.
But we look across the globe for opportunities for our rigs and especially as we're expanding our fleet both the ultra-deepwater and shallow water we are looking at areas of the world where we're not currently working.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Greta.
Okay.
And then just with the outstanding drillship option I was curious does it hold its delivery date? So given that currently it has a December 2015 delivery if -- with the June 2013 expiration if you guys were to extend that option out does the delivery date hold or is there a point in time where the delivery date gets pushed out with the expiration date? Well clearly there is a point in time where you could jeopardize the delivery but at this point in time we're really focused on marketing the current rigs that we've got.
And to the extent that we continue to see strength in the market just as we were talking about on our third drillship option which we exercised with the Admiral we hope to be able to exercise this option and build a fourth drillship.
But I think it's a little premature for us to speculate how much we can extend that option next year.
We'll take our next question from the side of Matt Conlan with Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> On the Condor just to help with this model going forward is there going to be any deferred revenue on top of the $514 million or was all that mobilization revenue eliminate any deferrals? Matt on a go-forward basis because you recognized the revenue during the -- at the mobile rates the go forward rate will be $514 million plus any kind of escalations which occur later during the contract.
LLC Research Division</strong> Great.
And on the -- do you have any update on perhaps the potential of reactivating or selling the Southern Cross? We continue to look at opportunities for both the Atwood Southern Cross as well as the Seahawk and those include either reactivation or divestiture.
At this point we really don't have anything to report and obviously for modeling purposes I wouldn't assume anything in terms of a reactivation in your models for the next couple of quarters.
LLC Research Division</strong> How do you see the I guess in general the mid-water market coming along.
Do you think there's any appetite out there for the Southern Cross to work? There is.
We've seen the mid-water market being strong in the North Sea.
Obviously this is not a North Sea-capable rig but in other parts of the world as well we've seen some mid-water activity and rates peak up.
We saw some fixture in the Americas here for mid-water rig that was pretty attractive recently so we are hopeful that opportunities will present themselves.
As I said before we're not going to reactivate the rig for a short-term job because the reactivation has to fully pay for itself and then some because it will be a diversion of resources and talent.
So it's something for us to continue to watch.
I mean directionally we think the market is strengthening but we don't have anything that we can say is compelling for reactivation.
[Operator Instructions] With that we'll take our next question from the side of Eduardo Royes from Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Quick question on the Atwood Hunter.
I think you've got a little less than a year left on that.
Just wondering if you guys are thinking about any sort of upgrade work that that rig may need when it rolls off with Noble? We continue to focus on marketing the Atwood Hunter primarily into the West Africa area because the rig has had a very successful campaign up and down the coast in West Africa.
And I think the decision about what sort of upgrades we may or may not consider could be a function of the follow-on work that we get.
There's a number of things that we can think about there.
Obviously there's general maintenance of the rigs that we have to do on a periodic basis that will be part of the equation.
And then the opportunity to potentially upgrade the BOP stack is again something we would consider but it would depend really on the opportunities as they present themselves.
But right now I think our focus is really on marketing the rig making sure we identify the proper opportunity and then lining up that opportunity with what upgrade work if any we decide to do to fulfill that opportunity.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And just one follow-up on the Beacon the Mediterranean is kind of a weird area where there's work and then all of a sudden there isn't.
It sort of comes and goes.
Do you guys get a demob fee on that rig if it turns out that you are moving it to West Africa which does seem like a pretty tight market? Yes.
We do have a demob on that Eduardo but given the nature of the contract our demob is structured.
That's been amortized during the contract term so we -- we will be recognizing and receiving the demob revenue early.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Do you think the prospects are there for this rig to stay in the Med? We have several prospects for the Beacon in the Med both in the area where it's drilling or soon will be drilling but also in other parts of the Med.
Yes.
Our focus will be to place the Beacon in the Mediterranean.
Our marketing team as Mark said has seen a number of opportunities.
That said there's also some opportunities outside the region we're looking at but the preference it would be to stay in the Med.
And we'll go next to the side of Nigel Browne with Macquarie.
I just had one question.
Looking at your marketing efforts could you comment on whether you guys or starting to see a deemphasis on in terms of your competitors and yourselves on day rate versus actually tweaking that dial and maybe getting a bit more term on contracts? I think we've seen both ends of the spectrum.
We've seen some recent deals that had very long terms to them and lower day rates and then most recently just in the last couple of weeks we've seen some pretty healthy day rates for let's say 2-year terms on ultra-deepwater rigs.
So I think it's really in some cases it's operator-specific and it's contractor-specific in terms of how much term is traded off for rate and how that -- the balance plays out.
Directionally we still see day rate increases in the ultra-deepwater segment and as we look at opportunities for the Atwood Achiever or the Atwood Condor renewal we'll consider the term and the rate together and hopefully get the best deal for the company.
And a comment was made about the geographic footprint and how that is helpful in terms of mitigating costs.
Do you see the geographic footprint as an advantage as well in terms of keeping your stellar revenue efficiency? Well I think that there's clearly some advantages working in certain jurisdictions and under certain contract terms and conditions.
And I think it's a pretty fair statement that with Independence or major oil companies there's a bit more flexibility than let's say with national oil company contracts that may contribute somewhat to improved revenue efficiency.
But I think at the end of the day it really gets down to the operating teams on the rigs making sure that they're executing their work safely and reliably day after day and that we -- if they need support that we can provide that support here from Houston to assist those operations.
But I just think our teams have done a great job and that's really largely independent of contract terms and conditions.
And we'll go next to the side of Matt Beeby with Williams Financial.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Talking about some of the jack-up fleets and the -- seems like the talk of the Manta contract would be something in excess of the $145 million just curious if there's some cost savings associated with putting that with the same customer in the same region that made the concession down to $145 million versus maybe $150 million to $160 million and if there's any savings there? And then maybe kind of outlook for the Orca at least directionally from this point? Yes.
I'll say a couple of things about it.
There's no question that having now what will be 3 rigs in Thailand does offer some synergy.
I won't say that they're very large synergies but clearly in terms of sharing the office inventory management logistics technical support from Houston all those things are advantaged by having 3 rigs in a particular jurisdiction.
One thing I will share is that on the Atwood Manta we did have an LOI earlier in the year that fell through and that put us in a little bit of a bind in terms of getting a contract for that rig with accelerated delivery on top of that.
So we lost a potential contract at the same time the delivery date was moved up.
So we think that under those circumstances we got a fair deal.
But I would share your sentiment that I think there was some thoughts we might do better than that as we came out of the gate.
As we look forward to marketing the Atwood Orca we would certainly anticipate some increase in day rates going forward but I would say it's going to be moderate and it's going to depend on the jurisdiction.
Again one of the big advantages of working in a place like Thailand is it's a low-cost environment and it's a benign environment in terms of the labor challenges there so we take all those factors into play as well as day rate.
But as I said in my prepared comments we do think that with the supply and demand balance being what it is that we may see some date day rate increases on future fixtures.
Matt this is Mark.
Let me just add to that.
As you know and let me remind you that that day rate is probably $10 000 higher in the Middle East and $15 000 higher in West Africa if you take into account operating cost and taxes.
So given where it is and as Rob mentioned the low-cost region that is pretty much a market rate currently.
I'm showing no further questions -- we do have one more question in queue we can go to the side of John Keller with Stephens Inc.
Research Division</strong> But just kind of Mark if you could maybe -- is there anything going on with the Osprey during the fourth quarter from an operating cost standpoint? It looks like it bumped up a little bit and just as we try to calibrate our models a little bit here.
John as you know one thing that's very hard to predict when it comes to operating cost is the timing of certain projects.
So you're going to see a little bit of oscillation between quarters on these rigs as projects get scheduled and get done.
As you know drilling operations there are times when you can actually do certain projects in advance and you have to defer that just depending on where you are with the well.
So that's purely a matter of timing on those projects you should see that rig moderate back to the low 170s over time.
And we do have another question in queue.
We can go to the side of Ryan Fitzgibbon with Global Hunter.
LLC Research Division</strong> One last modeling question for you.
Mark I believe you mentioned that about 70% of the Eagle's shipyard expense is going to be expensed.
Can you disclose what that actual cost is? Yes.
The expense portion is going to be $5.5 million.
And I'm showing no further questions in queue at this time.
Okay.
I want to thank everybody for their interest in Atwood and joining us for the call and we'll look forward to picking it up next quarter.
And this concludes today's program.
Have a great day.
You may disconnect at this time.
Good day everyone and welcome to today's program.
[Operator Instructions] Please note this call will be recorded and I'll be standing by should you need any resistance.
It's now my pleasure to turn the call over to Mark Mey Senior Vice President and CFO.
Please go ahead sir.
Thanks Alicia.
Good morning and welcome to Atwood Oceanics conference call and webcast to review the company's operating results for the first quarter ended December 31 2012.
The speakers today will be Rob Saltiel President and CEO; and myself Mark Mey Senior Vice President and CFO.
Before we begin let me remind everyone that during the course of this conference call we may make forward-looking statements which are not historical facts and are based upon management's current plans expectations estimates assumptions and beliefs concerning future events impacting us.
These statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties including the risks which are described in the company's most recent Form 10-K and other filings with the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission.
We caution that forward-looking statements are not guarantees and that actual results could differ materially from those expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements if one of these risks and uncertainties were to occur or our assumptions prove incorrect.
Undue reliance should not be placed on these forward-looking statements which are applicable only as of the date hereof.
Now let me turn the call over to Rob for his opening remarks.
Thanks Mark and good morning to all of you joining today's call.
Our first quarter provided a solid start to the 2013 fiscal year although it was a bit quieter than our previous quarter.
I will discuss some of the highlights and update our market outlook before turning it back to Mark who will provide color on our financial results.
A key accomplishment of the first quarter was the successful and timely completion of our planned life boat upgrade project for the Atwood Eagle in Australia.
We had anticipated 25 zero rate days but due to excellent planning and outstanding execution our project team completed their work in only 18 days.
With the project concluding just before the Christmas holidays the Eagle was able to achieve an earlier commencement of its 18-month drilling program.
Operationally we had a good quarter with our fleet-wide revenue efficiency exceeding 95%.
Also in the quarter we took delivery of the Atwood Manta the second of our 3 Pacific Class newbuild jack-ups which is now the 10th active rig in our fleet.
The Manta departed Singapore in early December and mobilized to Thailand to begin its 1-year contract with Coastal Energy.
On the marketing front we concluded 2 significant jack-up fixtures since our last call.
We signed our initial contract on the Atwood Orca earlier this month with Mubadala Petroleum for a 2-year drilling program in Thailand.
We had been targeting a longer term so we are pleased to have secured this 2-year agreement.
Earlier this month I visited the PPL Shipyard in Singapore and viewed the Orca's construction progress.
We remain well ahead of the initial delivery schedule and we expect that the Orca will be delivered by early May.
We also aimed to a 1-year extension of the Atwood Mako with Salamander Energy in December on top of their initial 1-year commitment and added increasing day rate.
In total we have secured 5 years of contract backlog on our 3 newbuild jack-up rigs.
And while we certainly did not expect that all 3 of these rigs would begin their work in Thailand we will be able to realize synergies for having done so.
Turning now to the market.
The world macroeconomic environment has definitely improved since our last call.
Almost all of the recent economic data for the U.S.
and China has been positive setting the stage for moderate economic growth expectations in 2013.
Even in Europe the worst-case scenarios are starting to fade.
Not surprisingly Brent oil prices remain strong world stock markets are at or near multiyear highs.
With oil and gas capital spending estimated to rise in 2013 fueling additional demand for offshore drilling most industry analysts remain positive on day rates and utilization for both floaters and jack-ups and we do as well.
Specific to Atwood's marketing efforts the Atwood Beacon Atwood Aurora and the Atwood Hunter are the 3 rigs with near-term availability that have our keenest focus.
The Beacon is our first rig expected to become available.
We now think the Beacon's current program in Israel will extend until the middle of May.
We are marketing the Beacon into a number of visible opportunities in the Mediterranean but we're also looking outside the Med as well.
We are optimistic that we will secure a follow-on work in direct continuation of the current job.
The Atwood Aurora's drilling campaign in Cameroon is now likely to extend into January 2014 based on the updated well planning schedules we received this month.
The Aurora is well placed to remain in West Africa as we already see a few programs that line up well with the rig's updated availability date.
And finally the Atwood Hunter is likely to stay busy with Noble Energy in Equatorial Guinea until at least October.
We understand that Noble may have some additional wells that could add another quarter's worth of work and take us through the end of the calendar year.
We are marketing the Hunter primarily into opportunities in West Africa.
And let me close my section on marketing by adding that our marketing team is making good progress in discussions on the Atwood Achiever the second of our A-class ultra-deepwater drillships which is scheduled for delivery in June of 2014.
We've been marketing this drillship design for 2 years since we first committed to build the Atwood Advantage so many of the clients that we'd discussed the Atwood Advantage with are also good prospects for the Achiever.
At this point the most likely destinations for the Achiever appear to be in the Gulf of Mexico or West Africa although we're not limited to those locales.
We remain optimistic about our chances to secure an agreement on the Achiever by this summer.
This concludes my prepared comments so I'll hand it back over to Mark who will take us through the numbers.
Thanks Rob.
Let me now walk you through our financial results for the fiscal first quarter ended December 31 2012 comparing those results to the same quarter in the previous year and also to the previous fiscal quarter.
Finally I will update our guidance for the remainder of fiscal 2013.
Our diluted earnings per share for the quarter ended December 31 were $1.10 on revenues of approximately $245 million as compared to diluted earnings of $1 on revenues of $185 million for the same period in 2011.
This 10% year-on-year improvement in diluted earnings per share was a result of 189 additional operating days for a total of 833 operating days during the quarter.
The increase in operating days was mainly due to the Atwood Condor Atwood Mako operating for the entire quarter and the Atwood Manta starting operations on December 9 2012.
This was partially offset by 18 zero rate days on the Atwood Eagle loss in the shipyard during the quarter.
Financial highlights achieved in the quarter include revenue efficiency of slightly more than 95% up 3% from the same quarter in fiscal 2012.
Note that the jack-up segment achieved revenue efficiency of 98.4% despite including the Atwood Mako and Manta startup operating performance.
Average day rates of 282 000 as compared to 276 000 during the same period in fiscal 2012.
Contract drilling margins are 55% and net margins are 29% as compared to 58% and 35% for the same quarter in fiscal 2012.
The reduction in net margins is due mainly to nonoperating line items including increased depreciation and increased interest costs.
You may have noticed that we split out reimbursable revenues and reimbursable costs for the first time in our 8-K and 10-Q.
As reimbursables begin to become material and negatively impact contract drilling margins we feel the additional disclosure is warranted.
Reimbursable revenues and costs are in line with previous quarters but will continue to grow as we deliver new rigs and operate a larger fleet of assets.
Contract drilling costs totaled $112 million for the quarter as compared to 78 for the same period in 2011 with the increase attributed to the additional 189 operating days during the quarter.
In addition the Atwood Eagle incurred an additional $3.5 million in costs associated with the 18-day UWALD [ph] and life boat upgrade project.
Depreciation totaled almost $28 million as compared to $15 million for the same quarter in fiscal 2012 with the increase attributed to the addition of the Atwood Condor Atwood Mako and Atwood Manta to our operating fleet.
Let's now compare this quarter to fiscal fourth quarter ended September 30 2012.
Despite an increase in operating days revenues decreased by $7 million or 3% due to the Atwood Eagle's 18 zero rate days Atwood Hunter's direct reduction as the rig change contracts with Noble Energy in mid-October.
This was partially offset by additional operating days on Atwood Mako and Atwood Manta.
Contract drilling costs totaled $112 million as compared to $102 million for the fourth quarter ended September 30 2012.
The increase is attributable to 78 additional operating days during the current quarter coupled with additional costs incurred during the Atwood Eagle's UWALD [ph] and life boat upgrade.
Net income declined $23 million due to the reduction in margin on the Atwood Hunter and Eagle's out-of-service time and higher maintenance costs during its shipyards day in December.
Taking a look at the balance sheet.
Capital expenditures totaled $322 million during the quarter which consisted mainly of the down payment on Atwood Admiral and the final payment on Atwood Manta.
Long-term debt increased to $1.07 billion while cash increased to $108 million.
We ended the quarter with liquidity of approximately $240 million and a debt-to-capital of 35% up from 30% at September 30 2012.
Let me now provide an update to our outlook for the remaining 3 quarters of fiscal 2013.
Firstly and consistent with our -- my guidance during the previous earnings conference call contract drilling costs should range between $440 million to $460 million for fiscal 2013.
The fiscal second quarter we anticipate contract drilling costs of between $112 million and $116 million.
These costs are all net of reimbursable costs.
Secondly Atwood Orca is expected to begin its contract in Thailand in early May upon delivery from the PPL Shipyard In Singapore.
We anticipate a 10-day mobilization to its first location which will be at a mode rate of 95% operating rigs.
Depreciation should be flat quarter-on-quarter and internal administrative costs should revert to a quarterly run rate of between $12 million and $13 million for the remaining 3 quarters.
Interest expense should range between $6 million and $8 million for the quarter for the remainder of the year net of capitalized interest.
We expect our tax rate for 2013 to remain between 13% and 14% for the rest of the year.
As previously mentioned we spent $322 million in capital expenditures during the first quarter leaving approximately $300 million for the remaining 3 quarters of fiscal 2013.
Of this amount $65 million is projected to be spent in the fiscal second quarter.
This amount is primarily comprised of expenditures on capital spends and project management for the remaining rigs under construction.
We will continue to use a mix of cash cash flow from operations and our revolving credit facility to fund these capital expenditures throughout 2013.
That concludes my prepared comments.
I'll now turn the call over to Alicia for questions.
[Operator Instructions] We'll take our first question from Gregory Lewis with Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Rob could you provide a little bit more detail on the Atwood Hunter? I believe the rig is in Guinea.
I believe it's still working on the first well.
Have you had any advanced discussions on Noble sort of extending that other option? Yes I mentioned in my prepared comments that while we expect that we've got a firm commitment through about October based on the well program that we see that there's a potential for some additional work that could take us all the way through the end of the year.
Beyond that we're looking at longer-term opportunities for extension of the rig in West Africa.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And they need to let you know that after -- I mean before the second well starts correct? That's correct.
For the option that has been awarded as part of the agreement that's correct.
But even beyond that we have some ideas that there may be some more work there for us in EG.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then just as I sort of shift gear over to the Beacon and the Aurora are we seeing any sort of -- I mean I know there's that cost escalation.
Are you guys seeing sort of in the market like cost escalations related to labor? And is that flowing through into a little bit higher day rates than maybe we're seeing reported? Greg obviously you know that day rates are tied to market rates.
So when we have the opportunity to push rates we do that as you've seen most recently with the progressive increase in day rates on the Mako the Manta and the Orca in addition to the increased term.
So there is no direct increase to day rates from labor cost inflation or any other kind of inflation but we certainly try and get the market rate for our assets when the opportunity arises.
Research Division</strong> Sorry maybe I just misworded the question.
I just meant -- I mean are you seeing noticeable cost escalations in any of these basins that have those kickers? No we're not.
We'll take our next question from Collin Gerry with Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Another stellar quarter especially on the revenue efficiency so congratulations.
Thank you.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Rob you have mentioned in your market commentary and -- balance on the jack-up and the deepwater side.
I wonder if you could just kind of juxtapose these 2 markets for me and tell me where you're seeing a tighter market maybe near term and then over the next few years.
Well on the jack-up side I mean as Mark had just alluded to you've seen the strength that's taken place in Thailand through our successive fixtures there.
And if you want to think about that as a proxy for the Southeast Asia market I think you can do that.
Even as the new rigs have been coming out of the yards and a lot of those have been coming out of Singapore we're seeing increased demand for the newer rigs increased bifurcation between the new rig rates and the older rig rates.
And so we've been able to take advantage of that with successive rate increases and even increased term that we got on the Orca versus the initial contacts we got on the Mako and the Manta.
I think in the other markets in which we operate if you look at the West Africa market for example for jack-ups we think that we're going to see some potential for rate appreciation there although we haven't had a fixture there in some time.
When you look at the ultra-deepwater market we think that overall the outlook continues to be very good for that market in terms of demand.
The new rigs that are scheduled to come out between now and the end of calendar year 2013 are largely contracted we count somewhere between 3 and 5 rigs that may not have contacts but we're just at the end of January here.
So we think that's a pretty good take-up of the new capacity.
And then as we look at the demand that we're seeing in the areas where we're marketing specifically the Atwood Achiever we see a lot of programs that are going to be coming to the market that give us confidence that the ultra-deepwater market continues to stay strong and that we can continue to absorb the 20 to 25 rigs per year that are coming out of the yard in '13 '14 and then the beginning of '15.
So everything that we're seeing from the markets suggest things are still strong.
It's fair to say that when you get into the holiday period kind of late November through early to mid-Jan that's a quiet period in our space.
So some folks have made comments about things seem to be slowing down but I think that's a bit of a seasonal effect.
It's also not atypical in this market to have a kind of a flurry of fixtures and then a pause.
And we certainly saw a lot of fixtures there in the second and third quarters of calendar 2012.
So we feel very good about where both markets are going ultra-deepwater as well as the high spec jack-up.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> That's an interesting comment on the seasonality and the lumpiness of fixtures.
I tend to agree when you look at that stuff especially on the fixtures side when you look -- if you think about that same kind of thought process on tenders do you also see kind of as your customers get their budgets together and understand what they're really working with for the balance of the year that maybe the amount of outstanding tenders in January isn't as high as maybe say February or March? Is there some seasonality there or is it mostly on the fixtures side? I think you're going to see a bit of both but I think it's definitely fair to say that budgets are typically set in the October-November time frame and before folks can go to the market with confidence they're going to need to have gone through that process.
In some cases there will be some foreshadowing by clients about things that they expect to get approved.
In other cases especially with potentially updated and increased expectations for let's say oil prices there may be some additional budget monies that get allocated late in the year which may give rise to let's say incremental exploration programs.
Development programs are determined well in advance but the incremental exploration programs can be a function of the budget process which of course is a function of the cash flow process.
And I think with the expected rates that folks are looking for in oil prices that certainly bodes well for incremental increases in activity in 2013.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> You just had to throw the oil price forecast that way didn't you? Well we're not going to predict that we can read the tape as well as anybody but I think that the -- as I mentioned some of the news coming out macro-economically is supportive of higher oil prices.
And again some of the things that we were really concerned about in terms of world economic malaise seem to be fading to some degree and of course that's going to give strength to a longer and more buoyant oil price in 2013.
We'll take our next question from Todd Scholl with Clarkson Capital.
Research Division</strong> Let me first echo Colin's comments of praise on the great job on the revenue efficiency front.
And let me ask -- my next question will be now with the contract you have for the Orca your speculative newbuild program is no longer speculative.
Should we expect to see any more potential jack-up orders for you or are you guys kind of now full steam ahead focused on expanding the floating fleet? Well we certainly are pleased with how our jack-up build program has developed.
And as I mentioned getting 5 years of backlog on these 3 rigs kind of right out of the yard we think we've done quite well and it really confirms for us the confidence we had in the design of the rigs and our expectations of where the market would be.
Going forward we don't have any direct plans at this time to add any more high spec jack-ups.
We took a pause on that program to really focus on the ultra-deepwater but we certainly believe there's value in having a premium mixed fleet of assets.
We think that we've done well balancing those.
But as I say at this point in time we don't have any exercisable options or any direct plans to add to the jack-up fleet.
We do however still retain an option to build an ultra-deepwater drillship which would be our fourth if we decide to do that.
So that's probably our next incremental growth opportunity that the management and the board will consider.
We do have of course 2 ultra-deepwater drillships the Achiever and the Admiral that don't have their contracts yet.
But as long as we feel their strength in the market and as long as we continue to get good contracts on our rigs and potentially expand our backlog we're going to be growth-biased.
But we want to be careful that we don't overdo it and we want to the careful that we're getting good returns on capital for our shareholders.
So that's really where our focus is in terms of growth.
But down the road it certainly wouldn't -- shouldn't be surprising to our investors to see us step back into the ultra-deepwater -- sorry into the high spec jack-up space and add capacity there.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And I just kind of wanted to touch on some comments you made earlier particularly around the Southeast Asian market on the jack-up front.
I mean that does seem to be a market that we've seen a lot of strength.
And all the commentary we've heard really has been pretty bullish.
But are you concerned at all for that market as a number of these jack-ups that are being delivered this year come into the market some of which without contracts? You don't think that could potentially put pressure on the Southeast Asian market that's not something you're concerned with? Well I think it remains to be seen how the uncontracted rigs in particular when they come into the market how they impact the supply and demand balance.
Thus far I think all of us who are in this space have been pleased with the orderly absorption of the newbuild capacity.
And again the fact that we've gotten the commitments that we've gotten on our rigs I think is suggestive that the operators don't believe that this market is going to fall off anytime soon.
I mean one of our customers actually extended by an extra year without any requirement to do so and then of course we just got a 2-year contract.
So if there was really imminent concern that this market was going to oversupply we probably wouldn't have gotten 2-year deals on 2 of the 3 jack-ups.
So I think it's something that we'll need to continue to watch but we are very big believers in the value of these new assets in terms of what they offer in terms of drilling capability flexibility and safety and redundancy.
And we think that they're going to continue to find their way into the market and -- either as the pie expands or to replace existing aging capacity.
We're really not too concerned about those rigs going to work.
We'll have to watch and see what kind of impact they have on the overall market in the months ahead.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I just have one last quick one real quick.
On the -- you mentioned earlier that the Achiever and the Admiral are more likely to end up in the Gulf of Mexico or West Africa.
I was just wondering is that kind of a deliberate focus or deliberate decision on your part given the fact that you had put the Advantage in the Med which is more of an emerging market? No I was really referring specifically to the Achiever and that's really more a function of the opportunities that we're seeing in our discussing related to a 2014 delivery.
I think going forward when you look at the Admiral which would be coming out in early 2015 it may be a different story.
But our focus right now in terms of marketing those rigs is on the Achiever.
And again we see a larger number of opportunities in the Gulf and West Africa than some other places.
That's not to say there aren't other opportunities elsewhere but that's where we're focusing most of our marketing efforts.
We'll take our next question from Ian Macpherson with Simmons.
Research Division</strong> I also will echo the congratulations.
It does seem at times that you guys operate in a different field than your peers.
I know that it's not easy but your results tend to make it look easy.
But that being said some of the concerns that we've seen with companies that are significantly ramping up new ultra-deepwater assets are the cost issues that come in front of that and we haven't seen that yet with Atwood.
And I just want to get your comments on sort of how you think about the risk of controlling the rollout.
You've done it very efficiently with jack-ups but as you're taking in drillships do you think that we should be concerned about that type of raw cost risk and maybe for whatever reason more revenue efficiency risk than what we've seen with your deepwater semis that have been delivered? Okay.
Thanks Ian.
I think that we have done a good job thus far in terms of delivering new rigs and getting them to work and having them stay on the payroll to a very large degree even in their early days.
But that's not to say that you're out of the woods if you've got 3 or 6 months under your belt.
I mean we definitely want to keep our focus on maintaining that high level of revenue efficiency on all of our assets.
The jack-ups here that will be coming out we've got 2 of them out we've got one more to deliver.
And then the Atwood Condor is still really in its early days in drilling in the Gulf of Mexico.
I think one of the things that really has helped us out is choosing common equipment both within our classes of rigs and in the case of the BOP across the jack-ups and the floaters.
And we've got common drilling packages and again for the floaters common riser equipment.
So what we're trying to do is learn all of our lessons once and then apply those lessons learned across the rest of our rigs in the class or again in some cases across the fleet.
And so I do think we have an advantage in our ability to learn how our equipment should be run and if there's any deficiencies how we can correct those deficiencies and get some scale and how they get applied to the rest of our fleet.
Going forward there's no question that getting the proper trained competent personnel for the ultra-deepwater drillships is a challenge for the industry.
We've got tremendous growth in the ultra-deepwater slated and we like others are making sure that we don't deliver a rig unless our people are competent and trained in how to operate that.
I think we've done quite a good job in our ability to attract the right people to Atwood Oceanics.
I think people like our growth story.
I think they like the fact that we're the combination of an established driller who's been in the business for almost 45 years but at the same time we've got this tremendous growth potential and ramp within our portfolio.
And yet we're a small enough company that you can have an opportunity to feel like you're part of something personally as opposed to just if you will disregarded or a footnote to the story.
So I think that that certainly helped us in terms of attraction.
And then going forward we got to make sure that we stay competitive in terms of how we maintain our benefits and compensation.
So I think all those things are challenges for us and for others.
But right now we feel like we've got a good formula and we're going to continue to execute against that as we deliver the Advantage and the Achiever and the Admiral.
Research Division</strong> Very good.
As a separate follow-up Helmerich &amp; Payne on their conference call shortly before yours talked about their intent to monetize their shares which is as you knew they're obviously have been a long-term strategic holder.
I wonder if they've talked to you about that plan and how you think about that shareholder possibly exiting Atwood.
And if they do that if that influences at all your thoughts on share repurchases or if we will continue to expect you to allocate capital purely to growth.
Yes I don't want to say too much about Helmerich &amp; Payne's specific plans because we'll leave that to them to communicate to the market.
But it's certainly been our understanding that in the longer term they'll divest of that stake either partially or fully.
And the trend has been for them to reduce their interest in Atwood over time having gone from a near 50% share to where they are today.
But I don't want to speculate on what we might do if they do reduce their shares but we'll just have to see how that develops.
We'll take our next question from Byron Pope with Tudor Pickering Holt.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> I have dialed-in late so I don't want to rehash ground that's already been covered.
So I'll de-queue.
We'll take our next question from Dave Wilson with Howard Weil.
Research Division</strong> Rob with 6 ultra-deepwater rigs 3 deepwater rigs and 6 jack-ups can you remind us again on where you think the optimal fleet size is for Atwood I guess in particular on the ultra-deepwater class? You kind of already answered the jack-up class size already.
Yes I mean I think the ultimate size [Audio Gap] and that we can absorb the growth and not compromise our safety and reliability.
I think those are the key parameters that govern how big this company get.
And of course getting the right returns as a function of whether we have confidence in the market being there to give us the contracts we need so that we can get those returns.
But I'm not sure I'm ready to say that there's any governor on the size of our business as long as we have opportunities to do positive NPV transactions.
We'll take our next question from Matt Conlan with Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> I do have a technical question on your revenue efficiency.
Was your revenue efficiency impacted by the 18 down days on the Eagle or does the denominator in that exclude those days? Excludes those days Matt.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's what I thought just wanted to double-check.
And unrelated I wanted to follow-up on what's your current thoughts or opportunities are for the potential disposition or reactivation of your cold stacked rigs the Seahawk and the Cross? Yes I mean there's really nothing new to report there.
Those rigs are not being actively marketed right now.
We do periodically field inquiries about those rigs either to reactivate or potentially for others to purchase those rigs.
And we're certainly open to looking at opportunities to monetize those because right now they're not contributing to the Atwood story nor are they contributing to our income story.
So we'll just have to see where that gets this year.
I mean with the market strengthening I think that improves our opportunities to find a way to either divest or reactivate.
But at this point in time there's nothing certain for us to be announcing.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay so I guess you're being more opportunistic with it you don't have any firm deadline to jet us in them from the fleet? No we don't.
I mean both of those rigs have been stacked really for less than 3 years and they're both in great shape.
Obviously we don't want to do this indefinitely.
We were certainly pleased to be able to divested of the Richmond last year and longer term we do want to monetize these again either through reactivation or through sale but there's no plans for anything immediate this year.
We'll take our next question from Zachary Sadow with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Considering the wave of jack-ups that will be coming into the market in the coming 2 years and being able to re-contract it and considering your relatively healthy balance sheet and solid jack-up experience do you think you might be in a position to help consolidate the jack-up market? Well I think that it's always an opportunity for those of us who are in this space is to take a look at whether there are occasions when buying makes more sense than building.
We really embarked on our growth strategy in earnest around the jack-ups in October of 2010 and clearly at that point in time it was advantageous to build.
But going forward if you're suggesting that while our rigs are contracted there may be others that are struggling to find work and the cost of purchasing those rigs goes below build cost or adjusting for time value goes below build cost would we consider buying? I think the answer has to be yes.
But that would have to be a careful consideration given that a lot of times when you buy things you don't get the kind of synergies we've been able to build through constructing like-minded the rigs with the common designs.
But there's no question that if there were opportunities down the road for well-priced acquisitions we would look at those.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then looking out to 2014 through 2015 you guys should be coming up in pretty nice free cash flow expansion.
How should we think about some of the ways you're looking at this in regards to further fleet expansion versus returning cash to shareholders? Zach if you look at over those next few years we got to become cash flow positive free cash flow positive in 2015.
So we still have at least 2 years 2.5 years before we get to that point.
Obviously when we get to 2015 all the option is on the table from returning cash to shareholders or repurchasing shares.
But as Rob said previously we have not communicated any desire to stop the growth initiative that we have underway.
So in the interim there's a good chance that we could be adding additional assets to the fleet over the next few years.
So I think it's a question we're going entertain in 2015.
It's still quite a ways in the future.
[Operator Instructions] We'll take our next question from Darren Gacicia with Guggenheim.
LLC Research Division</strong> Two things.
One kind of a higher level.
We've seen sort of activists come in this space now trying -- wanted to get your thoughts about what that may kind of mean on a go-forward basis for how maybe you think about your structures.
I know dividends have become a bigger part of that activist’s logic.
What do you think that that does for kind of the industry and how do you think about that in terms of Atwood? Well I'll offer a commentary on that.
I think what I've seen over my career is activists tend to go where the opportunity is the greatest for companies that may not be executing against their strategy or who have obvious opportunities that aren't being exercised.
I think our goal as a management team is to make sure that we're pretty transparent in terms of what our strategy is and to execute that to a very high degree.
And so a lot of this activist discussion is taking place in the industry.
We understand why it's taking place where it is.
I think for Atwood Oceanics our goal is to continue to focus on keeping our rigs running at a high degree of revenue efficiency adding capacity very carefully making sure we do it at the right prices with the right designs that we've got confidence in getting the right contracts.
And I think as long as we continue to do that we're going to be creating value for our shareholders.
And then as Mark said to the extent that we don't have opportunities to grow our business in a positive NPV way we absolutely will look at the proper vehicles to return cash to our shareholders.
Again that's just a discussion that doesn't take place in 2013.
It's more of a 2015 discussion.
But I think as we do all those things then the activists will probably find more fertile areas to play.
LLC Research Division</strong> Sure.
The one thing that sort of impresses me given the question on HP earlier though and it's something I sort of offer up for comment and welcome replies that it would strike me given your cash flow profile into '15 starts to ramp up pretty extremely.
Your funding needs are relatively minimal given what you have left to deliver according to my math.
It would strike me that there's an opportunity if you went possibly to a fuller payout model on re-rate it on a yield basis you could kind of create an exit strategy for the HP shareholder at a premium to NAV for possibly even tap that kind of NAV premium paper as a financing vehicle for future growth.
Is that something that's been considered in some way? I'm not resorting towards an MLP but more of just kind of a path on straight equity.
Well you covered a lot of ground there.
You've obviously given this a lot of thought.
But look we're going to look at what makes sense for us in terms of returning cash to shareholders whether those are large shareholders like H&amp;P or others.
And again I think as Mark said it's just a little premature to be definitive on how we're going to address that issue.
And also there's a question of when because keep in mind we still have additional growth opportunities that we can look at between now and then that could push out that point of cash flow generation a bit further.
But look we know over the next couple of years that's going to become more in view and more of a discussion point.
And I would just say a few quarters from now we'll be much better able to be proactive on that discussion.
[Operator Instructions] It appears there are no further questions at this time.
Okay.
Well if there are no more questions we thank everybody for their interest and look forward to having you join on our May call.
This does conclude today's teleconference.
You may now disconnect and have a great day.
Good day everyone and welcome to today's program.
[Operator Instructions] Please note this conference may be recorded.
I'll be standing by if you should need any assistance.
It is now my pleasure to turn the conference over to Mr.
Mark Mey Senior Vice President and CFO.
Thanks Leo and good morning.
Welcome [indiscernible] to Atwood Oceanics conference call and webcast to review the company's operating results for the second quarter ended March 31 2013.
The speakers today will be Rob Saltiel President and CEO; and me Mark Mey Senior Vice President and CFO.
Before we begin let me remind everyone that during the course of this conference call we may make forward-looking statements which are not historical facts and are based upon management's current plans expectations estimates assumptions and beliefs concerning future events impacting us.
These statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties including the risks which are described in the company's most recent Form 10-K and the filings with the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission.
We caution that forward-looking statements are not guarantees and actual results could differ materially from those expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements if one of these risks or uncertainties were to occur or our assumptions prove incorrect.
Undue reliance should not be placed on these forward-looking statements which are applicable only as of the date hereof.
Now let me turn the call over to Rob for his opening remarks.
Thank you Mark and good morning to all of you joining today's call.
Operationally our second quarter continued to pattern an outstanding performance by our jack-up fleet.
Our revenue efficiency for our 5 active jack-ups was 98.5% for the quarter and our 2 newest rigs the Atwood Mako and the Atwood Manta performed at very high levels.
As you would've seen in our fleet status report that we issued yesterday we took delivery of the Atwood Orca in late April increasing our total fleet to 13 rigs.
We began mobilizing the Orca to Thailand on April 29 and we expect it to arrive on location by approximately May 7.
At which time it will commence its 2-year drilling program with Mubadala Petroleum.
The delivery of the Atwood Orca concludes the jack-up construction program that we initiated in October of 2010.
All 3 of our Pacific Class jack-ups have been delivered ahead of schedule and all 3 were able to go directly to work on attractive term contracts.
Overall we've been very pleased with the performance of the PPL Shipyard and the high quality of the rigs that we now own and operate.
We continue to like the jack-up segment and we will look for further opportunities to enhance our jack-up fleet in the future.
Our 3 deepwater semisubmersibles the Atwood Falcon Atwood Eagle and Atwood Hunter have collectively achieved a 95% revenue efficiency for the quarter.
And this occurred despite 3 separate evacuations for tropical cyclones on the Eagle and the Falcon in Australia.
I recently visited Australia where I spent a day and a night on the Atwood Falcon.
The rig has brand new living quarters new life boats a new BOP crane and a number of other smaller enhancements that were installed last year in Singapore.
The rig has made a very successful transition to the Australian market with the assimilation of its Australian crews and we expect the Falcon to have a long run in the Australian market.
The one blemish in our second quarter's operating performance related to the lower revenue efficiencies on the Atwood Condor and the Atwood Osprey each of which experienced extended downtime due to BOP issues.
The Atwood Condor's reliability was impaired by a latent issue within the BOP control system that caused 2 separate stack poles.
Our subsea team successfully diagnosed the root cause of the problem which was not obvious at all and after a consultation with the BOP system manufacturer we implemented a modification in early March that we expect will fully resolve this issue going forward.
Similarly the Atwood Osprey's BOP issues in the quarter were due to certain subsea BOP components that were not achieving their expected service lives.
The parts in question are being redesigned by the OEMs to improve their durability and reliability.
If there's a silver lining to the BOP difficulties of this past quarter on the Condor and the Osprey it is that they were not due to competency issues within Atwood subsea teams.
We continue to believe that our BOP maintenance and testing protocols are best-in-class for our industry.
Also the benefits of standardizing our BOP equipment over all of our ultra-deepwater rigs are readily apparent as we are able to extend all these lessons learned among the Osprey the Condor and our 3 drillships.
The delivery of the Atwood Orca signals the completion of our jack-up construction program so our newbuild project team is solely focused now on completing our 3 A-class drillships at the DSME shipyard in South Korea.
The Atwood Advantage continues to make excellent progress toward its scheduled completion date in late September of this year.
We have seen the shipyard ramp up its resource commitments over the past few months so we remain hopeful of an on-time delivery.
The rig operations team is also well on its way to assuming ownership of the rig as the onshore management is fully in place and the key offshore supervisory positions have been filled.
Now let's take a look at the market.
Despite the recent pullback in the price of Brent crude and recurring concerns about the worldwide economy the outlook for our business remains very positive.
A flurry of recent fixtures of ultra-deepwater newbuilds coupled with the continued strength of the jack-up space underpin our views.
Starting with the ultra-deepwater segment we're especially encouraged by the recent discoveries that have been announced in the Inboard Lower Tertiary in the U.S.
Gulf of Mexico as these discoveries confirm the existence of a very large play and they signal significant exploration and appraisal drilling in the near term and development drilling in the longer term.
This lower tertiary drilling is especially challenging with deep well depths high pressures and temps and fixed salt layers and it is quite rig-intensive.
We subscribe to the view that the Gulf of Mexico will see the greatest absolute growth in ultra-deepwater rig demand of any region over the next 2 to 3 years.
This said we still see strong ultra-deepwater demand growth in other regions West Africa in particular.
Even with the optimistic outlook the rate of supply growth has slowed considerably as we have not seen any newbuild ultra-deepwater rigs announced in the past 2 months.
With regard to high specification jack-ups this segment continues to surprise to the upside.
The fact that all 3 of our newbuild jack-ups went to work for smaller independents who are not pursuing particularly challenging drilling programs provides further support of our long-standing bifurcation theme.
We continue to believe that the jack-up segment will be sustained by the combination of demand growth and the continual replacement of older rigs by newer and more capable rigs.
On the supply side we have seen a number of new jack-up rigs ordered since our last earnings call on the back of this optimism.
On the contracting front I wish we had new fixtures that we could talk about today but the truth is that there's quite a bit of activity going on behind the scenes with our clients that has not quite reached the signature stage.
However we do fully expect to announce new contacts for some of our rigs during this quarter.
Our most immediate marketing priority has been to secure follow-on work for the Atwood Beacon which is expected to include -- conclude its current program as early as next month.
We recognize that this looks like a really short fuse which it is but we've been working on this for a while and we feel good about our chances to maintain continuous or near continuous work on the Beacon with a suitable follow-on drilling program.
The Atwood Hunter has been just behind the Beacon on our marketing priority list and we expect that the Hunter's current drilling program in Equatorial Guinea will now conclude in October.
Also we disclosed in our recent fleet status reports that the Hunter could incur approximately 110 days of out-of-service time in fiscal year 2014 to complete regulatory inspections and to perform necessary maintenance including coating of the hull top sides and tank internals.
It is important to note that the Hunter has not undergone any major shipyard-based maintenance since 2001.
If we complete this maintenance work directly after our current program the rig would be available in the first calendar quarter of 2014.
We are currently in discussions on a number of longer-term drilling programs that are scheduled to commence during that timeframe that match up quite well with the Hunter's technical capabilities.
Discussions on the Atwood Achiever the second of our 3 A-class drillships are progressing well.
The recent pickup in ultra-deepwater fixtures is helping the 2014 supply/demand balance look a bit tighter.
Echoing what I said on our last call we remain positive about securing an agreement on the Achiever by sometime this summer.
This concludes my prepared comments.
I'll turn it over to Mark now for the financial discussion.
Thanks Rob.
Today I'm going to provide color on our second quarter financial results and then compare these results to the previous fiscal quarter.
I will then comment on our financial position and provide cost cutters[ph] for the remainder of the fiscal year.
Let's start with the fiscal second quarter ended March 31 2013.
Revenues of $253.2 million is a new quarterly record for Atwood and $8 million ahead of the previous quarter.
Diluted earnings per share was $1.28 as compared to $1.10 for the prior quarter an increase of 16% on 67 additional operating days during the fiscal second quarter.
Revenues of $253 million compared to revenues of $245 million as I mentioned previously with revenue efficiency declining 3% to 92% quarter-on-quarter.
As previously discussed by Rob this reduction is mainly attributable to downtime on the Atwood Condor and the Atwood Osprey.
However we had quite excellent revenue efficiency on the remaining 7 rigs.
Note that our 2 new Pacific Class jack-ups uploading in Thailand it should have an average revenue efficiency of 98% for 2 consecutive quarters.
Contract drilling margins increased by 4% from the previous quarter to 59% and more importantly net margins increased by more than 4% to 34% this quarter as compared to the fiscal first quarter 2013.
These margin increases are attributable to higher quality revenue mix with the Atwood Condor and Atwood Eagle operating for a full quarter and the excellent cost control.
Contract drilling costs including reimbursable costs were $108 million for the quarter as compared to $112 million for the previous quarter.
This reduction in cost is explained as follows: $6.5 million related to 2 projects the Atwood Beacon and Atwood Eagle that were completed during the fiscal first quarter; certain maintenance projects being delayed to later quarters due to longer lead times of certain parts and materials.
Offsetting these cost reductions were 67 additional operating days during the fiscal second quarter.
Our effective tax rate was 12.2% slightly below previous guidance due to a change in geographical mix of our pre-tax income.
Moving to the balance sheet capital expenditures totaled $51 million during the quarter which consisted mainly of capital spares and project management and other [indiscernible] costs for 4 rigs under construction during the quarter.
Net debt increased to $922 million at March 31 2013 with our debt-to-cap ratio dropping 2% to 33% from the previous quarter.
Now let's look at the outlook for the remaining 2 quarters of fiscal 2013.
Revenues excluding reimbursables estimated at $11 million should increase approximately 7% in the fiscal second quarter to the fiscal third quarter.
Updating my guidance from the previous earnings conference call contract drilling costs should now range between $435 million and $450 million for fiscal 2013 with emphasis on the lower end of that range.
For the fiscal third quarter we anticipate contract drilling costs of between $110 million and $115 million.
These estimates for contract drilling costs exclude reimbursable costs which will approximate $8 million to $9 million per quarter for the remaining 2 quarters in fiscal 2013.
As Rob mentioned the Atwood Orca began its mobilization to Thailand on April 29 at 95% of its operating day rates.
Mobilization should last about 8 days with the rig running on location and earning full operating rates on May 7.
Depreciation expense should increase approximately $1 million quarter-on-quarter factoring in the Orca's placement into service in April.
General and administrative costs remained flat quarter-on-quarter and around $13 million for the remaining 2 quarters.
Interest expense should range between $6 million and $8 million per quarter for the remainder of the year net of capitalized interest.
We expect our tax rate for the third quarter and for full-year 2013 to remain between 12% and 14%.
As previously mentioned we spent $373 million in capital expenditures during the first half of 2013 leaving approximately $280 million for the remaining 2 quarters of fiscal 2013.
Of this amount $140 million was paid upon the delivery of the Orca in April with the remainder split equally through the rest of the year and comprising primarily of capital spares and project management and other related costs for our 3 drillships currently under construction.
We will continue to use a mix of cash cash flow from operations and our revolving credit facility to fund these capital expenditures throughout 2013 and 2014.
In addition our public bonds are trading at attractive levels around 4%.
We may access the capital markets to term out a portion of our revolving credit facility in the future.
That concludes my prepared comments.
I'll turn the call back to Leo for any questions.
[Operator Instructions] We'll take a question from the site of Collin Gerry Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to maybe dig a little bit deeper on the BOP issues that you mentioned.
Both those rigs have been in service for a while and I guess what was the Genesis -- I actually kind of missed what's your explanation on the Condor but what was the genesis of finding out what the problem was during downtime during routine just kind of inspection or full on the BOPs? And going forward are they the same standardized equipment that's sort of on the new drillships and how do we get comfortable with maybe the uptime as these drillships start coming into the mix? Yes Collin the issue that we had on the Condor BOP system related to the flow of the hydraulic fluid to the control system on the BOP and there were issues with how that system was operating with regard to the pressure gradients that were on that system.
And it took a bit of forensic work from our BOP subsea team to really figure out what was going on.
Frankly this is something that could have and in our view should have been corrected at the point of manufacture but it wasn't and we detected it through operation.
So we went back and worked with the manufacturer on a fix and we believe that that problem on the Condor is fully behind us.
As I mentioned in our prepared comments we have standardized our BOP equipment with a single manufacturer.
So to the extent that we discover any issues with the performance of the BOP systems obviously that information gets communicated with the manufacturer and we ensure that corrections are made and that these problems don't recur.
We have a similar issue occur on the Osprey with regard to some subsea components.
These were minor components on the system that were not achieving their full service lives.
So you expect to get a certain number of if you will subsea days on each of these components and they weren't achieving that so they're actually redesigning these components.
But I think it's really just symptomatic of the fact that as an industry we are absolutely driving to a higher standard in terms of the performance of the equipment and the absolute level of redundancy that has to be in place at all times.
And in point of fact I think that the folks that manufacture the BOP equipment haven't been driving to that same standard really for that many years.
I mean a lot of this is post-Macondo expectations by the operator and the contractor community that is just now working its way through the manufacturers in terms of the tolerances on the performance of their equipment.
But we feel very good about the equipment that we've got and the corrections that we made and our expectation is that the occurrence in the second quarter was an anomaly for Atwood with regard to BOP performance.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Very interesting color.
And I just wanted to follow up with a quick question for Mark.
How may -- how should I think about maintenance CapEx for your fleet maybe now and then on a fully delivered basis when we have all the drillships in the fold? Yes Collin.
If you'll recall about 18 months ago we did a look-back for 5 years on maintenance CapEx for our fleet and we were in that $28 million to $30 million total rig -- sorry in total.
Since then we delivered the Osprey the Condor the 3 jack-ups.
So to be able to service those rigs we've added some capital spares to the capital spare inventory.
That's over the 2012 2013 and 2014 timeframe will add about $75 million in total in capital spares.
Once we get through that I think our run rate on a go-forward basis for the full fleet will be somewhere in that $40 million to $50 million range for maintenance CapEx.
[Operator Instructions] We'll move next to the site of Clayton Kovacz [ph] Tudor Pickering Holt.
So I know you guys briefly touched on the pickup in jack-up orders year-to-date.
But could you elaborate a little bit more as to why we've seen so many jack-ups relative to floaters? Clayton [ph] if you take a look at the makeup of 26 or 27 orders so far I think 5 of them were ordered by established drillers.
So I think given the terms more than 1/2 of those rigs have been ordered from Chinese shipyards with very favorable back-end weighted payment terms.
We're seeing speculators getting into the drilling space by ordering jack-ups.
The demand we've seen from every single pocket worldwide for jack-ups examples include Mexico India Iran China elsewhere is driving the speculators to order these jack-ups.
So it's really a function of the market where potential speculators can play and taking advantage of the opportunity given by the Chinese shipyards which are starting out in some cases to order these rigs.
Okay great.
That's great color.
And then also are you seeing any sort of change in the operator mix behind recent deepwater inquiries? Well we're certainly seeing a lot of activity from the independents.
And if you look at some of the recent fixtures they've been with smaller players as well as some larger players.
And I think what it really confirms for all of us is a hypothesis we had which was that the Macondo incident would not impair the appetite for independents to play in the ultra-deepwater.
And I think that these recent fixtures are very supportive of that.
Among the opportunities we're looking at for the Atwood Achiever a number of those are with what I would call large independents as opposed to majors or super majors.
They're certainly in the mix but the independents are playing a big role in that.
And I do think that is something that we're seeing and it's certainly a welcome development for us.
It's not just in the Gulf of Mexico it's around the world and I think it's what we're going to see going forward in the ultra-deepwater segment.
We'll move next to the site of Ian Macpherson of Simmons.
Research Division</strong> Can you remind me are the Achiever and the Admiral being marketed with 1 single BOP configuration or with 2? Or is that an open-ended proposition? No we made the decision to outfit both of those rigs with 2 BOPs as well as the Advantage.
So all 3 of the Atwood drillships will have 2 BOPs on each ship.
Research Division</strong> Right.
Rob do you think it's well-defined in the market by now sort of what the day rate delineation is between those 2 alternatives or do you think that's still an evolving process? Well I think it's evolving because we haven't seen a large number of these fixtures yet.
But I can tell you that the trend is certainly toward 2 BOP systems as a preferred apparatus for operators especially as I've talked about previously on the call about in a post-Macondo environment.
I -- we certainly believe that our rigs with 2 BOPs will command a premium.
And in some cases I think there are operators out there who won't look at rigs that don't have 2 BOPs for their particular programs.
So I think we feel very good about the fact that the 3 rigs we've got under construction now have the 2 BOPs.
They're more marketable and they should yield higher day rates for us.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then on the jack-up side should we expect there to be significant increases in your leading edge day rates this year given the tightness that you've described? I mean I think your highest rate on the Oracle would be 160.
Would we be surprised to see leading edge rates above 160 this year? Yes we certainly believe that day rates are moving up on the jack-up space and that's really been as I said in my prepared comments a pleasant surprise for the market given the supply that is coming on here in 2013.
So our expectation is that those leading edge rates are higher than where we're currently contracted so your assumption is a fair one.
Research Division</strong> Very good.
And then one more quick one if I may.
Mark could you talk about the costs that you're contemplating for the shipyard work for the Hunter and what that would entail in terms of what's going to be recognized in the shipyard property cost versus being capitalized? Or is that premature to ask? It's a little premature Ian but we have scoped out the project as we have arrived at an estimated  amount of time out of service.
The cost should total somewhere around $30 million.
If you look back historically about 1/3 of that gets expensed but we would need a little more time to give you a true breakout between the expense and capital part of that.
We'll move next to the site of Waqar Syed of Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Just want to follow up on the BOP issue.
Rob to your knowledge is this issue first time cropped up on Osprey and Condor or those issues have been experienced by the industry as well? So some of these issues have been experienced by others in the industry notably the issues that we had on the Osprey relating to the components that I mentioned were not achieving their full subsea service lives.
There are competitors of ours who have experienced the same sort of thing with their equipment and that's why as I mentioned the OEMs are working on redesigns of those parts to improve their durability and reliability.
So what we're experiencing is not necessarily unique but these are endemic challenges with the equipment that's put under a high service load with a very high expectation for reliability.
And as an industry we need to respond to that.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Secondly where do you think the rates are for the Beacon and Hunter right now? Well I don't want to say too much about either those rigs because of where we are in terms of our discussions but as I said in the previous question we a certainly expect leading edge rates on the jack-ups to move higher.
On the Hunter generally I will say that the deepwater rates have been healthy.
We're kind of in the low to mid 4s right now and we think that that's a number that we could potentially improve on on refixing or recontracting of the Hunter.
In short we believe that just about every rig in our fleet could roll over at a higher rate than where it is right now to varying degrees just because of the strength of both the floater and the jack-up market Waqar.
So I would just say stay tuned on our expectations this quarter where we do announce some fixtures.
It's been a while since we've done that and I think they'll bear out the increases over current rates that I referred to.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And what would it take for you to order additional equipment? And you mentioned in your prepared comments about additional opportunities.
Was that mostly newbuilds or you would consider acquisitions as well? Well 1 thing to keep focused on is that we do have 2 uncontracted ultra-deepwater drillships the Achiever and the Admiral and we certainly would like to get contacts on those.
We do have a remaining option for an ultra-deepwater drillship.
So in terms of growth opportunities for Atwood that is certainly an area where we're going to focus our efforts.
Obviously we would like to continue to grow this company.
And as long as we feel that we can build quality equipment at a good price and put it to work for-- under good initial contracts we certainly would like to do that.
So that's really the near-term focus for us Waqar is a decision on pulling the trigger on a fourth drillship.
Research Division</strong> So when does that option expire? Yes nominally the option expires in late June of this year.
I will remind that in the past we've been able to extend our time with the shipyard on exercising that option.
And in the event we were close to doing something and wanted to get some more time we think we could get that.
We still haven't seen very much in the way of inflation in the drillship construction space.
So with the options being pretty much at the money we believe that we could extend that option if we need more time.
Research Division</strong> Now in terms of your confidence in ordering a new -- or exercising the option do you need to only see the Hunter get recontracted or do you need to see Achiever and Admiral as well recontracted -- contracted? Yes it isn't quite a direct formula Waqar where we can say if this then that.
But clearly we're looking to recontract a number of rigs in our fleet.
Obviously we expect after doing that our backlog will increase significantly from where it is today.
It's about $2.3 billion today and that'll obviously give management and the board confidence that we should invest another $635 million or so in another drillship.
So there isn't any direct correlation between 1 rig or the other but we certainly would like to recontract both the Hunter and then get a contract on the Achiever here in the coming months.
Next question from the site of Zachary Sadow of Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Considering the strength we're seeing in Southeast Asian shallow water market currently do you have any thoughts on where the leading edge day rates for premium jack-ups in the region could be exit 2014? Do you think we could see rates pushing to $200 000? Well that's a great question.
I think the open question will be the absorption of the uncontracted jack-ups that are still to come out here in 2013 and there is still quite a few.
But there's no question the momentum is quite good in the market right now and we're heading toward that number.
A little difficult to predict here in early May where we're going to be at the end of the year but we certainly hope the momentum continues.
We do have a couple of our own rigs that are in Southeast Asia that will roll off at the end of this year the Atwood Manta and the Vicksburg.
So we're going to be in a recontracting mode and we will certainly hope to take advantage of higher day rates.
Research Division</strong> Great.
Beyond the option that you have outstanding for the additional drillship what are your thoughts on drillships versus semisubmersibles? Well a lot of that's driven us to drillships has been the opportunity to get highly technically capable rigs at a very attractive pricing.
And the Korean yards we've talked about this before have been very aggressive in terms of their pricing for a particular specification.
The other advantage you get with the drillships is the mobility and we are seeing a number of exploration programs that are intercontinental or interregional where having a highly mobile asset like a drillship has an advantage over a semi.
But look we've been operating semis for many years.
We've got the Osprey and the Condor as part of our ultra-deepwater fleet and we'll continue to take a look at both types of ultra-deepwater rig.
Again what we have in hand is an option on an ultra-deepwater drillship but that's what we'll focus on initially before making incremental decisions on the ultra-deepwater.
Our next question comes from Darren Gacicia of Guggenheim.
LLC Research Division</strong> ; I had a couple of questions.
One of the things I've seen recently in some of the news flows that the shipyards themselves are starting to build kind of jack-ups in speculation and selling them on to players.
Is that -- am I reading that right? Is that something that's actually starting to happen? Or who's taking the risk on the speculator side? Is it kind of newfound operators is it the yards? Do you have any color on that? Darren I think there's 2 questions over there.
On your first question that's nothing new.
We've been building rigs the 3 Pacific Class rigs at the PPL yard.
They've been building their Pacific Class rigs throughout the tackle from 2005 through now.
And as the yard orders slow down they've been building for their own account and selling those off.
In fact if you recall back one of our competitors bought a rig for them -- from them for a long-term drilling program in Malaysia last year.
So I don't think that's new.
It's probably a little newer to capital but PPL has been doing that for quite a while.
LLC Research Division</strong> Interesting.
Is that -- is it more true for jack-ups or for floaters? Well I think it's definitely true for jack-ups.
On the floater side you're starting to see 1 or 2 Chinese yards looking at building a semi on spec.
They're trying to get some experience and get a prototype out there.
But you're not seeing the major U.S.
and Singapore or in Korea doing that.
LLC Research Division</strong> Got you.
Then changing gears a little bit in terms of -- a few of your competitors have talked about the market starting to warm up for contract-backed new builds.
And typically logically you would think that that would need to happen at sort of a discounted rate relative to kind of to current day rates given that the spec aspect should give you some better reward.
Are you seeing any of that activity? Are you seeing any differential in the terms for contracted versus maybe the current spec deliveries that are coming in? Yes I think the -- I'll take this one.
I think the reference to the contract-backed newbuilds is really more relevant for the ultra-deepwater set.
On the jack-ups space the -- we're really not seeing that much of that other than potentially for very heavy-duty harsh environment rigs.
But I think the real opportunity for contract-backed newbuilds is in the ultra-deepwater space.
And I would say at this point that's still relatively limited but we could see that increasing as we move forward.
And some of the technical requirements evolve for our clients.
There are definitely some opportunities that require specific assets because of the complexity of the wells the depth of the wells and such.
And so therefore you may see some contract-backed opportunities on the ultra-deepwater side.
LLC Research Division</strong> Do you think that terms for that will probably be a little less favorable if you're going on a contracted rig versus what people are seeing on newbuild spec deliveries now? I think those are going to be down to individual cases to determine whether the economics are different or not relative to what we're getting in the spec market.
Our next question comes from Nigel Browne of Macquarie.
You sort of pre-answered my question Rob but I'll ask it anyway.
If I could put you on the spot on the theme of how the jack-up market will evolve in the future do we -- do you anticipate an acceleration of retirement of some of the legacy or commodity jack-ups out there? And you alluded to higher technical specifications for equipment to qualify for tenders.
Could you give us any color on what some of those technical specifications are that sort of differentiates where the jack-up strength would be versus where some of the commodity assets will sort of continue to face demand headwinds? Yes we've been talking for some time about the fact that the jack-up space in particular is -- has a large number of rigs that were constructed in the '80s.
About 55% of the currently working jack-ups are 30-years old or older.
And I think it's only natural that you're going to see a replacement of the fleet and this really underpinned our belief in building spec jack-ups that even as demand was growing slightly or not you would see a significant replacement of the legacy fleet just because of its technical obsolescence and the needs and desires of operators for more capable rigs.
I mean there's any number of functions that you get with the higher spec rigs and it really depends on the program that will drive those specifications.
But things like the hook load the offline capability the cranes the accommodations all those things really roll in to a decision that the operator might make around whether they can work with an older rig or whether they desire a new rig.
And I will also tell you that again in a post-Macondo world the desire for state-of-the-art in terms of safety and redundancy definitely drives towards the newer assets.
So we're big believers in the replacement of the jack-up fleet.
We think it's going to continue going forward and that certainly will give further strength to the jack-up market even in the face of growing supply.
And 1 follow-up question was you guys get these 2 ultra-deepwater rigs signed up and up and running.
How are you thinking about in terms of the decision between increasing supply versus that sort of trend we've been seeing now towards instituting a dividend no matter how small it is and growing it from there how you guys thinking about that over the next couple of years? Well we think our primary function as management is to identify NPV positive transactions for our shareholder base.
And as long as we can continue to grow our fleet profitably and that means -- basically means getting very good rigs at good prices and being able to put them to work right away then that's our first port of call in terms of what we're going to focus on.
We do recognize that as this company continues to grow we are going to get to a position where we may be able to throw off more cash than we could possibly invest.
But that's probably not at least until 2015 or beyond.
And we'll clearly want to address the proper way to return cash to shareholders if and when we get to that point.
But that's certainly a ways in the future right now and right now our focus is on execution and seeing if we can find other attractive growth opportunities.
And one last quick one.
The shipyards especially the Koreans I saw that they actually announced more on the container vessel side a number of orders that will -- that sort of disappointed in terms of pricing.
We know that the newbuild rates for rigs have sort of stayed sort of within the same range.
Is it possible to conceptualize that the cost of ordering a new ultra-deep rig could go down in the future? How are you thinking about the probability of that happening? Well we don't see that as very likely.
In fact there has been some talk about some inflation.
It's certainly for some of the components that go into the rigs and we're not seeing any deflation in terms of the construction costs from the Korean yards.
So we expect that prices are in a pretty narrow range from where they were a couple of years ago.
But we certainly haven't seen anything that we would call deflationary in terms of construction cost.
[Operator Instructions] We'll take a question from JB Lowe from Cowen Securities.
Research Division</strong> Apologies if I missed this earlier but for the deepwater rigs that you have coming available in 2014 are you looking to keep them in the same region they're operating now? Are you getting inquiries from operators elsewhere? Yes the Eagle and the Falcon are in Australia.
And I mentioned in my prepared comments that we think the Falcon will have a long run there.
We feel the same about the Eagle.
There's a lot of opportunities for drilling mostly LNG-based drilling that's taking place off the North West shelves.
So we feel quite good about where the Eagle and the Falcon are positioned in that market.
The Atwood Hunter has done quite a bit of drilling in West Africa Equatorial Guinea Ghana other places in that area.
And we think that the rig has a good chance of staying in West Africa because we see a large number of jobs that are in that 5 000-foot or shallower range that we can look at.
I would say that there is a possibility the Hunter could leave West Africa based on some other opportunities that we're seeing but I would say the lead case is the Hunter stays in West Africa the Eagle and the Falcon stay in Australia.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And the -- just on all the jack-ups that are being built right now you said that a lot of it are coming out of the Chinese yards.
Are those -- are the Chinese guys building on spec too? I know we were talking about that with some of the other guys building on spec but are the Chinese yards building on spec? And if so would you guys ever consider 1 year or 2 down the road grabbing an unspoken for rig that's being built at a Chinese yard? JB this is Mark.
We're not aware of any rigs being built on spec by the Chinese rigs yards.
Although you could consider 1% down to be a spec -- a newbuild.
And we'll take a question from Brian Uhlmer of Global Hunter.
LLC Research Division</strong> I just have a real quick one for you Mark.
When you talk about your bonds which are yielding about 4 1/8 what do you think of a target of -- what happens to long-term debt versus the revolver versus maybe your EBITDA or your debt-to-cap? Or how do you look at what's the proper amount of long-term debt to keep on your balance sheet? Brian firstly we look at debt overall as a component of our capital structure based upon the quality of -- quantity of our backlogs.
And as we deliver new rigs and the longer-term contracts we'll get more comfortable with a higher leverage on the balance sheet.
The mix between fixed and floating rate or bonds versus bank debt can fluctuate as well.
Right now as you pointed out as a BB-rated company to be trading in the low 4s that's excellent.
So we may take more money on the bond side in this environment as opposed to where it was a few years ago.
But we don't have a fixed percentage of debt that has to be bonds versus a revolving credit facility.
And we do have a follow-up from Darren Gacicia's line from Guggenheim.
LLC Research Division</strong> Your comment about only like kind of 1% down from the yards kind of begs one question and I think it's something kind of looking them over just from a private scenario standpoint is if you look at the terms being offered by the shipyards you may have a little down.
Are there other things that kind of -- in the clauses and in the contract terms that give people -- give drilling operators flexibility in getting maybe not honoring the orders or something like this? I mean how firm are the contacts in favor of the shipyards if they're giving those kind of terms? Is there anything happening in the contractual language that kind of defers more risk on them? Darren I really can't speak to that.
This is a rig that was ordered by a speculator a year or so back.
Yes we're not privy to their contract term with the shipyard.
As you know we've chosen some of the world's best shipyards.
When we bought in our jack-ups we'll have both of them in PPL.
And we can talk to those contracts but really can't shed any light on the Chinese contracts.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
I just didn't know if anything had passed under your nose to say that things have been kind of lighter but I appreciate the color.
And it appears that we have no further questions at this time.
Okay.
If there are no further questions we thank everybody for joining on this call and we'll look forward to picking it up in 3 months on our third quarter call.
This concludes today's conference for today.
You may now disconnect your lines and everyone have a great day.
Good day everyone and welcome to today's program.
[Operator Instructions] Please note today's call is being recorded.
It is now my pleasure to turn the program over to Mr.
Mark Mey Senior Vice President and CFO.
Thanks Lindy and good morning to everybody.
Welcome to Atwood Oceanics' conference call and webcast to review the company's operating results for the third quarter ended June 30 2013.
The speakers today will be Rob Saltiel President and CEO; and me Mark Mey Senior Vice President and CFO.
Before we begin let me remind everyone that during the course of this conference call we may make forward-looking statements that reflect management's current plans expectations estimates and assumptions concerning the future.
These statements involve risks and uncertainties and actual results may differ materially from those expressed in these forward-looking statements.
These risks and uncertainties are more fully described in our latest 10-K and other filings with the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission.
Undue reliance should not be placed on these forward-looking statements which are applicable only as of the date hereof.
Now let me turn the call over to Rob for his opening remarks.
Thank you Mark and good morning to all of you joining today's call.
Overall our third quarter was a very good one across a number of fronts.
Our operations and technical teams performed extremely well to deliver record quarterly revenues on the back of great execution.
Our marketing team closed a number of key contracts that have increased our revenue backlog to nearly $4 billion and our finance team lined up additional sources of funding to support our growth strategy.
I'll touch on the first 3 areas while Mark will update you on the financial developments.
Starting with operations.
Atwood's fleet-wide revenue efficiency was approximately 95% for the third quarter.
Our 2 ultra-deepwater rigs performed much better than in the previous quarter as the Atwood Osprey and Atwood Condor combined for a 95% revenue efficiency in the third quarter.
As I mentioned on our last call we believe that the BOP downtime issues we experienced on these rigs that were attributable to design and manufacturing issues are behind us and that these hard lessons learned are transferable to our drillships.
Shifting to our jack-up fleet.
The Atwood Orca joined the active drilling fleet in Thailand in early May after its tow from the Singapore shipyard.
Similar to its 2 sister rigs the Orca experience a very smooth start up averaging better than 99% revenue efficiency over its first 2 months of operations.
This outstanding reliability performance right out of the gate demonstrates once again our company's ability to deliver newbuild rigs that are ready to drill as soon as they arrive on location.
As of class our 6 jack-ups averaged more than 98% revenue efficiency for the third quarter.
Our 3 deepwater rigs experienced a slightly lower revenue efficiency than usual at 93% for the quarter.
The Atwood Falcon and the Atwood Eagle incurred unplanned downtime events for equipment repairs that offset to some degree a very strong operating performance by the Atwood Hunter.
Shifting now to marketing.
Our commercial team was very successful in the 90 days since our last call in bringing to closure a number of opportunities that had been under development.
In total we signed 6 contracts for a total of $1.8 billion in revenue backlog making this one of the most prolific contracting periods in our company's history.
In late May we entered 2-year extension on the Atwood Eagle for work with Woodside in Australia and that will keep the rig occupied there until mid-2016.
Woodside has been sharing time on the Atwood Eagle under its current program and this commitment shows their confidence in the rig's performance.
It also validates the strength of the Australian offshore market where our 3 floaters now have a combined backlog of approximately 8 years.
Also in May we signed a one-year extension on the Atwood Aurora with Addax Petroleum that will keep that rig busy in Cameroon until February 2015.
The Aurora continues to enhance its reputation in West Africa as a reliable and capable drilling unit.
In June we were finally able to announce our follow-on work for the Atwood Beacon which continues to drill in Israel.
Once it has completed its current well the Beacon will transit to Italy to begin a 2-year development drilling campaign for ENI in the Adriatic Sea.
The Beacon is required to undergo some equipment modifications to comply with Italian regulations.
These are well underway and should be fully completed before the ENI program commences.
At this point we do not expect any zero rate days associated with these modifications or the mobilization to Italy.
Also in June we announced the 39-month contract extension on the Atwood Condor with Shell that will keep the rig in the Gulf of Mexico until November 2016.
This extension supersedes the remaining term of the Hess Corporation contract that was scheduled to conclude in June of -- in July of 2014 and includes a day rate uplift during this time period.
We are pleased to be working with Shell again after we enjoyed a long and successful collaboration with the Atwood Falcon in Malaysia before that rig relocated to Australia.
The Condor is currently finishing up its work for Hess and we expect to begin with Shell later this month.
And earlier this week we announced a short-term extension on the Atwood Hunter and Equatorial Guinea with GEPetrol EG's national oil company.
This fixture will bridge the Hunter into the first calendar quarter of 2014 so this may be the last program for the Hunter before the rig commences its planned maintenance regulatory work that we discussed on last quarter's call.
Even with these contracting successes our most exciting development for the quarter was the fixture of our second A-class drillship the Atwood Achiever with Kosmos Energy for a 3-year exploration program that will begin in Morocco.
It is especially helpful for our operations and technical teams to have identified our client and our initial drilling program more than a year in advance of the Achiever's delivery from the shipyard.
Kosmos Energy has been a client of Atwood's since 2008 when we assigned the Atwood Hunter to drill in Ghana and we are excited to be working with them on this important exploration campaign.
This fixture is noteworthy on its own but it also reinforced our confidence to build our fourth A-class drillship the Atwood Archer at the DSME shipyard.
The Archer will be essentially identical to the previous 3 drillships and it is scheduled to be delivered by the end of calendar 2015.
Along with this commitment we secured an option to build a fifth drillship with an exercise date of March 2014 and a delivery date of September 2016.
And speaking of our drillships we continue to make excellent progress on our first 3 rigs at the DSME shipyard.
Just last month we held our naming ceremony for the Atwood Advantage.
It was attended by our client Noble Energy.
The rig looks great and construction progress by the shipyard has been accelerating in recent weeks.
We believe that the Advantage may be delivered after its scheduled completion date of September 30 but we don't expect this delay to exceed 60 days.
Now let's take a look at the market.
In general the outlook for our business remains buoyant and largely unchanged from the previous quarter.
Since our last call we've seen a rebound in Brent oil prices on the back of an improving U.S.
economy and some increased geopolitical concerns on supply.
However slower growth expectations for China and other non-OECD nations coupled with increasing U.S.
onshore oil production could provide headwinds for maintaining these elevated oil price levels going forward.
In the ultra-deepwater segment a number of signings of new builds including the Atwood Achiever underpin our expectations for a strong rig market in 2014 and beyond.
Ultra-deepwater day rates may not be moving up but we are not convinced that rates are coming down or are due to coming down in the near term.
For the Atwood Achiever our initial expected day rate of $660 000 for drilling in Morocco compares quite well with other West Africa fixtures that we have seen over the past 18 months.
The jack-up space continues to be very good all around.
Our marketing priorities in this segment are the Atwood Manta and the Vicksburg both of which are contracted through the end of December in Thailand.
As a preference we are pursuing suitable opportunities in Thailand as well as in the broader Southeast Asia region.
And in the Deepwater segment our near-term marketing focus is to line up longer-term work for the Atwood Hunter.
With the recent short-term fixture we just announced plus the regulatory and maintenance work that may directly follow the Hunter's first availability may not occur before May of 2014.
While some analysts have pointed to a bifurcation between the newest ultra-deepwater rigs and older deepwater and ultra-deepwater rigs we expect to find additional work for the Hunter at healthy day rates barring a major change in oil prices.
And the last thing I want to cover was our agreement with Helmerich &amp; Payne to purchase half of the 4 million shares they divested last quarter.
This purchase reduced the impact on our other shareholders of a widely anticipated share sale by H&amp;P and it will provide a boost to future earnings per share.
More importantly this transaction should put to rest once and for all investor concerns about a potential overhang in our stock.
Mark will clarify the financial impacts of this transaction in his prepared comments.
And with that I'll turn the discussion over to Mark.
Thanks Rob.
Today I'm going to highlight a few items in our third quarter's financial results and then compare these results to previous fiscal quarter.
I will then comment on our financial position provide cost guidance for the remainder of the fiscal year.
Let's start with the third quarter highlights.
Revenues of $272.7 million is another quarterly revenue record for Atwood and $20 million ahead of the previous quarter.
Diluted earnings per share of $1.37 as compared to $1.28 for the prior quarter an increase of 7% on 73 additional operating days during the quarter.
Revenue efficiency for the entire fleet of 95% was almost 3% better than the second quarter.
Contract drilling costs excluding reimbursable cost of $9 million totaled $109 million for the quarter as compared to $99 million to the previous quarter.
The $99 million included $9 million of reimbursable costs.
This increase in contract drilling costs is explained as follows.
Additional 73 fleet operating days during the quarter including the Atwood Orca operating for 63 days under its inaugural contract in Thailand at the middle of it from the PPL Shipyard in late April.
The Orca incurred contract drilling costs of $3.7 million during the quarter.
And secondly the timing of certain maintenance projects mainly on the Atwood Condor and the Atwood Falcon.
Our effective tax rate for the quarter was 14.4% slightly above previous quarter due to a change in the geographical mix of our operations.
Moving to the balance sheet.
Capital expenditures totaled $197 million during the quarter which consisted mainly of the final payment on Atwood Orca capital spares and project management and other related costs for the 4 rigs under construction.
During the quarter we issued $200 million in senior notes and an add-on transaction to our existing $450 million senior notes due in 2020.
In addition and subsequent to June 30 2013 we exercised the accordion feature of our revolving credit facility by increasing commitments by $350 million to $1.1 billion.
We also amended the credit facilities to remove all scheduled amortization through maturity and increasing commitments of $200 million.
We still retain the option to further increase commitments under the revolving credit facility by another $200 million to a total of $1.3 billion.
By exercising this $200 million accordion we will be fully funded by a newbuild program through the delivery of the Atwood Archer our fourth drillship in 2015.
As Rob mentioned in his comments in May we entered into an agreement to purchase 2 million shares from H&amp;P for a total of $107 million.
Upon the closing of this transaction in late June we canceled these shares reducing our weighted average share count by about 800 000 shares in the fiscal third quarter.
This resulted in a $0.016 benefit to earnings per share in the quarter.
Net debt increased to $1.12 billion at June 30 with our net debt-to-capital ratio increasing to 33% up from 29% during the previous quarter.
I'll just discuss the outlook for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2013.
Firstly we estimate reimbursable revenues of $13 million for the fiscal fourth quarter.
Quickly updating my guidance from the previous fiscal -- from the previous conference call contract drilling costs should now range between $425 million and $435 million for fiscal 2013.
Therefore for the fiscal fourth quarter we anticipate contract drilling costs of between $110 million and $120 million.
These estimates for contract drilling costs exclude reimbursable costs which approximate a $10.3 million for the fourth quarter.
Depreciation and G&amp;A expense should remain constant quarter-on-quarter.
Interest expense should approximate $8 million net of capitalized interest.
We expect our tax rate for the fourth quarter and full year 2013 to range between 13% and 14%.
Included in the $197 million in capital expenditures in the third quarter we spent $570 million year-to-date leaving approximately $83 million remaining to be spent in the fourth quarter.
Note that in July we made the initial downpayment on the Atwood Archer our fourth newbuild drillship for a total of $107 million.
Therefore capital expenditure should approximate $760 million for 2013.
We will continue to use a mix of cash cash flow from operations and our revolving credit facility to fund these capital expenditures.
That concludes my prepared comments.
I'll now turn the call over to Lindy for questions.
[Operator Instructions] And we'll take our first question from Collin Gerry of Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Rob I want to follow up on some comments you made potential bifurcation we're seeing in the floater space and other fleets maybe not your own but we are seeing some relative softness as it relates to some deepwater units with maybe 4 MBOP stacks or 10 000 PSI -- BOP stacks.
Is that just noise in the market or is that real that we're seeing a little bit of softness there relative to the higher-end units? Well I think that some of that is a function of where those units are located who they're working for whether it's extensions of existing work or new work and maybe some particular -- particulars around the performance of those rigs.
But in general we were certainly encouraged by the short-term extension we got on the Atwood Hunter and of course as you know we yanked a pretty nice contract on the Atwood Eagle in Australia.
So I will say to this point we've been immune from that.
That said the -- we're big believers that ultimately the newest and most capable technological rigs will garner the best work and the highest day rates.
So in some cases there may be some evidence of that with our competitor fleets.
But again to date we haven't seen it.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Right.
Now your fleet certainly has held up especially on the new contracts much better than maybe some of your competitors.
I guess my other question was and you spoke on this a little bit but we heard from the big manufacturer the other day on rig equipment and it seemed that a big theme is how tight the shipyards are in terms of getting this stuff out the door.
They're having to outsource there's a lot of just cost overruns on their end and maybe on the manufacturer's end.
Should we start worrying about delays for the industry in terms of delivering this newbuild? That wouldn't be anything new to the industry but I'm just -- there's a lot of deliveries over the next 2 years and we're starting to hear a little bit more about delays.
Do you think it gets a little bit worse? Well we're most focused on the delivery of the Atwood rigs.
And from my prepared comments you can see that we are anticipating a potentially slight delay on the delivery of the Advantage which is the first of 4 virtually identical rigs.
We actually gained confidence on the on-time delivery potential for the subsequent rigs because all the engineering gets done once and then it gets replicated over the follow-on rigs.
I think we've also done a good job in working with the same equipment manufacturers and make sure from an Atwood perspective that their progress is moving along in lockstep with the shipyard.
So we aren't held up by a vendor on a particular drillship delivery date.
I will say that in other build cycles as we move through it the supply chain does oftentimes run into issues and if anything obviously that would be bullish for the existing supply if the new supply is delayed.
But again right now we're focused on our rigs and to date we've done a pretty good job of getting ours out on time.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> For the Atwood fleet that's under construction just to kind of summarize I mean -- yes maybe a little bit of delay possible on the first rig but overall still very comfortable with the timetable.
Absolutely.
We're in one shipyard now.
I mean if you go back 18 months ago we were in 3 shipyards.
So the complexity of our build program has been reduced quite a bit.
We're giving a lot of attention to DSME and the particular suppliers who support the construction of our drillships and we feel good about where we are on that -- on those timetables.
[Operator Instructions] And we'll take our next question from Ian Macpherson from Simmons.
Research Division</strong> The Hunter contract in Equatorial Guinea is certainly higher than what I think most of us would have thought of sort of the market rate for that class.
It is a short-term contract and I was just wondering if you could elaborate a little bit on how you see longer-term contract opportunities for those rigs in 2014 or if it's going to be more of a spot market going forward and what sort of rate differentials we might contemplate between near term versus spot.
Well we are seeing a number of longer-term opportunities for the Hunter keeping in mind that we do have better than 3 months almost 4 months of total work planned for coatings work and some refurbishment of equipment that will take place in fiscal '14.
So we're really looking out beyond that timeframe for opportunities that are suitable for the rig and we are seeing a number of those.
As you can imagine there tends to be a trade-off between longer-term commitments by clients and some impact on day rates.
So I'm not going to say that we're going to guarantee 500 000 plus on the long-term renewals for the Hunter.
But we certainly expect to be in a healthy range when we go out and fix that longer-term work.
I think the fact that the Hunter has drilled very reliably and safely in Equatorial Guinea the fact that there was work right there in-country that follows onto the work that we're doing now certainly facilitated the rate that we got.
But we're -- continue to be optimistic on the deepwater fleet despite some of the commentary around our competitor fleets.
Research Division</strong> Very good.
And then I think that you answered this for Collin before but more in pointedly of the potential 60-day delay for the Advantage is not expected to have any knock-on effect whatsoever with the others in the series? That's correct.
And again we're not committing to a 60-day delay.
We're just being a bit conservative here that if there's some slippage we think we can bracket it at 60 days and we're going to do everything we can with the shipyard to get out as close to on-time as we can.
Research Division</strong> One more quick one if I may Rob.
The 2 jack-up from Thailand that are rolling at the end of the year those by my eyes look like they're a little bit below where the market rates are when they rollover.
Would you concur with that? Well yes.
We've said this before we -- we're focused on margins and less on day rates.
And as we've also said before the Thailand market tends to be a low-cost jurisdiction relative to other areas where we operate.
And if you move the rig out of Thailand just to get the same margin you're typically going to see a higher day rate.
So as we market the rig we're going to be looking at opportunities both inside Thailand and outside Thailand.
And I guess what I would say is that we certainly think that we can hold or increase the margins that we're getting on those rigs on renewal.
And we'll take our next question from Jud Bailey from ISI Group.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to ask you you've got a couple of deepwater markets if I could start with West Africa.
You guys have signed up a couple of strong contacts there.
I was wondering Rob if you can just elaborate on -- as you have discussions over the next 2 drillships kind of give us some insight into type of demand you're seeing there in which countries and maybe any color you may have on the West Africa market.
Yes when you said deepwater maybe you meant ultra-deepwater.
Research Division</strong> I did yes.
Okay.
But yes.
I mean we feel very good about the West Africa market.
The West Africa market and the Gulf of Mexico as I've said on previous calls are probably the key focal areas for the ultra-deepwater fleet but certainly not the only ones.
And we just continue to see a lot of demand out there that is suitable for new ultra-deepwater rigs.
Frankly Morocco probably wasn't on most people's radar scopes 6 to 12 months ago if you'd asked me where we thought that the Atwood Achiever would go.
But yet there's significant exploration activity planned there for 2014 and beyond.
So we're encouraged by the development of new emerging exploration markets coupled with increased discoveries in some of the established markets both in West Africa and in East Africa.
And again for the whole continent we feel it's a good basin to absorb additional ultra-deepwater capacity.
I would say the same thing about the Gulf of Mexico.
We're very bullish on that region as a real growth area for ultra-deepwater.
So those are our 2 first ports to call when we think about marketing the Atwood Admiral and the Atwood Archer.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just a follow-up on the Gulf.
Obviously there's a lot of outstanding demand there and outlook looks very good.
One thing we've heard recently is there's been some delays maybe on the part of some operators maybe pushing some things off a little on the timetable's kind of moved to the right a little bit on when they may need rigs.
Are you hearing the same thing I'm just curious or any truth to that? Well we've heard a little bit of that but keep in mind that again focusing on the Atwood fleet the Atwood Admiral is not available until the first quarter of 2015.
So it's really not been an issue for us in particular.
We are encouraged frankly that with the Atwood Admiral's delivery quite a bit off we already are seeing potential opportunities for that rig.
So we continue to be encouraged by the marketability of our remaining ultra-deepwater rigs and we certainly think any short-term hiccups in the Gulf of Mexico in terms of getting projects going certainly won't extend to the timeframe for the Admiral.
And we'll take our next question from Waqar Syed with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Mark some -- just a clarification question.
What did you guide us on your interest expense? Interest expense net of capitalized interest should be around $8 million for the fourth quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then for the DD&amp;A? It should be flat from the third quarter to the fourth quarter somewhere around $30 million.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And Rob it's been a while since you've talked about the Southern Cross.
And I just wanted to see what's the -- is there any hope for that rig? There are a couple of contracts for rigs of that water depth rating.
And what's the condition of the rig and anything that you can highlight about the prospects for that rig? Well Waqar it's interesting that we've gone this long without talking and you want to talk about the Southern Cross but it's your airtime.
The Southern Cross is a rig that as we said before when we stacked it it was in good shape.
In fact we just spent a lot of money to reactivate it.
And so we feel that it's a very viable rig for select midwater opportunities and some of the more recent opportunities potentially lineup technically well with that rig.
And so we are taking and have taken looks at some of these opportunities.
I've also said on previous calls and this is maybe going back a year or more that we're not going to reactivate the rig unless and until we're sure it's for a really interesting and profitable opportunity.
And -- so that means longer-term in decent rate.
And at this point we haven't seen that yet.
But we are considering opportunities for the Southern Cross but we're going to continue to be selective about which ones we pursue.
Research Division</strong> And how about opportunities to sell it? Is there any market for that rig? Well there's always a market to sell.
It's just a question of can get the right price and how does that compare to the potential for reactivation.
So we're -- we've had some inquiries about buying the rig and we have obviously not pulled the trigger on any of those.
So one way or the other we want to monetize the rig because in its current condition it's really not doing us much good and we'll continue to pursue the opportunities that make the most sense.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then the second one would be and maybe you'll tackle again Vicksburg that's another -- that's a low-end jack-up that you have.
Has a good reputation though.
What are the job prospects for that in '14 and beyond and any guidance that you can provide there? Yes.
I mean obviously the Vicksburg is a working rig and it does have a very good reputation as you mentioned.
It's in the right market.
The wells in Thailand are pretty easy to drill they're short-term in nature shallow water depth and shallow drilling depth.
So -- and of course we've had very good support from our client there for a number of years.
So we feel good about the opportunity to renew that rig.
How long that rig will continue to work I think is always an open question when you talk about bifurcation that's taking place in the jack-up space.
But we continue to see strong demand and day rate movements that tend to be to the upside.
So we're optimistic.
[Operator Instructions] We'll take our next question from Darren Gacicia with Guggenheim.
LLC Research Division</strong> My first thought is as you kind of talked about having other options for drillship can you walk me through a little bit about kind of where you -- how your mind and how you kind of think and work through incremental capital budgeting towards newbuilds? It seems -- everybody's convinced that the floater market is tight through '14 and all empirical evidence suggest that.
Some analysis would say you a have little less visibility into '15 and '16 when these rigs are delivered.
How are you factoring that? What are your thoughts and how do kind of go through the process of deciding the -- to exercise that option or not? Well a number of factors go into play in making the decision to spend $635 million on a new asset.
But it starts first with market demand and we continue to believe that the ultra-deepwater space is a growing segment of the offshore drilling market and with every discovery with the opening up of new areas we're encouraged by incremental capacity at that end of the spectrum.
Obviously there's also opportunities for longer-term retirement of existing floaters.
You've got about 150 midwater and deepwater floaters that are out there.
They're getting older and especially in a post-Macondo world don't offer all the technical and safety and well-controlled capabilities that you get with the new technology rigs.
So from a demand perspective we feel very good about our investments that we've made thus far.
And so as we consider future investments we'll obviously square that outlook today with potential opportunities for tomorrow.
But the fact that we've put the first 2 rigs to work at Atwood Advantage and Atwood Achiever with some great clients it tells us how -- that these are marketable designs.
And so if we think about making another decision to build a fifth drillship we believe that would be highly marketable as well.
So those are some of the general factors that go into play.
And again I would just add it in closing that this management team is growth-biased and we're always going to be on the lookout for ways to grow our fleet size our geographic footprint and our client base.
And so we'll look hard at opportunities to grow whether those are organic or otherwise.
LLC Research Division</strong> So as you've kind of gone about -- thinking about -- as you've go on about your thoughts on the future have you gotten -- given -- as we get closer to '15 '16 are you getting more confident about the shape of that market there and I kind of ask the question within the context of your rig retirement thought process.
Do you see that becoming a real driving issue in the next couple -- in the kind of next say 3 years or near-term? Well I think to the extent that we continue to see strong oil prices and a strong demand it forestalls a potential accelerated retirement of existing capacity.
But that said we've been big believers that ultimately the rigs that are operating today in both the floater space and the jack-up space as they reach 30 years and beyond they're going to be increasingly retired especially when you have a lot of new capacity come out better than a 100 rigs for both the jack-up space and the floater space.
So it is going to happen but again with a strong market we think that the timing for retirement especially kind of forced retirements is put off and that's beneficial for our existing deepwater fleet.
And it appears we have no further questions at this time.
Okay.
If that's all then we thank everybody for joining this morning's call and we'll look forward to talking to you in November when we recap our fourth quarter and full year 2013 results.
This concludes today's program.
You may disconnect at this time.
Thank you and have a great day.
Good day everyone and welcome to today's program.
[Operator Instructions] Please note this call may be recorded.
I will be standing by should you need any assistance.
It is now my pleasure to turn the conference over to Mr.
Mark Mey Senior Vice President and CFO for Atwood Oceanics.
Sir you may begin.
Thanks Steve and good morning and welcome to the Atwood Oceanics Conference Call and Webcast to review the company's operating results for the fourth quarter and year ended September 30 2013.
The speakers today will be Rob Saltiel President and CEO; and me Mark Mey Senior Vice President and CFO.
Before we begin let me remind everyone that during the course of this conference call we may make forward-looking statements that reflect management's current plans expectations estimates and assumptions concerning the future.
These statements involve risks and uncertainties and the actual results may differ materially from those expressed in these forward-looking statements.
These risks and uncertainties are more fully described in our latest 10-K and other filings with the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission.
Undue reliance should not be placed on these forward-looking statements which are applicable only as of the date hereof.
Now let me turn the call over to Rob for opening remarks.
Thanks Mark and good morning to all of you joining today's call as we discuss Atwood's fourth quarter and fiscal year 2013 results.
In the fourth quarter we achieved our highest quarterly revenue and earnings in our company's 45-year history.
This strong finish to the 2013 fiscal year propelled us to exceed $1 billion in annual revenue for the first time while at the same time establishing a new record for annual profits.
These financial milestones symbolize the success of our growth strategy in 2013 as we maintained our high standards of operational excellence even as we expanded our rig fleet and added many new people to the Atwood organization.
Our fourth quarter results were achieved in large part due to a very strong 97% fleet-wide revenue efficiency.
Atwood's offshore rig teams continue to provide outstanding drilling services to our clients by running our rigs safely reliably and efficiently and by avoiding major downtime incidents.
In addition we maintained good cost control across our entire organization for both the quarter and the full year that enabled us to finish at the low end of our initial 2013 cost guidance range.
With our annual revenues up 35% over 2012 and 65% over 2011 it is clear that our expanding high-specification rig fleet is transforming our financial story significantly.
In fact revenue from our high-spec assets was 55% of our total revenue in 2013 versus 40% in 2012 and only 21% in 2011.
And as we deliver our 4 ultra-deepwater drillships over the next 2-plus years we expect ample opportunities to materially increase our top and bottom lines over 2013's record levels.
Turning now to our major projects.
The most significant area of focus for our organization today is the delivery of the Atwood Advantage from the DSME shipyard.
Like many of our competitors we have seen equipment delivery delays and shortages of key commissioning and troubleshooting personnel from major suppliers contributing to the late delivery.
In response we've been working very closely with the shipyard and our key suppliers to accelerate deliveries and commissioning of critical path equipment.
Based on today's progress assessment we expect that the Advantage will depart the DSME shipyard and commence its mobilization within 2 or 3 days either side of November 30 as long as we continue our current pace of progress and avoid major setbacks over the next 3 weeks.
Fortunately our learnings on the construction of the Atwood Advantage are directly transferable to our other 3 drillships.
Knowing what we do about the supply chain challenges of major rig equipment providers we have developed strategies to lessen the impacts on our drillship delivery schedules.
In addition we expect that these industry-wide supply chain issues may lessen somewhat as we move toward the middle of next year.
Thus we still believe that the Atwood Achiever can meet its scheduled June 30 2014 delivery schedule but we will have a better perspective on this in the new calendar year as we get closer to the scheduled completion date.
Our recent fleet status report highlights 3 projects in fiscal year 2014 involving our active rigs that we've been telegraphing for quite a few months and Mark will cover the financial impact of these in his comments.
On the marketing front things have been naturally a bit quieter for us this past quarter after the previous quarter's flurry of contract signings.
The one key contract since our last call was the 2-year extension for the Atwood Manta in Thailand.
We really like our position of having our 3 new Pacific Class rigs in this market with an average of 1.5 years of backlog on each rig.
Our most important near-term marketing objective is the securing of an extended program for the Atwood Hunter after it completes its upcoming regulatory and maintenance work in the first half of calendar 2014.
The Hunter continues to perform extremely well with a 99% revenue efficiency for the past year and with good safety performance.
We are pursuing marketing opportunities in Equatorial Guinea and in other nearby West African countries as our first priority.
And based on the visible work scope we believe that the Hunter will stay busy throughout the 2014 calendar year.
We are also advancing follow-on work discussions for the Atwood Mako and Atwood Falcon both of which have availability in late calendar 2014.
Contract discussions for the Atwood Admiral our third drillship with a scheduled delivery in March of 2015 have also increased.
As we move into calendar 2014 we expect an increase in the visibility of 2015 ultra-deepwater programs and the newbuild signings as more operators get serious about securing rigs for this timeframe.
Turning now to our market outlook.
We remain constructive on all segments of the offshore drilling space in which we participate.
The high-specification jack-up segment continues to be very solid with strong demand and rising day rates even as new rigs continue to be delivered.
The ultra-deepwater segment has been fairly quiet recently as fixtures have slowed but we saw a bit of this last year as well in the fourth quarter.
The good news is that we have not seen any compelling evidence that day rates or demand for the newest and most capable rigs such as our drillships have been impacted negatively.
And while there is definitely more uncertainty in the deepwater and lower-specification ultra-deepwater segments we believe that our 2014 calendar year exposure which is primarily through the Atwood Hunter and to a lesser extent the Atwood Falcon can be managed without a loss of continuity.
And finally last month we announced that we have agreed to sell the Vicksburg at the conclusion of its current contract in Thailand which is expected to occur in January of 2014.
The Vicksburg joined the Atwood fleet back in 1976 and has been a reliable contributor to Atwood's success during the past 35-plus years.
Continuing with this theme just this week we finalized agreement to sell the Seahawk our tender-assist rig that has been cold-stacked in Ghana since 2010.
We expect the Seahawk sale to be finalized by early December.
The divestiture of both of these rigs is consistent with the high grading of our offshore fleet and our conviction in the bifurcation of offshore drilling assets.
And this concludes my prepared comments.
I'll now hand it back over to Mark.
Thanks Rob.
Before I discuss our fourth quarter and full year ended 2013 financial results let me address the paragraph included in our Form 10-K yesterday regarding unresolved staff comment with respect to our annual report dated December -- September 30 2012.
This item relates to our revenue and expense recognition policies for day rates received and the corresponding expenses incurred through an additional mobilization of the Atwood Condor during the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2012.
As presented in our 2012 annual report revenues and related costs were recognized as earned and incurred during the mobilization period.
Alternatively these mobilization of revenues and expense has been deferred and amortized for the duration of the usual 21-month contract whereas net income had been reduced in the fiscal fourth quarter and year ended 2012 and increased in the fiscal years 2013 and 2014.
As highlighted this would not impact the timing or amount of cash flows and in aggregate net income would net to 0 over the 21-month Condor contract.
We continue to work with the SEC staff to resolve this comment in the near term.
Let me now review our fourth quarter and full year results compare these results to the previous fiscal quarter and comment on our financial position and provide guidance for the fiscal first quarter and full year 2014.
Let's start with our fourth quarter highlights.
Record revenues of $293 million and $20 million ahead of our third quarter and revenues for the year just over $1 billion as Rob mentioned previously.
Diluted earnings per share of $1.58 as compared to $1.37 for the prior quarter an increase of 15% due to 39 additional operating days during the quarter.
Revenue efficiency for the entire fleet was 97%.
This is a 2% improvement on the previous quarter.
Looking back on fiscal 2013 as a whole revenue efficiency for the fleet was 95% with our jack-up fleet as a subset for the entire fleet realizing 99% revenue efficiency for the year.
Contract drilling costs excluding reimbursable costs of $9 million totaled $112 million for the quarter ended September 30 2012 as compared to $110 million for the previous quarter.
The $110 million is also net of $9 million of reimbursable costs.
This increase in contract drilling costs is directly attributed to the increased operating days from the third quarter.
Our effective tax rate was 13.8% slightly below the previous quarter due to a change in the geographical mix of our operations.
Moving to the balance sheet.
Capital expenditures totaled $176 million during the quarter which consisted mainly of a down payment on the Atwood Archer upon the exercise of the option for fourth A-class drillship in addition to capital spares and project management and related costs with the other 3 drillships under construction during the quarter.
Net debt increased to $1.17 billion at September 30 with our net debt-to-capital ratio increasing to 34% up from 33% the previous quarter.
Let's now discuss our outlook for 2014 with emphasis on the fiscal first quarter.
Firstly we estimate reimbursable revenues of $45 million for fiscal '14 and $8 million to $12 million for the first quarter.
Contract drilling costs should range between $525 million and $545 million for fiscal 2014 and between $130 million and $140 million for the first quarter.
These estimates for contract drilling costs exclude reimbursable costs which should be -- which should approximate $30 million for 2014 and $6 million to $8 million for the first quarter.
The increase in contract drilling costs relates to a full year of operating costs on our newbuild high-specification jack-ups our 2 newbuild A-class drillships joining the fleet later this year and mid-2014 the Atwood Hunter's regulatory inspection maintenance and paint project and partially offset by the sale of the Vicksburg in early 2014.
Labor and other cost inflation was maintained in the 4% to 5% range which is very similar to what we've seen in 2012 and 2013.
Depreciation is estimated at $146 million to $150 million and $33 million for the first quarter.
General and administrative expenses should approximate $61 million for the year and $19 million for the first quarter.
Note that consistent with previous years our first quarter G&amp;A expenses skewed higher than the subsequent 3 quarters as our 2013 incentive compensation is paid and recognized in that quarter.
Interest expense net of capitalized interest should approximate $52 million for 2014 and $11 million for the first quarter.
We expect our tax rate to remain between 13% and 14% for 2014.
This excludes the tax on the $34 million gain on the sale of the Vicksburg which will be taxed at 30%.
We expect the sale to be completed in late December early January.
Therefore the effective tax rate for the affected quarter should approximate 19%.
In summary we expect both EBITDA margins and net margins to be flat year-on-year.
As noted in our recent fleet status report and by Rob earlier we have 3 regulatory projects scheduled for the first and second quarters.
Atwood Hunter's regulatory inspection maintenance and paint project will begin in mid-December and extend for 110 days.
This project is budgeted to $25 million of which we expect to capitalize $6 million.
Atwood Falcon's 5-year regulatory survey for a total of $7.4 million and extending for 15 days in December $2.9 million of this amount will be amortized over 30 months with the remainder being expensed.
And the Atwood Aurora's [indiscernible] in the second quarter totaling $3.4 million and extending for 5 days.
$1.6 million of this amount will be capitalized.
And finally the Atwood Beacon is currently in the midst of its 15-day 0-rate days waiting on the delivery of the vessel for its drive-through to Italy to begin its 2-year contract with ENI.
Note that we did not expect any further out-of-service with 0-rate days for the remainder of 2014.
Capital expenditures including maintenance CapEx in addition to our capital spares inventory and capitalized interest should total $960 million for 2014.
Of this amount we intend to spend $440 million in the first quarter which includes the final shipyard payment upon delivery of the Atwood Advantage from the DSME shipyard.
We will continue to use a mix of cash cash flow from operations and our revolving credit facility to fund these capital expenditures.
Note that currently our contract backlog is $3.8 billion.
That concludes my prepared comments.
I'll now turn the call over to Steve for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Ian Macpherson from Simmons.
Research Division</strong> Rob is there any change in your strategic view for Atwood given the fundamentals at hand which you're certainly aware of what's happening with the bifurcating floater market? You expressed in your opening remarks that you still see the high-end drillship market steady.
And through that perspective I would assume that you -- your organic growth strategy is still in play as we go into '14 and look to contract the Archer and order of this drillship is that reasonable? Ian I would say that's a fair assessment.
What we're seeing in the ultra-deepwater space is a bifurcation between the newest and most capable rigs primarily drillships that offer the higher hook load to BOP systems and a number of other very attractive capabilities efficiencies and safety features.
The bifurcation of those rigs versus the lower-spec ultra-deepwater and deepwater rigs continues to develop and we think that that's quite supportive of our strategy of building the kind of technology rigs that we've been constructing to date.
So I would say that our strategy is very much intact and is being borne out by what's taking place in the market.
Research Division</strong> Great.
You mentioned also a pretty confident outlook in maintaining high -- you don't say seamless but high utilization for the Hunter post-shipyard next year.
What can you say about pricing pressure at this point and Transocean was certainly pretty clear on their view on that yesterday.
Have they gotten worse or steady from your perspective compared to a few months ago? Well keep in mind we just have 1 rig to worry about.
And so it's a little hard for me to characterize segment pressure that some of our competitors may be seeing.
As I mentioned in our prepared comments the Atwood Hunter has been absolutely a rock-solid performer.
I mean 99% revenue efficiency over the year is just outstanding frankly for any class of rig let alone a 5000-foot rig operating in West Africa where you've got challenges on supply chain customs and those sorts of things.
So that rig has an outstanding reputation.
It's a reason -- explains a bit why a company like Noble Energy has been working with the rig for the last 5 years and whether it's in Equatorial Guinea or somewhere nearby in West Africa we're seeing ample opportunities to keep that rig busy.
Our next question is from Clayton Cubbeck [ph] from Tudor Pickering Holt.
So in regards to your fiscal 2014 operating cost inflation what areas are you seeing as being the higher inflation versus the lower inflation areas? Or should we think about this more on kind of an asset-by-asset basis being high spec versus low spec? Clayton this is Mark.
I think as it relates to our fleet for next year we have very few rigs moving jurisdictions.
Where we do have jurisdictional change is the Beacon so you're going to see a change in cost there.
And obviously when the 2 drillships start working they're going to be incurring cost for the first time.
But for the rest of the fleet all you're going to really see there is the inflationary impact of the major costs like labor.
Labor is going to be up somewhere in that 4% to 5% area.
I think you're going to see some sort of cost perhaps with the airfare for crew changes.
Insurance for us in the last few years has been very good.
We've seen reductions there so I expect to see a similar sort of reduction going forward.
Then the other big costs are around repairs and maintenance.
And that typically is seeing inflation in the form of maybe 2% to 4% from some of our key suppliers.
So it's really across the board with the main driver being labor cost.
Okay.
And then given Atwood's strong Southeast Asia presence what countries within the region do you see is providing the most incremental demand going forward? Well I think it depends on whether you're talking about the ultra-deepwater or the shallow water.
And the traditional shallow water markets in Southeast Asia Malaysia Vietnam those markets and Thailand look to be strong markets going forward.
I think on the deepwater side in ultra-deepwater we see activity in Indonesia Malaysia as well as obviously more opportunities in Australia which isn't necessarily Southeast Asia but there's a lot of activity down there on that continent.
And so we continue to be encouraged by what's taking place in Australia where we have this very significant presence with 3 deepwater floaters one of which is ultra-deepwater the Atwood Osprey.
So we like that area of the world.
Now that doesn't necessarily mean that that's where we think our drillships will go.
We still think that the 2 remaining drillships the Atwood Admiral and the Atwood Archer probably have a better than 50% chance of working somewhere in the Golden Triangle.
And -- but we'll certainly look at Southeast Asia and other let's say emerging deepwater and ultra-deepwater markets for opportunities for those rigs.
Our next question is from David Smith from Johnson Rice.
L.L.C.
Research Division</strong> It looks like Australia has been a great market for the moored deepwater rigs.
I wanted to ask if you're seeing additional competition there and what kind of barriers if any would discourage rigs that haven't worked in Australia? Yes I mean we are starting to see some dynamically positioned rigs come into the market.
They tend to be drilling in the deeper waters further off the shelf there.
But for the most part you're correct that with the relatively shallow bisymmetry surrounding Australia on the Northwest Shelf you see a lot of moored rigs.
I mean you have also seen activity being sourced for drilling in the Australian Bight which is in the southern part of the country and we'll have to see how that develops.
That's pretty harsh environment area and it needs a special kind of asset.
So we'll watch and see how that develops going forward.
But Atwood's been operating in the Australian province since early '70s.
We know the market extremely well.
We have been very successful as well in managing our business without a lot of union interference and we think that that works very well for our employees and for our clients because we're able to manage our business as we see fit and we continue to be able to operate that way in the Australian market.
We think that's a source of competitive advantage for Atwood and for our clients as we work there.
And the other regulatory challenges that you've got there with regard to safety case and compliance we're not seeing as regulations also serve as an entry barrier.
So we think we've got probably the longest experience in that market and some special characteristics in terms of how we run our business there that give us an advance longer-term and we feel very good about our position and we're there with the 3 rigs and feel that those rigs are likely to stay there for quite some time going forward.
L.L.C.
Research Division</strong> Great color.
The follow-up question was just looking at the market for lower-spec deepwater rigs in West Africa I wanted to ask if you're seeing more competition from rigs outside the region particularly from rigs currently based in the U.S.
Gulf.
And if so is that competition purely for the term work? Yes again we're really focused on the Atwood Hunter and as it relates specifically to the Atwood Hunter we're not really seeing any competitive threats yet.
We certainly understand that there's a lot of discussion around moving rigs from either the Gulf of Mexico or Brazil maybe toward West Africa and we'll just have to see how that plays out as we go forward.
L.L.C.
Research Division</strong> I know those rigs are a decreasing part of the business but that's the only uncertainty I had and I appreciate the color.
Our next question is from Waqar Syed from Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> My question relates to newbuilds.
Obviously you have an option for a new drillship.
How about on the jack-up side is that a market that you still have interest in growing further? Or for now the focus is primarily just on the drillship side? Thanks Waqar.
We certainly have interest in the jack-up market longer-term.
As you know there are quite a few jack-ups under construction and to be delivered over the next 2 to 3 years well over 100.
And we just saw another announcement this week of 5 more.
So this market looks to be pretty well supplied in the near term.
And -- but we're going to continue to look at it as an opportunity for us for future investment.
Right now we don't hold any specific options for extension of our jack-ups with any shipyard whereas we do have an option with the DSME shipyard for an extension of our ultra-deepwater fleet.
So that's certainly the most immediate opportunity for us but we will certainly look for the right opportunities to expand our jack-up fleet.
I'm just not sure that's a near-term priority for us.
[Operator Instructions] Our next question is from Darren Gacicia from Guggenheim.
LLC Research Division</strong> I wanted to ask I know that there's some concern about the deepwater market out there.
One of the things that seems like it could play through is that some of these rigs can get stacked especially if they're in need of big capital employment.
I mean what's your outlook there when you're going to look broadly across the space and you think about kind of how it applies to your fleet going forward? Obviously you're still looking to grow but -- and maybe only have 1 kind of rig that's a little bit more in flux in terms of the Hunter.
But just more generally looking at the industry and the outlook do you see kind of a rig replacement/fleet attrition issue becoming a bigger factor? It's a great question.
We've told the story a few times before.
But before 2011 the Atwood Eagle the Atwood Falcon and the Atwood Hunter were the most capable rigs in the Atwood fleet and we for many years maintained those through an extremely high standard so that they've never had a lot of the operational issues or repair problems that some of our competitors' rigs have had of the same vintage.
This project we're doing on the Atwood Hunter next -- over the next quarter or 2 is really relatively modest in terms of scope relative to what some of our competitors are compelled to do when they take their rigs in for periodic surveys because they have deferred maintenance over many years and haven't maintained those rigs because they haven't been the most capable rigs in their fleet.
So we feel very good about the condition of our rigs.
As I said in my prepared comments the Atwood Hunter had 99% revenue efficiency in 2013.
I mean that is a world-class standard for any floating rig and that's the proof in the pudding for is this a capable rig? Can it still drill wells reliably and efficiently? The answer is absolutely yes.
So we -- again we focus less on the segment and more on our rigs in the segment.
We've got limited exposure there.
But we are also big believers in bifurcation.
It's why we've embarked on our newbuild program.
We know that the Atwood Eagle Atwood Falcon and Atwood Hunter will not continue to drill indefinitely and that there will come a day when they will be replaced either because they're technically not capable or eventually they reach a 35- or 40-year life and it's time to retire them because of the wear and tear.
So our strategy has been very consistent with that.
We just don't see that day of reckoning happening here in the near term.
LLC Research Division</strong> Got you.
Switching gears a little bit on the follow-up.
It's my understanding of it there's restrictions in some of your debt with regard to investment grade ratings and paying a dividend.
Some of that kind of having threshold points on your PP&amp;E levels and the rest.
Is that correct? What are your those thresholds? How do you think about managing that and how do you think about that with regard to kind of future potential payout strategies? Well Darren as you know we have a target of the being investment grade over the next 3 years.
If you look at our credit metrics currently and over the last several years we've been solidly investment grade throughout this timeframe.
Even with adding a little debt in the last couple of years to complete this newbuild program we're still within the parameters set by the agencies for investment grade ratings.
So with that being said our debt both the revolving credit facility which is fully prepayable at any point in time and our senior notes which will become callable in about 1 year 1.5 years both of those amounts of debt can be refinanced if and when we achieve our goals with regard to investment grade.
As you know once you are investment grade the limitations around dividends are no longer applicable and at that point we can consider all uses of cash including dividends and stock repurchases.
Our next question is from JB Lowe from Cowen and Company.
LLC Research Division</strong> I just had a -- I was just curious how much did you sell the Seahawk tender rig for? The sale price was $6 million JB.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
Great.
And just on the Hunter that was really interesting color about how those 3 deepwater rigs used to be your highest-spec rigs so they are much more well-maintained than some of their peer rigs.
But I just had a question on the upgrade.
Is there anything that you guys are doing in the upgrade that will allow that rig to get a higher day rate coming out of the yard? Any specific equipment that you're adding or anything? JB just to be clear higher than 515 a day.
LLC Research Division</strong> Yes I guess that's right.
No I think what we're doing there is what we've done with the Eagle and the Falcon over the last couple of years.
As these rigs are acquired you go through their periodic surveys.
We're doing the same thing with the Hunter.
But as you know this rig has not been at the yard for quite a few years so it will come out it will be as capable and as Rob said you're operating at 99% revenue efficiency for the year is pretty amazing.
LLC Research Division</strong> Right.
And that kind of brings up my other question as to -- I mean Noble has projects all around the world.
Is there a reason why they wanted to let go of this rig given the fact that they know it so well and that it's done so well for them? Well I wouldn't say that Noble has let go of the rig.
I mean we do have a program that has interceded there.
But we think Noble and others have got additional work in Equatorial Guinea and nearby West African nations and Noble's certainly a potential candidate to sign up for some follow-on work on the Atwood Hunter.
So you could -- you should read into that little -- that short-term program that's on our fleet status report has precluded Noble from taking the rig back afterwards.
It appears we have no further questions at this time.
Okay.
If there are no further questions we appreciate everybody's interest and we look forward to updating you on our first quarter in early calendar '14.
This concludes today's program.
You may now disconnect at any time.
Good day and welcome to the Atwood Oceanics First Quarter Earnings Call.
[Operator Instructions] Please be advised today's program may be recorded.
It is now my pleasure to turn the program over to Mr.
Mark Mey Senior Vice President and CFO.
You may begin.
Thanks Erin.
Good morning and welcome to Atwood Oceanics conference call and webcast to review the company's operating results for the first quarter ended December 31 2013.
The speakers today will be Rob Saltiel President and CEO; and me Mark Mey Senior Vice President and CFO.
Before we begin let me remind everyone that we are -- during the course of this conference call we may make forward-looking statements that reflect management's current plans expectations estimates and assumptions concerning the future.
These statements may involve risks and uncertainties and actual results may differ materially from those expressed in these forward-looking statements.
These risks and uncertainties are more fully described in our latest 10-K and other filings with the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission.
Undue reliance should not be placed on these forward-looking statements which are applicable only at the date hereof.
Now let me turn the call over to Rob for his opening remarks.
Thanks Mark and welcome to all of you joining this morning's call.
This is Atwood's first earnings call from our new Houston headquarters building after spending nearly 34 years at our previous location.
For our employees this move is another welcome sign of our company's growth and transformation.
Our first quarter revenue was the second-highest in Atwood's history at $284.7 million and a number of positive developments helped make this possible.
We enjoyed outstanding revenue efficiency on our deepwater fleet nearly 100% across the 3 rigs.
Our jack-up fleet also operated extremely well for the quarter with virtually no operational downtime.
And we received Italian regulatory approval for the Atwood Beacon without any remediation requirements.
The Atwood Osprey also enjoyed a good quarter operationally and our drilling program on Atwood Hunter extended further into December than we anticipated.
Finally and most exciting for our company the Atwood Advantage joined our fleet in December and commenced its mobilization to the Gulf of Mexico contributing to our top and bottom lines.
However 2 negative developments marred what would've otherwise been an outstanding quarter.
First we incurred a major downtime incident on the Atwood Condor due to a BOP control system problem.
Resolution of this issue required more than 3 weeks of zero rate time and a loss of approximately $13 million in revenue and operating profit.
The good news is we've corrected this problem with a hardware fix so it cannot occur again.
Our second issue involved the Atwood Beacon which incurred delays waiting for a heavy lift vessel to transport the rig from Israel to Italy limiting its earning power for the quarter.
With the impact of these 2 events our fleet-wide revenue efficiency for the first quarter was reduced to 92% from 97% in the previous quarter.
The first quarter was also a busy one for our project teams involving 5 of our rigs.
Let me give a quick rundown on each.
The delivery of the Atwood Advantage on December 12 from the Daewoo Shipyard was clearly a key milestone for our company.
When we announced that we were building our first ultra-deepwater drillship in January 2011 we knew that it presented both a great opportunity and a significant challenge.
Our project team in Korea did an outstanding job managing the construction and commissioning of this first vessel especially with the delays we faced from some of the key equipment suppliers.
In addition our operations team has assembled a first-class crew of trained and competent personnel to deliver safe and reliable drilling services for our client Noble Energy.
The Advantage has now completed the first 2 legs of its voyage and is expected to arrive in the Gulf Mexico in early March.
With the delivery of the Atwood Advantage behind us our project team in Korea has shifted focus to the Atwood Achiever.
Some of the supply chain challenges that impacted the Advantage delivery are likely to persist but we believe we are better equipped to address these with the experience gained from our first drillship.
Working with the Daewoo Shipyard we are reviewing progress with the key suppliers every 2 weeks with Atwood participating directly with these suppliers to improve their delivery timing.
In addition the shipyard has increased its manpower allocation on the Achiever project to minimize delays in mechanical completion and equipment commissioning.
The Atwood Falcon completed its intermediate regulatory survey in late December doing so in just under the expected number of out-of-service days and within budget.
The Falcon has returned to work in Australia after this project and the rig is not expected to require a regulatory out-of-service period until at least fiscal 2016.
And as I mentioned at the outset the Atwood Beacon completed its project workscope to comply with Italy offshore regulation in a very efficient manner.
As soon as the Beacon arrived in Italian waters it went on a 95% standby rate as it underwent final inspections.
The rig was officially accepted in late December which marked the beginning of its 2-year drilling program with ENI.
And finally the Atwood Hunter completed its extended drilling program in Equatorial Guinea in late December and then moved to Cameroon to begin its planned regulatory and maintenance work which is currently ongoing.
We expect this project will be completed by mid-April.
I'll turn now to our market outlook starting with the floaters.
The visibility in the floater segment has become less certain since our last earnings call.
The combination of a slowdown in announced fixtures near-term uncontracted newbuild capacity and a significant number of pending deepwater and ultra-deepwater rig contract rollovers has clouded our 12- to 18-month outlook.
Adding to this has been a handful of unsuccessful appraisals of previous discoveries and a nearly universal call by E&amp;P operators to improve cash returns and cost discipline in the wake of rising costs and low realized returns.
We've also seen the operators delay or cancel drilling programs that had been expected to occur this year which has pushed floater demand to the right.
As a result we've seen a number of our competitors' rigs go idle in the past 3 months and more are likely to do so in the months ahead.
Fortunately for us Atwood is in excellent shape to weather a weaker 2014 due to the significant contract backlog that we added last year.
As a result we really only have 2 floaters that require significant marketing focus in 2014: the Atwood Hunter and the Atwood Admiral.
As I mentioned earlier the Atwood Hunter is expected to complete at shipyard in April.
We are targeting 3 different opportunities in Africa with 2014 commencement windows that align with the Hunter's technical capabilities.
We still have our 3-well contract with GEPetrol in Equatorial Guinea which has been delayed but which we believe will be drilled once issues among the partners and the relevant government entities are resolved.
Most of the new opportunities we are targeting for the Hunter are likely to commence in the June to August time frame so there is an increasing likelihood that we may experience some idle time on the Hunter after it completes its project in Cameroon.
As far as the Atwood Admiral is concerned we are currently targeting a number of jobs with a mid-2015 start primarily in West Africa and the Gulf of Mexico.
And we expect that more will materialize as we move through this year.
We are aware that some of our competitors have uncontracted 2014 newbuild capacity that may put some near-term pressure on day rates along with some contract rollovers of less capable ultra-deepwater rigs.
However we remain extremely bullish on our A-class drillship technical capabilities as offshore E&amp;P operators continue to migrate toward floaters with dual BOP systems 2.5 million pound hook load and off-line efficiencies similar to what our rigs provide.
Turning briefly to the jack-up segment.
We continue to see high specification jack-up rates and utilization holding up quite well.
However given the number of jack-ups under construction that are still available for contract we do remain a bit cautious as to the effect this could have on rate to utilization going forward.
This concludes my prepared comments.
I'll now pass it back to Mark for our financial commentary.
Thanks Rob.
Today I'm going to touch on a few first quarter highlights and then compare these results with the previous fiscal quarter.
I will then comment on our financial position and provide updated cost guidance for the fiscal second quarter and the remainder of the year.
Let's start with the fiscal first quarter highlights.
Revenues of $285 million on 1 009 operating days for the quarter.
Diluted earnings per share was $1.28 as compared to $1.57 for the prior quarter a decrease of 18% on 3 fewer operating days during the quarter.
Revenues net income -- revenue efficiency and earnings per share were all negatively impacted by the Atwood Condor Atwood Falcon and Atwood Beacon totaling a combined 55 zero rate days during the quarter.
Net margins were 39.3% [ph] for the quarter and revenue efficiency of 92.5% with the 3 deepwater rigs achieving 99.5% revenue efficiency for the quarter.
Contract drilling costs excluding reimbursable costs of $8.4 million totaled $123 million for the quarter as compared to $112 million for the previous quarter in fact below the guidance I provided in the prior conference call.
The $112 million in fiscal 2013 also excluded $9 million of reimbursable costs.
This increase in contract drilling costs is explained as follows: the addition of the Atwood Advantage to the operating fleet for 19 days in December and the Atwood Falcon's 14 days of regulatory inspection and maintenance project in December where about $4.5 million was expensed.
The Atwood Beacon's 60-day waiting on the heavy lift vessel to mobilize to Italy and a delay or elimination of certain maintenance projects on mainly the Atwood Condor and Atwood Hunter.
General and administrative totaled -- costs totaled $20 million in line with expectations for the first fiscal quarter.
Our effective tax rate was 11.5% slightly below the previous quarter per our guidance due to a change in geographical mix of income as well as certain discrete benefits from a favorable tax provision of a prior year examination.
Moving to the balance sheet capital expenditures totaled $463 million during the quarter which consisted mainly of a final payment on the Atwood Advantage plus capital spend and project management and other related costs because we still have many rigs under construction.
Net debt increased by $30 million to $1.47 billion at December 31 with our net debt-to-capital ratio increasing to 37.8% and that's up from 34% at the end of the previous quarter.
Liquidity totaled $287 million at the end of the quarter.
Most of our[indiscernible] metric peak later this fiscal year with the delivery of the Atwood Achiever and then moderate as we generate significantly higher EBITDA and de-lever thereafter.
Now let's discuss the outlook for the second quarter -- second fiscal quarter of 2014.
Before beginning with my guidance let me reiterate that 96% of the remaining days occurring in 2014 are currently contracted.
In addition approximately 70% of our 2015 available days are contracted.
Also and consistent with our ongoing strategy of upgrading our fleet the Vicksburg sale closed on schedule in mid-January realizing a pre-tax gain on sale of about $34 million.
Now for my updated guidance.
We estimate reimbursable revenues of $12 million for the fiscal second quarter.
Regarding contract drilling costs I now anticipate full year 2014 to range between $520 million and $535 million with the fiscal second quarter ranging between $140 million and $150 million.
These estimates for contract drilling costs exclude reimbursable costs which would approximate $8 million for the second quarter and $32 million for the fiscal year.
The increase in costs for the fiscal second quarter are being driven primarily by the Atwood Hunter project costs most of which as an expense on a full quarter of the Atwood Advantage.
Depreciation should increase to $37 million for the second quarter reflecting a full quarter of depreciation for the Atwood Advantage.
G&amp;A expense should decrease for the remaining 3 quarters and range between $13 million and $15 million per quarter.
Interest expense should approximate $13 million net of capitalized interest for each of the remaining 3 quarters.
We expect our tax rate for the second quarter to approximate 20% with us taking the tax on the Vicksburg sale.
For the fiscal year 2014 our effective tax rate should range between 13% and 15%.
Capital expenditures should total between $80 million and $90 million in the second quarter.
Full-year fiscal 2014 CapEx should approximate $975 million that's up $25 million from prior guidance.
The vast majority of the remaining CapEx will be incurred in the fourth quarter upon delivery of the Atwood Achiever.
We will continue to use a mix of cash cash flow from operations and our revolving credit facility to fund these capital expenditures.
That concludes my prepared comments.
I'll now turn the call back over to Erin for questions.
[Operator Instructions] And we will first go to the site of Collin Gerry with Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Well I'll start the question.
As it relates to some of the accounting issues that you guys are talking with the SEC about I'm wondering do we -- for the Achiever do we start modeling revenue being recognized on the mobilization period? Or is that something that you're going to go back to kind of maybe the traditional way of amortizing that over the life of the contract? Well as you saw in our disclosure both this quarter and with the annual disclosure last quarter we don't anticipate changing anything at this stage.
We have approached this and we've had 2 signed opinions on this whereby we believe that our approach in recognizing mobilization revenue during the mobilization period to be correct.
So right now I would oblige you to not change your accounting for the Achiever contract as that contract is very similar to the Atwood Condor and Atwood Advantage.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Okay good.
So status quo.
I just wanted to double check on that one.
And then Rob just for you.
You mentioned kind of on the floater outlook you described it as a 12- to 18-month kind of softness and we can all kind of look and see at the supply coming on the market.
What is the hardest thing for us to look at is what is demand doing because there aren't very good numbers out there it's just more or less what are your customers are saying.
And so I guess what confidence do you get that it is only 12 to 18 months? And maybe describe just kind of more specifically the types of conversations that you are having with your customers right now.
Well Collin we do believe that any downturn that we may be facing is probably bracketed around 12 to 18 months.
A lot of that is because the real challenges for the market look to be over the next 6 to 12 months.
And we are already starting to see some rigs getting idled in the marketplace.
At the same time we're really not seeing a decrease in demand.
What we're seeing is an absence of demand increase to account for the continuing flow of newbuilds into the marketplace.
So this is certainly not like past downturns certainly at this point where you see demand fall off at the same time supply is rising.
This is more about a stagnant demand met by rising supply.
And I think that the market has spoken pretty clearly about its preference for higher-specification ultra-deepwater rigs similar to the A-class drillships that we're building.
We fully expect that lower-class -- lower-specification older ultra-deepwater rigs will increasingly be idled to the extent that demand doesn't keep up with the rising supply.
But we really think that the bulk of the pain will probably occur over the next 12 months or so.
And we'll next go to the site of Gregory Lewis with Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Rob I mean clearly bifurcation in the ultra-deepwater or deepwater has been an issue.
I'm just curious on your thoughts I mean clearly we've already seen some rigs being idled.
I think the expectation is that we're going to continue to see more rigs be idled over the next 6 to 12 months.
At what point -- and maybe we are already seeing it as -- in the ultra-deepwater at what point do these lower day rates and even idle time for lower-generation rigs not only start to spill into the ultra-deepwater next gen rigs but actually have an impact where we start to see rates move lower? Well I think we're going to have to see how it plays out.
But I would like to point out as I made the comment in my prepared statements that there are a larger number of operators out there that insist on the capabilities of the newer higher-spec ultra-deepwater rigs.
It isn't just a question of substitutability of a lower-spec older ultra-deepwater rig for a newer one.
In a lot of cases there is an insistence on clients for these newer higher-spec more capable ultra-deepwater rigs.
And as I mentioned hook load and BOP systems and efficiencies are key drivers for that.
There's no question that the movement of any segment of the floater fleet downward has the potential to impact the other parts of the floater group.
But right now we feel very good about our position being heavily concentrated at the high end of the ultra-deepwater.
And while we've seen some softening at the high-end moving from kind of the high 5s and low 6s to the mid-5s we see the high-end of the ultra-deepwater segment holding up reasonably well.
And clearly that's where we have our marketing opportunities with the Atwood Admiral and the Atwood Archer.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then on -- and also you talked a little bit about the Hunter and its 3 potential opportunities that we're seeing in West Africa.
Do you have any sense for what types of other rigs are being bid for that work? And just to follow up on what you were previously saying should -- do we think that the Hunter is going to be competing against next gen ultra-deepwater rigs for this work? Or is this going to be more of the types of projects that the Hunter potentially can find in West Africa.
Are these sort of more shorter-term projects more geared towards a fourth or even a third fourth or fifth gen-type floater? Yes absolutely the latter.
The jobs that we're looking at are typically in the 3- to 12-month range.
And most of us in the business when we deliver an ultra-deepwater rig we're looking for significantly more term than that.
I really don't see the newer ultra-deepwater rigs competing for the work that we're focusing the Hunter on which is exactly what you'd expect and what we would hope for.
We'll next go to the site of Ian Macpherson with Simmons.
Research Division</strong> Rob can you shed a little more light with regard to the delays of the Hunter's existing backlog in Equatorial Guinea? And just help us frame the risk if you're not successful in bidding some of this -- these shorter-term gap projects.
Is there a scenario in which the Hunter could be idle for the rest of the year or is that very unlikely in your opinion? Well let me start at the end of the question and work my way back.
We feel very -- feel very good about the Hunter's ability to attract good work and work for most of the calendar 2014 year.
That said there had been delays in the contract that we had with GEPetrol due to some partner issues as well as approval from the appropriate ministries within the Equatorial government for the program to go forward.
We do understand that they are making progress on both fronts so we still expect that that program will go forward.
And that when we come out of the shipyard in mid-April that either upon delivery from the shipyard or shortly thereafter that we'll have opportunities to put the rig to work.
I will say that we are very focused on utilization.
We want to keep the rig busy.
Having a rig go idle is never very helpful for the crews or for the continuity of the operation.
So we're very focused on utilization.
And as I say we've identified 3 opportunities to date that we're targeting and that's in addition to the GEPetrol work.
So overall we remain relatively sanguine.
I mean we do have to acknowledge that the likelihood of some idle time has increased as I said in my prepared statement.
But we do believe that the rigs will find work through 2014.
Research Division</strong> Great.
Follow-up question.
On the jack-up side you mentioned that there -- you're a little bit more cautious there.
Your next rig is in -- that's up for renewal will be the Mako in September.
Are you heavily in the marketing window for that rig already or do you think that it's going to be more towards midyear before you have some visibility as to how the contract opportunities look for a rig under that time frame? No.
We've -- we have looked to secure follow-on work.
And in fact we think that we're in a really good position having 3 new rigs that are already operational.
Because there's no question that when you bring a rig out of the shipyard you can't guarantee that it will work at the same levels of reliability and safety that our rigs have had.
And we've averaged over 99% revenue efficiency on the Mako Manta and Orca and they're brand new rigs.
So it's really the best of all worlds.
These are hot rigs that have got a great reputation and the latest capabilities.
We also feel very good about our situation where we are in Thailand with the opportunities there on some potential follow-on work with a current client.
So all in all we feel good about renewal and we are working on that.
And we will next go to the site of Dave Wilson with Howard Weil.
Research Division</strong> Rob I just wanted to follow-up on your prepared comments.
There's not a question about this but just regarding the clouded outlook for the 12 to 18 months.
And I just want to see if I'm summing it up correctly.
So the outlook for the industry appears a little more uncertain in the near term.
You feel really good about Atwood's contract coverage and rig quality such that it might not be as impacted as much by the uncertainty.
Is that a fair statement or am I oversimplifying it? No that's absolutely right.
Let me make 2 comments.
The first is that what we're seeing in the market in terms of bifurcation is something we've been talking about for a long time.
And really for a company like Atwood it's more of an opportunity than it is a threat.
So we feel extremely good about our positioning in terms of the newbuild construction that we've undertaken and the rigs we've already delivered and the ones we have yet to deliver as transforming our company to be very successful in a if you will post-bifurcation market.
At the same time we recognize that there are going to be some headwinds in the short-term and we're going to weather our way through that.
2014 is likely to be a soft year but when you put the kind of backlog on that we did in 2013 getting some key extensions on both our floater fleet as well as our jack-up fleet and in addition I think the positioning of our deepwater rigs where we have 2 of those in Australia which as I said on the last call is an area of competitive advantage for Atwood I think we're very well-positioned to get through this.
And as much as you never like to see the market turn down I can't imagine us being in any better positioned for this potential downturn than we are today.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then finally just kind of 1 housekeeping kind of item.
The deepwater expenses for the quarter looked a little high.
And I just was wondering how much of that was related to some of the work done on the Falcon or to the extent any of that was done on the Hunter? As I mentioned Dave we expensed $4.5 million on the 14-day project in the Falcon in December.
So a lot of the increase is due directly to that project which is now complete.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just on the -- on Hunter there was none expensed during the -- in December? Nothing material because as Rob mentioned we finished up with Noble by December 22.
So we just mobilized it over and got started on the project in December.
And we will next go to the site of Klayton Kovac with Tudor Pickering.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> So you made the comment in your prepared remarks regarding operators delaying or canceling drilling programs.
Is this centered around a handful of operators or specific geographic area? Or should we just think about it as being across the board? Well I think you have seen it across the board.
I mean if you -- if you listen in on some of our customers' comments in their public statements and their own quarterly earnings calls there's lot of talk about they're making hard choices about being focused on cost discipline about improving returns improving cash performance.
There are a lot of different ways that people say it but when you get that kind of a conservatism creep into the marketplace as a matter of fact you will just get fewer wells drilled and people will be a bit more particular about their -- the well programs and the timing for those.
My own personal view is that these things tend to be temporal.
And you'll see as I say a period of time where folks will back off their -- what may have been their initial drilling programs that they had for 2014.
But we would expect that this could be relatively short-lived.
And the plans that were in place for let's say 2014 that have been moved to 2015 you'll start to see next year.
So we're really focused on kind of bridging our way through 2014 and into 2015 with an expectation that again 12 to 18 months from now we'll be looking at a better market.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay thanks.
And then a follow-up.
You mentioned rigs being idled.
Have you started to see any of these idled rigs being cold-stacked? I think that it's still early days on some of these rigs being idled.
And we'll have to watch how many of those idled rigs are actually able to get work in the near term.
Most of the folks in this business on our side of the table are hesitant to cold-stack rigs because it really closes off the opportunity to keep the rig working.
It typically involves a release of all the crews and then we have to really undergo significant cost to reactivate once you cold-stack the rig.
So I think it's too early yet to see much in the way of cold stacking.
Although I will point out that a number of our competitors have multiple rigs that potentially could go idle.
And I think once you start to get a critical mass of idle rigs then you may start to see incremental rigs getting cold-stacked when the likelihood of all of the rigs going back to work in the near term period becomes remote.
I don't think we're there yet because I think it's early days on rigs going idle in the deepwater/lower-spec ultra-deepwater space.
But again as we move through this year and I'd say maybe around midyear you may start to see an increasing trend in -- and in some of our competitors who have got a lot of these rigs starting to cold-stack some rigs.
And we will next go to the side of Waqar Syed with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Mark just one clarification on the tax rate for the second quarter.
So the 35% tax rate on the $34 million of gain and then 13.5% for the operating income.
Is that the way to look at it? That's correct yes Waqar.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And secondly the CapEx for '15 does that change? Or any initial guidance there? No initial guidance for '15 yet but I think it's going to be somewhere in that $500 million area because as you would recall we do have one ultra-deepwater rig delivery the Atwood Admiral coming on in fiscal '15.
So that's going to be the bulk of our CapEx for next year.
But we haven't guided to the street on that yet.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And Rob given the upcoming drop in CapEx in '15 and a similar capital allocation procedure -- policy what are you thinking on '15? What other uses of cash if your CapEx comes down? Well this is one of the things that we've said would be a topic of discussion for 2014 would be to look at where we are in terms of our investment profile and the opportunity to take a free cash flow position which will be positive and allocate that through various -- and including potential repatriation of cash to shareholders.
So that's a discussion that we're undergoing right now and we'll just have to stay tuned or ask you to stay tuned as we develop that strategy for 2015.
And next we'll go to Roland Morris with Cowen and Company.
LLC Research Division</strong> I was just wondering if you wouldn't mind I know it's a little ways out but talking about follow-on work for the Falcon at the end of '14 over in Australia and where you guys think that's going to be.
Do you think that you're going to be looking for that kind of 3- to 12-month work that you're looking for on the Hunter right now? Is it going to be -- what kind of range? If you can just discuss that.
Yes.
The Atwood Falcon is in a pretty good position for us out there in Australia with the market being relatively strong in terms of demand.
And Atwood's position there of having full-Australian crews with an employee bargaining agreement that doesn't involve any union activities so we can run our rigs the way we like as opposed to some of the handicaps our competitors have.
And just our general reputation in the marketplace has been outstanding.
With 3 floaters we pretty much have the lion's share of the market among our competitors.
So the Falcon we feel very good about.
You saw that recently we did put a short-term job on there with Murphy that's going to take us into early calendar 2015.
And we feel good about the marketing prospects for the Falcon and follow-on work.
So that's certainly a rig that although not quite at the level of urgency the Atwood Hunter is for our existing fleet it's the very next rig that we're marketing.
And we certainly hope to be able to put some additional backlog on the Falcon as we move towards the middle of this year.
And next we go to the site of Darren Gacicia with Guggenheim.
LLC Research Division</strong> I guess -- speaking on the theme of the call here it seems like the stocks are definitely discounting a pretty big drop in day rates kind of across the board.
The one thing to kind of explore a little bit more is I know that there's going to be some rigs idled here.
That's clear.
Do you have a sense of maybe kind of how many you expect to sort of idle? Do you and kind of tying that end is there a chance here that some of these idled rigs given the CapEx needed may actually kind of go away permanently and the market balance may be kind of more favorable faster than people expect? As -- if you have an uptick in activity at some point whether it's 12 or 18 months out if the rig's retired because they need more work in order to stay competitive can we be -- could the market be a little bit too bearish here? Well I think if you refer to the earlier question around our competitors starting to cold-stack rigs I think as you go through this year and into next year if we continue to see excess supply then you are going to start to see rigs cold-stacking whether it's because competitors don't want to weather the additional cost for warm-stacking or because they have a number of rigs that they know all of which cannot return to work within a reasonable time or as you point out they're facing a regulatory survey that's going to require some costs and/or some significant maintenance work which makes it uneconomic to make that investment in a marketplace which is as uncertain as this one could be.
So I think all those things add up to 12 months from now you can see a number of cold-stacked rigs by competitors especially those that have got a large number of deepwater and lower-spec ultra-deepwater rigs coming available in calendar '14.
So I think you can see -- you can determine yourself who those competitors are and their challenges.
And I -- and it wouldn't surprise me to see a number of those rigs cold-stacked if the market doesn't improve and pick up some of this capacity.
LLC Research Division</strong> Well do you think -- if my numbers are serving correct that something like 25 to 30 rigs are rolling off contract that probably fit that lower-spec category from an order of magnitude standpoint.
Because it's all about sort of marking where you think kind of the downturn ends like how many of those do you think could wind up idle-stacked? Fill in the blank I'll let you put it in.
And maybe how many do you think as you kind of sit there and think about your analysis of where things are going how many do you think may be kind of cold-stacked maybe as a euphemism for going away permanently? Well I think those questions are probably better aimed at some of our competitors who are really going to be the ones holding the cards that include a number of idled rigs which are incurring significant costs or maybe facing significant maintenance bills.
But there's no question in our industry we don't permanently warm-stack rigs.
People are going to very reasonably take the decision that if a rig can't go back to work within a reasonable period of time they will cold-stack the rigs.
We had to make some of those hard decisions ourselves back in 2010 after Macondo.
You search for work for a while and then at some point you basically have to make the hard decision to cold-stack.
And again that decision to cold-stack is going to be easier for some of our competitors as the number of idled rigs piles up.
It's going to start to affect the bottom line and it will start to become not very credible that all of those rigs can go back to work in a reasonable time frame.
So we expect to see cold stacking and ultimately that's going to be favorable for us given the rigs that we hold and the opportunities that we see down the road.
We just hope that we can get through this in again at about a 12- to 18-month time frame.
LLC Research Division</strong> If I could squeeze one more quick one.
Per one of the earlier questions would you say that as you kind of review what you want to do from a capital budgeting standpoint would you say that the current environment makes you more inclined to return capital in some way or less inclined? Well I think any time you start to put a -- the possibility out there that you're not going to grow as fast as you have then the opportunity to either pay down debt or return cash in some way to shareholders has to increase in the probability directionally.
I'm not going to be definitive on that in terms of how we might balance the allocation of free cash flow.
But to the extent that the industry and Atwood in particular doesn't grow at the pace that we have then there's more money available for those kinds of uses.
And we will next go to the side of Lukas Daul with ABG.
Rob you mentioned that you would like to get a longer-term contract on your upcoming newbuild.
And I was wondering some of your peers are actually marketing newbuilds against shorter-term contracts.
So the amount of work that you are bidding this rig for has anything changed with the duration of those projects? Or compared to 12 to 18 months back? Are they getting shorter are they the same? Well I think that -- I don't think it's changing for Atwood.
But I think it is changing for some of our competitors that have gotten deliveries of rigs in 2014.
And I think that's what you see as they -- as a rig nears its completion in the shipyard if it doesn't have work then you become a bit more eager to pursue jobs that may be shorter in duration.
And I think what you're referring to is that these rigs that are coming out in mid-third quarter of calendar 2014 having to settle for shorter-term contracts.
We saw this post-Macondo as well when we had the moratorium in place and the slowdown on fixing contracts for newbuilds a number of those ultra-deepwater rigs came out and took shorter-term jobs.
So that's what happens when you have demand not meet the rising supply.
So I think you're going to see that here in 2014.
Keep in mind that the Atwood Admiral is not scheduled to come out of the shipyard until the end of March 2015.
So we're still looking at roughly 14 months of time.
And the opportunities we're pursuing for the Admiral at this point haven't changed in duration in terms of what we were targeting for the Advantage and the Achiever.
And what do you think needs to change so that we don't carry over this momentum into '15? Well I think a couple of things.
One is I do believe that 2015 will see a pickup in demand because I think a lot of things in 2014 have been pushed to the right as opposed to being taken off the table completely.
So that's one thing.
I think the second thing is rigs will leave this market on a more permanent basis as we move through 2014 if it doesn't improve.
So the discussion again around cold-stacking you will see cold stacking of rigs if this market doesn't pick up.
And I think the -- both the supply end and the increase in demand will help improve prospects for 2015 outlook.
Okay.
And just quickly have you made a final decision on the newbuild option? We haven't.
That option expires in March and that's something that we will be deciding as a management team and the board in the days ahead.
I will point out however that if you look at our history we've tended not to excise an option on a newbuild until we had a contract on at least 1 of our remaining 2 other newbuilds that were -- that were under way.
So that's probably a pretty good guide for you at least on the timing for which we would consider entering into another newbuild contract with the shipyard.
We've really been focused on getting a contract for the Atwood Admiral and we're unlikely to exercise any further growth at the -- in the shipyard for drillships until we get that contract on the Admiral.
And we will next go to the site of Bill Lasinsky [ph] who is a private investor.
A small ticket item but nonetheless an item.
I had in my notes from last conference call that you all had signed a contract to sell the Seahawk for about $6 million.
Did I miss the closing of that sale or an announcement regarding the status of that contract? No you didn't.
We actually had -- we did have a contract in place to sell the rig.
We got a deposit on the rig and the sale did not close because the buyer failed to fulfill his obligations.
So we still own the rig.
We kept the deposit.
And we'll look at other opportunities to divest that rig in the days ahead.
[Operator Instructions] At this time there are no additional questions.
I'd like to turn the program back over to our presenters.
Okay Erin if there are no further questions I thank everybody for your participation on our call and we look forward to talking with you all in May as we review our second quarter results.
This does conclude today's program.
You may disconnect at any time.
Good day everyone and welcome to today's call.
[Operator Instructions] Please note this call is being recorded.
I'll be standing by should you need any assistance.
It is now my pleasure to turn the call over to Mr.
Mark Mey Senior Vice President and CFO.
Please go ahead Thanks James and good morning and welcome to Atwood Oceanics conference call and webcast to review the company's operating results for the second quarter ended March 31 2014.
The speaker today will be Rob Saltiel President and CEO; and me Mark Mey Senior Vice President and CFO.
Before we begin let me remind everyone that during the course of this conference call we may make forward-looking statements that reflect management's current plans expectations estimates and assumptions concerning the future.
These statements involve risks and uncertainties and actual results may differ materially from those expressed in these forward-looking statements.
These risks and uncertainties are more fully described in our latest 10-K and our other filings with the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission.
Undue reliance should not be placed on these forward-looking statements which are applicable only at the date hereof.
Let me turn the call over to Rob for his opening remarks.
Thank you Mark and welcome to all of you joining this morning's call.
Starting with operations our fleet-wide revenue efficiency for the second quarter was approximately 93% which was a bit lower than Atwood's usual standard of reliability.
A prolonged startup period for the Atwood Advantage was the single biggest factor impacting our revenue efficiency so I will provide some additional color on this.
Outside of the start up of our newest rigs the rest of our fleet operated at a healthy 96% revenue efficiency for the second quarter.
Given that the Atwood Advantage is the first of our 4 A-class drillships our technical services team committed extra resources both during the transit from South Korea and here in the Gulf of Mexico to ensure that all rig equipment was fully functional before commencing drilling operations.
In doing so we discovered a number of minor equipment issues that required repair calibration and/or fine-tuning and many of these corrections required equipment vendor specialists to travel to the rig to implement the necessary remedies.
In addition due to extended delivery delays on certain vendor equipment some components were installed here in the Gulf of Mexico rather than in the shipyard as originally planned.
This is not how our project team typically delivers a ready-to-drill rig but the delays we were facing were so extreme that we agreed with our client to commence mobilization of the Advantage and to complete some of these installations here in the Gulf.
We also transferred the second BOP onto the rig here in the Gulf of Mexico since this BOP was ordered separately after the initial drillship order and was delivered by the supplier in the second fiscal quarter.
Our technical team performed quite well with these equipment fixes and installations but the extra work still did delay our startup considerably.
As a result we incurred just over 3 weeks of zero rate downtime in the month of March that is reflected in our second quarter financials.
We also incurred approximately 21 days of zero rate downtime in April as indicated in this morning's fleet status report.
Today I'm pleased to report that the Atwood Advantage is on full operating rate and has been since April 23 without interruption and that the rig is progressing its first well for our client.
We expect that our most significant technical issues are behind us on the Atwood Advantage.
And fortunately the lessons learned from the Advantage are directly transferable to our other 3 drillships.
For the quarter our other 2 ultra-deepwater rigs the Atwood Osprey and the Atwood Condor which were delivered in 2011 and 2012 respectively averaged 99% revenue efficiency between them.
These rigs are really hitting their stride as steady performers and understandably our clients are very satisfied with their operations.
We expect that the Atwood Advantage will achieve a similar level of reliability and consistency once we are through with breaking-in period.
Our 3 new Pacific Class jack-ups also continue to perform extremely well averaging more than 99% revenue efficiency between them for the second quarter.
These rigs continued to impress and their solid performance has been a driver for recent contract extensions and future marketability.
Shifting now to our projects.
We completed the Atwood Hunter's regulatory and maintenance project at the end of April.
With this now behind us the Hunter should be ready to operate for another 5 years without a shipyard stay.
The rig is currently standing by ready to go to work and I will discuss its marketing prospects in a few moments.
The Atwood Achiever our second A-class drillship continues to make good progress in the shipyard.
However as indicated in this morning's fleet status report we now expect delivery to occur in late August due to vendor equipment and commissioning delays and the heavy project load in the DSME shipyard.
With the exception of the second BOP we do not plan to install any significant equipment outside of the shipyard for the Achiever as we were compelled to do for the Advantage.
All of the major vendor equipment besides the second BOP is currently on track for delivery in time for full installation and commissioning in the shipyard.
We do plan to install the second BOP on the Achiever on the transit to our first drilling location in Morocco.
Since our last call we did allow our options to construct the fifth drillship to last.
We are taking a pause from further rig building at this time to focus on contracting our last 2 drillships the Atwood Admiral and Atwood Archer and to assess the impacts of the present market uncertainty.
We are certainly not through expanding our high-specification rig fleet but we will proceed more cautiously over the next few quarters.
Shifting now to our contracting activities since our last call.
This morning we announced an important fixture with the 11-month contract for the Atwood Falcon with BHP Billiton.
We are pleased that Atwood continues to maintain the leading position in Australia offshore drilling market.
And with this fixture we have a combined total of 7 rig years contracted on our 3 semisubmersibles there.
We continue to believe that each of the Atwood Osprey Atwood Eagle and Atwood Falcon have extensive runs ahead of them in Australia.
We also announced this week a 9-month extension on the Atwood Orca with our current client at an improved day rate.
This fixture along with the short extension of Atwood Mako that we include in our April fleet status report means that all 3 of our Pacific Class jack-ups have been extended by their clients since their deliveries from the shipyard.
In the quarter we also inked a 1 year extension on the Atwood Aurora that will keep that rig busy in West Africa through July 2016.
I'll turn now to our market outlook starting with the floaters.
Nearly everything written about the floater segment has been bear since our last earnings call.
So I won't spend a lot of time on this.
We agreed that the market for floaters is becoming more challenging given the supply growth and the slowdown in demand.
However we continue to believe that Atwood Oceanics is in an excellent position due to our strong contract backlog and the high quality of our floater fleet.
Of our active floaters only the Atwood Hunter has exposure in 2014 and 2015.
The Atwood Admiral our third A-class drillship that is scheduled to join our fleet and be available in the second calendar quarter 2015 is the only other Atwood floater with open time in 2015.
Our marketing team continues to focus its efforts on securing additional follow-on work for the Atwood Hunter especially now that the rig has completed its regulatory maintenance project.
We are working constructively with GEPetrol with whom we have a short-term contract to determine their timing and constraints for drilling in Equatorial Guinea.
At the same time we are pursuing longer-term drilling programs in West Africa that may bridge us through the end of this calendar year and into 2015.
In general opportunities remain fairly scarce in West Africa as many of the programs we were tracking for 2014 have been either delayed to 2015 or canceled.
However we do remain optimistic that the Atwood Hunter will resume drilling in the second half of this calendar year but this is likely not to occur before August.
Turning back to the Atwood Admiral.
We continue to target drilling programs that either require or will materially benefit from this rig's extensive drilling and well-controlled capabilities.
Atwood A-class drillships provide a 2.5 million pound hook load and a dual seven-ram BOP system both of which are clear differentiators from fifth-generation floaters where competition is intensifying.
We expect that rigs such as ours will become the gold standard in deepwater markets particularly the Gulf of Mexico over the next 5 years.
They will be highly desired for new programs and they may displace older floaters in existing programs as those rigs roll off their existing contracts.
Any concerns with the contracting of the Atwood Admiral should be less about whether the rig will work upon delivery we remain confident that it will and more about finding the right client and program to begin its drilling operations.
Shifting now to jack-ups.
The global market for high-specification jack-ups continues to hold up very well as evidenced by our recent extension on the Atwood Orca Atwood Aurora and Atwood Mako.
We are focused on securing additional term on the Mako as that rig approaches the end of its contract in November.
Longer-term we remain a bit cautious on the supply and demand balance of jack-ups given the large number of uncontracted newbuilds scheduled to be delivered in 2014 and 2015.
However we believe Atwood is in a strong position in the jack-up segment as well if the market does soften given the strong operating performance of our fleet and our current contract backlog.
And with that I'll pass the call back over to Mark for his financial commentary.
Thanks Rob.
Today I'm going to touch on a few second quarter financial highlights and then compare these results with the previous fiscal quarter.
I will then comment on our financial position and provide updated cost guidance for the fiscal third quarter and remainder of the year.
Let's start with the fiscal second quarter highlights.
Revenues of $273 million on 911 operating days for the quarter diluted earnings per share of $1.13 however unadjusted for the Vicksburg sale earnings per share is reduced to $0.76 as compared to $1.28 for the prior quarter a decrease of 41% on 98 fewer operating days during the quarter.
Revenues and net income were negatively impacted by the zero rate downtime on the Atwood Advantage and the Atwood Hunter's out-of-service time while performing its regulatory maintenance and inspection projects during the quarter.
Revenue efficiency for the fleet was 93% lower historical average and expectations were in line with the prior quarter.
Contract drilling cost excluding reimbursable cost of $9 million totaled $137 million for the quarter as compared to $123 million for the previous quarter slightly below our prior quarterly guidance.
$123 million for the prior quarter also excluded reimbursable costs.
This increase in contract drilling costs is due to the addition of the Atwood Advantage to the operating fleet for the quarter while mobilizing from South Korea to the U.S.
Gulf of Mexico and the Hunter's regulatory and maintenance projects previously mentioned.
These increases were partially offset by reductions in cost for the Atwood Falcon which have increased costs associated with its regulatory project in the prior quarter and the sale of the Atwood Vicksburg in mid-January.
General and administrative expenses totaled $15 million in line with expectations for the quarter.
Our effective tax rate was 24.5% significantly above last quarter but in line with expectations.
The increase is primarily related to the tax and the gain on the sale of the Vicksburg our Australian-owned rig.
Moving to the balance sheet.
Capital expenditures totaled $35 million during the quarter $14 million below my guidance due to capital equipment marksman payment in delay consistent with the delays of certain vendors in reaching these necessary milestones.
The $35 million consists mainly of payments for capital spread and project management and other related costs for the 3 drillships under construction.
Net debt was unchanged at $1.5 billion at March 31.
Our net debt-to-capital ratio also unchanged at 37%.
The quality as defined as cash on hand plus the unused portion of our revolving credit facility totaled $305 million at the end of the quarter.
Subsequent to March 31 we closed on an amendment to our revolving credit facility whereby we upsized extended and repriced the credit facility.
The credit facility now totals $1.55 billion with maturity extended to May 2018.
We also reduced our average interest margin by 43 basis points resulting in increased savings of 17.5%.
As we delivered rigs as part of our fleet transformation and growth strategy our overall credit profile has also improved.
We now have a positive outlook for a credit ratings upgrade of both credit rating agencies anticipate positive ratings action later this year.
Now let's look at the outlook for our fiscal third quarter 2014.
Firstly as you can encounter from our most recent fleet status report we have 92% of our remaining available days for fiscal 2014 contracted and approximately 80% of our fiscal 2015 available days contracted.
Now for our guidance.
We estimate reimbursable revenues of $13 million for the fiscal third quarter.
Regarding contract drilling cost I now anticipate full year 2014 to a range between $515 million to $530 million with the fiscal third quarter ranging between $125 million and $135 million.
These estimates of contract drilling cost excludes reimbursable cost which should approximate $9 million for the third quarter and $34 million for the fiscal year.
Included in this guidance are cost to complete the Atwood Hunter regulatory and maintenance project in the amount of $6 million which was completed in April as Rob mentioned and costs associated with Atwood Hunter for the remainder of the quarter.
As Rob mentioned we do not believe the rig will return to work until August.
So we anticipate operating cost of $80 000 to $90 000 per day for the 3 months at the end of July.
Depreciation should remain around $38 million for the third quarter and around $40 million for the fourth quarter factoring in the delivery of the Atwood Achiever during the quarter.
G&amp;A expense should range between $13 million and $15 million for the remaining 2 quarters of 2014.
Interest expense should approximate $12 million net of capitalized interest for each of the remaining quarters.
We expect our effective tax rate for the third quarter to approximate 12% perhaps a little lower for the fourth quarter with our full year effective tax rate approximating 14%.
Capital expenditure should range between $55 million and $65 million for the third quarter with another $425 million being spent in the fourth quarter.
The vast majority of the remaining 2014 CapEx comprise of the final payment of Atwood Achiever upon its delivery in August.
Both of these CapEx forecast exclude capitalized interest.
Capital expenditures for the full year 2014 should range between $175 million and $185 million.
We will continue to use a mix of existing cash cash flow from operations and our revolving credit facility to fund these capital expenditures.
This concludes my prepared comments.
And now I'll turn the call over to James for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Dave Wilson of Howard Weil.
Research Division</strong> Rob just wanted to touch back on the Advantage and wanted to see how we should be think about revenue efficiency from here on.
And I guess basically just what I'm asking is trying to figure out how long the shakedown period is once the rig went on contract in April 23rd.
Yes as I mentioned in my prepared comments Dave we've had good weeks worth of running since we got through the startup issues.
And I think it's pretty safe to say that the 6 weeks of downtime at zero rate that we've already incurred in March and April is the -- if you will the worst news that you're going to hear on the Atwood Advantage here in 2014.
Just a lot of little things conspired to keep it delayed from getting to work as we had originally planned but we feel very good about the opportunity for the rig to run at a relatively high revenue efficiency going forward.
Not sure it's going to be at the level of the Condor and the Osprey which as I mentioned in my comments are running nearly 100% revenue efficiency.
If you'll recall each of those rigs also went through a shakeout period that lasted anywhere from 2 to 4 quarters.
So we're not ready to declare victory on the Advantage at the level of 99% revenue efficiency.
But we do believe that as we progress through the year we can certainly get into the low-90s on revenue efficiency from here on out on the Atwood Advantage.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And just one other one and I know you kind of touched on it in your prepared remarks as well.
Just regarding the Admiral and the Archer I just wanted to gauge the extent that your expectations would change over the past couple of months in terms of securing contracts for those specifically regarding the timing around when that could happen and any expectation as far as day rates? Yes.
I mean there's no question as I mentioned we're -- we've seen the market get more challenging for all floaters as well as some of the newbuild ultra-deepwater floaters and absence of fixtures and some day rates that look to be trending downward.
We still feel very good about first of all the technical aspects of our rigs being at the very top of the market.
So the discussions we're having with customers tell us that we built the right rigs and these are highly desired.
We also feel a bit fortunate that we're not delivering a rig here in 2014 and that we're looking to come out of the shipyard in the first half of 2015.
And given the discussions that we're having the interest we're seeing from clients we feel very good about the opportunities to get the right contract.
Because we're already involved in some competitive situations similar to some of our competitors we're not going to be able to offer you any specific comments on day rates.
But there's no question the trend has been downward and we'll do as much as we can to mitigate that when we get our fixture.
Research Division</strong> All right.
And then just I know -- just one final one on the Hunter being in West Africa are you looking at opportunities outside of West Africa for that rig? Or maybe post the Equatorial Guinea contract or you think that's where it will stay for the duration? Well I think given the challenges in the market you have to cast a pretty wide net.
So we're not limited to any particular market but clearly your advantage in the market and where you're currently situated because of the minimum cost for mobilization and getting ready for abiding by local content rules and regulations and those sort of things.
So clearly our first opportunity and option would be to keep the rig closer to home in West Africa but we are casting a wider net in order to ensure that we look at all opportunities.
And our next question comes from Ian Macpherson of Simmons.
Research Division</strong> The Falcon contract was definitely a breath of fresh air in this weakening floater market.
And earlier this month we saw Transocean got almost a year on the Marianas at 370.
So it's a struggle to understand what we all agree is a challenging market and you said the Hunter probably won't work before August.
But are these recent pricing data points? Are they lagging where the price in the market is today or is the day rates for 4th-gen rigs still that buoyant today? Well yes we've said on previous calls that Atwood Oceanics has a very strong position in the Australian market and we've been in the market for over 40 years.
We have as large a market share as anybody in that market and we continue to operate extremely well both from safety and a reliability perspective.
So I think we have a very nice position there with our rig fleet of 3 semisubmersible the Osprey the Falcon and the Eagle.
I think what you're seeing on the fixture of the Falcon is just confirmation of what we've been telling the market.
We feel very good about our positioning in that market especially with the Eagle and the Falcon and their marketability being called into question.
And hopefully we put that discussions to rest with the picture we got here on the Falcon in the not-too-distant fixture we got on the Eagle when we extended that by 2 years.
So we feel very good that the Eagle and the Falcon are well-positioned.
The Hunter is in a more competitive market in West Africa.
There really aren't a lot of entry barriers into that market and so that rig's having to compete a lot harder to find work than what we were able to do in Australia.
Research Division</strong> Any opinion as to whether or not the Marianas 370 000 per day is a real rate or stale rate? You'll have to ask our competitor about that.
Research Division</strong> Okay fair enough.
Follow-up can you just -- can you talk a little bit about the experience with running your first dual BOP rig and sort of what sort of challenges that presents to the crew and what the customer is expecting in terms of improved drilling efficiency with this new configuration? Well as we've just gotten through the startup period Ian the real challenges we face haven't had anything to do with the 2 BOP system.
We're just in the process of drilling our first well and being at an opportunity to if you will maintain test and certify 1 BOP while the other BOP is subsea working on the first well.
But we're highly confident that it's going to be a win-win for the client and for Atwood.
The client is going to have a much greater certainty of lower nonproductive time because there should always be a BOP on the surface ready to run either on the current well or the next well.
And if there is an issue where BOP has to be pulled or between wells when you have pull maintain test and certify you can do all that off the critical path.
So it's going to be a great -- really a great development for our clients.
Obviously for Atwood we should see lower downtime on our side because we'll always have a BOP ready to run and that will certainly translate through to higher revenue efficiency longer-term.
But I think it's too early to really opine on how that system's working out but we've got a great technical services team.
Our BOP reliability has been industry-leading over the last couple of years and we fully believe that our application of what we do well with single BOP systems will translate very nicely to 2 BOP systems like we have on our A-class drillships.
And our next question comes from Klayton Kovac of Tudor Pickering Holt.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> So what sorts of technical aspects or features do you feel operators are willing to pay up for in the floater space currently? Well I think I mentioned it in my comments that a couple of things in particular really are the heavy hook loads that's required for long casing strings deep wells subsalt drilling which is what you see in places like Brazil Gulf of Mexico and increasingly even step out from West Africa.
So that's clearly one.
And then the second one is really about well-controlled integrity and minimizing NPT nonproductive time associated with again maintaining testing and certifying BOPs.
I think that's really -- those are really the 2 big factors that you get with the sixth-generation rigs that you hadn't gotten in the previous generations.
Obviously the ship shape is becoming really a standard for exploration work.
You certainly get great mobility with the drillship to move between regions especially if you're doing a multi-country exploration program.
But I would say that the hook load in the 2 BOP system are really the differentiators right now that are driving client interest in the newest rigs.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then as a follow-up so given the soft market environment how do you see your capital allocation strategy going forward? Well that's something that as I mentioned in the comments we're going to have to understand a bit better.
There's no question the market has moved downward for the first time in a few years.
We do have a couple of uncontracted newbuilds.
But to the extent that we get contracts on those rigs and/or we see the market turning back up we definitely want to continue to grow our fleet.
We haven't made any decision to do that now.
We are taking a pause.
But in terms of capital allocation to growing our fleet we certainly want to play in that space.
And that's obviously where this management team wants to have the first opportunity to invest is in drilling our fleet and doing positive transactions and investments for our investor base.
But at this point in time we're going to take a pause and see where we go forward.
And Klayton this is Mark.
As we discussed in past you are well aware that we're free cash flow negative this year and we only become marginally positive next year.
So as it relates to free cash flow that's -- we still have a ways to go before we get there.
Secondly we have upsized our revolving credit facilities so our available liquidity is substantially enhanced right now.
So as Rob indicated if opportunities arrive we're well-positioned over the next 2 years.
And our next question comes from Mike Urban of Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> You guys seem to have a little bit more cautious view of the jack-up market than some of your peers and just wondering kind of what's driving that view.
I mean the supply is pretty well-known.
I mean is it a demand issue less attrition or is it just you look out there and there are more rigs coming on than you see jobs out there in the kind of short-term and medium-term? Yes it's really around the supply growth that we're seeing Mike that's uncontracted the significant number of uncontracted jack-ups coming out this year and next somewhat of a similar pattern to what we've started to see on the ultra deepwater.
And I think that there's certainly a potential for some softness in this space.
That said we continue to do extremely well in our own extensions and new fixtures for our jack-up fleet.
So this may be one of those things that's still out there on the horizon and may not materialize for a few quarters.
But we're just sounding a note of caution given the large number of newbuilds scheduled to come out and a large percentage of those that don't yet have contracts.
And our next question comes from David Smith of Heikkinen Energy.
Most of my questions have been answered but wanted to follow-up on the reinvestment question.
I've recognized it's not immediately relevant but I was hoping to get your thoughts on how you would evaluate ordering newbuilds that are consistent with Atwood's existing designs versus the opportunity to consolidate competitor newbuild projects that maybe distress acquisition opportunities in 2015 or 2016.
Well it's a good question.
We have become we think pretty good at investing in organic growth identifying designs for rigs that will be demanded by clients picking good shipyards to build those rigs and then delivering those rigs and putting them to work and are being successful with that.
And the opportunities to really buy assets really have not materialized over the last 4 years or so since this management team's been intact.
But clearly if we are heading into a downturn of sorts especially if that becomes prolonged there may be opportunities to take a look at some distressed assets even assets that may still be in the shipyard in order to see if those are compelling enough to move away from our model of organic growth.
At this point in time though we're really focused on contracting our 2 uncontracted drillships.
We've got pretty significant investment in those 2 rigs and we want to make sure that we get good contracts for those and don't get too far out of our skis before pull the trigger on future growth.
But I think that the concept of looking at distressed asset is something that may become more of a reality again if we do have a prolonged downturn and if the valuation becomes compelling we would certainly take a much closer look at those.
There has to be a decent discount versus the shipyard price on a Atwood-approved organic design to make it worth looking at at the consolidation opportunities I imagine? Yes I mean you either have to pick up things at a discount if you're going to make compromises on design or other things as well as you may have an opportunity with a particular client to put a rig to work right away.
And obviously if you buy assets as opposed to build them they're more immediately available.
So you could take advantage of the market opportunities that may not exist if you wait a couple of years.
But those are all possibilities.
Again at this point in time we're really looking at our own fleet and concentrated our marketing efforts on what we've already made commitments to.
And our next question comes from Roland Morris of Cowen and Company.
LLC Research Division</strong> I just wanted to get an idea with everything that's going on with the Advantage and just industry-wide delivery delays on the equipment side in general should we expect going forward on the Admiral and the Archer that you guys might take delivery and mobe[ph] the rig on location before everything is set? Or is that something that you're not going to do in the future that kind of thing? Well we certainly don't plan on doing that.
We didn't plan on doing it on the Advantage either.
I want to be clear about that point.
But some of our vendor equipment that was again really contracted to the DSME shipyard it wasn't equipment coming to Atwood but it was coming to the shipyard to be installed on the ship.
That vendor equipment was significantly delayed.
And so when you're faced with a prospect of waiting in the shipyard for 2 or 3 months versus transiting the rig and taking advantage of that time delay so the equipment can be finished it becomes pretty compelling to commence the mobilization and then do some installation in the field.
But we certainly don't like doing that and it certainly contributed significantly to the extended period of downtime we had on the Atwood Advantage before we were able to get on full operating rate.
But we think that the supply chain is loosening up a bit.
I mean the vendors that are supplying this equipment are clearly also going down the experience curve and getting more efficient at producing the equipment.
They're working through their own quality control issues.
A lot of those delays are due to quality control issues.
They produce the equipment the first time then they test it.
They find that it doesn't test they have to either amend what they've done or start over and that really adds to the time.
Well now that they've started to deliver this equipment the first time the second time and et cetera they become better at this and the quality control and the scheduling becomes much more predictable.
So we don't see any of those kinds of issues materializing for the Atwood Achiever.
and let's face it we're pretty closed in on that now.
That's just 4 months away or so from delivery.
So we don't anticipate it happening on the Admiral or the Archer either.
The only thing we will install on the Achiever in the field is the second BOP and that's because we ordered it subsequent to ordering the drillship itself.
But then once we get to the Admiral and the Archer even the second BOP should be installed in the shipyard.
So we're going to get out of this business of installing the equipment in the field once we get past the Achiever and on the Achiever there will only be the second BOP.
LLC Research Division</strong> And is there -- can you give us any idea of what it might take in order to install second BOP during delivery or is that -- what should we be expecting there? Well that's something that took us about a week or so in the Gulf of Mexico and to get that installed and that's probably something that could materialize on the Achiever.
We -- we're still finalizing where we're going to install it and the particulars around that but it was a very small percentage of the total time.
It was less than -- or 15% to 20% of the total time had anything to do with second BOP.
LLC Research Division</strong> Got you.
And then if I could just throw one more in there.
On the Hunter so if you guys are able to get a shorter-term contract here in the back half of 2014 call it after August ahead of this GEPetrol contract are you -- what kind of rates should we be forecasting here in terms of -- are you going to take a significant discount there just to get the rig working? Are you -- what are you guys thinking around that? Well because we're involved in some discussions in competitive situations we're not going to be able to comment on the rate other than to say that the rate we have with GEPetrol the $515 000 that was a rate from late last year and that the rate will be lower than that.
But that's all we can say at this point.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
Sorry and then I actually just -- I missed the 3Q '14 CapEx.
Mark if you wouldn't mind just repeating that.
Sure.
I said the CapEx for the third quarter would be between $55 million and $65 million.
And our next question comes from Darren Gacicia of Guggenheim.
LLC Research Division</strong> I just wanted to ask I realize that the markets basically kind of realized I think discounted the fact that floater rates have been pretty sloppily through 2014.
But what's been interesting this earnings season if you think about some of your competitors some of the equipment suppliers there's been some green shoots in the commentary by way of talking about reworking some of the CapEx plans and improving the economics of projects and potentially points and demand forward.
With regard to your commentary and your outlook what's the time frame you're sort of looking at when you have -- when you're kind of talking about the negative slide? And what do you see in '15 and how does that apply to how you're thinking about sort of lead times on contracts for the Admiral and how -- just how do you sort of reconcile all these things? Well the fact is we've been marketing the Admiral for quite some time now because it's an identical drillship to the predecessors Advantage and Achiever.
So we've been identifying programs that line up well both technically and from a calendar basis for quite some time.
And we certainly feel that the opportunity to get a contract in advance -- significantly advance of delivery is a very nice thing to have because then you can work closely with your client to develop the rig in terms of the third-party equipment and then you kind of monitor things that they might want to talk about with regard to the asset going through safety and operational procedures and that sort of thing.
So we certainly had that opportunity with the Advantage and the Achiever getting really more than a year's worth of lead time on both of those contracts to work with our clients and deliver the rigs with full collaboration.
Now there's no question with the market having softened with lead times having shrunk between contract signing and delivery of rigs we're not likely to have a year's worth of notice.
And frankly we're probably within about a year right now of when that rig would leave the yard and come around to let's say West Africa or the Gulf Mexico if you had 2 or 3 months for transit time.
So we're already going to be inside of a year on the Admiral.
And then it's our job to try to find the right contract and sign it up as soon as we can so that we can have that time working with our client.
But it's very difficult at this point to make a prediction on that because we certainly don't feel any sense of desperation at this point to get a contract for that rig given the lead time that we do have.
By the same token once we find the right job and the right client we want to sign them as soon as we can.
So that's what our marketing team is working to do and we'll just ask the investor base to stay tuned on that.
LLC Research Division</strong> Well the -- obviously 6 months can make a big difference in terms of where the market's mentality is.
If you think back to maybe where we were 6 months ago to where we are now if you end up sort of in the new year as clients are trying to -- your customers are trying to execute on a new kind of capital -- 2015 budgeting slate and the rest is there a chance that you may be actually negotiating in a better environment and so the shorter duration may be helpful to you? Well again this market has a tendency to move quickly in both directions and it certainly tended to move down pretty quickly at the end of last year early part of this year.
There's no question that we could see the market strengthen as we get through the slug of uncontracted newbuilds slated to come out for the remainder of 2014.
So the scenario you've laid out is certainly plausible.
Again I don't think that we're necessarily going to direct our contracting opportunities around a scenario.
It's really more focusing on what opportunities are there and trying to be able to bring those in as and when we can.
LLC Research Division</strong> Got you.
And if I could ask just one more thing unrelated.
Mark you have mentioned about the credit rating potentially having an uptick in the back half.
If I remember correctly and just remind me does that -- with regard to dividends and covenants does that put you in a positive place for optionality on the dividend side? It does increase optionality yes.
And our next question comes from of Haithum Nokta of Clarkson Capital.
Research Division</strong> I just had a question on the jack-up market.
Given your cautious outlook how do you think about your concentration in Southeast Asia? Are you looking to move any rigs outside of that market or do you like your competitive position and your customer relationships there? Well we've been able to extend each of the 3 Pacific Class drillship -- sorry jack-ups that we've delivered in the last call it year and a half and so there's clearly been a good market acceptance and contracting of those rigs.
So we don't look to move those rigs as long as we feel that there's a market that's going to be there for them.
And with 3 customers that we've got we think each of those has got some run room ahead of them for further extensions.
Obviously if we get into a situation where clients don't have an opportunity to renew or the change in the particular market in which we're operating then you start looking further afield.
But your first quarter call in this business is to try to keep your rigs where they are to minimize mobilization cost and timing and minimize disruption to the operations with regard to the local crews and even the expatriate crews that are used to working in a particular market.
So at this point in time we have no plans to relocate any of our rigs out of their current markets.
And at this time we have no further questions.
Okay if there are no further questions we thank everybody for your interest in Atwood and we look forward to talking on our next call.
And this concludes your conference.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Have a wonderful day.
Good day everyone and welcome to today's program.
[Operator Instructions] And it's now my pleasure to turn the conference over to Mr.
Rob Saltiel.
Please go ahead.
Good morning this is Mark Mey speaking.
Welcome to the Atwood Oceanics conference call and webcast to review the company's operating results for the third quarter ended June 30 2014.
Together with me today is Rob Saltiel President and CEO.
Before we begin let me remind everyone that during the course of this conference call we may make forward-looking statements that reflect management's current plans expectations estimates and assumptions concerning the future.
These statements involve risks and uncertainties and actual results may differ materially from those expressed in these forward-looking statements.
These risks and uncertainties are more fully described in our latest 10-K and other filings with the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission.
Undue reliance should not be placed on these forward-looking statements which are applicable only at the date hereof.
Now let me turn the call over to Rob for his opening remarks.
Thank you Mark and welcome to all of you joining today's call.
One of the notable highlights from our third quarter was our record quarterly revenue of $293 million.
Our company's top line and our asset base continues to expand as we deliver on our extensive newbuild program.
The Atwood organization has grown accordingly in capability and experience and we have maintained our sharp focus on safety and operational excellence even while expanding our fleet.
Despite industry headwinds these are exciting times for our people in Atwood Oceanics.
Turning now to our third quarter operations.
The story was very similar to that of our second quarter.
We experienced very strong reliability performance from our 2 ultra-deepwater semis 2 deepwater semis and 5 jack-ups that were active in the quarter.
In fact these rigs ramped up their collective revenue efficiency from 96% to 99% from the second quarter to the third quarter.
Our operations and technical teams continue to demonstrate that they provide the best rig reliability in the offshore drilling industry.
However the strong performance of our active fleet was somewhat offset by startup issues on the Atwood Advantage.
On last quarter's call I mentioned that equipment installation and troubleshooting had impacted our operations in April.
In June we identified a separate issue relating to the allocation of electric power on the rig.
Multiple equipment suppliers were involved in the diagnosis and resolution which led us to incur approximately 25 zero rate days.
With this issue behind us we fully expect that we've turned the corner on our operations' reliability for the Atwood Advantage.
For the month of July we have been operating the Advantage at approximately 90% revenue efficiency.
I recently spent 3 days on the Atwood Advantage and I can attest that our offshore crews are working well together and are achieving the Atwood standard of safety and operations excellence in their work.
Our dual BOP system is fully functional as we drill with 1 BOP while simultaneously maintaining and testing the second BOP off the critical path.
Having seen the Atwood Advantage operation up close I am convinced that the capabilities and efficiencies incorporated into our A-class drillship design are best-in-class.
Our second drillship the Atwood Achiever is nearing construction completion at the DSME shipyards in South Korea.
Barring any adverse developments we have improved our confidence level that the Achiever will be delivered before the end of August.
Because of the lessons learned from the Advantage and the improved equipment delivery and commissioning by the major suppliers the Achiever will depart the shipyard ready to drill.
The Achiever's offshore team is now in final preparations for departure from the shipyard.
Once delivered the Atwood Achiever will begin its transit to Morocco for its first well.
This voyage is expected to last approximately 80 days which includes stops for refueling and loading of equipment and inventory in Singapore.
The transit time provides additional opportunity for our offshore crews to gel as an operating team and to ensure that the Atwood safety culture is firmly established onboard.
Our operations and technical teams are also very focused on the Atwood Hunter's reactivation in Equatorial Guinea for our drilling program with CNOOC.
The rig looks great after its recent regulatory and maintenance project and the offshore team is assembled for the Hunter's return to operations.
We expect to commence this drilling program around the middle of August.
The rest of the Atwood fleet continues to operate largely as it did in the previous quarter with few changes in clients or geographies.
As a result there should be not any significant changes in our fleet status report when it is issued tomorrow morning.
Shifting now to our market outlook.
I'll start with the floater segment.
Tendering activity for floater work remains slow.
As a result we expect to see an increasing number of floaters idled as we move toward autumn and into 2015.
E&amp;P operators are just not inclined to drill right now and many of the larger operators are planning to reduce rather than increase their rig counts over the next 2 years.
We expect that while demand will be disappointing into 2016 the positive story will likely emerge on the supply side.
We fully expect that many older and less capable floaters will be permanently stacked as a result of the current industry slowdown.
Our competitors are always -- are already making noises to this effect and many of them have a significant number of rigs that are facing contract end dates without visible renewal prospects.
A key catalyst for supply attrition will be the intermediate and major regulatory class surveys that occur every 2.5 and 5 years respectively.
Given the current state of play many older floaters will simply not justify the high degree of maintenance costs and project management effort required for class surveys of rigs that are more than 20 to 25 years old.
In our view the path to a better supply and demand balance in the floater segment has to include the permanent exit of a large number of older rigs from the supply stack.
As far as Atwood floaters are concerned our most immediate need is to secure additional work for the Atwood Hunter when it comes available at the end of the CNOOC program in Equatorial Guinea.
We are targeting a number of opportunities primarily in West Africa and we remain hopeful that we will maintain continuous work to the Hunter into 2015.
The Atwood Admiral our third A-class drillship is still scheduled to be delivered in late March of 2015.
We continue to market the Admiral against a handful of programs that align well with the rig's availability window.
We are preferentially targeting those programs that are likely to make full use of the Admiral's extensive drilling well control and other capabilities.
Since we are in discussions with operators on these opportunities I won't be able to provide any guidance on day rate or term length expectations on today's call.
Shifting now to jack-ups.
This is the third call in a row that I will express caution on the jack-up segment.
There is still pockets of regional strength but the oncoming delivery of uncontracted newbuilds presents a real challenge to the market supply and demand balance.
This is why we see downside risk.
Although our concerns have not manifested themselves yet in many fixtures we believe the competition for future work is likely to increase as the new rigs continue to enter the market.
As for Atwood we are focused on securing a follow-on contract or extension for the Atwood Mako which will reach its contract end date in the next 4 months.
We see a number of suitable opportunities in Southeast Asia that lineup well so we think the rig is likely to remain in this region for its next job.
This concludes my prepared comments so I'll pass the call back to Mark who would take us through the numbers.
Thanks Rob.
As I typically do I'll touch on a few third quarter highlights and then compare these results to the previous fiscal quarter.
I will then comment on our financial position and provide updated cost guidance for the fiscal fourth quarter and full year 2014.
Let's start with fiscal third quarter quarter highlights.
Revenues of $293 million on 910 operating days for the quarter.
These revenues included $28 million in reimbursables diluted earnings per share of $1.11.
Revenues and net income were negatively impacted by the 48 days of zero rate time on Atwood Advantage and the Atwood Hunter not operating for the entire quarter.
Revenue for the second quarter adjusting for the gain on sale of the Vicksburg diluted earnings per share was $0.76.
Revenue efficiency for the fleet totaled 89%.
However if adjusted for the Atwood Advantage of zero rate days discussed above the rest of the fleet achieved an average revenue efficiency rate of over 99%.
Contract drilling costs excluding reimbursable cost of $23 million totaled $129 million for the quarter as compared to $137 million for the previous quarter and in line with my prior quarterly guidance.
$137 million for the prior quarter also excluded reimbursable costs.
This decrease in contract drilling cost is mainly due to the completion of the Atwood Hunter's regulatory and maintenance project in April resulting in less repair and maintenance costs.
Note that the reimbursable revenues and costs were unusually high during the quarter.
These reimbursables are related to the completion of the Atwood Advantage's mobilization in the U.S.
Gulf of Mexico.
General and administration expenses totaled $13 million in line with expectations for the quarter.
Our effective tax rate was 9% slightly below expectations due to lower quarterly revenue associated with the Atwood Advantage's zero rate days.
Moving to the balance sheet.
Capital expenditures totaled $66 million during the quarter in line with prior guidance.
The $66 million consisted mainly of payments for capital spares project management and other related costs for the 3 drillships under construction.
Net debt declined to $1.4 billion at June 30 with our net debt-to-capital ratio also declining from 37% to 36%.
Liquidity defined as cash on hand plus the unused portion of our revolving credit facility totaled $850 million at the end of the quarter.
This reflects the increase in our revolving credit facility to $1.55 billion during the quarter.
Now let's discuss the outlook for our fiscal fourth quarter and the full year 2014.
Firstly as you can determine from our most recent fleet status report we are fully contracted for the remainder of the fiscal 2014 and with approximately 81% and 51% of our fiscal 2015 2016 available days contracted.
Now for updated guidance.
We estimate reimbursable revenues of $14 million for the fiscal fourth quarter.
Regarding contract drilling costs I can reiterate my prior full year 2014 guidance range of $515 million to $525 million with the fiscal fourth quarter ranging between $135 million and $145 million.
These estimates for contract drilling cost excludes reimbursable costs which should approximates $10 million for the fourth quarter and $51 million for the year.
Included in this forecast for the first time are the costs associated with the Atwood Achiever as it commences mobilization to its first location in Morocco at the end of August.
Depreciation should also increase to around $40 million for the fourth quarter reflecting the Atwood Achiever being placed into service and around $148 million for the year.
G&amp;A expense should range between $13 million and $15 million for the fourth quarter and around $62 million for the year.
Interest expense should approximate $12 million net of capitalized interest for the fourth quarter and $43 million for the year.
We expect our effective tax rate for the fourth quarter to approximate 10% with our full year effective tax rate approximating 14%.
Capital expenditures should range between $415 million and $425 million in the fourth quarter with the vast majority of those CapEx comprising the final payment of the Atwood Achiever on its delivery in August.
Capital expenditures for the full year 2014 should total around $150 million and those exclude capitalized interest as well.
As most of you are aware our capital expenditure program is fully financed; and as such we will continue to use a mix of existing cash cash flow from operation and our revolving credit facility to fund these capital expenditures.
This concludes my prepared comments.
I'll now turn the call back to Tiffany for questions.
[Operator Instructions] And we'll take our first question from Klayton Kovac of Tuder Pickering Holt.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> So first given your concerns on the jack-up market a couple of questions on the Mako.
So first the follow-on work that you're looking at is this with Salamander? And then also are you seeing any pressure on rates for this follow-on work? Yes Klayton we're looking at a number of different opportunities.
Obviously Atwood has done quite well in extending contracts with clients from period-to-period so they're clearly in the mix but we're looking wider as well just as we approach the contract end date.
The comments on the potential risk really relate to the competition for jobs that is taking place out there.
We're seeing a lot more rigs bid on opportunities than we would have seen before.
The balance between opportunities and rigs available is clearly shifting with the increased supply that's coming into the market.
We really haven't seen much in the way of rate changes yet so -- I think the issue that we're really cautious about is just more the supply and demand balance.
Obviously at some point that may work its way into rates; but right now it's more of the competition of rigs for jobs available.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> And then as a follow-up just given all the market concerns with the floating space are you seeing any high-spec assets competing for jobs down market? Well with the opportunities we're looking at we're not seeing that directly but clearly that's happening in the marketplace.
We're -- as I mentioned we're really focused on the Atwood Admiral in getting work for that as our next ultra-deepwater drillship.
And the opportunities we're really focused on are the ones that require the 6 gen capability that that rig brings.
And with the Atwood Hunter we're looking a lot of different opportunities but we haven't directly seen competition from higher spec rigs but that's naturally going to follow.
When the market weakens and there's a scramble to find work rigs of a higher spec will typically bid lower spec just to maintain utilization.
And we'll take our next question from Ian Macpherson of Simmons.
Research Division</strong> Rob for the drillship market in 2015 I think it's pretty well appreciated that rigs like the Admiral are competing very competitively with a multitude of rigs for a relative dearth of opportunities.
And so not all the rigs are going to get work at least that's my understanding based on the perception of demand today.
Would you say that the ratio of the number of top-end drillships that are bidding on a number of jobs is that sort of status quo over the past 6 months or so? Or have you seen it get more or less competitive than where you saw it at the beginning of the year or late last year? Well I think as we move through '14 and you've got rigs that are coming out this year that don't have contracts clearly I think that's increasing some of the competitive appetite that's out there for the jobs that are available.
The other thing we've seen is we've seen recently some tenders that were out there getting canceled or postponed indefinitely or for a long enough period of time that it might as well be indefinite so I think those kind of things increase the competitive pressure.
I'm not sure that we're seeing a larger number of rigs on any particular job.
But the longer we go without fixtures for some of these uncontracted rigs then the more rigs that are likely to come into the mix for availability for a particular job.
So we're obviously looking to see a pickup in tenders and a pickup in fixtures and thus far we haven't seen that yet.
That said we feel good about where we are with the Admiral okay? It's a difficult market but we've got an outstanding rig.
It's #3 in a series of 4 and we're benefiting from all the lessons learned and experienced from rig 1 and soon to be rig 2.
So we feel good but there's definitely a cool breeze blowing out there.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
The -- your jack-up commentary you've had a sober view there for a few quarters as you've said.
And you've been a little bit early in terms of actually seeing real price weakness at least for your variety of new jack-ups.
The Ensco call that immediately proceeded your call was characterized by a more constructive jack-up outlook than what you've been giving.
Do you see any sort of flaw in your thesis or anywhere where where you could be wrong in terms of calling for some softness? Well the call for softness is really just a note of caution.
We see tremendous growth in supply coming on board that is uncontracted and that's really the risk to the jack-up space.
Now if we get a corresponding pick up in demand that's great.
That's not a problem.
But as I mentioned before if you look at the jobs that we're bidding on and others that we're not we're seeing more and more rigs bidding for each available job and that's a sign of growing competitive pressure in the marketplace.
So we're also saying that we're not seeing a lot of rate erosion yet so that may be some cause for optimism.
And if some of the areas that may be pockets of strength like Middle East Mexico and other areas come through with some more jack-up tenders or visible demand that'll mitigate the effect.
But right now we're still cautious on the space given the growth in supply and we're just not confident that we're going to see a corresponding pickup in demand.
[Operator Instructions] And we'll take our next question from Mike Urban of Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> One last question on the Admiral recognizing that you're out there marketing the rig and kind of sensitive on rate discussion.
Again given that competitive dynamic and some of the delays and project softness out there is it possible that you'd look for a shorter term initially again just to get it out there working prove up the rig and hopefully get it tied up until that demand recovery occurs presumably according to your timeframe later in '15 or in 2016? Yes Mike the opportunities we're looking at right now have got a fixed term length to them.
It's typically not a variable term length.
The client is looking to drill a particular program whether it's an exploration program or a development program and so they have a timeframe that they have to accommodate.
We're not at the point now where we're negotiating for shorter timeframes because of a concern we have on the rates per se.
Obviously the market has moved down and we keep -- we're well aware of that but we're not in the process of trying to negotiate for a very short-term contract at this point.
We're targeting well-defined programs with fixed term lengths and we're not at the point of doing what you're suggesting.
And we'll take our next question from David Smith of Heikkinen Energy.
I appreciate the comments regarding how the floor [ph] of supply needs to evolve via the stacking and retirements of the older mid-water fleet.
But I just wanted to ask if you're seeing any structural changes in the mid-water demand? So basically if mid-water demand remain in place and the mid-water fleets should shrink should we infer that the older conventionally more deepwater fleet should increasingly fill that gap and that could be a structural feature of the market going forward? Yes my comment wasn't really aimed specifically at mid-water fleet and you worded your question around the mid-water fleet.
What we're really saying is that if you look at the entire floater space which is going to be heavily involved with mid-water and deepwater rigs as being older rigs the 20 to 25-year-old rigs it's our view that a number of those are going to exit the market specifically around a special periodic surveys -- regulatory surveys for class satisfaction.
And because those surveys typically involve heavy maintenance costs to stay in class we think those are logical exit points.
There may even be some lower speckle for deepwater rigs some older ones maybe some ones with some checkered operating histories that could exit the market as well during this timeframe.
But we're really talking about the older rigs 20 to 25-years old most of which predate the ultra-deepwater space.
And we'll take your next question from Darren Gacicia of Guggenheim.
LLC Research Division</strong> Wanted to ask -- there's been some discussion along -- in the past about increasing dividend and the rest.
I realized that some of the lack of visibility in the market changes that or may change -- maybe it doesn't change it.
But I'm just trying to get some clarity kind of where we are now sort of if the downturn in the floater markets let's say were to last beyond '15 is there a different answer to have you see inflection and what happens with the market in '15? And just to kind of get a sense of how you're thinking about that on a go-forward basis maybe with a little bit of an option throughput in there? Mark do you want to take that? Yes.
Darren as you know we have -- I mentioned earlier we have 80-plus percent of our days contracted for next year and also 50% for the -- for 2016.
And given our view currently as to where we stand in marketing some of these new capacity coming on in '15 we feel fairly confident around our forecast with regard to earnings and cash flow growth.
So we're going through the process as we've discussed around evaluating and returning cash to shareholders via dividends or other matters and that process will be completed later this year.
So I don't think the current market weakness plays too much into our view given the fact that you've framed your question around a 2015 2016 timeframe.
LLC Research Division</strong> Got it.
Now so within that is there still an impetus to want to grow the fleet over time? Or is that a little -- is that logic maybe a little bit more on pause? No Darren.
We're firmly in the camp of believing Atwood as a growth company and we're going to continue to look for growth opportunities that create shareholder value as our first priority.
Obviously in the -- within market we're in today with the uncertainty and a couple of uncontracted newbuild drillships we've been cautious about taking the next step on growth but we're by no means done growing this company.
We think that this management team with the great operations and technical team that we got working our rigs has good opportunity to create value for shareholders.
Now how we do that whether it's building versus buying I think that's something that we'll have to look at as we go forward.
But we are certainly not abandoning our strategy of growth.
That's front and center for our company.
LLC Research Division</strong> On the buy end of the build-versus-buy argument obviously there's been some commentary today around the jack-up market.
Is that -- do you think that there's opportunities there maybe for things that'll hit the market kind of attractively priced from speculators and the rest? I think it's a little too early to tell.
Because as we've been discussing there seems to be some ambivalence about where the market is right now and how quickly it may be moving to a weaker position if at all.
So unless and until you get to a point where it's obvious that not all the rigs are going to find work you're not going to see significant discount to replacement or build cost and -- so we're not there yet.
But if the market were to weaken to that point then you may see some attractive purchase opportunities.
And at that point we'll take a closer look.
LLC Research Division</strong> If I could throw 1 more in.
Yes you mentioned rig attrition as well.
What's the -- do you assign any probability that the rig attrition that may happen say over the next 12 months can balance the market a lot faster than maybe capital markets the barely suspect [ph]? I think that the supply attrition is underestimated.
I think a lot of our competitors are only now starting to discuss it openly whereas in the past there's been a lot of talk about maintaining utilization.
And I think as we collectively gain some visibility that this market may stay weaker longer.
There'll be more willingness to enter into those discussions on a more consistent basis that rigs have to exit the supply stack and ultimately be cold stacked so that they're not being actively marketed.
So I think you're starting to hear some of that in this quarter's earnings calls and you'll hear more of it as we go forward.
And we'll take our next question from Dave Wilson of Howard Weil.
Research Division</strong> Mark I don't know if I've asked something similar like this before with regard to debt.
But any thoughts about terming it out especially as you kind of try to get an investment-grade rating? Dave as you know we heavily utilize our revolving credit facility for a good reason.
We look at our earnings and cash flow profile having the flexibility to be able to repay this debt without penalty in the future is something that's very appealing to us.
I think the ability to repay this debt and to reduce our leverage ratios will put us in an excellent position to pursue an investment-grade rating.
So given the cost differential between what we're paying and our floating rate debt what it would cost us to term it out will be more than double.
So we look at this very carefully on a quarterly basis.
We're very sensitive to the increased costs but we also like the flexibility with regard to repaying this in the 2015 2016 and beyond timeframe.
[Operator Instructions] And we'll take the next question from Ian Macpherson of Simmons.
Research Division</strong> Rob you mentioned the Advantage is up to 90% in July.
What are your targets and your timeframe for getting to your targets there on efficiency? Our targets are 100%.
And if you look at the rest of our fleet and specifically if I could call out the Atwood Condor and the Atwood Osprey those are deepwater rigs that we delivered in 2011 2012 those rigs got 99% revenue efficiency for the entire third quarter.
So we know that near 100% reliability is achievable on our ultra-deepwater rigs.
As I said we went through some startup issues and hiccups on the Atwood Advantage.
We think those are behind us.
And we think July is really the first really solid month of operations we've been able to achieve having gotten through those.
And going forward we're going to shoot for 90-plus percent towards 100%.
So you'll have to stay tuned and our operations and technical teams will have to deliver against that.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So plausibly you're not shooting for 100% 6 to 9 months from now you're trying to get there sooner than that? Well we're trying to get there as fast as we can Ian.
And at this time it appears we have no further questions.
Okay.
If there are no further questions we want to thank everybody for joining the third quarter call and we look forward to talking to you on our fourth quarter and full fiscal year '14 call in 3 months' time.
Thank you.
And this concludes your teleconference.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Good day everyone and welcome to the Atwood Oceanics’ Q4 Earnings Call.
(Operator instructions.) Please note this call is being recorded.
It is now my pleasure to turn today’s conference over to Senior Vice President and CFO Mr.
Mark Mey.
Please go ahead.
Thanks Priscilla and good morning good afternoon and welcome to Atwood Oceanics’ conference call and webcast to review the company’s operating results for Q4 and year-ended September 30 2014.
The speakers today will be Rob Saltiel President and CEO; and myself Mark Mey Senior Vice President and CFO.
Before we begin let me remind everyone that during the course of this conference call we may make forward-looking statements that reflect management’s current plans expectations estimates and assumptions concerning the future.
These statements involve risks and uncertainties and actual results may differ materially from those expressed in these forward-looking statements.
These risks and uncertainties are more fully described in our latest 10(k) and in our other filings with the US Securities and Exchange Commission.
Undue reliance should not be placed on these forward-looking statements which are applicable only as of the date hereof.
Let me turn the call over to Rob for his opening comments.
Thank you Mark and welcome to all of you joining today’s call.
In Q4 our company delivered record revenue and earnings on the back of solid operational performance and excellent cost control.
For the full fiscal year 2014 we achieved our highest revenues and second-best net income levels in our 46-year history due in large part to the growth and transformation of our rig fleet.
Financially Atwood continues to execute at a very high level for our shareholders.
For our employees F2014 was one of our safest years ever.
We lowered our recordable incident rate to a new company low even as we added many new faces to the Atwood team and worked a record number of man hours on our rigs.
Despite the challenges we faced in F2014 with delivering our first two ultra-deepwater drill ships our Operations and Technical Teams responded very well.
Their efforts in resolving equipment and other startup issues ensured that Atwood’s strong reputation for operational excellence has remained intact.
I’m proud of our company’s performance in 2014 and appreciate the hard work and dedication of our employees around the world in making it a successful year.
We realize that 2015 is shaping up to be a challenging year for Atwood and our industry.
As a result we are taking steps to reduce costs and eliminate unnecessary activities wherever possible.
More importantly we recognize that our clients are likely to be even more cost-sensitive due to lower oil prices and reduced CAPEX budgets.
This means that we must raise our performance even further to deliver safe and reliable drilling services that minimize drilling program costs for our clients.
All of us at Atwood are prepared to meet this challenge and improve on our 2014 performance.
Turning now to Q4’s developments we announced our first-ever quarterly dividend in September as a vehicle to return cash to our shareholders on a regular and sustainable basis.
Starting in January Atwood shareholders of record will receive a $0.25 per share cash distribution which works out to a 2.5% to 3.0% yield at current share price levels.
We intend to maintain this level of dividend throughout 2015 subject to our Board’s approval with an aim to grow the dividend in future years.
In operations our biggest achievement in the past quarter was the delivery of the Atwood Achiever at the end of August and the start of its mobilization to northwest Africa in early September.
As I commented on the last call the Achiever left the shipyard in ready-to-drill condition benefiting greatly from the lessons learned on the Atwood Advantage.
The Achiever has already completed two stops on its mobilization and is now headed to Mauritania to complete some final tests before commencing drilling operations.
I visited the Achiever in Singapore in mid-September and I spent time touring the ship and meeting with the crews.
I can attest to the fact that we have assembled a capable and motivated rig team that is eager to begin drilling for our client Cosmos Energy later this quarter.
As a whole our fleet operated at a revenue efficiency of 92% for Q4.
We did experience extended downtime on the Atwood Condor due to a series of unrelated BOP issues that have since been resolved.
Also both the Condor and the Atwood Advantage experienced high loop currents at their Gulf of Mexico drilling locations that limited their ability to operate without inducing stresses on the riser string.
As a result both rigs were on a reduced waiting-on-weather rate for much of the quarter.
The Atwood Hunter returned to service in mid-August for a short program in Equatorial Guinea that is nearing completion in the next two weeks.
Although we executed an excellent startup and have drilled with a very high level of reliability and safety performance the Hunter has been unable to secure follow-on work thus far due to the current downturn in the West Africa market.
As a result we are currently making plans to idle the Hunter once its program is complete.
The rest of our fleet is operating today much as it did in the previous quarter with no major changes in the areas of operation.
Turning now to our projects we announced in last week’s fleet status report that we have delayed the delivery of our two remaining drill ships under construction at the DSME Shipyard – the Atwood Admiral and the Atwood Archer – by six months each.
This was a difficult decision for us.
However with the current market weakness for offshore drilling services expected to persist well into next year we worked with the DSME Shipyard to delay these rigs at a nominal cost to Atwood.
The Atwood Admiral’s new delivery date is the end of September 2015 while the Archer delivery is moved to the end of June 2016.
We will continue to market these two rigs aggressively targeting as a priority those drilling programs that require latest technology drilling capabilities that are not met by the existing ultra-deepwater fleet.
We are planning three noteworthy projects to occur in F2015.
The Atwood Eagle will undergo a special periodic survey; the Atwood Falcon an intermediate survey; and the Atwood Osprey will have its top drive changed out.
These are the only significant projects that we expect to impact the availability of our active rig fleet in F2015.
Mark will provide details on the expected out-of-service times and costs associated with these projects in his prepared remarks.
Turning now to the market the situation and outlook remains similar to last quarter.
Tendering activity for floaters remains subdued and we expect that the current levels of tendering by operators will be insufficient to maintain today’s floater demand once contracts roll off.
Most operators remain over-rigged and as a result sublets of contracted floaters in some cases with day rates subsidized by the operator continue to be the primary source of incremental supply in most floater markets.
This makes it very challenging for new builds to secure attractive initial contracts and for floaters that are nearing their contract end dates to maintain continuous work.
In the ultra-deepwater space we have seen few new tenders and the existing ones have been very competitive with new lows set for day rates for new build drill ships on multi-year programs.
Also since our last earnings call we’ve seen for the first time sixth generation rigs delivered from the shipyard without contracts.
When this occurs it comes at a high cost to the drilling contractor both in terms of out-of-pocket expenses as well as limiting the opportunity to develop a balanced drilling services contract.
This is a situation that Atwood does not want to find itself in and the risk of this occurring was a driver in our decision to delay the deliveries of our two remaining drill ships.
The one bright spot in all of this is that our competitors are increasingly announcing firm plans to cold stack and/or scrap some of their older floaters.
Since these decisions often have knock-on effects on the stated book values of these assets they tend to be announced only after the accounting has been well considered.
We expect that the pace of cold stacking announcements will rise significantly as we move into and through calendar year 2015.
The resulting reduction in the marketed supply of floaters should improve the supply and demand balance and start us on a road to recovery.
Turning now to jack-ups the jack-up segment has held up reasonably well even as day rates and utilization have drifted lower since our last call.
We expect that the uncontracted new build jack-ups that are scheduled to exit the shipyard in 2015 may present a formidable challenge to the supply and demand balance.
Atwood’s marketing team has been focused on securing follow-on work for the Atwood Mako which will conclude its current contract in Thailand near the end of this month.
A lack of suitable opportunities in Thailand in part due to delays in the generating of environmental permits by the government has necessitated that we cast a wider net for the Mako’s next assignment.
We are considering a number of drilling programs in parallel predominantly in the Southeast Asia region but given the short duration remaining on our current contract we are likely to incur some idle time on the Mako in the coming weeks.
This concludes my prepared comments so I’ll pass the call back to Mark who will take us through the financial numbers.
Mark? Thanks Rob.
Today I will review our Q4 and full-year 2014 financial results comment on our financial position and provide guidance for F1Q and full-year 2015.
Let me begin by highlighting the following Q4 and full-year results: as Rob mentioned record revenues of $323 million and $1.17 billion for the quarter and year ended September 30 2014 respectively; diluted earnings per share of $5.24 and $1.72 for the quarter and the year ended September 30 2014 respectively; net margins of 35% and 29% for the quarter and fiscal year; revenue efficiency of 92% for the quarter and for the fiscal year.
Contract drilling costs excluding reimbursable costs which were $15 million totaled $117 million for the quarter as compared to $129 million for the previous quarter.
$129 million is also net of $23 million in reimbursable costs.
The reduction in contract drilling costs reflects reduced costs on the Condor the Osprey and the Eagle offset by increased costs on the Atwood Achiever which began mobilizing to northwest Africa in early September.
Some of these cost differentials are attributed to the timing of certain maintenance projects but the majority can be considered savings as part of our ongoing focus on costs.
For the fiscal year contract drilling costs totaled $506 million and had reimbursable costs of $56 million.
This is slightly below my prior guidance of $515 million to $525 million for the fiscal year with the variance attributed to the aforementioned reason.
General and administrative costs totaled $13.8 million and $61.5 million for the quarter and year ended September 30 2014 respectively with both results in line with my prior guidance.
Our effective tax rate was 11.2% slightly above the unusually low Q3 effective tax rate of 9.0% and ahead of guidance due to the geographic mix of our pretax income.
Moving to the balance sheet capital expenditures totaled $411 million during the quarter which consisted mainly of the final payment on the delivery of the Atwood Achiever and project management and related costs for the other two drill ships under construction during the quarter.
Net debt increased to $1.7 billion as of September 30 with our net debt to capital ratio increasing to 40% up from 34% the previous quarter.
The increase in net debt was attributable to the increase in our revolving credit facility to fund the final payment on the Atwood Achiever.
These year-end credit metrics represent [peak metrics] for Atwood during our multi-year fleet transformation strategy.
We expect our credit metrics to improve each quarter over the next few years.
Let’s now discuss our outlook for 2015 with emphasis on F1Q.
We estimate reimbursable revenues of $50 million for F2015 with $20 million to $22 million in Q1.
Contract drilling costs should range between $595 million and $615 million for F2015 and between $160 million and $170 million for Q1.
These estimates for contract drilling costs exclude reimbursable costs which are approximately $36 million for 2015 and between $16 million and $20 million for Q1.
The majority of the increase for contract drilling costs is attributable to the increase in operating days in 2015 with the Atwood Advantage and Achiever working for the entire year the Atwood Falcon and Atwood Eagle’s survey costs which I’ll discuss in more detail later partially offset by lower-than-expected costs for the Atwood Hunter due to [forecasted low utilization] in 2015.
Labor and other costs inflation is expected to average around 3% for next year.
The [Bigspick] is also no longer part of our operating fleet for any part of 2015.
Note that the [costs] they share with the blurry date extensions for the Atwood Admiral and Atwood Archer will be expensed during the period of construction delays.
These costs totaling between $2 million and $3 million per rig are included in the above guidance and will impact contract drilling costs in F3Q and F4Q.
Depreciation is estimated at $175 million to $185 million and $45 million for Q1.
G&amp;A expenses should approximate $62 million for the year and $19 million for Q1.
Note that consistent with previous years our Q1 G&amp;A expense is skewed higher than the subsequent three quarters as 2014 incentive compensation is paid and recognized in the quarter.
Interest expense net of capitalized interest should approximate $57 million in [2015] and $14 million for Q1.
We expect our effective tax rate to range between 10% and 12% in 2015.
In summary we expect both EBITDA margins and net margins to increase modestly in 2015 from the previous year.
As to out-of-service days and as Rob mentioned we have three regulatory projects scheduled for F2015 as follows: Atwood Falcon for 13 days around the March/April timeframe for its intermediate survey.
This project is budgeted at $12 million of which $3 million will be capitalized $1 million deferred and $8 million expensed during the quarter.
Atwood Eagle for 21 days also in the March/April timeframe for its regulatory survey for a total of $15 million of which $1 million we expect to defer and amortize over 30 months; the Atwood Osprey for five days in F2Q to change out its stop drive and tensioner for $4 million all of which is capitalized during the year.
As noted in our recent fleet fitness report the Edward Achiever will incur 20 days of zero rate time during its mobilization to northwest Africa.
These will be incurred in F1Q 2015.
Note that we don’t expect any further out of service or zero rate days for the remainder of 2015.
Capital expenditures including maintenance CAPEX and additions to our capital spend inventory and capitalized interest is expected to total $650 million in 2015 of which the Atwood Admiral’s ship drive payments comprise the majority thereof.
The delivery date extensions for the Atwood Admiral and Atwood Archer require us to accelerate a portion of the final installments for each of these two rigs.
These amounts were included in the CAPEX guidance of $650 million.
We intend to spend $160 million of this amount in Q1.
We will continue to use a mix of cash cash flow from operations and our revolving credit facility to fund these capital expenditures.
To conclude let me remind the participants that our contract revenue backlog is currently $2.9 billion with 84% of available days contracted for F2015.
I’ll now turn the call over to Priscilla for questions.
Certainly.
(Operator instructions.) And we’ll take our first question from Dave Wilson at Howard Weil.
Your line is open.
Good morning gentlemen thanks for taking my questions.
Rob I wanted to circle back on the three jack-ups in Southeast Asia with the Mako the one with the most near-term availability.
But thoughts longer-term about keeping that rig and the others in the area since that’s the area thought to be the most affected by the new builds entering the market? I guess from a strategic standpoint how do you think about the rigs in that region longer-term? Good morning Dave.
We obviously like our position in the Southeast Asian market for a lot of reasons principally having to do with the cost structure there and the opportunities to work in a lot of different markets in a relatively small geography.
So as I said in my prepared notes we expect that the Mako at least in the shorter-term likely will stay in the Southeast Asia region even if it has to leave Thailand.
Longer-term I think you raise a good point about concentration in that region and our Marketing Team has taken a good look at that.
We’re going to continue to monitor the developments in the jack space as the new builds come into this market.
If we believe that the Southeast Asia region is becoming more crowded or more competitive to the point where the economics don’t favor that versus some other regions well then we’ll certainly look farther afield.
And we’re obviously prepared to do that with our other two jack-ups outside of the Southeast Asia region.
So it’s something that we’re going to continue to watch as the jack-up market develops in 2015.
Obviously we’ve got good backlog on the other two rigs that are there in Thailand so it’s not as immediate an issue but as we move through 2015 and we get closer to opportunities for renewals on the other two rigs – and depending on where we are with the Mako – it’s certainly possible that we would consider relocating one or more of those rigs outside of the Southeast Asia region.
Okay thanks for that.
And then Mark as an unrelated follow-up regarding costs I kind of missed the percentage increase you mentioned but just around the incremental activity in the market – it’s been softer and then given the slowdown in the industry.
And I wanted to see how much that has translated into kind of less cost pressures.
Have we seen that yet particularly when it comes to the labor inflation? Yes Dave good morning.
You are correct: the largest component of our costs is around labor.
And with the slowdown we’ve certainly seen inflation come down.
If you recall back for the last couple of years I’ve been guiding to the 4% to 5% increase year-on-year.
This year I guided to 3%.
So we’re starting to see some of that benefit which if the cycle continues the way we expect it to that could come down further in [2016].
Okay great thanks for taking my questions.
I’ll turn the call back over.
Thank you.
We’ll go now to Ian MacPherson with Simmons.
Your line is open.
Hi thank you.
Rob can you talk about how many ultra-deepwater tenders exist for 2015 right now? I know that I mean it’s clear from the deferral deliveries that you negotiated that it’s thin but apart from what we’ve heard about with Libra can you count them on one hand or what do you see? That’s question one and then also can you talk about the nature of the idling on the Hunter? How warm or cold is that rig going and how quickly? Thanks.
Okay good morning Ian.
Regarding your first question our Marketing Team has prepared an analysis of each of the regions of the world.
And look we see opportunity in each of the regions out there but I think it’s fair to say that certainly less than two hands’ of visible tenders that are out there right now.
I think what we’re expecting to see is some improvement in that as we move into 2015 and through the year.
But as we sit here at the end of 2014 certainly the first half of 2015 looks to be pretty challenging in terms of the number of opportunities that are there.
But I will say that we see opportunities in just about every region.
You mentioned one in your preface and keep in mind we need one opportunity for the Atwood Admiral.
So we’re going to focus on those opportunities that we think make the most sense for a rig that’s got the capability and flexibility of the Atwood Admiral.
That’s where we’ll focus our efforts and we’ll work hard to get that one job that we need for the Admiral.
Regarding the Atwood Hunter this is a situation that is evolving but we had really believed that we would get follow-on work on the Hunter that we started in Equatorial Guinea.
Clearly the market has directionally moved against us from the summer to where we are today and right now as I said we don’t see follow-on work.
So at this point we’re preparing to idle the rig.
Our Marketing Team continues to look for opportunities because obviously the rig is warm and ready to go; and we’ll continue to evaluate those opportunities as we move into the end of this year and then take a perspective on where the market is for the Hunter as we get into the new year.
Okay.
The question I had really was when we look at your cost guidance for next year what does that reflect for the Hunter essentially? Is it cold for most of the year within the framework of your guidance or is that not necessarily the case? Yeah it’s very difficult to budget at a time like this as you can imagine.
So what we’ve done is taken a shot at a 50% utilization for the year – so warm stack for half the year cold stack for half the year.
Okay that’s good.
Thanks Mark.
And I got everything else you said but I missed what you guided on reimbursable revenues and costs for next year if you wouldn’t mind repeating that.
Thanks.
Yes.
I guided for reimbursable revenues of $50 million with $22 million in Q1 and reimbursable costs of $36 million with between $16 million and $20 million in Q1.
Okay got it.
Thank you.
You’re welcome.
Thank you.
We’ll go now to Klayton Kovac with Tudor Pickering and Holt.
Your line is open.
Hey good morning guys.
So on the recent postponements of the new builds would you consider postponing these further? And would DSME Shipyard allow you to? Yeah we certainly don’t want to postpone these rigs any further.
I mean we’re eager to get the rigs out and part of the Atwood fleet but obviously we want to come out of the yard with the proper contract in hand for the reasons I mentioned in my prepared comments.
So postponing it further is not something that we’re focusing on right now.
Obviously as we turn the corner here at the end of the year and get into early 2015 if we still see difficulties in getting proper contracts for the Atwood Admiral in particular we would certainly consider further postponements.
But that’s at this point not Plan A.
Since you asked the question do I think that we could secure an additional postponement if we needed to yes I do.
We’ve got an excellent relationship with the DSME Shipyard.
Obviously we’ve made a big commitment to them with the four ultra-deepwater drill ship orders two of which have now been delivered.
They were very accommodating working with us on this extension.
So again even though we’re not focusing on any further postponements at this time I do think that would be available to Atwood if we needed it.
Okay great thanks.
And just as a follow-up what are you seeing on the subletting side of the floater market? For instance are you seeing more or less E&amp;P operators trying to sublet floaters now versus six months ago per se? Yeah I think this is a big problem with the market is that as I said in my comments the operators by and large are over-rigged.
They’ve signed up for term contracts that they’re now finding they’ve got white space on wells that they thought they would drill they no longer want to drill.
Some of it’s due to CAPEX reasons; some of it’s due to frankly disappointing exploration and/or appraisal results that have occurred really by and large across the industry in 2014.
And so this really becomes the greatest source of competition for rigs trying to roll over and for new builds is that there’s a lot more supply out there than really is apparent if you just look at the working number of rigs and the rigs that are idle.
A lot of these working rigs are actually available and are competing for the incremental well or the incremental drilling program.
So I think we’ve got to work off this sublet overhang and that’s going to be part and parcel of getting us on a road to recovery.
Okay great thanks guys.
I’ll turn it back over.
Thank you.
We’ll go now to Gregory Lewis with Credit Suisse.
Your line is open.
Yeah thank you and good morning.
Mark I think in your guidance in CAPEX you mentioned Q1 and for the two new builds that are coming online.
I guess my question is in thinking about the delaying of the two new builds did that change the CAPEX schedule for those rigs where they’re still back loaded upon delivery? Yes Greg good morning.
As you’ll recall the third rig the Admiral had a 30/70 payment plan; and the Archer had a 20/80 payment plan.
As part of our negotiations to extend the delivery dates of these two rigs we agreed to pay $50 million of those backend payments by the end of this month November 30.
So $100 million in total for the Admiral and the Archer is included in the $150 million which I guided to earlier.
Okay great.
And then just thinking about I saw that you bumped up the revolver to $1.55 billion.
Are there any terms in the revolver that limit the ability to draw down the revolver based on having employment if those funds were to be used for one of the drill ships? No Greg.
We have absolutely no restrictions in our ability to draw down the revolver whatsoever.
Okay great.
And then just one quick one from me.
You mentioned the 50% utilization for the Hunter.
In thinking about if any guidance in terms of the warm stacking and the cold stacking on a dollar per day basis would be pretty helpful if that’s something that you can provide.
Yes we’ve got to work on this and I’ll guide to between $90 000 and $100 000 per day for warm stacking; and around $10 000 to $12 000 a day for cold stacking.
Okay perfect.
I’ll say thank you very much for the time.
You’re welcome.
Thank you.
We’ll take our next question from Darren Gacicia with Guggenheim Partners.
Your line is open.
Good morning gentlemen.
So I wanted to ask we’ve had a few questions on tenders.
I wanted to parse it out a little bit though.
In terms of kind of slowness looking at next year because I think you sound kind of incrementally maybe more negative than you were during the last call – what portion of that is do you think more of a capital budgeting story by way of people reviewing project economics absent oil price? And what part of your outlook do you think has maybe changed due to changes and what’s happened with [the tape royal] recently? Well if you hear us being more negative on this call it’s because we had to postpone our drill ships.
That was not our plan and we certainly thought we’d have a contract in hand for the Atwood Admiral.
So you need to look no further than that to explain our change in sentiment.
But when it really comes to looking at the demand for next year I think that it’s fair to say a lot of clients are still going through and finalizing their budgets for 2015 but a lot of these decisions may have already been made in terms of what programs are available.
There’s no question that we are going to see both in budgets to be developed as well as adjustments to next year there will be some elasticity between demand for offshore capital expenditures and the price of oil.
I mean we’ve heard a number of E&amp;P operators on their earnings calls talk about adjustment of capital budgets based on commodity prices because effectively that determines the cash flow they’ve got that they can spend to explore and appraise further wells.
So we’re going to see some of that.
It’s really hard for me to separate how much of what you see now is a result versus what was coming anyway but there’s no question that directionally the recent drop in [brent] oil price has not helped matters and that also is a new development from the last call to this one.
Understood.
So just in regard to thinking about the Hunter and some of the fleet what’s the I guess the first direct question is what was the carrying value of the Hunter and is there a thought that there may have to be an impairment there? And then just looking at some of the other slightly older I mean still relatively new but still the older rigs in the Falcon and the Eagle – are they kind of just shielded from the downturn by and large given their location? I know there’s kind of a few questions in there but I’d love to get your thoughts.
Okay.
I’ll let Mark talk about the Hunter after I comment on the Eagle and the Falcon.
Look the Eagle and the Falcon are in a very different place than the Atwood Hunter for a couple of reasons.
One is that they’ve got a good contract backlog on both rigs and so they’re going to be employed well into ’15 and ’16 based on what we’ve currently got under contract.
In addition they’re in a protected market.
I mean the Australian market is a market that requires certain entry qualifications which effectively become entry barriers for those who are in the market.
And Atwood’s been in that market for over 40 years.
We talked about this before but we’ve got a special arrangement with our employees that allows them o operate without the interference of unions.
And clearly that’s an attraction to our clients there.
So I really feel like the Eagle and the Falcon have been in a different place than the Atwood Hunter for quite some time and we’ve talked about this on previous calls.
So we continue to feel good about the Eagle and the Falcon in the Australia market.
We see opportunities to extend both rigs with clients that we’ve got already on the contract schedule.
So we’re hoping that we can add to our backlog as we move into 2015 on those two rigs.
But the challenges on the Hunter are different given that it’s in a really wide fairway of competition in the West Africa market and frankly there are little to no entry barriers for operating in those West African markets.
I’ll turn it back over to Mark now to comment on your accounting question.
Yes Darren.
Good day everyone and welcome to the First Quarter Earnings Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later you’ll have the opportunity to ask questions during the question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions].
It is now my pleasure to turn the conference over to your Vice President and CFO Mark Mey.
Please go ahead sir.
Thanks Rich and good morning and welcome to Atwood Oceanics’ conference call and webcast to review the company’s operating results for the first quarter ended December 31 2014.
The speakers today will be Rob Saltiel President and CEO; and me Mark Mey Executive Vice President and CFO.
Before we begin let me remind everyone that during the course of this conference call we may make forward-looking statements that reflect management’s current plans expectations estimates and assumptions concerning the future.
These statements involve risks and uncertainties and actual results may differ materially from those expressed in these forward-looking statements.
These risks and uncertainties are more fully described in our latest 10-K and other filings with the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission.
Undue reliance should not be placed on these forward-looking statements which are applicable only of this date.
Now let me turn the call over to Rob for his opening remarks.
Thank you Mark and welcome to all of you joining today’s call.
Atwood’s fiscal year 2015 has started well with excellent financial and operating performance for the first quarter.
We achieved record revenues of approximately $352 million due in large part to a full quarter’s contribution and a strong start-up from the Atwood Achiever.
Our offshore rig teams and on-shore support personnel exercise prudent cost discipline and avoided costly incidents to improve our margins.
With the exception of charges relating to the Atwood Hunter and the Atwood Southern Cross the first quarter was one of the best in our long history.
Our operations and technical services team delivered a fleet-wide revenue efficiency of 95% for the first quarter.
Other than some BOP related downtime on the Atwood Condor and five additional days for commissioning the Atwood Achiever prior to commencing drilling operations we delivered outstanding rig reliability to our clients.
Importantly our first quarter was also an excellent one for safety and environmental results as we maintained our strong momentum from last year.
I mentioned on our last earnings call that we needed to raise our game on performance in 2015 due to difficult market conditions.
And so far the Atwood team has done just that.
Turning now to the first quarter’s developments the Atwood Achiever our newest A-Class drill-ship and our most recent addition to the Atwood fleet has gotten off to a great start.
Since our last call we loaded the second BOP in the Canary Islands and completed all remaining field tests successfully.
The reliability performance of the rig has been excellent thus far and we are currently building our first well for our client Cosmos Energy in Morocco.
Clearly lessons learned from the Atwood Advantage startup last year had been applied for the Achiever’s benefit.
The Atwood Hunter completed its drilling program in early December and has remained idle since that time.
Our inability to secure follow-on work coupled with a difficult market conditions and uncertain outlook led us to conclude that the Hunter would not drill again in the foreseeable future.
Therefore we plan to scrap the rig which has triggered the accounting impairment that Mark will describe in more detail.
Prior the scrapping we will remove some of the more valuable equipment including risers and BOP components and shift them to the Hunter’s sister rigs Atwood Eagle and Atwood Falcon which are operating in Australia.
This will defray some future maintenance and capital costs on these rigs.
Also in the first quarter the Atwood Southern Cross which had not worked for more than four years was divested from our fleet.
We have spoken frequently on these call and had investor conferences about the bifurcation trend in today’s rig market.
And Atwood has certainly not been immune to it.
The retirement of two long-time contributors like the Hunter and Southern Cross the difficult aspect of our business especially has the impact on our effective employees.
However the difficult moves are necessary if we are to maintain good utilization of our rigs and reduce costs on rigs that are unlikely to see future growing activity.
We certainly hope that our competitors most of whom have been through similar situations will follow soon.
Turning now to projects the delivery schedules for the Atwood Admiral and Atwood Archer have not changed since our last call.
With the current downturn virtually eliminating incremental new build orders and relieving the pressure that has existed on the major rig equipment supply chain we expect that both of these drill-ships will be completed by their current delivery date.
However based on our recent discussions with DSME Shipyard on the current challenges in ultra-deepwater rig market we believe that we can secure later delivery dates of these rigs from shipyard if required.
We have recently adjusted the timing and scope of our fiscal year 2015 projects for the Atwood Eagle and Atwood Falcon and reflected these changes in our current fleet status report.
The Atwood Eagle special periodic survey has now been delayed to June to accommodate our client’s current drilling program.
In addition the Atwood Falcon’s work scope has been reduced so the rig is now expected to incur only five zero-rate days in the April timeframe.
Mark will provide details on the expected impact on our fiscal year 2015 costs as a result of these changes.
As contracting we did secure two shorter-term jobs for the Atwood Mako since our last call.
The Mako returned to work in early January for a two-well program in Malaysia after being idle for 34 days in the first quarter.
We also lined up the short-program in Vietnam and direct continuation that is expected to keep the Mako on a roll until at least June.
Beyond this date we are targeting a number of programs that appear to line up well with the Mako’s availability.
I will now give an overview of the macro-environment for oil prices in the offshore drilling business before commenting on our own rig marketing efforts.
As oil prices have trended downwards since last summer we have seen tendering and fixture activity across the offshore drilling space decrease dramatically.
And the E&amp;P operators have just finalized their 2015 budgets in January and we have seen significant reductions in budgeted CapEx versus 2014 figures especially in exploration expenditures.
Wage freezes and/or layouts are being announced regularly across the E&amp;P and oilfield sectors as companies look to hunker and right-size for our lower oil price environment.
Most clients I talk to believe that this downturn will extend into 2017.
It is clear to us that higher oil prices are required for offshore drillers to see any meaningful sustainable pick-up in rig demand from today’s levels.
The most hopeful news for oil prices is that we’re seeing U.S.
land drilling decline in a big way with land rig counts currently down approximately 20% from their peak and with the most recent published weekly reduction representing the largest decline in nearly 30 years.
If this trend continues it suggests that peak oil production in North America may come sooner than previously expected and that we will see oil production decline before summer.
As for offshore rig supplies we are seeing a welcome acceleration of cold stacking and scrapping of both floaters and jack-ups.
Already our competitors have announced nearly $6 billion in asset impairments in the past two quarters.
We expect that many of our competitors will announce additional cold stacking scrapping and/or impairments on their upcoming earnings calls.
The growing realization by offshore drillers that this downturn will cut deeper and last longer is shortening the time from the day a rig goes idle to its permanent retirement.
We need to see more of this.
Also some of our competitors are like Atwood delaying the deliveries of their new builds to enable entry into the market at a more favorable time.
Turning now to Atwood’s marketing efforts we continue to pursue a handful of opportunities and the ultra-deepwater and deepwater space.
With around 20 ultra-deepwater rigs currently idle every job is and will be heavily contested.
For the Atwood Admiral and Atwood Archer we are most focused on the drilling programs that will make the best use of these rigs superior drilling capabilities and dual BOP systems.
We are sticking with our plan to not deliver these rigs from the shipyard without contract.
The jack-up segment continues to become more challenging as a growing number of new builds closer to the delivery dates and bid into a stagnant demand market.
Fortunately we’re seeing more jack-up new builds delayed from the original dates and more recently the beginning of rig order cancellations.
It is fair to say that we are unsure how the jack-up segment will hold up as we progress throughout this year.
Currently we are marketing our jack-ups widely in Southeast Asia the Middle East and West Africa as priority areas.
This concludes my prepared comments so I’ll pass the call back to Mark who will take us through the financials.
Thanks Rob.
Today I will review our first quarter operating results comment on our financial position and provide updated guidance for the fiscal second quarter and remainder of the year.
Let’s start with fiscal first quarter highlights.
Record quarterly revenues of $352 million on 1 023 operating days for the quarter; this compares favorably with $323 million on 1 009 operating days in the previous quarter.
Diluted earnings per share of $0.71 however if adjusted for the impairment to Atwood Hunter and the loss and sale of the Southern Cross diluted earnings per share were $1.71 for the quarter.
$1.71 is slightly less than the $1.72 earned in the previous quarter on 14 pure operating days.
Revenues and net income were driven by good revenue efficiency of 95% across the fleet and the early results of certain cost control measures implemented during the past few quarters as oil prices and day rates have probably declined.
Adjusted net margins of 31.1% were achieved for the quarter as compared to the 34.7% for the previous quarter.
Contract drilling cost excluding reimbursable costs of $12 million [ph] totaled $137 million for the quarter as compared to $117 million for the previous quarter but below the guidance provided on the prior conference call.
The $117 million in fiscal 2014 also excluded $15 million in reimbursable costs.
The operating cost out-performance was achieved by both cost savings and the postponement of non-critical maintenance projects.
The cost savings were achieved in several areas including personnel equipment and associated freight and travel.
We were also aided by the U.S.
dollar strength against the Australian dollar and the Euro.
Due to higher revenue efficiency during the quarter reducing available days for maintenance projects coupled with no unplanned maintenance cost we are able to defer maintenance projects to later quarters in 2015.
Deferred projects represented approximately 50% of the operating cost out-performance during the quarter.
We recognized a $61 million impairment charge on the decision described which consist of three balance sheet line items.
And net put value write-down of $48 million and aiming to be above $8.4 million and the accrual of mobilization and other costs associated with the asset disposition of $4.4 million.
Note also that mobilization revenue and cost for the Achiever were about $6 million less than planned because the re-completing of mobilization to more tenure in less time than anticipated.
General and administrative expenses totaled $17 million about $700 000 below guidance due to lower personnel and travel cost during the fiscal first quarter.
Our effective tax rate was 16.5% above the previous quarter and my prior guidance due to non-deductible charges associated with the asset impairment.
Moving to the balance sheet capital expenditures totaled $149 million during the quarter which consisted mainly of shipyard progress payments on the Admiral and Atwood Archer plus capital spares project management and other costs related to these two remaining rigs under construction.
Net debt decreased modestly about $48 million to $1.62 billion at December 31 so our net debt capital ratios also declining to be 38.3% from 40% at the end of the previous quarter.
We have neither any debt amortization nor any debt maturities until May 2018.
Our liquidity totaled $581 million at the end of the quarter and I have not foreseen it tipping below $400 million to delivery of the Atwood Archer in May 2015.
Liquidity then rapidly increases well above $400 million in the following quarters.
Risking our decision to delay the delivery of the two remaining new build drilled ships by six months please note that the financial impact of this decision to our five-year planning model is positive to both liquidity and leverage ratios.
Now let’s discuss the outlook for the second quarter of fiscal 2014.
Before beginning with guidance let me reiterate that 96% of our remaining days for 2015 are currently contracted.
Atwood Mako one of our highest specification specific class jack-up is the only 90-days of availability in fiscal 2015.
In addition approximately 60% of our 2016 available days are currently contracted.
Now to updated guidance.
Referenced in the most recent fleet fitness report we have planned other service days as follows.
The Atwood Osprey five days in the March/April timeframe for scheduled maintenance.
The Atwood Falcon five days in April for its new way of change-out you may recall that we previously disclosed another service period of 13 days for the Falcon.
But due to the revised scope we have squeezed eight days or $1 million from that project.
The Atwood Eagle 21 days in June with special survey all costs associated with these service days are included in my cost guidance below.
We estimate reimbursable revenues of $11 million for the fiscal second quarter.
Regarding contracting cost I now anticipate full year 2015 to range between $550 to $570 million with the fiscal second quarter ranging between $140 million and $150 million.
This annual contract drilling cost forecast this $45 million was 7% up prior full year guidance.
These estimates for contract drilling costs exclude reimbursable costs which are approximate $8 million for second quarter and $30 million for the fiscal year.
The increase in costs from the first quarter to second quarter of 2015 are being driven by the timing of certain maintenance projects specifically associated with the Atwood Condor and Atwood Falcon most of which will be an expense during the second quarter.
Depreciation spew reduced to $43 million factoring in the anti-disposition for the second quarter and total of $173 million for the full year.
Full year guidance reflects the reaction of $7 million against previous guidance.
G&amp;A expense should reduce for the remaining three quarter and range between $13 million and $15 million for the quarter.
For the full year G&amp;A expense guidance is reduced by $2 million to $60 million.
Interest expense should range between $14 million and $16 million net of capitalized interest for each of the remaining three quarters.
Our expect our effective tax rate for the second quarter to approximate 11% and range between 10% and 13% for the fiscal year.
Capital expenditures should total between $40 million and $50 million in the second quarter full year fiscal 2015 CapEx should approximate $613 million.
The vast majority of their many capital would be inferred in the fourth quarter upon delivery of the Atwood Admiral.
We will continue to use a mix of cash cash flow from operations and our revolving credit facility to fund these capital expenditures.
That concludes my prepared comments.
I’ll now turn the call over to Rich for Q&amp;A.
[Operator Instructions].
And we’ll take our first question from Ole Slorer of Morgan Stanley.
Thank you very much.
Rob I thought I’d just ask you a high-level generic question first one that we get quite often from investors these days which is about the ability to cancel contracts for operators who found themselves long rig for the time that they’re trying to cut back on projects slide them to the right.
To what extent can they cancel rigs not only in the case of Atwood but if you just look at your experience with several cycles.
What does it take for it to be able to just blindly walk away from a contract? Well Ole obviously buries some degree by contract.
But generally across this industry the contracts are pretty tight with regard to the kind of provisions that are in the contract that would allow a client to terminate it early.
Typically it’s got to be a typically egregious violation of good operator-ship.
Sometimes the terms used gross negligence or some kind of a major issue that would take place with the operability of the rig where we’d be out of service for let’s say months rather than days.
So we really take a pretty specific event to trigger determination.
And even then in a lot of cases you’ve got a payout of either the profitability or the full day rate of the contract depending on the agreement itself that would accrue to the drilling contractor upon termination.
I will tell you that we have had no indication from many of our clients of any concerns regarding the preservation of our current contracts.
Obviously as you can tell from our quarter’s results we continue to deliver excellent operations and safety performance.
And from that perspective we really don’t have a concern about contract cancellations.
Okay thanks for that.
And my second question is one on let’s say the market takes a couple of years for argument sake to recover and it’s difficult to sign your yield contracts or contracts on your yield to new builds.
You mentioned that you have flexibility around pushing out the deliveries you recently had it done.
So what conversations would you be able to have with DSME even it comes to further pushing out just to the right? And also Mark you mentioned a payment in the fourth quarter for the Admiral.
How were the payment cycles be affected as well as potentially kind of who would face the costs of maintaining the rig well well finished within the yard? Well we don’t have any valid agreement for extending the delivery of these rigs at this point in time.
However I said in my prepared comments we’re confident that if we need extra time we can get it.
We have an excellent relationship with DSME and they’ve indicated to us flexibility in exchange frankly for the major commitment we made to that shipyard by committing to build four our ultra-deepwater drill-ship.
So we certainly don’t want to have to utilize that extra time of the shipyard.
Obviously our first order of business here is to market these rigs.
But if market conditions remain challenging and we don’t get a contract in time we do believe we can push deliveries out the right.
And then of course in doing that you could expect that there would be some adjustment in the payment schedules.
But again that would specifically we would strike with DSME for further details.
Okay well thanks for clarifying that.
I’ll hand it back.
Thanks Ole.
And we’ll take our next question from Praveen Narra of Raymond James.
Hi thank you and congratulations on the strong quarter.
I just wanted to ask a quick follow-up to Ole’s question.
Given the junior crew doesn’t necessarily have to be hired on yet for the two delayed ultra-deepwater rigs.
How much should we expect in terms of cash operating costs for the senior crew is it $100 000 a day fair number or is it higher and I do think that we can have for the Archer? Well Praveen we anticipated that there might be some challenges with marketing the Atwood Admiral.
And we truncated our hiring of senior personnel and really never even got to the point of hiring junior personnel for the Admiral.
And certainly it’s well for the Archer.
So we’ve got just a small handful of senior folks that are potentially allocated to those two rigs.
And at this point in time we’ve allocated those personnel around the rest of the fleet.
They’re supporting the Achiever start-up and they’re getting a lot of them are getting great experience there and some of them working here in Houston.
But we’re talking about a really small number of guys because we anticipated this could be the reality.
The other thing going on as you know is that with the much softer labor market we’re confident that as and when we get a contract we will have plenty of lead time to supplement internal Atwood personnel with folks from the outside to fully accrue both of those rigs.
So the whole concern that existed a couple of years ago about being able to get a number of qualified and trained people to run these rigs that issue has really become a non-issue.
And therefore we could be much more time-sensitive in terms of filling out the crews both junior and senior for these new drill-ships.
Okay perfect.
And then last quarter you had mentioned that there were less than two hands worth of visible tenders.
Can you guys give us a sense of what you’re seeing out there to the fog and where we stand today in terms of actual potential ordering activity that’s out there.
Is it a handful or is it complete standstill or obviously about the same? No there is a handful of opportunities out there.
As I mentioned in my prepared comments so these are heavily contested.
And you’ve got around 20 idle floaters out there that are of the ultra-deepwater variety that if the client doesn’t necessarily either require or can take fully advantage of the additional drilling capabilities and it will be a key system that we have on our drill-ships they may opt for an existing rig that’s idle.
That’s why we’re really focusing on those programs that can take best advantage of the capabilities that we bring.
But to answer your question directly it’s still a small handful that we’re focusing on.
Okay thank you very much.
You’re welcome.
And we’ll take our next question from Klayton Kovac of Tudor Pickering Holt.
Hi good morning guys.
Good morning.
So in your prepared remarks you all mentioned jack-up order cancellations and delays.
Could you expand a bit on this comment for instance could you quantify how many cancellations or delayed new-builds you’re seeing? Yes we’re seeing regular delays in new-builds.
And I think there is any number of sources out there that can quantify that.
But practice information around both the jack-up and floater markets weekly and weekly we’re seeing delays sometimes a month or two sometimes longer.
We’re seeing cancellations I think our number is up to about five cancellations we’ve seen from the November to February timeframe.
Okay thank you.
And then as a follow-up just regarding industry-wide cold stacking and scrapping can you provide us with just little further detail around this comment either quantitatively or qualitatively? Well qualitatively we haven’t seen enough of it.
And we’re going to continue to repeat that mantra and hopefully it’s over our competitors will either read the transcript or listen to the call.
But this is vastly off the slide market.
There is a report out today that talks about the number of rigs that could exit the market both jack-ups and floaters by 2017 and frankly we need all of that.
So the good news is that it has picked up.
We’ve seen double the number of rigs that are cold stacked and strapped from August to today.
We counted on the floater side from 23 to about 37.
But we need a lot more than that to go into cold stacking and then ultimately be permanently retired.
But I do think that you’re going to see an acceleration to that.
And I think once we get through this quarter’s earnings call we’ll have a much better sense of how much of that’s going to happen and hopefully sooner rather than later.
Great.
Thanks.
I’ll turn it back over.
And we’ll go next to Gregory Lewis of Credit Suisse.
Yes thanks and good morning guys.
Real quick on the I mean on the floater activity on the tendering activity.
I mean at this point it’s still early early days in 2015.
But generally speaking it looks like most of the tenders that we’re seeing are more already for 2016.
Would you clarify do you think that’s a fair statement or at this point it’s just all mix between the tenders that are out there.
Is it still a mix between ‘15 and ‘16 or already started this the operators look more for taking on rigs in ‘16 over ‘15? Well it’s definitely pushing to the right.
I mean you’ve seen the budget cut significantly for 2015 really across this space.
And I think it is fair to say that things are pushing into later ‘15 and early ‘16 beyond where they would have been let’s say six months ago.
But keep in mind the Atwood Admiral is not scheduled to come out of the yard until really the end of the calendar third quarter which would be our fourth quarter.
And by the time you move that rig around to the Golden Triangle you’re into early ‘16 anyway.
So our first availability for the Atwood Admiral to turn to the right for a client is really going to happen right around the end of ‘15 early calendar ‘16.
So that’s why that timing actually doesn’t line up badly with where Admiral is today.
Okay great.
And then Mark real quick on the retirement of the Hunter.
How should we I mean so the rig has been idle as we think about this quarter what - should we expect this rig to be out of the fleet come the June quarter or is that something where there is a process of you mentioned removing some of the equipment etcetera before the rig is actually out of the fleet? And in terms of the stacking or the scrapping of the rig could you sort of walk through some of the cost dynamics of that? Is there any value for the Atwood is able to realize from selling the rig for scrap orders of more just it’s more just like is it a cost? Well Greg certainly cost is involved with this.
And the numbers I gave you earlier around the impairment involves three items including the write-down of the net book value to write-off of inventory which is not all the inventory.
These inventory available beyond the $8 million which we’ve transferred to the sister rigs the Eagle and Falcon.
In addition to what Rob mentioned around risers and BOP components and other components it will be just stippled through rig and sent to Australia.
That process in preparing the rig for scrapping would take us probably through the end of this month February month.
And then you have to tow the rig to the scrapping yard which could take another few weeks.
So I would say most of the cost associated with this rig would be out of the fleet and of the second fiscal quarter of ‘15.
Perfect.
The extra proceeds you’re going to get from the shipyard as you can imagine that’s not going to be very much.
Yes sure.
Perfect okay.
Thank you very much.
And we’ll go next to Waqar Syed from Goldman Sachs.
Thank you.
A couple of questions.
Number one Rob any discussions you’re having with your customers regarding Falcon for ‘16 or is it still too early to talk about that? Well we’re focused on all our rigs everyday Waqar.
So it’s never too early to talk about opportunities for any rig in our fleet.
I’m actually going to be traveling to Australia later this month.
And obviously the discussion on the future of the Atwood Falcon and the Atwood Eagle will be fair game.
Fortunately we do see some opportunities for both rigs and we’re going to be pursuing those in the coming weeks.
Obviously we’ll look to close some deals as soon as we can.
But fortunately those two rigs are in a good position.
We see additional work the rigs are operating safely and reliably as they always have.
And we’re hopeful about getting some fixtures to extend those rigs in the coming days.
Now the fixtures that you see I don’t know if you can comment on that are they with the existing customer or are they outsider? Well it could be a little bit above for competitive reasons I can’t say too much but we’re seeing a number of clients in the Australian market who are potentially interested in time on the Eagle and the Falcon.
Okay.
Thank you there.
And then Mark with regards to the capital CapEx program could you break that down between maintenance CapEx and new build CapEx as well is there any upgrade CapEx? Yes.
For this year we expect the $630 million to be about $80 million to $90 million of maintenance CapEx including capital spend.
About $20 million in capitalized interest and the rest of that would be our new build CapEx on the Admiral mainly and a little bit on the Archer.
Okay.
And then for the Hunter there is going to be some cost associated ongoing cost for maybe a quarter or so.
Could you give us a breakdown what the number is is it it should be around $10 000 to $15 000 a day for the next couple of months is it going to be more than that? Well as I mentioned in my prepared comments Waqar we do have some other costs we’re going to be incurring on that rig preparing it for normalization.
We have accrued some of that so I would assume that the remainder of this is probably going to be some $20 000 a day if that much.
And then just on the daily operating cost like historically we’ve been using 3% to 5% kind of inflation every year.
And now as we model into ‘15 and ‘16 and beyond maybe we’re getting into inflationary environment.
Could you comment on how should we be thinking about daily operating costs both from material and supplies deflation and maybe on labor cost inflation or deflation angle? Yes Waqar I wouldn’t jump straight to deflation when it comes to cost.
I would say that you’re right.
We’ve been running somewhere in that 4.5% to 5.5% in the last two years.
I’ve guided this year to around 3% we’re probably going to come in below that because we have seen some improvements in maintenance costs.
We’ve seen some reduction in the increase in personnel cost.
But I wouldn’t go as far as the deflation for personnel cost.
So I would assume my previous guidance of 3% maybe that comes down to about 2%.
But I would use that for this year and have 1% or 2% for next year.
We’re hearing from your equipment supplies about some deflation environment you’re not seeing - you’re not seeing that as yet on materials and supplies and maybe more on the outer years but not yet? Waqar for others like Ron discussed where we’re getting from our suppliers with regard to discounts and rebates or fleet good for that matter.
So I suggest that we go with my guidance and that should work out pretty well.
Okay.
I will jump in here Waqar and say that everybody is concerned about the drilling contractors holding to their contracts.
Keep in mind what we do with a lot of our suppliers other than let’s say a turnkey contract on a new build is done on a periodic basis.
And I will tell you that just as our clients want to save money we want to save money as well.
And so we’re going pursue opportunities to reduce our costs where we can.
Obviously a lot of that as Mark is competitive to Atwood.
But we can certainly envision striking better deals with our major suppliers going forward given the challenging market we’re all in.
In the coming years there are going to be some assets high quality assets that make come to the market.
Does Atwood have any interest in that right now and the focus is just to get the two drill-ships contracted? Well certainly the primary focus on high-quality assets or the two high-quality assets we’re building it the DSME Shipyard.
Beyond that we certainly are available to a consider growth in our fleet through inorganic means.
And if those opportunities become available and we’re comfortable with our contractual position or on our existing fleet we’ll certainly look at those opportunities.
Okay great.
Thank you very much.
That’s helpful.
Thanks Waqar.
And we’ll go next to Dave Wilson of Howard Weil.
Good morning Rob good morning Mark.
Thanks for taking my questions.
I kind of wonder if it’s the Hunter and given the impairments there what kind of conclusion we should draw about the values for the Eagle and the Falcon.
I know both of those rigs have more than a year left on each of the contracts.
Can you talk about possibilities of tendering beyond that? But I just want to see how we should think about those rig values and their placement of fleet longer term.
If we get to the inter-contracts and there is nothing readily available do they follow the same path as the Hunter did? Dave good question.
I think Rob answered most of this question already because the rigs are all working.
They do have at least a year of contract backlog against the Falcon and a lot more than that with the Eagle.
But also we are in discussions with regards to follow-on work for these rigs next year.
But I guess just looking at these rigs and looking at whether operating that also creates a bit of above fold there.
Australia is a remote location of their cost in getting there there is also a cost of getting in there because I assume it’s the second strictest safety regime in Atwood drilling.
So I think the fact that these rigs are isolated they do have backlog they have prospects of further work.
And obviously we’re going through our impairment test on this there is no risk to impairment on these rigs for this year.
We don’t think where we’re sitting today looking at follow-on work for these rigs next year that we have an issue there either.
But obviously these rigs are all that older rigs in the fleet the two remaining older rigs of the fleet.
So I wouldn’t put a tailor life on them.
But they certainly have life beyond the existing contracts.
Got you got you thanks for that.
And Mark just a quick kind of follow-on something regarding the final payments on the Admiral and the Archer.
Can you give me a rough estimate or percentage or proportion to get finance versus what portion gets paid from cash? Dave we have that slide in our deck.
Okay.
I don’t have it broken out by rig right now but sufficed to say that there is our revolving credit facility could use by about another $215 million upon delivery of the Admiral.
So we have about $430 funnel payment so you’re looking at about 60-40 between revolving credit facility and cash and cash flow.
Perfect.
Thank you.
I’ll turn the call back over.
And we’ll go next to Darren Gacicia of Guggenheim.
Hi guys good morning.
I wanted to ask back in November I read the forecast saying I thought that kind of by the end of ‘15 there could be kind of 30 to 35 rigs retired kind of by year-end.
Where do you see that pacing? Do you think that that’s going to be higher than that lower than that and sort of within the context of that question how many ultimately do you think need to be retired the balance of the market? Well Darren we expect that that number is going to trend much higher over current levels as we move through 2015.
And again we’re hopeful that we’ll see some of that earlier as many of our competitors have their earnings calls and share there their thoughts for their fleet as they got through this year.
It’s a little bit difficult to say how many need to come out of the market because the fact is the demand is uncertain at this point.
We’ve seen demand trend downward slightly both in floaters and in jack-ups.
And I think the answer to your question really depends on where does demand go from here but sufficed to say that a significant number of additional rigs need to come out of the market both on the floater side and the jack-up side for us to stay in balance.
Keeping in mind that a number of new builds both on floaters and jack-ups are going to enter this space at least over the next couple of years.
So we’ve got to counter balance those and then we got to get our utilizations back up because if they’re below 90% in both jack-ups and floaters.
So it sounds like kind of 60 to 70 still to the total number it just means you’re pretty unloaded.
With regard to demand I know that it seems like the budgeting process this year for your clients has drawn out because everybody has to keep running things at lower oil decks.
What do you think that that’s done to sort of the road-map for understanding how demand kind of evolves over the course of the year versus maybe what it’s to look like and how that process has gone in past years? Well I think the real issue here is that the rigs that are rolling off contract in 2015 are going to be challenged whether they’re jack-ups or floaters.
And fortunately for Atwood Oceanics we’ve got the very limited exposure in fiscal 2015 and calendar 2015 it’s really just the Atwood Mako it’s the only rig we have in our fleet other than the new builds which I mentioned by the time they get around the Admiral we get around it it’s beginning of ‘16.
But the Atwood Mako is the only one of our active rigs that’s got exposure.
And if you look at the number of floaters and jack-ups that are going to be rolling off contracts in the next 12 months I think those are going to be some significant candidates for retirement.
Because the prospects for their renewal are going to be difficult especially with the inventory of IO rigs that already existed in both segments.
Got it.
If I could ask one more what - visibility wise compared to prior years again from clients in terms of where demand may go and kind of how they’re looking at the year.
How would you compare what do you think you are there? Well this has obviously been a very difficult year for our clients.
And you can see how many of the clients delayed or revised their 2015 budgets here into this calendar year before they were able to release them.
This downturn has happened a very quickly the movement in oil price has been dramatic from levels that we were accustomed to for about four or five years of $100 plus per barrel to get down to $60 brand.
As quickly as we did really it’s caught a lot of people by surprise.
And of course that’s really hampered any kind of clear visibility on this year.
But we’ve pretty much resigned ourselves here at Atwood I’m sure as an industry this is going to be a very difficult year.
But we hope that these steps that we and others take lay the foundation for a sooner an earlier recovery and trying to get supply and better balance with demand.
Thanks a lot.
I appreciate the color.
You’re welcome.
And we’ll go next to JB Lowe of Cowen &amp; Company.
Good morning guys.
I don’t mean to beat a dead horse here but I just had a quick follow-up on the Eagle and Falcon and what your strategy is going to be for those rigs as they roll-off contract.
Is it essentially Australia robust for those rigs? And by that I mean if you aren’t able to find follow-on work in Australia would you just retire the rigs then and there or would you consider mobilization them out of the region? Well that’s obviously hypothetical question.
But there is no question that is more relayed the advantages we have in having those rigs in that market.
One other advantage is just the fact that these are marred rigs and we’ve got shallow dissymmetry in Australia which sees those rigs better in a lot of cases in even DT rigs for most of the areas that are being drilled on the Northwest Shale.
So that coupled with our long-history there our agreement with our employees that keeps the yields off our rigs.
We’ve got a lot of good things going for us and having the Eagle and the Falcon in Australia.
I’m not going to speculate what we would do if we weren’t able to get follow-on work in Australia but there is no question that our best opportunities are right there in Australia.
Okay fair enough.
And earlier in your comments you mentioned that the time between rolling off contract and the decision to retire a rig has shortened considerably.
And I’d like to pose that question to you.
How long would you wait for those rigs to be idle before you made the decision to go ahead and retire them? Well again that’s a speculative question.
But I’m not sure I’m going to get through.
But the look of what we did with the Hunter right the Hunter rolled off contract in early December and here we made a decision in early 2015 to scrap the rig.
So we understand the reality of this over-supplied market and I think it’s pretty clear to all whether you’re an analyst following this industry or a participant who competes with Atwood Oceanics that supply needs to come out of the market to get into better balance.
All right.
Thanks so much.
You’re welcome.
And we’re going next to Judd Bailey of Wells Fargo.
Thanks good morning.
Good morning.
Rob question on just a follow-up on one of your prepared during your prepared comments you said that I believe you said your customers don’t see a recoveries for 2017.
I’m just curious if there is any color on why that particular timeframe why not 2016 or even later in 2018.
Is there any one particular or two things that they’re looking I’d just be curious if there was any color on why maybe that timeframe? Yes.
I think the oil prices are the main driver right now.
You’ve got tremendous change in the economics of everything whether it’s onshore or offshore that has really again dramatically entered the decision process of the E&amp;P space.
And for this oil price to get back to the kind of levels that we always talked about is being robust levels sort of the $80 brand.
I think people believed it isn’t going to be V shaped it’s going to be U-shaped the recovery.
And that might take up to 24 months to happen.
All right that makes sense.
And then my follow-on I guess would be for Mark.
On just thinking about operating cost going forward I know historically for an offshore driller if all your rigs are working the flexibility to kind of reduce cost can be somewhat limited.
Mark I’d just be curious to get your thoughts on what kind of flexibility you may have on your operating cost going forward.
I’m just thinking if day-rates continue to come down and approach let’s say depressed levels may be much lower than we are today.
How should we think about the flexibility on trying to reduce your operating cost further I know it’s hard because labor is such a big component are there any things we should think about to be able to get your costs lower even lower from this point? Yes Judd.
We kind of touched on this earlier.
I think you’ll understand how these contracts are structured because they required [indiscernible] which you have to maintain.
And very solvency reductions in wages the personnel costs are perhaps the inflation on personnel costs are reduced.
But you’re not going to see much of a decrease on this year-on-year.
The point that I made and Rob pointed out earlier on equipment cost there’s always been an effort by the participants in this space to negotiate better terms and conditions as the market evolves.
So in a dawn markets we’re currently experiencing we’re going to try and reduce costs in areas where there is some optionality around that.
Oil prices also drive travel cost so perhaps our rotation costs will be the crude to some of the rigs are located in remote areas.
There we’ll see some relief.
So overall you could see some improvement there but as you know with about 60% of costs tied to personnel the [indiscernible] is really muted.
Yes that’s what I figured.
And if I could just slip in one more Rob you got a question earlier on contract cancellations and what not.
What about one thing that we’ve heard is operators are coming to their partners they’ve cut the contractors and asking to maybe renegotiate contracts to the extent and then get more term maybe for a lower rate.
And that seems to be happening a little more than it did in 2009.
I guess would you agree with that or as customers approach to you on maybe re-modifying contracts in that regard? We’ll we’re certainly open to working with our clients on the opportunities that we consider win-win.
Some of the clients out there and I’m talking generally not about Atwood client specifically but some clients are really focused on 2015 costs.
And therefore the opportunity to reduce 2015 cost and exchange for an extension of an agreement really makes sense for them.
However you’ve got some clients out there who are concerned about extending any drilling commitments at this point in time just given the down-draft in oil prices and all those challenges they’re having internally.
I mentioned wage reasons and layoffs I mean unfortunately these are pre-occupying a lot of the executive suites of our client base.
And so I think this process of how much do we see from the client in terms of trying to trade off rates today for longer term contracts I think that still has to play out here as we move through 2015.
But we’re open to deals that make sense for us and our clients.
At this point in time we really haven’t had many of those discussions.
All right.
Great.
Well I appreciate the color.
Thank you.
You’re welcome.
And we’ll go next to David Smith of Heikkinen Energy.
Hi thanks for taking my question.
Most of my checklist of questions have been asked.
So kind of a bigger picture industry question.
And I realize it doesn’t apply much to you today.
But given a growing number of rigs that are idle and more that will become idle as in excess of a full-on excess of supply can make the contract a game of Bloodsport.
More rigs looking into the abyss whether it would be cold factors or hot do you see any potential capacity constraints at the traditional facility is that would handle those assets whether to be longer warm stacked or cold stacked or even scrapping? Well I would tell you that we haven’t seen anything yet that puts if you will an exit barrier on rigs from the supply stack.
Keep in mind that once a rig is cold stack even if it’s not scrapped and it’s not actively marketed and it’s really the marketed utilization that tends to drive the fortunes of our industry.
Obviously if a rig is scrapped then the question of it returning to service is resolved once in for all.
But the real step that the industry needs to take is to cold stack these rigs.
And especially if you got older rigs and we’ve talked before about the periodic surveys and the costs of those trigger you’re going to have a pretty high barrier to entry in terms of reactivating a cold stack rig especially if it’s an older rig.
So the - I really don’t see the potential capacity of the scrapping shipyard of being a limitation on setting the right foundation for our industry going forward.
Great I appreciate it.
I was just thinking about the timing of the ability of rig stacks in the market and whether traditional facility is for cold stacking equipment might get pulled if there are any constraints around that.
And then you answered it thank you.
You’re welcome.
And we’ll take our next question from Mark Brown of Global Hunter.
Thank you.
Good morning Rob and Mark.
Good morning.
Good morning.
I wanted to ask for Atwood Admiral and Archer what geographic regions are you marketing those rigs? And on the off-chance that DSME was not willing to delay further and you did not have a contract what region would you consider mobilizing those rigs to once they were delivered? Well in answering your first question we’re marking the rigs widely.
But we do focus on areas where you can take full advantage or the clients can take full advantage of the drilling and well control capabilities of these drill-ships.
The Golden Triangle tends to be a very established ultra-deepwater basin that’s where most of the ultra-deepwater capacity is.
And sufficed to say that’s the likely home for both rigs going forward that’s certainly where we put the advantage in the Achiever.
Regarding your second question? Yes Mark that’s not something we’re considering right now because as Rob said earlier we feel comfortable that we can negotiate an extension with the shipyard if and when we needed that.
Obviously our first priority is to put the rig to work.
And we’re focused on that right now.
So we have to discuss that opportunity in time if acquired at that time.
All right fair enough.
And just moving to the jack-ups I think you mentioned the Middle East is an area that you’re looking to place some of your jack-ups along with Southeast Asia and West Africa.
I was wondering what parts of the Middle East and Saudi Arabia is that one of the markets you’re looking at.
And if it were and if it’s so which of your jack-ups would you be looking to potentially move there? Well we’re looking at the Middle East broadly and you obviously saw these one of the big jack-up markets in the Middle East.
Look we’ve got five high-specification jack-ups and four of those are going to have some availability in 2016.
So we’re going to be looking at that region for really all of the rigs in our fleet.
We haven’t singled out any rig for that area or not.
Clearly if we have the opportunity we’ll keep our rigs in the regions where they are today or close to home.
So we would certainly gratify to be able to secure follow-on work for the Mako in Southeast Asia in places like Malaysia and Vietnam moving from Thailand rather than having to move half way around the world to the Middle East or West Africa.
But in this market with the challenges that we’ve got we have to market widely in the Middle East.
It’s certainly a potential home for our high-spec jack-up fleet.
All right.
Well thank you very much.
You’re welcome.
And we’ll take our next question from Jeffrey Campbell of Tuohy Brothers.
Good morning.
Good morning.
The first thing I want to ask is well on the weeds but is it generally preferable to cannibalize parts rather than trying to all amend the market or was this specific to the fact that you had rigs in your fleet that can make use of them? Yes Jeff in this case the proceeds from set in this rig is up $3 million.
The value of the part that we could take over the rig and move to sister rigs is about six to seven times that.
So it’s by far more beneficial for us to be able to cannibalize our own rigs as opposed trying to sell it.
Because as Rob mentioned in his comments and the Q&amp;A there is a long list of rigs that are currently idle either in a warm or cold stack state that are trying to utilize the same facilities to monetize their asset as they go through a scrapping decision.
Okay.
And I just wanted to make sure I was clear on for example if you had a use for BOP on the rig that you were going to take out of service? You have an opportunity to actually sell that BOP under the market if you don’t have use for it? Yes you certainly have that opportunity but it’s typically more cost effective if you can utilize in your own fleet.
And we have two sister rigs to the Atwood Hunter the Eagle and the Falcon they have the same BOP from the same manufacturer.
And therefore it’s just a natural opportunity for us to move those components over to the Eagle and Falcon and try to resell them in the market.
That was helpful.
You mentioned we’ve had a lot of discussion on the call about contract margin being preserved and people want to try that council contracts or whatever.
You also mentioned there is some new build jack-ups appear to have been cancelled.
What kind of penalties do contracts incur if they cancel a new build rig? Well.
On the jack-ups Jeffrey if you understand the payment terms the plenary is rid of the payment terms.
So with the emergency of the Chinese shipyards you had anywhere from 1% down concept up to about 10% on the backend.
So if you’re ordering a wafer about $200 million it’s anyway between $2 million and $20 million that you could be walking away from which sounds like a lot of money and some see if the market value of the rig drops below the cost price that is probably the only solution that some of these sponsors have because they have not built up operating teams or marketing teams.
So the ability to get contracts for these rigs which is a prerequisite for getting financing is not available.
And I think you kind of anticipated my follow-on on that and that was particularly the cancellations that you’ve seen but maybe even with some of the delays can you characterize the kind of operators that I mean the kind of contractors that are involved in these cancellations? I mean are these more speculative types rather than seasoned contractors? Yes Jeff there is a long list of this and I could discuss with you offline.
If you want to give me a call back afterwards we can go through in detail.
Okay.
I just meant generally in this case to characterize it? Yes it’s mainly speaking on this.
And this cycle has been dominated more I speculated strong Southeast Asia as opposed to the previous cycle.
So a lot of the capital is coming from Singapore Malaysia China several deals have been financed by Chinese banks.
So I’m not sure typical sponsors in the ordinary course.
Yes these contractors and sponsors would not be helpful mainly in the offshore drilling business.
So Mark is right these tend to be speculators or built for purpose collections of individuals who’ve invested and now no longer fund the investment either palatable or sustainable.
So but Mark can give you some more details on that offline.
That would be great.
So I’ll speak to him later.
Thanks very much.
I appreciate it.
You’re welcome.
We’ll take our next question from Lucas Dewel of ABG.
Thank you guys.
Good morning I’m going to be quick.
Rob when looked around the world what is going on? What would you say is the leading edge for high and medium fold on a premium jack-up? Yes we’ve been pretty clear on our calls not and not to say too much about day rates especially in a competitive environment.
I think you can look at the recent fixtures and see that they’ve been trending downward and draw that from other sources.
Right.
Fair enough thanks.
You’re welcome.
And we’ll go next to Mike Breard of Hodges Capital.
Good morning.
You just said there were maybe 20 competitors for the Admiral and Archer.
How many of those would be technically equivalent to your rigs your BOPs in that kind of time? Very very few.
I mentioned that there were 20 approximately 20 ultra-deepwater rigs and we’re idle.
There maybe one or two that have dual BOP systems.
And we would argue that none of those two have all capabilities that the Admiral and Archer did.
So you clearly have an opportunity to distinguish the offering we do here at Atwood with capabilities we put into our rigs.
And that’s why it makes a lot of sense for us to focus on the clients and the opportunities it will take full advantage of that.
Okay.
But surely you can find people that want that option.
One small question the Beacon is being paid in Euros how much with the weaker Euro how much is your cash cost also denominated in Euros? Yes Mike.
You may have read our 10-K and 10-Q.
We’ve hedged when we entered this contract the vast majority of those revenues.
So we do get a benefit from some of the costs but most of our senior crew are experts from jurisdictions outside of Europe.
So we’re not going to see that much of a benefit in costs.
But however your line has been retained through the foreign exchange hedging.
Okay thank you.
And we’ll take our next question from Jeff Spittel of Clarkson Capital.
Thanks good morning guys.
You were very generous with your time.
So I’ll keep it brief.
Just in the past you’ve talked a little bit that articulated an ambition to grow the dividend by about 10% per annum.
Given the prevailing market conditions that we’ve spoken about on the call is it fair to say that that’s subject to re-evaluation at least temporarily? Well as you know Jeff the quarterly dividend is approved by the board of directors.
And so it’s difficult for us to be too definitive about the future dividend strategy without the full consultation with them.
It is clear to say though that our stated ambition to grow the dividend was made at a very different time in the market both in terms of oil price as well as the share price that Atwood had.
So even as the dividend hasn’t moved since we initiated that the yield has gone up significantly.
So I would just say that future discussions on dividend are - discussions on dividends are probably premature at this time.
Sure that makes sense.
Okay thanks guys.
You’re welcome.
And this concludes our questions.
I will now turn it back over for any further remarks.
Well thank you all for joining today’s call.
And good-day until next time.
And this does conclude today’s program.
You may disconnect at any time.
And do have a wonderful day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to today's program.
[Operator Instructions] Today's program will be recorded.
And it is now my pleasure to turn the conference over to Mark Mey Executive Vice President and CFO.
Please go ahead sir.
Thanks Mike and good morning and welcome to Atwood Oceanics conference call and webcast to review the company's operating results for the second quarter ended March 31 2015.
The speakers today will be Rob Saltiel President and CEO; and me Mark Mey Executive Vice President and CFO.
Before we begin let me remind everyone that during the course of this conference call we may make forward-looking statements.
These statements involve risks and uncertainties mostly described in our latest 10-K and our other filings with the SEC.
Actual results may differ materially.
Undue reliance should not be placed on these forward-looking statements which are applicable only at the date hereof.
And let me turn the call over to Rob for his opening remarks.
Thank you Mark and welcome to all of you joining this morning's call.
Our second quarter revenue of $350 million was enabled by strong operations performance across our fleet and our first full quarter with both of our drillships in drilling mode.
With excellent cost control across our organization we also established a new high-water mark for quarterly earnings at $122 million.
Our progress on the cost side is due in large part to a cost control initiative we kicked off earlier this year.
Examples of areas where we are now realizing lower costs include travel third-party rig services and our offshore labor pool.
We are committed to maintaining our excellent safety and operations focus so we will not pursue lower cost at the expense of the quality of our drilling services.
In fact we have assigned additional resources to optimize the operation of our rigs to increase their efficiency and reduce nonproductive time.
The goal is to lower the cost of drilling wells for our clients.
Clearly the most significant event for Atwood since our last earnings call was the damage incurred on the Atwood Osprey in Australia due to the effects of tropical cyclone Owen on March 12.
This storm caused several of the Osprey's mooring lines to break leading it to drift off its location as well as some minor damage at the hull and deck levels.
Fortunately no one was injured nor was there any environmental damage or harm to the seabed infrastructure as a result of this incident.
Afterward the Osprey was towed to a safe location to effect the required repairs.
We now expect to complete these repairs and return to drilling service by the middle of May.
One of the outcomes of this extended force majeure period caused by the cyclone was the triggering of a contractual right of our client to terminate the Osprey's drilling services agreement.
In lieu of this we mutually agreed to shorten the Osprey's term by a year to May of 2016 with no adjustment to the existing commercial terms.
Shifting now to our newbuild construction.
Since our last call we disclosed our agreement with the DSME shipyard that provides us with significant flexibility on the delivery timing of our 2 drillships being constructed there the Atwood Admiral and the Atwood Archer.
The Atwood Admiral is scheduled to be fully constructed and commissioned by September of this year but we've exercised an option to delay the delivery until March 2016.
During the time after construction the shipyard will maintain the rig in a ready mode at a cost that is approximately 1/4 to 1/2 of what it would be to do so outside the shipyard.
We also retained one additional option to delay the Admiral by another 6 months to September 2016 if required.
We have a similar agreement in place with the shipyard regarding the schedule for the Atwood Archer.
At this time the Archer is scheduled for completion and delivery in June 2016 and we retain 2 options to delay its delivery by a further 6 months each.
Similar to the Admiral storage costs for the Archer would be paid to the shipyard for maintaining the finished rig prior to its delivery to Atwood.
Turning now to the market.
The offshore drilling space continues to be very challenging as operators show little inclination to step up their drilling activities.
Through the month of April new fixtures for both floaters and jack-ups are down considerably from year-ago levels.
Since our last call the total number of working floaters has declined by about 5% with all of the demand losses occurring in the deepwater and mid-water segments.
Ultra-deepwater demand has remained essentially flat as the number of newbuilds entering the market with contracts has just about balanced the number of active ultra-deepwater rigs that have either rolled off their contracts or had their contracts terminated early.
On the jack-up side demand is off about 5% as well but the losses are about equally split between high spec and low spec rigs.
We expect that rig demand is likely to continue to trend downward for both floaters and jack-ups over the next year as large numbers of working rigs will see their contracts expire during this time.
With operators continuing to conserve cash and delay or cancel previously contemplated drilling programs many of these working rigs that roll off contracts will likely go idle.
Despite the significant market headwinds there are 2 bright spots worth noting.
Brent oil prices appear to have bottomed and are building a base at the mid-$60 range per barrel.
As a group operators need to be sure the oil prices will not revert to the lows of earlier this year to consider increasing their spending on drilling programs.
Second we continue to see increasing attrition of both floaters and jack-ups from the active supply stacks.
Since our last call 18 floaters and 12 jack-ups that were actively marketed have been cold-stacked scrapped or announced for one of these outcomes.
The removal of these rigs from the active fleet is helping to preserve market utilization amid falling rig demand.
We expect rig attrition to be a continuing theme throughout 2015 and 2016 as rigs especially older less capable rigs roll off their contracts and find slim prospects for returning to work in a reasonable time frame.
Despite our near-term bearishness we maintain our view that calendar year 2017 will likely be a recovery year for our industry.
In terms of Atwood's marketing efforts securing initial contracts for the Atwood Admiral and Atwood Archer remains our highest priority.
We continue to receive very positive feedback from operators on our gigs especially with the excellent performance of our first 2 A-Class drillships the Atwood Advantage and the Atwood Achiever.
However with so few active tenders in each of these highly contested and subject to further delays it is possible that we may not secure our initial contract on the Admiral until later this year or early calendar 2016.
On the jack-up side our most immediate need is securing additional work for the Atwood Mako.
The Mako is now expected to be available in July and we are pursuing a number of suitable programs in Southeast Asia that line up well with the Mako's availability.
Three of our other 4 jack-ups will also become available over the next 9 months so marketing efforts for each also remain a high priority.
This concludes my prepared comments so I'll pass the call back to Mark who will take us through the financials.
Mark? Thanks Rob.
Today I'll review our second quarter's operating results comment on our financial position and provide updated guidance for the fiscal third quarter and remainder of the year.
Let's start with our recent quarter.
Quarterly revenues of $350 million on 189 operating days versus $352 million on 1 023 operating days in the previous quarter.
The reduction in operating days is due to the Atwood Hunter being idle for the entire quarter.
Record diluted earnings per share were $1.89 versus $0.71 for the prior quarter.
Note that the prior quarter's earnings per share reflected the impairment charge on the Atwood Hunter and loss on sale of the Southern Cross.
Revenues and earnings per share were driven by good [ph] revenue efficiency of 94% across the fleet and the ongoing impact of our cost control initiatives.
Net margins of 35% were significantly above the prior quarter's adjusted net margin of 31% due to the higher average day rates and lower costs across the fleet.
Note that the $0.31 was adjusted for the impairment and loss on sale mentioned above.
Contract drilling cost excluding reimbursable cost of $9 million totaled $131 million for the quarter as compared to $136 million net of reimbursable cost for the previous quarter.
When adjusted for the loss on sale of the Atwood Hunter which is separately disclosed on the face of the income statement contract drilling costs were about 6% below the guidance I provided on the prior conference call.
I would like to repeat Rob's earlier comments as to the categories driving these lower costs.
[indiscernible] note that these cost reductions are sustainable and will be further evidenced by my updated full year cost guidance provided later during this call.
G&amp;A expenses totaled $15 million in line with my prior guidance.
Tax rate effective tax rate was 9.1% also in line with my prior guidance.
Moving to the balance sheet.
Capital expenditures totaled $28 million during the quarter which consisted mainly of progress payments on certain long lead time capital spares.
Net debt decreased by $100 million to $1.52 billion at March 31 with our net debt-to-capital ratio decreasing from 38.3% to 35.8% quarter-on-quarter.
In March we amended the maturity of our $1.55 billion revolving credit facility from May 2018 to May 2019.
This is now our earliest debt maturity.
Liquidity increased slightly to $593 million at the end of the quarter and I do not foresee it falling below $400 million until the delivery of the Atwood Archer in mid-2016.
Using our current conservative financial projections we forecast at least $600 million of liquidity thereafter.
Additionally during the quarter we negotiated further flexibility for the delivery dates of our 2 remaining drillships under construction at the DSME shipyard in South Korea.
We're now able to delay delivery of each drillship by 2 additional periods of 6 months per drillship the first of which option we exercised on the Atwood Admiral on March 30.
The Admiral is now scheduled for delivery on March 31 2016.
The shipyard payment terms have also been modified as a result of these delivery delays which we'll expand upon a little later below.
The financial impact of delayed delivery of the Admiral to our planning model is positive to both liquidity levels and leverage ratios.
Let's now discuss the outlook for the third quarter of fiscal 2015.
Before I begin with the guidance let me remind you that 96% of our earning days for 2015 are currently contracted.
Therefore Mako one of the high specification specific [indiscernible] jack-ups is the only availability in fiscal 2015.
In addition for fiscal 2016 approximately 55% of our available days are contracted.
Adding to Rob's comments on the Osprey's force majeure incident the rig operated at 90% of its operating rate for the first 30 days of force majeure through April 12.
Thereafter the force majeure rate is reduced to 40% of operating rate.
We expect the Osprey to complete its repairs and be available to return to work in mid-May.
Let me also provide you with an update on the Atwood Hunter.
We are finalizing preparations to begin towing the rig to a recycling shipyard and expect the rig to arrive at the shipyard in July.
The cost to prepare the rig and delivery to the recycling shipyard resulted in the loss on sale of $5.5 million which is recognized this quarter.
Now for my updated guidance.
Referencing the most recent fleet status report we have planned out-of-service days as follows: 5 days on the Atwood Osprey in June for scheduled maintenance; we on the Atwood Falcon we incurred 5.5 days earlier in April to change out some mooring wires; and then the Atwood Eagle 21 days in next fiscal year in October for its special survey.
All costs associated with these other service days are included in my 2015 cost guidance below.
We estimate reimbursable revenues of $10 million for the fiscal third quarter.
Regarding contract drilling costs I anticipate full year 2015 to range between $520 million to $540 million with the fiscal third quarter ranging between $125 million and $135 million.
This annual contract drilling cost forecast is 5% below my previously lowered full year cost guidance of between $550 million and $570 million.
These estimates for contract drilling cost exclude reimbursable costs which will approximate $7 million for the third quarter and $34 million for the fiscal year.
Depreciation should remain flat at $43 million for the third quarter and total $173 million for the year.
G&amp;A expense should range between $13 million and $15 million for the fiscal third and fourth quarters.
For the full year our prior G&amp;A expense guidance remains unchanged at $60 million.
Interest expense should range between $11 million and $14 million net of capitalized interest for each of the remaining 2 quarters.
We expect our effective tax rate for the third quarter to approximate 10% and range between 10% and 12% for the fiscal year.
Capital expenditures should total between $80 million and $90 million in the third quarter including progress payments of $25 million each on the Atwood Admiral and the Atwood Archer.
Full year 2015 CapEx should approximate $450 million.
As a consequence of further delay in the Atwood Admiral by additional 6 months we now have a milestone payment of $150 million on September 30 2015 and a final payment of $146 million on March 31 2016.
The Atwood Admiral's final payment may be further modified in the event we exercise our option to delay delivery of the rig from March 31 2016 to September 30 2016.
We will continue to use a mix of cash cash flow from operations and our revolving credit facility to fund these capital expenditures.
That concludes my prepared comments.
I'll now turn the call over to Mike for questions.
Mike? [Operator Instructions] And we'll go first to Roland Morris with Cowen and Company.
LLC Research Division</strong> I just wanted to get an idea maybe if you could expand a little bit on your conversations with Chevron on the Osprey.
Obviously we've seen operators more looking to reduce rates in the near-term.
So I know obviously some of those with the NOCs have been on the jack-up side and we're looking at different rig here in a different class of work but I was just wondering in terms of dropping a year off in 2016 to 2017 versus in the near-term trying to get the rate lower was that part of the conversation or was that -- how are they looking at it and how did that conversation go? As you can appreciate we can't go into details on discussions we have with our clients beyond what we've announced.
But I will share with you that there's no question that operators today are looking to be conservative on their drilling programs.
I mentioned that in my prepared comments.
And clearly with some uncertainty about the second year of the remaining drilling program and the contractual right that was triggered by the force majeure period there was an opportunity for our client to look to lower its exposure -- their exposure to the Atwood Osprey drilling program.
So we mutually agreed it and we want to put it behind us and move on down the road.
The rig continues to operate very safely very reliably for Chevron and we've got a great relationship and it's behind us.
LLC Research Division</strong> And then maybe if you could just comment on some of the conversations you've been having in terms of the jack-up market in Southeast Asia and where you're looking to add work.
If you could just kind of give some color on how that's progressing that would be helpful.
Yes I mean the Atwood Mako is doing some moving around.
As you can see from our fleet status report we had been in Thailand.
We're in Malaysia now and heading to Vietnam.
And we see a number of opportunities in those Southeast Asian nations for work that lines up well with the Mako.
Most of that work is shorter-term in nature but I will say that there's quite a bit of it out there.
The caveat is that similar to the floater market there's a lot of competition for every job.
So it's going to be competitive and we expect that that's going to be part of both markets here over the next couple of years.
However the Atwood Mako has performed extremely well for each of the clients it's worked for.
And so we have a good position we think to continue working the rig without any gaps in coverage.
And we'll go next to Ian Macpherson with Simmons.
Research Division</strong> Great quarter.
Rob with your strategy to delay your contracted newbuilds certainly it helps you from a capital flexibility standpoint.
But it also hopefully moves you beyond the worst part of the pricing window this cycle.
Do you expect that the sixth generation rigs are going to be pricing towards cash breakeven during the trough here over the next year? Or do you think that the stacking and utilization dynamics will defray pricing enough so that trough day rates for the top rigs don't go meaningfully below $300 000 a day? And since this is not really an Atwood question I'm asking you for just your opinion really.
Well Ian I think it really just depends on what happens on the demand side as well as what do largely Atwood's competitors do about maintaining their supply of rigs in the market.
Because if market utilization were to continue to drop across the industry obviously that's going to put more pressure on day rates and you could certainly get closer to cash breakeven.
You have seen with -- another factor that I think is bullish that I didn't mention in our -- my prepared comments is you have seen a number of other ultra-deepwater newbuild rigs get delayed as well.
So we count about 18 of those rigs that have been delayed really just since the last earnings call by a few months or more and keeping those rigs out of the market is also helping hold up marketed utilization.
So I think we're just going to have to watch the space going forward.
Clearly 2015 budgets have been set.
And this year is pretty much a write-off for all of us in the industry.
I think as we see the buildup of a base on the oil price and then hopefully some more willingness to return to the drill bit in 2016 we'll stay out of the cash breakeven range that you're talking about for ultra-deepwater.
But I think at this point that remains to be seen.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Just a quick follow-up on pricing also.
Apart from the Osprey I don't think we've seen much if any renegotiations or contract surprises for Atwood.
And apart from the companies with significant NOC exposure there hasn't been a whole lot that's been announced industry-wide.
So is it your sense that there's still a lot of repricing of contracts across the customer spectrum that's going to unfold over the course of the spring and summer? And sort of what is an acceptable approach to you with your backlog in terms of participating in that pricing reset? Well I can't speak for our competitors' clients and what they may be thinking.
But we've been pretty open to say that we want to work with our existing clients with contracts now that may be more challenging for them given the low oil price environment to try to develop some win-win solutions.
The blend and extend model has been out there for a long time.
And given the lack of appetite for operators to add any term on in this market there haven't been a lot of takers on those structures.
Now as we move forward and the oil prices stabilize and maybe people gain a little more confidence that the worst may be over we may see some opportunities for that.
But as you can see from our financial and operational results we continue to deliver great service to our clients.
We're minimizing nonproductive time.
We're lowering well cost by doing that.
And as I mentioned we've got an optimization initiative underway to even get more out of our assets for our clients especially in this challenging environment.
So we feel very good about our contracts and our work with our clients and we anticipate that we're not going to have any other issues going forward.
And we'll go next to Dan Boyd with BMO Capital.
Earlier today one of your I guess competitors or peers made a comment that momentum is building and just wanted to see if you would agree with that and I don't know if that probably speaks to [indiscernible] conversations with customers.
But have you seen an improvement at that level? Well it's hard for me to gauge the context with which that is made.
I mean there is certainly momentum building in terms of oil price recovery and rig attrition and both of those are bullish for our business.
But at the same time demand has fallen and we project that it will continue to fall.
So the balance of those potentially countervailing forces I think is uncertain as I responded in a previous question.
But there are definitely some bright spots in the market around rig supply and oil price.
And ultimately those factors if they continue will bear out in terms of opportunities for our business to recover.
Okay.
And then the decision to further delay the Admiral is it safe to or I guess would you characterize it as there's no work for the rig or there's no work at a price that you think would offer attractive returns on capital for the newbuild? Well I think to say there's no work is an overstatement but there's very little work being sought by operators for ultra-deepwater rigs on new programs right now.
There's really been almost a moratorium on...
[Audio Gap] their way through this downturn.
So it isn't a question of a lot of available demand that's going at a price that contractors aren't interested in.
The demand side of the story has really dried up and that's why you're seeing lots of rigs rolling off without getting renewal which is why we also think that many of those will ultimately cold-stack or scrap because they won't see near-term prospects.
So the rest of this year and the early part of next year are likely to be very difficult years in terms of visible demand and we think that this is going to pick up as we move into 2017.
And we'll go next to Theo Meryanos with Tuohy Brothers.
Inc.</strong> Great.
Certainly it's early but we've heard from industry that newbuilds have essentially ground to a halt coupled with the acceleration in cold-stacking.
Where do you think we are in terms of moving towards a balanced market at least thinking on a short medium term I guess? Well again similar to some of the earlier responses I gave we have to see where demand troughs and then starts to pick back up.
And we think that that's likely to happen as we move into '16 to the later part of next year.
We'll hope to see some demand increase and then move into 2017 as a recovery year.
But even with that it's our perspective that the available supply of rigs is going to outstrip demand especially with fallen demand.
And that means that a number of these rigs that are rolling off contracts to get the rig fleet at a reasonably utilization let's say 90% plus across-the-board you're going have to see more retirements whether those are cold-stackings or scrapping.
And we think that's likely to happen.
But until that plays out it will be a little hard to predict the balance of those forces.
Inc.</strong> Got you.
And just real quick do you have a figure on the storage cost for the Admiral and Archer? Yes.
It's really broken into 3 phases Theo the first 6 months second 6 months and third 6 months.
The first 6 months is about $17 000 per day.
The second 6 months is just shy of $30 000 a day and then if we go beyond that into the third 6 months that gets to about $50 000 a day.
And we'll go next to Matthew Marietta with Stephens Inc.
Research Division</strong> Going back to Australia the prospects for the Eagle and Falcon can you help us understand the marketing efforts where we're at? Maybe remind us what the competitive advantages are if any for Atwood in the region? And any nuances in design characteristics et cetera of the rigs that make them favorable as you go through this process? Yes I mean there are a number of factors we've talked about in previous calls with -- that really line up well with the Eagle and Falcon continuing to work in Australia.
First of all we're working with a couple of clients Woodside and BHP that are long-term clients of Atwood and who we're aware have additional work.
Both of the rigs are performing well and as long as they deliver safe and reliable service if there's additional work we'd like to think we're going to get a good shot at it.
And then from just a structural perspective we tend to be drilling in shallow water depth.
So DP rigs really can't play in that vicinity [ph] and the capability of these rigs is more than ample for the kind of wells that are being drilled.
So we still feel good about the prospects for renewal of both rigs and we'll -- we're continuing to market to bring those into realization.
Research Division</strong> Great.
If I'm not mistaken I think the Eagle's got a survey coming up.
Any insight update into maybe what to expect from that and what decision points are in front of you from a capital standpoint on both of these rigs as you move forward? Well the Eagle survey is scheduled for October.
And obviously we do quite a bit of preparatory work for that.
We're not anticipating any big surprises.
We know that rig has been well maintained.
And we think that the out-of-service time we've allocated 21 days should be sufficient.
And Matt from a cost prospective we're looking at around $10 million to $12 million.
So this is not a dramatic amount of funds.
It's going to be just [indiscernible] ordinary costs.
Research Division</strong> And I guess along those same lines if you don't mind one more.
These have been solid cash flow assets for the company over the course of time.
What would you need to see to invest considerable amounts of capital back into the rigs say a major project or upgrade? How would that decision process unfold? What would you need to see in the market to justify that? Well just to be clear we're not envisioning seeing that as a requirement now.
But as a general condition we would want to have confidence that we're going to get a good return on that capital.
And the best way to ascertain that is know that the market will be there in the form of a contract commitment.
We recognize that these are older rigs and that they're certainly nearing the end of their useful lives.
We think there's still plenty of life left but we're clearly on the sunset side of their useful lives.
So we want to be careful about how we allocate capital to those rigs.
But if the market is there and we can't imagine a better place to have those rigs positioned than in the Australian market then we would certainly consider value-adding investments to keep them active.
And we'll go next to Waqar Syed with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Could you comment on the cost-cutting assets like what are the sources of cost reductions in terms of putting in different buckets of labors material supplies insurance? Any other items that you could identify? Yes Waqar you kind of touched on some of them already.
What you've left out there perhaps is we've got some exchange rate benefits as well given our positions in Australia the Beacon in Europe.
As Rob mentioned earlier we've maintained a labor pool which during the upmarket was necessary to be able to staff and pull [ph] in for rigs as folks leave the company.
Well that's no longer necessary given the excess of personnel right now.
Any kind of elective premiums has been seriously considered as well.
Obviously some projects as you always know can move between quarters due to timing.
So there has been some of that and there's been a few projects which when you budget the beginning of the year which are nice-to-haves those have been eliminated.
The total of that is not dramatic number but it certainly all adds together to have this reduced cost level which we think we could sustain into the future.
Research Division</strong> Is there a way to quantify if the labor costs are down x percent versus material supply cost down y percent or whatever the number is? Well yes we obviously track these in various buckets.
I'm not sure I'm going to get into that in the call.
We can discuss this later.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then Rob on the sublet market how do you see that developing? Where does it stand? Is it increasing or is it declining or stable now from where we were before? Well Waqar just with the passage of time the opportunities for sublets amortize and I would say that the sublet market really hasn't moved against us.
In fact it may be moving for us.
You're getting to a point now where either rigs have been sublet.
In some cases they've been early terminated.
In other cases they just rolled off contract.
And I think you're now getting down to more of a kernel of real demand that's there with the current holders of the rigs and the contracts.
We're not aware of any of our rigs that are currently working that are being actively sublet.
And that's across-the-board and across geographies.
And I think that that's going to become more the norm as we move through the year and as contract durations shrink or some of the contracts roll off.
And we'll go next to David Smith with Heikkinen Energy.
LLC</strong> Regarding the shipyard delay agreements just to follow up on that schedule of cost you provided earlier I just wanted to make sure I understood if that is an OpEx line impact or if the agreement includes an interest payment component and how that's treated? Yes David.
Great question.
The $17 000 a day that's all interest for the first 6 months because they're still constructing the rig.
The second 6 months and the third 6 months because the rig will be completed as currently envisioned by SME that's an amalgamation of cost including financing costs some insurance costs some service tech costs to keep the rig functioning to inspect the equipment to ensure that it's capable [ph] to run on a regular basis and then some people costs from Atwood as well to oversee the rig.
And obviously you're going to have some fuel costs and you're using shore-based power which is a lot cheaper but that will also be included in the $30 000 or $17 000 or $50 000 depending on which period we are talking about.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And that sorry for being dense on this but that interest component is that going to flow into -- would that flow into capitalized interest? No that gets expensed.
That's included in our guidance I gave you earlier.
LLC</strong> Perfect.
I wanted to make sure.
And just a quick follow-up hope I didn't miss this but curious if the operating expense for the Osprey in the fiscal third quarter if that reflects kind of normal OpEx level for the rig or if there's any unusual impact for the quarter.
There may be a little additional OpEx on the rig.
The biggest chunk of that which is the amount which we're unable to collect from underwriters or through our contract with Chevron that's been recognized in the second quarter already.
But for the most part the Osprey will be except for the 5 days out of service and those costs are somewhere around $4 million it's -- it will be its normal run rate for the quarter.
[Operator Instructions] We'll go next to Byron Pope with Tudor Pickering Holt.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just a quick question on the Admiral and the Archer.
I guess I read it as constructive because I guess at some point I thought that if you made the decision to delay the rigs they would be done in tandem.
And so Rob that coupled with some of your prepared remarks it seems as though you're fairly constructive on this market righting itself by the time we get to 2017.
So just curious as to what might have changed with regard to the thought process and not delaying both in tandem? I think the real difference there is just the timing for when we needed to exercise the option on the Admiral.
And so that has closed the gap on the delivery timing.
But in fact if we exercise options in tandem between the 2 rigs that would remain 9 months apart in terms of the delivery.
So you're just seeing a difference in the notice periods for the 2 rigs given that the Admiral delivery was more immediate.
And at this point we have no plans to shorten the gap between the delivery of the rigs.
Right now both rigs are still on a schedule to be completed 9 months apart.
And now clearly we would have the opportunity to take completed rigs at different intervals depending on what's happening in the market.
But in terms of completion of construction the 2 rigs remain 9 months apart.
For the Archer we need to declare the option to delay that by 6 months by September 30 of this year.
And we'll go next to Gary Stromberg with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Mark I just wanted to make sure I have CapEx right in my model.
Did you say 2015 CapEx will now be $450 million including newbuilds? And then how should we think about 2016? Yes Gary that's correct.
Currently for 2016 we have $645 million forecasted and this includes the current delivery schedule of the Admiral and the Archer.
So to the previous question from Byron if we do opt to delay the Archer by 6 months.
That's drops down to about $450 million as well so similar to this year and the $205 million which we postponed flows into 2017 which becomes then about $285 million of CapEx in '17.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And any thoughts on maintenance capital for your fleet going forward? We've been consistent in using an $80 million run rate for maintenance CapEx.
Now to be fair that included the Hunter as an operating rig as well.
So with the Hunter no longer being part of our fleet that may come down some.
But I think from a conservative perspective I like to use $80 million until we know something different.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then final one is just on the dividend.
What's the dividend policy now? Well as you know the board declared a dividend for 2015 last August.
That was in a different oil price environment.
Obviously the market dynamics the oil price everything has come off quite dramatically over the last 6 months.
So each quarter given our incorporation in Texas the board has to redeclare or declare a dividend once again.
So they'll take a look at this at our May board meeting and then again at our August board meeting.
I cannot speak for the board.
But suffice to say the market is a lot different and there may be a different decision or not over the next few quarters.
[Operator Instructions] And I'm showing no further questions at this time.
If there are no further questions we want to thank everybody for joining today's call.
And until next quarter goodbye.
And thank you for joining us today ladies and gentlemen.
This does conclude today's program.
We certainly do appreciate everyone's participation.
You may disconnect at any time.
Good day everyone and welcome to today's Third Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later you'll have the opportunity to ask a questions during the question-and-answer session.
Please note this call maybe recorded.
I'll be standing by if you should need any assistance.
It is now my pleasure to turn the conference over to Mr.
Mark Smith.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you.
Good morning and welcome to Atwood Oceanics conference call and webcast to review the company's operating results for the third quarter ended June 30 2015.
The speakers today will be Rob Saltiel President and CEO; and me Mark Smith Senior Vice President and CFO.
Before we begin let me remind everyone that during the course of this conference call we may make forward-looking statements.
These statements involve risks and uncertainties more fully described in our latest 10-K and other filings with the SEC.
Actual results may differ materially.
Undue reliance should not be placed on these forward-looking statements which are applicable only as of the date hereof.
Now let me turn the call over to Rob for opening remarks.
Thank you Mark and welcome to all of you joining this morning's call.
Before proceeding with my comments I want to acknowledge Mark who is participating in his first earnings call as is our Chief Financial Officer after his appointment in early June.
Mark has been with Atwood since 2009 and he has demonstrated his capabilities as our former Chief Accounting Officer and Controller and previous to that as our Head of our Audit.
Mark's transition to CFO has been excellent and I'm confident he will continue to be successful in his new and expanded role.
Turning now to our fiscal third quarter results.
We delivered net income of $113 million on revenues of $331 million despite three operational incidents in the quarter which I will discuss in more detail in just a minute.
Overall the third quarter was a good one for operations and another excellent quarter for our safety performance as we continue to reduce the number of injuries that occur on Atwood rigs toward our goal of zero.
The early benefits of our energized cost control focus were apparent in the third quarter financials as our G&amp;A and offshore personnel costs came in about 5% lower collectively than our second quarter figures.
Our rig maintenance numbers would also have been lowered if not for required repairs on two of our rigs the Atwood Osprey and Atwood Mako.
We are working closely with our equipment and service suppliers to reduce our costs in response to expectations of lower day rates and lower offshore activity.
We expect further cost savings to be realized across our company as we move through this year and into next even as we maintain our top-tier safety and operational performance for our clients.
We will require new ideas as well as some sacrifices but we're committed to make this happen.
Turning now to the third quarter's operational updates the Atwood Osprey spent the entire month of April and most of May in sheltered waters off the coast of Australia effecting repairs due to the tropical cyclone that impacted the rig in early March.
These repairs centered on ensuring the integrity of the Osprey's mooring system and they allowed us to receive regulatory approval to return to work in late May and to continue to operate through this year's non-cyclone season.
The Osprey has performed extremely well since returning to service just as it had been prior to the cyclone incident.
The third quarter also saw extended downtime on the Atwood Achiever as we resolved startup issues relating to the rig's second BOP stack during its initial run to the seabed.
We have successfully deployed the second stack through the entire past month without incident and we believe these teething issues are well behind us.
The Atwood Mako incurred some minor damage to its legs after a difficult extraction from a wellsite in Malaysia.
These repairs were completed at a nearby location simultaneous with completion of our intermediate regulatory survey resulting in approximately 14 days at zero rate for the third quarter.
We were pleased to recently announce a six-month extension on the Atwood Beacon that will keep that rig busy in Italy until at least July of 2016.
This extension involves a blending down of the current rate retroactive to March and this lower revenue was also reflected in this quarter's results.
Turning now to our market outlook.
The offshore drilling market continues to be challenging and has not been helped by the recent decline in oil prices the early termination of drilling contracts nor the cancellation of previously announced drilling programs.
The false start in the oil price recovery has diminished operator hopes that we would see a $70 Brent price per barrel by late summer or early fall.
We maintain our view that the market for offshore drilling services will remain challenging for the remainder of 2015 and into next year.
Since our last earnings call the number of working floaters has declined by about 5% and the number of idle floaters has increased by 9%.
The number of rigs retired scrapped or cold stacked has also increased by 9%.
And with approximately 80 floaters rolling off contract in the next 12 months plus a current roster of 46 idle floaters we expect that a significant number of floaters may exit the supply stack over the next year.
This is looking more likely than even three months ago as the focus on cost control in our industry increases while the likelihood of near-term placement of idle rigs has decreased.
Rig supply attrition would certainly improve the assimilation of currently uncontracted newbuilds into the market many of which have already been delayed.
It would also help to counterbalance further reductions in demand that may occur through 2015 and into 2016.
The outlook for the jackup segment may be tougher than for the floater segment.
Jackup demand is off about 5% as well since our last call with most of the losses being borne by lower spec assets.
The number of idle jackups continues to grow and is approaching 100 rigs.
There is still a large number of uncontracted newbuild jackups that is slated to enter the market over the next year but we expect that similar to the floater segment many of these newbuild jackups may be delayed or even canceled outright.
In the past three months 15 jackups were scrapped cold stacked or announced for retirement which prevented marketing utilization from being even worse than it currently is.
We believe this attrition trend is likely to accelerate over the next 12 months especially regarding the permanent removal of low spec assets.
In terms of our marketing efforts even though our business will remain challenging with the lack of fixture activity over the past six months at Atwood and across our industry I am upbeat that over the next six months we will see an improvement in this area.
With lower day rates and service costs improving the economics of incremental rig time for operators I expect that we may see more blend and extend opportunities come to fruition similar to what we did recently on the Atwood Beacon as well as the new contracts for extensions tied to additional drilling programs.
We continue to market the Atwood Admiral which is expected to be fully constructed by late September or early October as a priority.
We are targeting a short list of opportunities for this newbuild drillship with 2016 or 2017 start dates.
Also I visited Western Australia earlier this month and I'm more optimistic about re-contracting opportunities for each of our three moored floaters that are operating on the Northwest Shelf.
Each of our clients there appears to have follow-on drilling work some of which will be subject to upcoming budget discussions for 2016 and/or partner approvals.
On the jackup side our near-term focus remains on marketing our three Pacific Class rigs working in Southeast Asia.
The Atwood Mako is now expected to be available in October after it completes its program in Vietnam and the Atwood Manta and Atwood Orca have availability within another six months.
All three of these rigs have performed extremely well from a safety reliability and efficiency perspective and we remain hopeful that we can re-contract all three without incurring much idle time.
This concludes my prepared comments.
So I'll pass it over to Mark who will take us through the numbers.
Mark? Thanks Rob.
Today I'll discuss our fiscal third quarter's operating results guidance for the fiscal fourth quarter as we approach the end of our fiscal year and comment on our financial position.
Let's start with highlights for the recent quarter.
The company generated quarterly revenues of $331 million on 991 operating days versus $350 million on 889 operating days in the previous quarter.
As Rob mentioned the reduction in revenue is due to the Atwood Osprey Atwood Achiever and Atwood Mako all incurring zero rate days in the quarter together with the retroactive blended rate for the Atwood Beacon extension.
These revenue reductions were offset by excellent revenue efficiency across the balance of the fleet of 98% resulting in an overall revenue efficiency for Atwood of 90%.
Diluted earnings per share were $1.73 this quarter versus $1.89 for the prior quarter.
The company's net margin of 34% was in line with the prior quarter's adjusted net margin of 35%.
This consistent net margin during a quarter of reduced revenue was driven by our ongoing focus on cost control that Rob previously mentioned.
Contract drilling costs excluding reimbursable cost of $9 million totaled $134 million for the quarter compared to $131 million net of reimbursable costs for the previous quarter.
When adjusted for one-time cost of approximately $6 million incurred for the Atwood Osprey as well as cost for the Atwood Achiever and Atwood Mako operational events contract drilling costs were in line with the guidance we provided on the second quarter conference call.
General and administrative expenses totaled $10 million below prior quarter guidance due in part to share-based compensation adjustments.
Concluding this quarter's operating results our effective tax rate for the quarter was 7.8% lower than our prior guidance due to a change in the geographical mix of income during the quarter and remainder of the fiscal year.
Looking forward to the fiscal fourth quarter.
The only planned out-of-service time for the fourth quarter is five days at zero rate for the Atwood Achiever for the fine-tuning of certain equipment.
After experiencing delays the Atwood Hunter is now in transit to the scrapping location.
We expect the scrapping of the rig to be complete within the fourth quarter.
All financial impacts of the transaction have been recognized in previous quarters.
We estimate reimbursable revenues of $11 million for the fiscal fourth quarter.
Contract drilling costs are expected to range from $520 million to $530 million for the fiscal year and from $120 million to $130 million for the fourth quarter excluding reimbursables.
These projections are unchanged from our previous guidance.
Depreciation should remain flat at $43 million for the fourth quarter and total approximately $172 million for the year.
General and administrative expense should range from $13 million to $15 million for the fiscal fourth quarter resulting in approximately $57 million for the full fiscal year.
Interest expense should range from $13 million to $15 million net of capitalized interest for the remaining quarter.
We expect our effective tax rate for the fourth quarter to approximate 12% resulting in a projected rate of 10% for the full fiscal year.
From a balance sheet perspective capital expenditures totaled $241 million during the quarter which consisted mainly of progress payments to the DSME shipyard for the remaining two newbuild drillships.
During this quarter we negotiated the ability to keep our two remaining drillships at DSME's dock-side after construction completion until we take delivery.
This will lower cost during this holding period until such delivery.
We have agreed to an accelerated milestone payment schedule in return for these cost control efforts.
For the Atwood Admiral whose first six month the delay option has been exercised a fourth quarter milestone of $150 million was accelerated into Q3.
We expect capital expenditures to total $37 million for the fiscal fourth quarter resulting in approximately $460 million for the year in line with our guidance last quarter.
As a result of these third quarter payments net debt increased by $126 million to $1.65 billion at the end of June.
Liquidity decreased to $564 million from $684 million at the end of the quarter due to this increase in debt.
On average we project $540 million in funds undrawn on the revolving credit facility during the next two years spanning the delivery and startup of the two newbuild drillships.
We project that liquidity will increase thereafter.
That concludes our prepared comments.
I'll now turn the call over to Tanisha for questions.
And we'll go ahead and take our first question from Waqar Syed.
Please go ahead your line is open with Goldman Sachs.
Thank you for taking the question.
On the ultra-deepwater side as you mentioned there were a couple of issues during the quarter which we see normally time-to-time.
But going forward should we assume that revenue efficiency should come up into the high 90%s or should we still stick with the 92% 94% kind of level? Yeah good morning Waqar.
I think we had some extraordinary events in the last quarter that you shouldn't expect to be repeatable going forward.
Obviously the cyclone incident on the Atwood Osprey was well discussed and we talked about the significant impact that had on revenue efficiency in the third quarter.
And clearly we don't anticipate that recurring.
With the Atwood Achiever because you have two BOP stacks and depending on your well program it may take a while after a rig's fully commissioned before you actually get to run both of those stacks in earnest for extended periods of time.
And that's really what happened in the last quarter was that the second stack had really not been deployed in earnest and until we had this opportunity in Morocco.
And when we did we experienced some latent issues which we had to correct.
So as I said in my prepared comments we think those are also behind us and I think you can conclude from these two comments that we expect revenue efficiency to improve going forward.
Yeah.
And secondly on the Admiral it's going to be a newbuild leg as you mentioned that as the rig start over there are typically some issues associated with that.
But when you are marketing that rig versus right now there are a number of high-spec rigs that are idle or could be coming to the end of their contracts at that time.
Do you think that from a competitive positioning it's in a weaker spot when it starts looking for a job given that there's a dearth of jobs anyways in the marketplace? No we think we're in a great position.
First of all the operators we talk to are increasingly demanding the greatest capability for the drilling rigs for the programs frankly because they can.
And the fact that we've got a 12 000-foot water depth capable drillship with two BOPs and tremendous drilling capability both on the main and the auxiliary rotary table gives us really a tremendous competitive advantage when it comes to looking at new opportunities.
I think the other thing that helps us is the fact that it's number three in a series and as we've admitted to some teething issues on the first rig and a little bit here on the second one all these issues are being fully resolved in the shipyard as they relate to rigs three and four if they exist at all.
So we feel that startup of rig three and rig four will be very different than certainly startup of rig one and to a lesser extent startup of rig two.
And with the capability that these rigs offer we think we're in great position to market those especially for programs that have any kind of a technically challenging component to them.
Okay.
So would you say that the best place for those rigs is Gulf of Mexico or where do you think their relatively high spec nature would be best recognized? Well the Golden Triangle is a natural space for putting these most capable rigs.
But given the fact that BOP reliability really is the biggest issue in our industry and the largest source of the downtime when we don't have that reliability I wouldn't restrict the access of those rigs to the Gulf of Mexico or even the Golden Triangle.
Wherever you're running a subsea BOP the advantage of the two BOP system is apparent and translates into reduced non-productive time and lower well cost for our clients.
So that flexibility manifests itself all around the world.
Sure.
Thank you very much.
Thanks for the answers.
You're welcome.
We'll go ahead and take our next question from Ian Macpherson with Simmons.
Please go ahead.
Your line is open.
Thanks.
Good morning.
Rob you mentioned that you've seen continuing opportunities to lower your costs.
How far do you think you are in that process? If you've taken it down X percent on a sort of standardized basis from a year ago until today what's the remaining opportunity from here forward to keep lowering your average costs? Well I'm not going to be able to quantify that on this call but I would say that we're still in relatively early innings of this.
I mean keep in mind that the change in fortunes of our industry has happened over a relatively short period of time and in some cases our supply chain team is still unearthing new opportunities for us to reduce our cost and frankly we're going back a couple of times on some of these to figure out if there's more that we can get.
So I would tell you that we think we have some good run rate to continue to reduce our costs going forward especially as the likelihood of lower day rates and lower activity becomes more accepted to extend through 2016 and into 2017.
I mean we absolutely as a company and frankly as an industry have to learn to operate in the lower day rate environment and the way to do that is we have to lower our cost and that's all our cost.
That's onshore offshore and everywhere in between and that's where we're going to be focusing our efforts.
Okay.
I think you said that you are preparing to well the Admiral will be completed anyway in September and then you can keep the rig where it is at the SME and pay for that storage if you were to call it that I guess and so you're ready to deploy.
I assume you'll be capitalizing those storage costs with the SME until you are on a day rate at some point is that correct and where did those negotiated storage costs shake out if you can share that? Ian this is Mark.
As it relates to that when the rig finishes its substantial completion at the end of September that is really when the capitalization spigot turns off.
Okay.
October 1 forward we enter a holding period and we expect cost to range from $35 000 to $40 000 a day at the dockside and as I mentioned in my prepared comments we're locked into the dockside so that those costs are at a maximum amount of $35 000 to $40 000.
That range is from dockside fees to the shipyard to power supply to minimal crew for us and service providers et cetera.
Perfectly clear.
Thanks Mark.
One more if I may.
You mentioned your three Southeast Asia jackups that are going to be reprising in the next few months the day rates we've seen have been 90 days 95 days on a leading edge basis.
Do you see them holding there for the time being or are they still moving lower pretty quickly at this point? Well Ian as you can appreciate we're into some competitive discussions right now so we're not going to be able to be specific on where day rates are going.
There haven't been a lot of fixtures and we're going to just have to see where rates land.
It is very competitive as I mentioned in my prepared comments the number of idle rigs has increased and there's a lot of competition out there.
So we're going to do all we can.
First to keep our rigs busy and then secondly to try to get a decent day rate but it is a very competitive market.
Okay.
Good luck.
Thanks Rob.
Thank you Ian.
And we'll go next to Theo Meryanos with Tuohy Brothers Investment Research.
Please go ahead.
Your line is open.
Good morning gentlemen.
Congratulations on the quarter and the cost controls more specifically on the G&amp;A.
I just have a couple quick modeling questions here.
Have you guys hedged the euro for the duration of the Beacon extension? Yes we've completed that euro hedge.
Can you provide a little color on what levels you're at? We are at about €1.37 fixed and if you'd like to discuss it further I'll be glad to follow up with you.
Sure thing.
Sure thing.
And then on the Mako just real quick can you be a little bit more specific when in October its contract is going to conclude.
Is it kind of mid or later when? Yes that's still in flux right now.
We think it's probably trending towards the front of the month but as you can appreciate a drilling program can elongate or compress depending on how the drilling proceeds.
So we think it's probably the first half of the month.
All right.
That works.
I appreciate it fellas.
You're welcome.
We'll go ahead and take our next question from Matt Marietta with Stephens.
Please go ahead.
Your line is open.
Inc.</span></strong> Hey thanks for taking my question.
Just one out of me.
Kind of a modeling question.
Can you help us think about a starting point for 2016 CapEx? If I missed that I apologize but also maybe elaborate on the biggest variables in there.
It sounds like opportunities with the Osprey and Falcon exist.
So what sort of consideration do you think there depending on the outcome of those discussions? Matt on your first question our CapEx for next year is unchanged at this moment from what we've provided in previous presentations at approximately $650 million.
That's given the current exercise of the delay option only for the first six months of the Admiral.
That could shift depending on our exercising of the option for the final rig the Archer.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
And is there anything built in there for Osprey and potentially the Falcon? I'm just trying to get a sense for how much variability may exist in the number.
For the Atwood Falcon that rig's next (25:47) is not until fiscal 2017.
So there's a bit of a time horizon there before we get to any projects on that rig.
As it relates to the Atwood Osprey it has been undergoing work as it's nearing its five years in services for riser and BOP recertification et cetera.
And all of that is included within the $650 million ballpark number.
Again we are getting ready to turn the corner into the balance of the summer to complete our budget for next fiscal year and on the November call we'll be updating these numbers for you.
Inc.</span></strong> Perfect.
Thanks a lot guys and congrats.
And we'll go ahead...
Anything else Matt? We actually have another follow-up question from Praveen Narra with Raymond James.
Hello? Inc.</span></strong> Hey good morning guys.
Just wanted a quick question on the cost side.
In terms of where we could get back to in the eventual cost recovery could we get back to 2010 levels in terms of cost or I guess where is the eventual baseline understanding that it depends on how long the downturn lasts? Hello? Inc.</span></strong> Hello? Hello? Mark are you able to hear? Inc.</span></strong> Hello? One moment.
They may be on mute.
One moment.
And you're being rejoined by your speaker.
Hello all.
We apologize for technical difficulties.
Honestly we have no idea what happened.
We were talking to Matt and I'm not sure if the callers were able to hear a response to his last question.
And we'll go ahead and take a follow-up question from Praveen Narra with Raymond James.
Please go ahead.
Your line is open.
Inc.</span></strong> Hi.
Good morning guys.
Good morning.
Inc.</span></strong> If we were to index costs kind of back to a year as it stands today with how far the outlook is for the length of the downturn what kind of year can we get costs back to? Can we get costs back to the 2010 level? Can we get even further beyond I guess? How do you think about getting back costs and the extent we can go? Well Praveen we don't have any kind of a time machine here for turning cost back.
But we're going to look at every aspect of our cost structure which obviously will include compensation and manning which basically drive personnel costs.
But as I said in an earlier question we're still in some of the earlier stages of doing that.
Obviously with day rates being rolled back to levels we haven't seen in quite some time we're going to need to take a look at every and all opportunities to reduce costs.
That's why I said in my prepared comments we need to be creative but we also need to be prepared to make sacrifices.
So that's where we are on this issue and we're going to do everything we can to right-size the cost for our business.
Inc.</span></strong> Perfect.
Thank you very much.
You're welcome.
And there appear...
Yes if there are no more questions we thank everybody for joining this call and we'll talk to you on our fourth quarter call in November.
Good bye.
And that does conclude today's program.
We'd like to thank you for your participation.
Have a wonderful day and you may disconnect at any time.
Good day everyone and welcome to today's program.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later you will have the opportunity to ask questions during our Q&amp;A session.
Please note today's call is being recorded.
It is now my pleasure to turn the program over to Mark Smith Senior Vice President and CFO.
Please go ahead.
Good morning and welcome to Atwood Oceanics' conference call and webcast to review the company's operating results for the fourth quarter and year ended September 30 2015.
The speakers today will be Rob Saltiel President and CEO; and me Mark Smith Senior Vice President and CFO.
Before we begin let me remind everyone that during the course of this conference call we may make forward-looking statements.
These statements involve risks and uncertainties more fully described in our latest 10-K and our other filings with the SEC.
Actual results may differ materially.
Undue reliance should not be placed on these forward-looking statements which are applicable only as of the date hereof.
Now let me turn the call over to Rob for opening remarks.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</strong> Thank you Mark and good day to all of you joining this morning's call.
In the fourth quarter we established new quarterly records for revenue and earnings due to excellent operations performance and good cost control.
In addition our fiscal year 2015 revenue and earnings also set new company records.
Our execution during this downturn continues to be outstanding.
The Atwood rig fleet operated at a combined 97% revenue efficiency in the fourth quarter.
Our operations and technical teams are performing at a very high level.
And one area of significant improvement this year has been our BOP maintenance and reliability results.
In fact in the Gulf of Mexico we've been able to move between wells on the Atwood Condor and Atwood Advantage a total of six times without requiring the BOP to be brought to the surface.
Achieving this so-called wet certification of the BOP is a good example of how Atwood's rig teams are delivering more cost-effective wells and saving time and money for our clients.
Fortunately our excellent operating performance has continued into the current quarter.
For the month of October we operated at a fleet-wide 99% revenue efficiency and incurred no BOP-related downtime on any of our rigs across the fleet.
We will look to maintain this strong momentum through the rest of this quarter.
I also want to say a few words about our safety and environmental results in fiscal year 2015.
Safety and environmental stewardship is our most important company value.
And 2015 represents the best year for HSE performance in our 47 year history.
In 2015 we lowered last year's previous record low Total Recordable Incident Rate by nearly 40%.
In doing so we also eliminated the occurrence of any lost time incidents across the company for the first time in more than a decade despite working a record 5 million man-hours.
Our environmental results were equally impressive as we registered no spills anywhere in our fleet of a reportable volume.
Our excellent HSE results have been largely achieved through the rigorous use of our safety tools by our offshore employees.
However we will remain vigilant as we know that safety is a daily challenge for all of us in the offshore drilling industry.
We do plan to advance a limited number of new HSE initiatives this fiscal year including an increasing emphasis on process safety in order to advance closer to our ultimate goal of zero incidents across the entire Atwood organization.
Our fourth quarter financial results also demonstrate the benefits of our company-wide cost reduction efforts.
Over the past year cost reduction has been firmly ingrained in our corporate culture after years of focus on our growth initiatives.
Our shore-based and offshore employees have embraced the need to run our rigs more efficiently in the face of lower day rates and lower oil prices.
We are in the process of implementing or have already implemented rig-related cost savings in the areas of offshore labor and onshore rig support costs inspection services repair and maintenance insurance communications benefits catering.
We continue to find new ways to save money in running our rigs.
We've also worked to align our G&amp;A costs with the recent decline in our fleet activity.
In addition we've beefed up our supply chain organization to work more closely with our key suppliers to ensure that their pricing and service levels are improved during this downturn.
While I'm commenting on our cost focus I also want to mention our company's liquidity position and outlook as this has become an important topic for all offshore drillers.
Atwood benefits from our debt maturities not coming due until May 2019 in the case of our revolving credit facility and February 2020 in the case of our publicly-traded bonds.
However given that the timing for the recovery for our business remains uncertain we have recently amended our credit facility agreement as a prelude to enhancing our liquidity and providing greater financial flexibility.
Mark will provide more color on this subject in his prepared comments.
I also want to comment on our quarterly dividends since Mark and I field quite a few questions on this topic as well.
When we initiated the dividend last September our industry outlook and the Atwood share price were both in very different places from where they are today.
Decisions related to dividend policy are made by our Board of Directors so we won't be making any announcements on this call; however we do recognize that the opportunity cost of paying a dividend has risen given potential alternative uses of this cash in today's uncertain market.
Shifting now to the marketing front our team was successful in concluding some welcome contract extensions since our last earnings call.
Kosmos Energy our client for the Atwood Achiever added a year of term to our existing contract as part of a blend and extend agreement that will keep the rig contracted until November 2018.
The Achiever continues to perform extremely well and will be a drilling a promising exploration program over the next year in Mauritania and Senegal.
We also inked a nine month extension on the Atwood Orca in Thailand.
It was part of a blend and extend deal with our client Mubadala Petroleum.
While the implied extension rate was not spectacular we are pleased to see this rig stay busy.
And just this morning we announced that the Atwood Advantage has been awarded approximately four months of plug and abandonment work for our client Noble Energy here in the Gulf of Mexico.
This work is likely to begin in late summer 2016.
And when it does we will suspend our current operating rate in favor of a lower operating rate during the P&amp;A work.
We will then revert to the previous higher rate once the P&amp;A work is complete.
With this additional term the Advantage will be under contract until approximately August 2017.
I also want to acknowledge the separate announcement from this morning regarding our progress in signing up one of our two uncontracted drillships for a drilling program in Brazil.
While we do not normally publicize progress on drilling contracts that are still under development we agree with our client that due to other publicity that was being generated we would make an announcement.
While we are encouraged by our progress we still need to agree a definitive contract and final approvals may not occur until early 2016.
The most challenging development for Atwood in the past quarter was the idling of the Atwood Mako and Atwood Manta which occurred for both rigs about the end of September.
These rigs have been consistent high performers but the lack of available jackup programs in Southeast Asian coupled with intense competition for the few active tenders that were out there led to both rigs facing a substantial period without work.
The Mako and Manta has been mobilized to the Philippines where they will be collocated in a shipyard with good facilities and low-cost utilities.
We will continue to bid these rigs on suitable drilling programs while they are idle.
In our recent Fleet Status Report we indicated that we were currently upgrading the mooring system on the Atwood Osprey.
This is being done to ensure that the rig is well-equipped to withstand potential storm activity during Australia's upcoming cyclone season.
The upgrade work is proceeding toward a mid-November completion so our estimate of three weeks out of service at zero rate still looks good.
At the same time in Australia the Atwood Eagle is completing its special periodic survey and undergoing maintenance on its mooring system.
The Eagle's work is also expected to be completed later this month and we are still targeting our three week out of service estimate.
The only other planned out of service time in fiscal 2016 is approximately seven days for the Atwood Orca in the second fiscal quarter for an intermediate survey.
Turning to the newbuild drillships the Atwood Admiral has recently completed its major work scope and will be stationed at a dockside location in the DSME shipyard starting this week.
The Atwood Archer continues its construction progress and is roughly eight months behind the Admiral.
Our position regarding delivery of these ships is unchanged.
If we do not line up work that dovetails with our scheduled delivery we expect to delay delivery further per the options that we have with the shipyard.
Turning now to our market outlook there's been little change in our general point of view since the last earnings call.
Demand for working floaters has declined by a further 10% with most of the declines in the midwater and deepwater segments.
The number of idle floaters has increased by 16 while the number of floaters that have been retired scrapped or cold-stacked has only increased by nine.
It is fair to say that rig supply attrition has occurred at a slower pace than we would have expected.
However with 75 floaters rolling off their contracts in the next 12 months we remain convinced that this attrition will accelerate as we move into and through calendar year 2016.
The story for the Jackup segment since our last call is similar to that of floaters: falling demand an increasing number of idle rigs and a relatively small number of rigs exiting the supply stack.
Again permanent requirement (10:13) of jackup capacity looks inevitable with high numbers of contract rollovers and weak demand.
In terms of our marketing efforts our top priorities are securing contracts for the Admiral and Archer and maintaining continuous work for our active rigs that have near-term contract rollovers.
Fortunately we do see incremental work prospects for each of our active rigs.
Our marketing team is tasked with adding backlog to bridge to a potential recovery period for our industry.
And with that I conclude my prepared comments.
And I'll pass it over to Mark who will take us through the numbers.
Mark? Thanks Rob.
Today I will discuss our fiscal fourth quarter and full year 2015 financial results provide guidance for the fiscal first quarter and full year 2016 and comment on our financial position.
Let start with highlights for the recent quarter and fiscal year ended September 2015.
The company generated record revenues of $363 million versus $331 million for the previous quarter totaling $1.4 billion for the fiscal year.
Revenue increased as the Atwood Achiever and Atwood Osprey had higher revenue efficiency than the previous quarter.
Revenue efficiency for the fourth quarter was 97% compared with 90% in Q3.
The fleet operated 1 012 days versus 991 in the previous quarter totaling 4 015 days for the fiscal year 2015 compared to 3 839 for fiscal 2014.
The company generated diluted earnings per share of $2.32 in the fourth quarter versus $1.73 in the third quarter totaling $6.65 for the full fiscal year.
Net margin was 41% versus 34% for the previous quarter resulting in a net margin of 31% for the entire fiscal 2015.
Contract drilling costs excluding reimbursable cost of $9 million totaled $119 million for the quarter compared to $134 million net of reimbursable costs for the previous quarter.
Contract drilling costs totaled $520 million for the full fiscal year.
The decreased costs in the fourth quarter are due in part to the Atwood Osprey's cyclone-related repairs which were incurred in Q3.
Further contract drilling costs were lower than the guidance we provided on the last call due to our ongoing focus on cost control and due to the timing of maintenance projects.
General and administrative expenses totaled $15 million for the fourth quarter which is in line with our prior guidance versus $10 million in the previous quarter.
The increase in the fourth quarter is due to the incurrence of fees related to our credit facility amendment and a one-time benefit of a share-based compensation adjustment which occurred in the third quarter.
Including these one-time items general and administrative expenses for the fiscal year totaled $57 million compared to $61 million in fiscal 2014.
Concluding this quarter's financial results our effective tax rate for the quarter was 9% in line with the previous quarter.
The full fiscal year effective tax rate was 10%.
Moving to the balance sheet capitalized expenditures totaled $28 million for the fourth quarter versus $242 million for the (13:40) which included shipyard milestone payments.
Capital expenditures for fiscal year 2015 totaled $448 million.
Total debt remained flat at approximately $1.7 billion quarter-on-quarter.
Cash on hand at September 30 increased to a total of $114 million.
Note our accounts receivable increased from the prior quarter due primarily to a procedural delay in the collection from a client.
There are no disputes with this client and we expect full collection of these funds within the current first quarter 2016.
Looking forward now to the fiscal first quarter and full year 2016 we estimate reimbursable revenues to range from $32 million to $36 million of which $8 million to $10 million is expected in the first quarter.
As Rob mentioned we have planned out-of-service time for the Atwood Osprey and the Atwood Eagle in the first quarter.
The Osprey will incur approximately 21 days of zero rate for mooring system upgrades to prepare for the cyclone season at an estimated cost of $28 million of which $26 million is capital expenditure.
The Eagle will incur approximately 21 days as well at zero rate for its special periodic survey as well as mooring system maintenance at an estimated cost of $19 million of which $17 million is expense.
For the remainder of fiscal 2016 our only additional planned out-of-service time is seven days for the Atwood Orca in the second quarter to complete its intermediate survey.
Contract drilling costs are expected to range from $455 million to $485 million for the fiscal year 2016 and $140 million to $160 million for the first quarter excluding reimbursables.
We are budgeting holding costs for the Atwood Admiral and Atwood Archer commencing November 2015 and July 2016 respectively.
These holding costs are approximately $35 000 per day per rig excluding DSME financing charges of approximately $15 000 per day per rig.
We will look to reduce these costs over time.
Additionally due to the idling of the Atwood Mako and Atwood Manta we will incur one-time costs for mobilization of these rigs employee severance and maintenance for a total of approximately $6.5 million for both rigs including an intermediate survey for the Manta which has been completed.
Upon completion of the idling we estimate cost at $9 000 per day per rig during the idling period.
The estimates for both the drillship holding costs and the idle jackup costs are included in our contract drilling cost guidance.
Depreciation is expected to remain at $43 million per quarter and total $175 million for the year assuming postponement of delivery of the Admiral and Archer as previously mentioned by Rob.
General and administrative expenses are expected to range from $17 million to $19 million for the fiscal first quarter.
Consistent with prior years our first quarter G&amp;A expenses skew higher than other quarters.
Full year G&amp;A expense will approximate $55 million to $57 million.
Interest expense should be approximately $18 million to $20 million per quarter net of capitalized interest.
We expect to pay cash interest of $80 million for the year.
We project our effective tax rate to be in the mid-teens for the full fiscal 2016.
However first quarter is expected to be higher due to our aforementioned planned out of service time.
From a balance sheet perspective capital expenditures are expected to total $71 million during the first quarter; however assuming our exercise of the Atwood Archer's first six month delay option by the end of calendar 2015 first quarter capital expenditures would be $221 million.
If exercised the rig's anticipated delivery date would change from June 30 2016 to December 31 2016.
As with the Admiral we would be allowed to hold the Archer at DSME's dockside until we take delivery.
Note that we retain further options to delay each rig by six months moving the Admiral to September 30 2016 and the Archer to June 30 2017.
For the full fiscal year capital expenditures including maintenance CapEx additions to our capital spares inventory and capitalized interest are expected to total $670 million with the current delivery date of the drillships under construction.
If we exercise the aforementioned Archer delay capital expenditures in fiscal 2016 will be reduced by $205 million to $465 million as certain milestone payments will move into the next fiscal year.
We will continue to use a mix of cash cash flow from operations and our revolving credit facility to fund these capital expenditures.
Our contract backlog was $1.6 billion as of September 30 with 66% of our available days contracted for fiscal 2016.
We estimate debt to remain at $1.7 billion during the fiscal year due again to the aforementioned anticipated exercise of the option to delay the Archer.
On average we project $480 million in funds undrawn on the revolving credit facility during the next two years spending the delivery and startup of both newbuild drillships.
We are increasing our cash on hand target to $125 million providing for an overall liquidity of $605 million.
In this dynamic market with uncertain timing from recovery we are looking at prudent ways to strengthen our balance sheet that are not too onerous for this company.
The revolving credit facility amendment we entered into in July provides increased flexibility upon raising unsecured capital and using such proceeds to pay down the credit facility.
Such a transaction would change our maximum leverage ratio and our minimum interest expense coverage ratio while reducing commitments under the credit facility by 70% of the amount paid down.
As this amendment has no expiration date we will monitor the markets for an opportunity to raise unsecured capital.
That concludes our prepared comments.
I will now turn the call over to Lindy for questions.
And we'll go first to Ian Macpherson with Simmons.
Please go ahead.
Your line is open.
Thanks.
Good morning.
Congratulations on the good results and the backlog progress here.
Mark I presume that the consummating the Brazil contract would probably be the catalyst for hitting that high yield window assuming it's open.
Is that your line of thinking right now? Well assuming it's open is the key point there.
We certainly would like to get the transaction completed at some stage that transaction being an unsecured capital raise related to my prepared comments but that's purely dependant on the market opportunity being available to us.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> But Ian your point's right.
I mean with greater confidence in the future cash flows of the company and our overall financial position no question we would have a bit of wind at our back when we went to capital markets.
And look we're not done adding to our backlog.
I know there has been a lot of talk about our industry and specifically about Atwood not having enough backlog in 2017.
I can assure you our entire team is working on this 24/7 spending a lot of time on the road.
So to the extent that we get additional backlog whether it's to the newbuild drillships or extensions on our active rigs clearly that strengthens our hand when we go to the public debt markets.
Okay.
Thanks Rob.
Just a follow-up question on the jackups I mean there's obviously a lot of opacity there in terms of the contracting outlook for the year.
Can you put some context around your operating cost guidance and as it relates to keeping all five jackups in some state of readiness or are you looking at scenarios that involve cold-stacking jackups or no? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> No.
Our guidance that we gave in terms of costs for 2016 assume that the three active jackups that we've got working right now the Atwood Aurora Atwood Beacon and Atwood Orca would continue to work throughout the entire fiscal year.
Because it's prospective at this point to put the Mako and Manta back to work we only included the idling costs for those two rigs in our cost guidance.
Obviously there is upside for us to the extent that we get an earlier fixture and can to put those rigs back to work in the fiscal year but until we're able to ink and announce a contract we've assumed them idle in the cost guidance.
Okay that's helpful.
Thanks Rob.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> You're welcome.
We'll go next to Mike Urban with Deutsche Bank.
Please go ahead.
Your line is open.
Inc.</span></strong> Thanks.
Good morning.
So again same from me congratulations on what looks to be a prospectively at least nice contract.
I know you don't have all the details and aren't able to share that at this point but what I guess do you feel was the differentiating factor? Was that's purely a pricing situation availability timing asset quality all the above in terms of why you think you're able to prospectively win this contract? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well as you can imagine in this market you pretty much have to hit on all cylinders to win the scarce amount of work that's out there.
And again I want to caution we're not done on this yet but we have come a long way in our discussions.
I do think as we've said on previous earnings calls that we offer the most technically-capable ultra-deepwater drillships that are on the market.
And I think that absolutely played a distinctive factor in the evaluation of the alternatives.
And you can imagine that there were plenty of alternatives that were offered to the client in this market.
We feel extremely good about our technical offering.
And obviously the performance of our two drillships the Atwood Advantage and the Atwood Achiever we were able to point to with confidence and say this is what you're going to get in terms of operating reliability and efficiency as well as safety performance when you contract an Atwood drillship.
So we think we really had an outstanding combination of all the commercial terms and availability as well as the most technically-capable offering.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Great.
That was all I had.
Thank you.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> You're welcome.
And our next question comes from Dan Boyd with BMO Capital Markets.
Please go ahead.
Your line is open.
Thanks.
Just wanted to get a little more color on you from where you've seen cost savings come from.
Just to back into the guidance you provided really beyond the next quarter where you have more one-time costs it looks like you've been able to bring down rig level costs by a magnitude of about 15%.
So maybe you can just give us an update on where you are on the cost-cutting side.
And to any degree where you can give even more details in terms of rig level cost by region that'd be very helpful.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah Dan I mean I mentioned in my prepared comments that we really span the spectrum in terms of where we've gone after cost reductions.
And look we're not done yet.
As I mentioned some of these things are still in the process of being fully implemented.
So they are reflected in our guidance but they're not reflected in our actual financials that we've been able to release.
But look we've taken a good look at some of the big levers which include offshore labor and onshore rig support costs.
And those are costs that are really within Atwood's control because they're Atwood folks but a lot of what we get from the outside whether it's inspection services or maintenance services or any kind of other services that we purchase to support our rig operations our supply chain team has done a great job of meeting with these folks and really working out what is a fair deal in this difficult market.
So we're really looking across the board and we're not done yet.
We actually hope that we can even outperform the guidance.
We think we have an opportunity to do that.
But we're keenly focused on cost control and there isn't anything that isn't under scrutiny for us to run our business more efficiently for our clients.
Is it fair to say that the onshore costs are about as low as they can go and the additional savings or least the majority of the savings come from rig-level cost or is it still more to go all around? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well you can never say that you're done.
I do think that the rig-level costs are clearly the big driver for the cost structure in this organization and frankly this industry.
And we're going to continue to look at ways that we can save money.
And look there are things that you can do just by being smarter in terms of how you schedule your maintenance and whether you insource some things versus outsource some things.
I mean those things don't involve job elimination or anybody taking a haircut on cost.
It's just doing things a little more smartly and maybe being a little more multifaceted in terms of what we ask our people to do.
And like I said I mean everybody in this organization is aligned with the need to operate more efficiently.
We've had tremendous support from our offshore personnel for these cost savings initiatives because they know that in order to be sustainable in this business and for our rigs to keep running we've got to be more competitive.
So it's been a really really positive team effort here at Atwood to actually run our business more efficiently and to try to keep all of our rigs working.
Okay.
And just last one just on the working capital it looks like receivables have grown here over the past couple quarters.
It's small but just want to understand what's going on there.
As I mentioned previously the primary increase quarter-to-quarter over $40 million is related to one receivable with one client and we simply have had a procedural delay in collecting those funds and expect to conclude that very shortly.
Okay.
Thanks.
And we'll go next to Waqar Syed with Goldman Sachs.
Please go ahead.
Your line is open.
Thank you.
And congratulations on some contract wins and progress on the under-construction rig.
My question is on the Mako Manta if we fast forward if the rig is down for let's say about a year or so both of those rigs would there be any reactivation cost involved? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
I mean I think to get these rigs back to work Waqar we're thinking it's going to be about $1.5 million or so plus bringing some people on board and doing a mobilization.
So in the big scheme of things it's not a huge number especially given the low cost of keeping them idle but there will be some reactivation costs yes.
Okay.
And then on the Admiral or the Archer is there a reactivation cost as well at the end if the rigs stay built in the yard for about a year or so? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> No I mean that's what we're paying for to keep them dockside and make sure that all the equipment's ready to go on very short notice so no reactivation costs.
We've given some guidance of the $35 000 a day for basically keeping the rigs dockside making sure all the equipment is looked after et cetera but that is what gives us that capability to put these rigs out in the market on effectively a moment's notice and not have any additional costs.
Okay.
Now this negotiation for the newbuilds is in Brazil for contracts starting in third quarter 2017.
Should we assume that that's the earliest that one of the two rigs could start work or there is some expectations of earlier work as well for the other rig? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah Waqar actually this is really good news for us because what we need is we need to get an anchor program so that we can deliver our rigs into the shipyard.
There is a lot of short-term jobs out there maybe a one well here or there that frankly we're not interested in crewing up and delivering a rig to go prosecute a single well program and then potentially have trouble following follow-on work.
So what we really need for our rigs is an anchor program.
I would argue to the extent that we're successful in concluding this contract and it starts in the third quarter 2017 we've got ample opportunity to put additional program in front of that.
So in some ways I think it's the latest possible date for whichever rig we put against this program rather than the earliest date because we will certainly look to get those rigs out of the shipyard as early as possible.
And with the benefit of an anchor program it opens up a lot of opportunities to take a well here or there on our way to that program.
Okay.
And you may have mentioned this and I may have missed.
When do you expect this negotiation to be resolved and a firm contract signed? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
I mentioned in my comments that the final approvals may not occur till early calendar 2016 given the holiday season and just the month and a half before the end of the year.
Okay.
Great.
Thank you very much appreciate that.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> You're welcome.
And we'll go next to Ian Macpherson with Simmons.
Please go ahead.
Your line is open.
Hey.
Thanks for the follow up just another fine-tuning question on the cost guidance the project costs for Osprey and Eagle that you detailed are those incremental to normal operating costs or did those encapsulate the total costs that will be capitalized and expensed for the quarter for those? They encapsulate Ian.
Got it.
Okay.
Thanks.
And our next question comes from J.B.
Lowe with Cowen &amp; Company.
Please go ahead.
Your line is open.
Hey.
Thanks guys for taking my question.
I just had a follow up on the two newbuilds and their delivery schedules.
I know at some point I believe the cost to delay the rigs if you would exercise the final six months would go up to $50 000 a day in the shipyard.
And if that's correct then wouldn't it make more sense I mean couldn't you take delivery of the rig and actually if you needed to stack the rig for lower cost than that? And if that's the case would you be willing to do that? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> No.
Look we've looked at all the alternatives for where you would put a completed rig and I should caution these rigs aren't fully completed yet because we still have some class work to do and some final integration testing that we want to stage closer to actual delivery.
But if you completed all of that and took delivery of the rig you can't do better than having it dockside taking advantage of shoreside power not having to put a marine crew on there et cetera.
So we've looked at the alternatives and this is absolutely the best from a cost perspective.
Okay thanks.
Just to add to that J.B.
we have the $50 000 and $15 000 of that is essentially a financing charge and the $35 000 is to keep the rig in ready-to-drill condition.
If it any stage we reach the conclusion of these option periods and actually take title to the rigs part of that cost would be reduced from the total of $50 000 obviously.
Oh okay.
That's helpful.
Thanks.
We'll go next to Byron Pope with Tudor Pickering Holt.
Please go ahead.
Your line is open.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</span></strong> Morning.
Just one question for me and realize Rob you guys have plenty of time to ramp up for this but given that the Admiral or Archer whichever one goes to Brazil will be a new geographic theater for Atwood&gt; So could you just speak to some of the ways that you might have to operate differently whether it be shore-based support or rig crewing? Just curious as to how you'll need to operate a little bit differently perhaps as you enter the Brazil market? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well look that's a fair point.
I mean Atwood hasn't operated in Brazil before but I certainly have.
I managed a North and a South American business in a previous life with another driller.
And we have a lot of people within this company who have worked and managed in Brazil.
So we understand a lot of the particulars of operating in Brazil.
We know about the local content requirements.
We know that we're going to need an ample shore base et cetera.
And we'd taken a good look at what's required to get in that market when we provided our proposals to our client.
So we're not going into this without experience or without knowledge of what's required.
And we're fully equipped to operate in that market.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</span></strong> Thanks Rob.
That's it for me.
And it appears we have no questions at this time.
I'd like to turn the call back to our speakers.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</strong> Okay.
If there are no further questions we'd like to thank everybody for your time today and your interest in Atwood Oceanics.
And that does conclude today's program.
You may disconnect at this time.
Thank you and have a great day.